Memoirs of John Evelyn, Esq., F.R.S. : comprising his diary, from
1641 to 1705-6, and a selection of his familiar letters / edited by
William Bray.

Evelyn, John, 1620-1706.
London : F. Warne ; 1871.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.32044020541181

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
DijPss



                HARVARD

              COLLEGE

             LIBRARY
            DIARY AND LETTERS

JOHN EVELYN, ESQ., F.R.S.
                 BEfjr "ffifjantios Hibraru."

            Uniform with this Volume is also published,

PEPYS' DIARY AND CORRESPONDENCE.

With Seven Steel Portraits as a Frontispiece, Memoir, In
    troductory Preface, and full Index. Crown 8vo, cloth.

          Price Three Shillings and Sixpence.
     Evelyn memorials

LONDON FREDERICK WARNEtC
                0

                    THE "CHANDOS LIBRARY:

                 ^MEMOIRS^

     JOHN EVELYN/ ESQ., F.R.S.

                                                                     COMPRISING

                HIS DIARY,

                                                 FROM I64I TO I7O3-6.
                                                                    AND

      \ SELECTION OF HIS FAMILIAR LETTERS.

   l

                                                         EDITED BY

                        WILLIAM BRAY, Esq.

                         FELLOW AND TREASURER OF THE SOCIETY OF ANTIQUARIES OF LONDON.

'             LONDON :

   FREDERICK    WARNE   AND                    CO.

               BEDFORD STREET, COVENT GARDEN.
   NEW YORK: SCRIBNER. WELFORD AND ARMSTRONG.
-- n' 13  T^6^-a-

          HARVARD    COLLECT -.
               FROM
                     1HELI3RArvf CF

                   ERNEST LEWIS GAY
                  . JUNE 15. 1927

SAVILL, EDWARDS,           LONDON :    CHANDOS STREET,
                   AND CO., PRINTERS,

                    COVENT GARDEN.

                                                        i-£
                                         TO

JOHN EVELYN OF WOTTON IN SURREY, ESQ.

Sir,
  The last sheets of this Work, with a Dedication to the late Lady
Evelyn, under whose permission it was to be given to the public, were
in the hands of the Printer, when it pleased God to release her from a

long and painful illness, which she had borne with the greatest fortitude
and resiEmation to the Divine Will.

   These  papers   descended,   with the estate, from the celebrated  John
           Esq.   (a relative  of your immediate ancestor), to his
Evelyn,                                                               great-

great-grandson, the late Sir Frederick Evelyn, Bart. This Gentleman

dying without is^ue, intrusted the whole to his Lady, whose loss wc

have now to lament , of whose worth, and of the value of whose friend
ship, I have happily had long knowledge and experience. Alive to the
honour of the family, of vhich she was thus made the representative,

she maintained it in every point, and with the most active benevolence;

and her care extended to every part of the property attached to the
domain. Mr. Evelyn had formed in his own mind a plan of what he
called an ' Elysium Britannicum,' in which the Library and Garden

were intended to be the principal object* ; could he return and visit
this his beloved seat, he would find his idea i-ealized, by the arran^ ·
mem and addition which her Ladyship had macie to his library, and
by the disposition of the flower-garden and green-house, wu.ch she had
embellished with the most beautiful and curious flowers and pla>ifs,

both native and exotic.
   In completion and full justification of the confidence thus reposed in

her, her Ladyship has returned the estate, with its valuable appendages,

to the family, in your person.

   I have, therefore, now to offer these Volumes ' to you, Sir, with a

wish, that you and your posterity may long enjoy the possessions, and
continue the line of a Family so much distinguished in many of its
branches, for superior worth and eminence.

                                         I am, Sir,

                                          Your most obedient,

Shere, 2 Jan. 1818.                  and most humble servant,

                                                 WILLIAM BRAY.

  1 Bibliographic notice, from' Lowndes* p. 767. Fifth edition, 2 vols., port, and plates.
Secondedit, 2 vols., 115/. bd. Third edit., % vols. Svo., 20s. Fourth edit., 4 vols-, 4".
Fifth edit., 4 vols., 24s. Bohn's edit., 4 vols., 20s.
                      PREFACE.

  The following pages are taken from the Journal of JOHN Evelyn,

Esq., author (amongst many other works) of the celebrated Sylva, a
Treatise on Forest Trees, and from which he has often been known by
the name of The Sylva Evelyn. The Journal is written by him jn £
very small, close hand, in a quarto volume, containing 700 pages, which
                                                the end of   1697, and from
commences in 1641      and is continued   to   within about   three weeks of
thence is carried on  in a smaller book
                                         till
his death, which happened 27 Feb. 1705-6, in the S6th year of his age.
   These books, vith numberless other papers in his handwriting, are

in the vah . V Library .it Wotton, which was chiefly collected by him.
Lady Evel^i'i, the late possessor of that very respectable old Mansion,
after much solicitation i:om many persons, consented to favour the
Public -.viva this communication. The-last shee'-> were in the hands of

the Printer, when the death of thai Lady happened.

  Tin Edi'.or wl'.o has been entrusted with the preparation of the
·»\.->rk for the press, is fully diffident of his competence to make a
prjpc: selection, and is even aware *hat many things will be found in
its pares which, in the opinion c< some, and not injudicious, Critics,

may appear too unimportant to meet the public eye : but it has been
thought that some information, at least some amusement, would be

furnished by the publication ; it has been supposed that some curious
particulars of persons and transactions would be found in the accom-
panyins Tiores ; and that, though these papers may not be of importance
enough to appear in the pages of an Historian of the Kingdom, the}
may in some particulars set even such an one right ; and, though the

notices are short, they may, as to persons/ give some hints to Biogra-
'phers, or at least may gratify the curiosity of those who are inquisitive
after the mode in vluch their ancestors conducted their business, ot
passed their time. -

   Thus,  when mention is made       of great   men going after     dinner    tc
Attend a  Council of State, or the  business   of their particular            ci
                                                                    Offices,
the Bowling Green, or even the Church ; of an Hour's Sermon being
of a moderate length ; of Ladies painting their faces being a novelty,
or of their receiving visits of Gentlemen whilst dressing, after having
just risen out of bed ; of the female attendant of a lady of fashion tra
velling on a pillion behind one of the footmen, and the footmen riding
with swords ; such things may not be altogether incurious.

   For many Corrections, and many of the Notes, the Editor acknow
                             vii

ledges, with great pleasure and regard, that he is  indebted to James
Bindley, Esq.' of Somerset House, a Gentleman       who possessed an
invaluable Collection of the most rare Books and Pamphlets, and
whose liberality in communications was equal to the ability afforded
by such a collection.

He has also to acknowledge how much he is obliged for many his
torical notes and elucidations to a literary Gentleman very conversant
with English History, whose name he would gladly give, were it not
withheld by particular request, and whose research has doubtless
given additional interest to many of the Letters.
The Editor, finally, returns his best thanks to Mr. Upcott, of the
London Institution, for
                          the great and material assistance received from
iim in this Publication,  besides his attention to the superintendence of

the Press.

MR. EVELYN lived in the busy and important times of King
Charles I. Oliver Cromwell, King Charles II.         King James II. and

King William, and he early accustomed himself       to note such things as
occurred which he thought worthy of remembrance. He was known

to, and had much personal intercourse with, the Kings Charles II. and
James II. ; and he was in habits of great intimacy with many of the

Ministers of those two Monarchs, and with many of the eminent men
·of those dap, as well amongst the Clergy as the Laity. Foreigners
distinguished for learning or arts, who came to England, did not leave

it without visiting him.
   In the first edition of the Biog. Brit, in folio, Dr. Campbell has a
long article relating to this gentleman ; and the following pages w;'l
produce farther particulars of this eminent man. They will sh<- ,
that he did not travel merely to count steeples, as he expresses himsv.

in one of his letters : they will develope his private character as being
·of the most amiable kind. With a strong predilection for monarchy,

with a personal attachment to Kings Charles II. and James II., formed
when they resided at Paris, he was yet utterly averse to the arbitrary

measures of those Monarchs.
Strongly and steadily attached to the doctrine and practice of the
Church of England, he felt the most liberal sentiments for those who
·differed from him in opinion. He lived in intimacy with men ot all
persuasions, nor did he think it necessary to break connexions with

> Died, ia the liu rear of bis age, Sept II, 1818.
any one who had even been induced to desert the- Church' ef Eiiglanal                            ,
-and embrace the doctrines of that of Rome.
                                                              '.·-.                              I
iHe speaks with great moderation of the Roman Catholics in genera : _,                   ^a

admitting that some of the Laws enacted against them might be mitih
gated ; but of the Jesuits he had the very, worst opinion, considering
them as a most dangerous Society, and the principal authors of thia                          j
                    befell King James II., and
misfortunes which                               the horrible  persecutionftif
of the Protestants  in France and Savoy.
                                                        ·

He must have conducted himself with uncommon prudence-an"! di#d

cretion, for he had personal friends in the Court . '" Cromwell, at th.'e
same time that he was corresponding with his i'atLe--in-law Sir Rich""
                                                                                             r.
Browne, the Ambassador of Charles II. at Paris ; and at the saw
period that he paid his Court to the King, he iruiiiuainc<i his intiaia .*"
with a disgraced Minister.                                                               is
                            .
In his travels he made acquaintance not only with men eminent fcQ-
learning, but with men ing'*ni.'".is in every art and '-ofession.                        'h

His manners we may presume to have been of the most aijiwab'.6" ;

kind, for his company was sought by the greatest men, not merely h'e

Jinviting him to. their cv.-r. table, but by their repeated visit* to him ;·*

his own house : a' this .'-as equally the case with -T.g.Td ;u the 'juiesC

of many of whom he speaks in the highest style of admiration, afire*
tion, and respect. He was master of the Trench, Itali.ii, and Spanisi-1
language-. That he had read a great deal 'is manifest, but at wl ,5

time he found opportunities for -study, it does r ..-. seem easj to say ; \ P

acknowledges himself to have been idle while at Oxford ; and when o.

his travels he had little time for reading, e:xept when he stayed abouC

nineteen wceki in Frai"% and at Padua, where he was likewis,'s                                 -;
stationary for some tim.. - At Rome he remained a considerable time)e
                                                                                               ;'
but whilst there he  ·· .s so continually engt ged in viewing the    grea^
                       mg objects to be seer, in that City, that he  coul<y                         »
abundance ft ir "    jsure for reading. v< hen resident in England, h'-
                                                                                              /
have found ·
                                                                                             l "l
was so much ->,upied in the business oi his numerous offices, in pay
                                                                                              x·
in<r . visits, i . receiving company at home, and in examining whateve5"
was deemed worthy of curiosity or of scientific observation, that it i&
astonishing to think how he found the opportunity to compose the1
numerous books which he published, and the much greater number of*

papers, on almost eve-y subject, which still remain in manuscript1 ; tr1"
say nothing of the v .ry extensive and voluminous Correspondence^
which he appears to liave carried on during the period of his long life,"1
with men of the greatest eminence in Church and State, and the most'
distinguished for learning, both Englishmen and Foreigners. In this
xorrespondence he does not seem to have made use of an amanuensis,"
and he has left transcripts in his own hand of great numbers of Letters

                                                                                         i

· Amongst these there is ft Bible bound in three volumes, the pages- filled with notes.
t j ' it "exh received and sent. He observes, indeed, in one of these, that he-;it
   ridom went to bed before 1 2, or closed his eyes before 1 o'clock.          it,
    He was happy in a wife of congenial dispositions with his own, of anit it
  ^lightened mind, who had read much, was skilled in etching and paint-it
  ig, yet attentive to the domestic concerns of her household, and a most
Itffectionate mother. Of her personal beauty an idea may be formed
 ' om the print, engraved from a most exquisite drawing in pencil by
  oat celebrated French artist Nanteuil, in 1650. In the Appendix is                ;
  iven a character of her by the Rev. Dr. Bohun, who had the best
  pportunity of being acquainted with from having resided in Mr.

 Cvelyn's house for a considerable time as tutor to their son. A few of

  er letters are also given, to prove the truth of what Doctor Bohun
  lys of them.
    The grandfather of John Evelyn, George, was not the first of thefamily
   ho settled in Surrey; John, father of this George, was of Kingston

     1520, and married a daughter of David Vincent, Esq. Lord of the
   lanor of Long Ditton, near Kingston, which afterwards came into the
   uids of George, who there carried on the manufacture of gunpowder.

      purchased very considerable estates in Surrey, and three of his

 ons became heads of three families, viz. Thomas, his eldest son, at
 -ong Ditton John at Godstone, and Richard at Wotton. Each

     these three families had the title of Baronet conferred on them

  .<iifterent times, vis. at Godstone in 1660, Long Ditton in 1683, and

  Cotton in 1713.
    The manufacture of gunpowder was carried on at Godstone as well
    at Long Ditton, but docs not appear that there ever was any mill
     Wotton, or that the purchase of that place was made with such a

  iew. Nor does appear that Mr. Evelyn's grandfather planted the
 jnber, with which Wotton was, and always has been, so well stored.

  Tie soil produces naturally, and has at all times been carefully
  reserved, besides what has been planted, furnishing abundance for

  utting at proper seasons.
       may be not altogether incurious to observe, that, though Mr.

 '.relyn's father was a man of very considerable fortune, the first rudi-
  icnts of this son's learning were acquired from the village schoolmaster
  'er the porch of Wotton Church. .Of his progress at another school,
  .id at college, he himself speaks with great humility nor did he add
 luch to his stock of knowledge whilst he resided in the Middle Temple.

    which his father sent him, with intention that he should apply to
·vhat he calls an impolished study,' which he says he never liked.
More will be said of this in a subsequent page.

   The public troubles coming on before he had engaged in any settled
plan for his future life, appears that he had thoughts of living in the
most private manner, and that, with his brother's permission, he had
even begun to prepare a place for retirement at Wotton. Nor did he
j

                             '
                                         it

                                                                                       .
afterwards wholly abandon this intention, if the plan of a philosophic
 College which he sent to Mr. Boyle in 1659, was really formed c
a serious idea.

    His answer to Sir Geo. Mackenzie's panegyric on Solitude, in whir
 Mr. Evelyn takes the opposite part, and urges the preference to whi<
 public employment and an active life is entitled, might be supposed
 playful essay of one who, for the sake of argument, would controve%
another's position, though in reality agreeing with his own opinion,
 we think him serious in two letters to Mr. Abraham Cowley, date
 12 March and 24 August 1666. In truth, his mind was too acti\
to admit of solitude, however desirable it might at some times appe:
to him in Theory.

    After he had settled at Deptford, which was in the time of Cron
well, he kept up a constant correspondence with Sir Rich. Browne (h
 father-in-law) the King's Ambassador at Paris ; and though his co;
 nection must have been known, it does not appear that he met wil
any interruption from the Government here. Indeed, though he r

mained a decided Royalist, he managed so well as to have intima:

friends amongst those nearly connected with Cromwell ; and to this v

may attribute his being able to avoid taking the Covenant, which h

says he never did take. In 1659 he published ' An Apology for th

Royal Party,' and soon after he printed a paper which was of grea
service to the King, entitled 'The late News or Message from Brussell
unmasked,' which was a pamphlet designed to represent the King i

the worst light.
    On the Restoration we find him very frequently at Court, and h

ibecame engaged in many public employments, still attending to h

studies and literary pursuits. Amongst these is particularly to I

mentioned the Royal Society, in the establishment and conduct ·
which he took a very active part. He procured Mr. Howard's librat
·to be given to them ; and in 1667 the Arundelian Marbles to the Un
versity of Oxford.

   His first appointment to a public office was in 1662, as a Commi
sioner for reforming the buildings, ways, streets and incumbrances, an
regulating Hackney coaches in London. In the same year he sat as ;
Commissioner on an enquiry into the conduct of the Lord Mayor, &c
concerning Sir Tho. Gresham's charities. In 1664 he was in a Corr
mission for regulating the Mint; and in the same year he was appointc
one of the Commissioners for the care of the Sick and Wounded ii.
the Dutch War ; and was continued in the same employment in the
second War with that Country.

   He was one of the Commissioners for the repair of St. Paul's Cathe
dral shortly before it was burnt in 1666.

   In that year he was in a Commission for regulating the farming and
making of Saltpetre.
                                                          XI

   In 167! he was made a Commissioner of Plantations on the estab
lishment of the Board, to which the Council of Trade was added in

1672.

   In 1685 he was one of the Commissioners of the Privy Seal during
the absence of the Earl of Clarendon (who held that office), on his
going Lord Lieutenant to Ireland.

   On the foundation of Greenwich Hospital in 1695, he was one of the
Commissioners; and on 30 June 1696, he laid the first stone of that
building. He was appointed Treasurer with a salary of ^200 a year,
but he says it was a long time before he received any part of it.

   When the Czar of Muscovy came to England in 1698, he was de
sirous of having the use of Sayes Court, as being near the King's
Dock-yard at Deptford, where that Monarch proposed instructing him
self in the art of Ship-building. During his stay he did so much
ilamage, that Mr. Evelyn had an allowance of ^.150 for it. He parti
cularly regrets the mischief done to his famous holly hedge, which
might have been thought beyond the reach of damage.'

   October 1699, his elder brother George Evelyn dying without male
issue, aged 83, he succeeded to the paternal estate ; and in May follow
ing he quitted Sayes Court and went to VVotton, where he passed the
remainder of his life, except going occasionally to London, where he
had a house.

   In the great storm in 1703 he mentions, in his last edition of the
Sjrhra, that above 1000 trees were blown down in sight of his house.

   He died at his house in London, 27 Feb. 1705-6, in the eighty -sixth
year of his age, and was buried at Wotton. His Lady survived him
nearly three years, dying 9 Feb. 1708-9, in her seventy-fourth year, and
was buried near him at Wotton. His personal character was truly
amiable. In the relative duties of father, husband, and friend, few
could exceed him.

   Of Mr. Evelyn's children, one son, who died at the age of five, and
one daughter, who died at the age of nineteen, were almost prodigies.

The particulars of their extraordinary endowments, and the deep
manner in which he was affected by their deaths, may be seen in
his letters, and cannot be read without exciting the most tender
emotions.

    One daughter was well and happily settled ; another less happily,
but she did not survive her marriage more than a few months.

   The only son who lived to the age of manhood inherited his father's
love of learning, and distinguished himself by several publications.

   Mr. Evelyn's employment as a Commissioner of the Sick and Wounded
was a very laborious one, and from the nature of it must have been
extremely unpleasant. Almost the whole labour was in his depart

  * It is slid that one of Czar Peter's favourite recreations was to demolish the hedges by

ridiaw, through them in a wheelbarrow.
it,merit, which included all the Ports between the River Thames and
Portsmouth ; he had to travel in all seasons and weathers, by land
and by water, in the execution of his office, to which he gave the strict
est attention. It was rendered still more unpleasant by the great
difficulty which he found in procuring money for support of the Pri
soners. In the Library at Wotton are copies of numerous letters to
the Lord Treasurer and Officers of State, representing, in the strong
est terms, the great distress of the poor men, and of those who had
furnished lodging and necessaries for them. At one time there were
such arrears of payment to the victuallers, that on landing additional
sick and wounded, they lay some time in the streets, the publicans
refusing to receive them, and shutting up their houses. After all this
trouble and fatigue he found as great difficulty in getting his accounts
settled1. In Jan. 1665-6 he formed a plan for an Infirmary at Chat
ham, which he sent to Mr. Pepys, to be laid before the Admiralty, with
his reasons for recommending it ; but it does not appear that it was
carried into execution.

   His business relating to the repair of St. Paul's (which, however, was
very short), that of a Commissioner of Trade and Plantations, and for
building Greenwich Hospital, were much better adapted to his inclina
tion and pursuits.

  As a Commissioner of the Privy Seal in the reign of K. James II.

he had a difficult task to perform. He was most steadily attached to
the Church of England, and the King required the Seal to be put to
many things incompatible with the welfare of that Church. This on
some occasions he refused to do, particularly to a Licence to Dr.
Obadiah Walker to print Popish books'; and on others absented him
self, leaving it to his brother Commissioners to act as they thought fit.
Such, however, was the King's opinion of him, that he shewed no dis
pleasure on this account.

   With respect to Mr. Evelyn's attempt to bring Col. Morley (who
was Cromwell's Lieutenant of the Tower, and who held it at the time
immediately preceding the Restoration) over to the King's interest, an
imperfect account of it is given in the Biographia.

   The fact is, that there was great friendship between these gentlemen,
and Mr. Evelyn did endeavour to engage the Colonel in the King's

   1 1 Oct. 1665. he writes to the Lord Chancellor. Lord Arlington, Sir William Coventry, and
Sir Philip Warwick, complaining of want of money for the Prisoners, and praying that whilst
he and his brother Commissioners adventure their persons, and all that is dear to them, in
this uncomfortable service, they may not be exposed to ruin, and to a necessity of abandon ·
ing their care ; they have lost their officers and servants by the pestilence, and are hourly
environed with the saddest objects of perishing people. -- ' I have.' says he, ' is places full of
sick men, where they put me to unspeakable trouble ; the Magistrates and Justices, who
should further us in our exigencies, hindering the people from giving us quarters, jealous of
the contagion, and causing them to shut their doors at our approach.'

   * Dr. Walker had been a member of the Church of England, but had renounced and
turned Papist.
interest  ; he saw him several                 times,   a'n;dhepudt idhisnolitfesiunctcoeehdis,  hands by
writing   to him on 12 Jan.                    1659-60                                           and Col.

Morley was too much his friend to betray him ; but so far from the
Colonel having settled matters privately with Sir Anth. Ashley Cooper,

or General Monk1, as there stated, when the Restoration took place,
CoL Morley actually applied to Mr. Evelyn to obtain his pardon, and

Mr. Evelyn obtained it accordingly, though, as the latter states, the
Colonel was obliged to pay a sum of money. This could not have
happened if he had previously joined with General Monk.
   Mr. Evelyn's book intitled ' Navigation and Commerce, their Original

and Progress,' was nothing more than an Introduction to the History
of the Dutch War, a work undertaken by Mr. Evelyn at the express

command of King Charles II., and the materials for which were fur
nished by the Officers of State. The completion of this work, after a

                                                            it,

                                                                         ;
considerable progress had been made in was put a stop to by the

King himself for what reason does not appear but perhaps was
          ;                                                                                      it

found that Mr. Evelyn was inclined to tell too much of the truth con
cerning a transaction which will be seen by his Journal he utterly
reprobated. His copy of the History, as far as had proceeded, heit
put into the hands of his friend Mr. Samuel Pepys of the Admiralty,
                                                                it

who did not return it.

   'The Mystery of Jesuitism' consisted of three volumes, published in
different years. The translation of the second was undertaken by Mr.
Evelyn at the express desire of Lord Clarendon and his son, as appears
by a letter of Mr. E. to Lord Cornbury, dated Feb. 1664. The third
was translated by Dr. Tonge for Mr. Evelyn.
In giving a list of Mr. Evelyn's Publications, the Authors of the9
Biograpkia say, As several of these treatises were printed before theis
                 '
                         '                                                  :

                                            ;                           is 9
Author's return to England, and others without his name, we must               is '
depend on the general opinion of the world, and the authority of Mr.
                                                                                           it
Wood, for their being his yet                      there    no  tghreea"t    reason          to suspect  a
mistake.' They say, We know                        nothing  of              Mundus            Muliebris
                                                                                                         ;

or, the Ladies' Dressing Room unlocked,'' except that has had a

place in the Catalogue of our Author's Works, from which therefore
we have no right to remove it.'

There is no doubt of his being the author under 1685 Mr. Evelyn,
in his    aicncotuhent"  of his daughter Mary, says             she put in many pretty
symbols                  Mundus Muliebris," wherein                 an enumeration ot the

immense variety of the modes and ornaments belonging to the sex.'

In a letter to Lord Cornbury, dated Feb. 1664, he speaks of having

written a Play.

*I   A copy of this letter, with note of Mr. Evelyn's subjoined, given among the Illustra
tions at the end of this Volume.

      Colonel Morley name scarcely mentioned in the account of General Monk's conduct
en this occasion written by John Price, D-D. (who was sent to him on the King's behalf, and
had continual intercourse with him), published in 1680, and reprinted by Baron Mascresin 1815.
                 s
                              is

                                    a
The Authors of the Biog. Brit, say, ' The account which Mr. Boyle
received from Mr. Evelyn of the method used by the Italians for pre

serving snow in pits, is an admirable specimen of that care with which

he registered his discoveries, as well as the curiosity which prompted
him to enquire into every thing worthy of notice, either natural or arti
ficial, in the countries through which he passed. It is much to be

regretted that a work so entertaining and instructive as the History of
his Travels would have been, appeared, even to so indefatigable a per

son as he was, a task too laborious for him to undertake ; for we should

then have seen clearly, and in a true light, many things in reference to
Italy which are now very indistinctly and partially represented ; and

we should also have met with much new matter never touched before,

and of which we shall now probably never hear at all.'
What is thus said of Mr. Evelyn's travels is partly supplied in the
following volume, but not so fully as could be wished. That he made
many observations which will not be found here, appears by the above
quotation from Mr. Boyle, and by an account of the manner of making
bread in France, which he communicated to Mr. Houghton, a Fellow

of the Royal Society, who published it in some papers which he printed
weekly in 1681 and following years. It is presumed that Mr. Evelyn,

had made many other observations not found in this Journal, and the

notes of which have not been discovered amongst his papers.
From the numerous Authors who have spoken in high terms of this
Gentleman, we will insert the two following characters of him :
  In the Biog. Brit. Dr. Campbell says, ' It is certain that very few
Authors who have written in our language deserve the character of

able and agreeable writers so well as Mr. Evelyn, who, though he was

acquainted with most sciences, and wrote upon many different subjects,
yet was very far, indeed the farthest of most men of his time, from
being a superficial writer. He had genius, he had taste, he had

learning ; and he knew how to give all these a proper place in his

works, so as never to pass for a Pedant, even with such as were least

in love with literature, and to be justly esteemed  a polite  Author   by

those who knew it best.' --Vol. V. p. 614, note I.
   Mr. Hor. Walpole, in his
following admirably-drawn      Catalogue   of Engravers,   also gives  the
                             character of                 Evelyn had   not
                                           him: ' If Mr.
been an Artist himself, as I think I can prove he was, I should yet

have found it difficult to deny myself the pleasure of allotting him a
place among the Arts he loved, promoted, patronized ; and it would
be but justice to inscribe his name with due panegyric in these records,

as I have once or twice taken the liberty to criticise him : but they are
trifling blemishes compared with his amiable virtues and beneficence ;

and it may be remarked, that the worst I have said of him is, that he
knew more than, he always communicated. It is no unwelcome satire

Ito say, that a man's intelligence and philosophy is inexhaustible.
          not to write his Life, which may be found detailed in the new
edition of his ' Sculptura,' in Collins's ' Baronetage,' in the ' General
Dictionary,' and in the new ' Biographical Dictionary ;' but I must
observe, that his life, which was extended to 86 years, was a course of
enquiry, study, curiosity, instruction, and benevolence. The works of
the Creator, and the minute labours of the creature, were all objects of
his pursuit. He unfolded the perfection of the one, and assisted the
imperfection of the other. He adored from examination ; was a cour

tier that flattered only by informing his prince, and by pointing out

what was worthy for him to countenance ; and really was the Neigh

bour of the Gospel, for there was no man that might not have been

the better for him. \Vhoever peruses a list of his works will subscribe
to my assertion. He was one of the first promoters of the Royal

Society ; a patron of the ingenious and the indigent ; and peculiarly

serviceable to the lettered world ; for besides his writings and dis

coveries, he obtained the Arundelian Marbles for the University of
Oxford, and the Arundelian Library for the Royal Society. -- Nor is it

the least part of his praise, that he, who proposed to Mr. Boyle the
erection of a Philosophical College for retired and speculative persons,
had the honesty to write in defence of active life against Sir Geo.

Mackenzie's Essay on Solitude. He knew that retirement, in his own

hands, was industry, and benefit to mankind ; but in those of others,

laziness and inutility.'
His son, Mr. John Evelyn, was of Trinity College, Oxford, and when
about   15 years old he wrote  that elegant Greek Poem which is prefixed
to the  second edition of the  ' Sylva.' He translated Rapin on Gardens,

in four books, written in Latin verse. His father annexed the second
book of this to the second edition of his ' Sylva.' He also translated

from the Greek of Plutarch the life of Alexander the Great, printed in
volume iv. of ' Plutarch's Lives by several Hands ; 'and from the French,
the History of the Grand Viziers Mahomet and Achmet Coprogli.
There are several Poems of his, of which some are printed in Dryden's
Miscellanies, and more in Nichols's Collection of Poems.

In December 1688 he was presented to the Prince of Orange at

Abington by CoL Sidney and Col. Berkley, and was one of the volun
teers in Lord Lovelace's troop, when his Lordship secured Oxford for
the Prince. In 1690 he purchased the place of Chief Clerk of the
Treasury ; but in the next year he was by some means removed from
it by Mr. Guy,' who succeeded in that office. In August 1692 he
was made one of the Commissioners of the Revenue in Ireland, from

whence he returned to England in 1696 in very ill health, and died
34th March, 1698, in his father's life-time.

   He married Martha, daughter and coheir of Rich. Spenser, Esq., a
Turkey merchant, by whom he had two sons and three daughters.

The eldest son, and the eldest daughter, Martha-Mary, and youngest
·daughter, Jane, died infants. The surviving daughter, Elizabeth, mar
ried Simon Harcourt, Esq. son of the Lord -Chancellor Harcourt.
Sep. 18, 1705, the son John, who had succeeded his grandfather at
Wotton, married Anne, daughter of Ed. Boscawjn, Esq. of the county

of Cornwall ; and by letters patent, dated 30 July 1713, was created

a Baronet. He inherited the virtue and the taste for learning, as well

·as the patrimony, of his ancestors, and lived at Wotton universally
loved and respected. He built a Library there, 45 feet long, 14. wide,
4ind as many high, for the reception of the large and curious collection
of books made by his grandfather, father, and himself, and where they
now remain. He was a Fellow of the Royal Society, was long the
First Commissioner of the Customs, and died July 15, 1763, in the

eighty-second year of his age.
By his lady, who died before him, he had several children, and was
succeeded by John the eldest, who married Mary daughter of Hugh
Boscawcn, Viscount Falmouth, and died 11 June, 1767, in the sixty-
first year of his age. He was Cleric of the Green Cloth to Frederick
Prince of Wales, father of George  to George II. when Prince of
                                   I.,

                                                                                                                ;
Wales, and after he came to the Crown. He represented the Borough
of Helston in several Parliaments, and to the time of his death. He
had only one son, Frederick, who succeeded to the title and estate,
and three daughters. Of the daughters, two died unmarried the
third, Augusta, married the Rev. Dr. Henry Jenkin, Rector of Wotton
and Abinger, but she died without issue. Sir Frederick was in the
army in the early part of his life, and was in Elliot's Light-Horse
when that Regiment so highly distinguished themselves in the famous
Battle of Minden in Germany in 1759. He married Mary, daughter
of William Turton, Esq. of Staffordshire, and, dying without issue in
181 he left his estates to his Lady. She lived at Wotton, where she
; 2,
fully maintained the honour and great respect which had so long
attended the family there. Her taste for botany was displayed in her
garden and green-house, where she had a curious collection of exotic,
as well as native, shrubs and flowers. The Library shared her atten
                                   it,
                                                      a
                                                                                it
tion besides making additions to   she had complete Catalogue
arranged by Mr. Upcott of the London Institution.
This lady by her will returned the estate to the family, devising to
John Evelyn, Esq. who descended from George Evelyn, the purchaser
ui Qii« estate in 1579.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.

KALENDARIUM.

I was borne at Wotton, in the county of Surrey, 31 Oct., 1620,

after my Father  had been married about seven yeares ', and my
Mother had borne him two daughters and one sonn, viz. Eliza, 28
Nov., 1614: Jane, 16 Feb., 1615; George, 18 June, 1617. They had
another sonn after me, Richard, bom 4 Dec, 1622.

   My Father, named Richard, was of a sanguine complexion, mixed
with a dash of choler: his haire inclining to light, which tho' very
thick became hoary by that time he was 30 yeares of age; it was
somewhat curled towards the extremity ; his beard, which he wore a

little picked, as the mode was, of a brownish colour, and so continued
to the last, save that it was somewhat mingled with grey haires about
his cheekes : which, with his countenance, was cleare, and fresh

coloured, his eyes quick and piercing, an ample forehead, manly aspect ;
low of stature, but very strong. So exact and temperate, that I haue
heard be had never been surprised by excesse, being ascetic and
sparing. His wisdom was greate, his judgment acute ; of solid dis

course, affable, humble, and in nothing affected ; of a thriving, neate,
silent, and methodical genius ; discreetly severe, yet liberal on all just
occasions, to his children, strangers, and servants ; a lover of hospi
tality ; of a singular and Christian moderation in all his actions ; a
Justice of the Peace and of the Quorum ; he served his Country as
High Sheriff for Surrey and Sussex together*. He was a studious
dcchner of honours and titles, being already in that esteem with his
country that they could have added little to him beside their burden *.

He was a person of that rare conversation, that upon frequent recollec
tion, and calling to mind passages of his life and discourse,' I could
never charge him with the least passion or inadvertence. His estate
was esteem'd about .£4,000 per ami. well wooded and full of timber.

fj1 He was married at Si Thomas's Church, Soulhwark,  Jan. 1613.
·* Formerly the two Counties had. in general, only one Sheriff, though sometimes distinct

·bms ; sa 1637 each County had its Sheriff, and to it has continued ever n nee.
  a ·· Koeaaved the so Oct., 1630. of Richard Evlinge of Wottone in the Countye of Suit'

Esq : by waic of composic'one to the use of his Mae., being appointed by his M. Collector
br the same for bis Fine for not apearinge at the time and place apoynted for receivings
oreer of knighthood, the somme 01 nvcty pound 1 say ntceaved Tho. Ckymu."

                                                                  a
   18 DESCRIPTION AND SITUATION OF WOTTON, SURREY.

   My Mother's name was Elianor, sole daughter1 and heyresse of
   John Standsfield Esq. ; of an ancient and honorable family (though
   now extinct) in Shropshire, by his wife Elianor Comber of a good and
   well knowne house in Sussex. She was 6f proper personage ; of a
   browne complexion ; her eyes and baire of a lovely black ; of constitu
   tion inclyned to a religious melancholy, or pious sadnesse ; of a rare
   memory and most exemplary life ; for ceconomie and prudence

   esteemed one of the most conspicuous in her Country.                  I should
      So much touching my parents ; nor was it reasonable

   speake lesse of them to whom I owe so much.

   Wotton,' the mansion house of my father, left him by my grand

   father,  (now my eldest brother's)    is situated   in the most   Southern part
            Shire, and tho' in a vally,  yet really   upon part of
   of the                                                            Lyth Hill, one

   of the most eminent (993 feet) in England for the prodigious prospect to
   be seen from its summit, tho' by few observed. From it may be dis-

   cern'd 12 or 13 Counties, with part of the Sea on the Coast of Sussex,
   in a serene day ; the house large and ancient, suitable to those hos

   pitable times, and so sweetly environed with those delicious streams
   and venerable woods, as in the judgement of Strangers as well as Eng

   lishmen it may be compared to one of the most pleasant Seates in the

   Nation, and most tempting for a great person and a wanton purse to

   render it conspicuous : it has rising grounds, meadows, woods, and

   water, in abundance.
   The distance from London little more than 20 miles (nearly 26
   miles) and yet so securely placed as if it were 100 ; three miles from
   Dorking, which serves it  abundantly with  proIviwsioilnl ssaays  well of land as
.  sea ; 8 from Gilford, 14  from Kingston.                          nothing of the

   ayre, because the preeminence is universally given to Surrey, the soil
   being dry and sandy ; but I should speake much of the gardens,
   fountaines, and groves, .that adorne it; were they not as generaly
   knowne to be amongst the most natural, and (til this later and universal
   luxury of the whole nation, since abounding in such expenses) the most

   magnificent that England afforded, and which indeede gave one of the

   first examples to that elegancy since so much in vogue and followed in
   the managing of their waters, and other ornaments of that nature. Let
   me add, the contiguity of 7 Mannors, the patronage of the livings about
   it,1 and, what is none of the least advantages, a good neighbourhood.

   All which conspire to render it fit for the present possessor, my worthy

   brother, and his noble lady, whose constant liberality give them title
   both to the place and the affections of all that know them. Thus, with

   the poet,

              Nescio qu& natale solum dulcedine cunctos
                  Ducit, et im'emores non sinit esse suL

              1 Born 13 Nov. 1598, near Lewes.
              * 7 Manors, 3 Advowsons, and a Chapel of Sir John Cotton.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  19

   1624. I was not initiated into any rudiments till I was four years of

 age, and then one Frier taught us at the church porch of Wotton ; and
 I perfectly remember the great talk and stir about il Conde Gundamar,
 Ambassador from Spain (for near about this time was the match of
 ocr Prince with the Infanta proposed).

    1625. I was this year sent by my Father to Lewes, to be with my
 Grandfather Standsficld, with whom I passed my childhood. This

 was the year in which the pestilence was so epidemical that there dy'd

 in London 5,000 a week ; and I well remember the strict watches and

 examinations upon the ways as we passed.

    1626. My picture was drawn in oyle by one Chanterell, no ill

 painter.

   1627. My Grandfather Standsfield dyed this yeare on 5 Feb. : I
 remember the solemnity at his funeral. He was buried in the parish
 church of All Soules, where my Grandmother, his second wife, erected
a monument. About this time was the consecration of the Church of
South Mailing, near Lewes, the building whereof was chiefly procured

 by my Grandfather, who having the Impropriation, gave ^20 a-year

oat of it to this Church. I afterwards sold the Impropriation. I layd

one of the first stones at the building of the Church, which was conse
crated by Bishop Field, Bishop of Oxfd., the sermon being preached
by Mr. Coxhall, afterwards minister there.

   It was not till the yeare 1628 that I was put to learne my Latine
rudiments, and to write of one Citolin, a Frenchman, in Lewes. I was

put to schoole to Mr. Potts, in the Clifle at Lewes ; and in 1630 from
thence to the Free-schole at Southover neere the town, of which one
Agnes Morley had been the foundresse, and now Edward Snatt was
the master, under whom I remained till I was sent to the University.
This yeare my Grandmother (with whom I sojourn'd) being married to
ooe Mr. Newton, a learned and most religious gent, we went from the
Cliff to dwell at his house in Southover.

    1631. There happen'd an extraordinary dearth in England, corne
bearing an excessive price ; and in imitation of what I had seene my

Father do, I began to observe matters more punctualy, which I did

used to set downe in a blanke almanac
   21 Oct. 1632. My eldest Sister was married to Edward Darcy Esq.;

who little deserved so excellent a person. I was soone afterwards sent
far into Surrey, and my Father would willingly have weaned me from
my fondness of my too indulgent Grandmother, intending to have
placed me at Eaton ; but I was so terrified at the report of the severe
discipline there, that I was sent back to Lewes, which perversenesse of

mine I have since a thousand times dcplor'd. Whiles I was now
trifling at home I saw London, where I lay one night onely. The
oext day I dined at Beddington, where I was much delighted with

  I Long after, Mr. Evelyn paid great respect to this gentleman, as appears by his letters.
20 DEATH OF MY S ISTER-- DEATH-BED OF MY MOTHER.

the gardens and curiosities. Thence we returned to the Lady
Darcy's at Sutton, thence to Wotton, and the 16 August 1633, back

to Lewes.
   1634. My Father was appointed Sheriff for Surrey and Sussex

before they were disjoyned. He had 116 servants in liverys, every one
liver/d in greene sattin doublets ; divers gentlemen and persons of
quality waited on him in the same garbe and habit, which at that time
(when 30 or 40 was the usual retinue of the High Sheriff) was esteem'd a
great matter. Nor was this out of the least vanity that my Father
exceeded (who was one of the greatest decliners of it), but because he
could not refuse the civility of his friends and relations, who volun
tarily came themselves, or sent in their servants. But my Father was
afterwards most unjustly and spitefully molested by that jeering judge
Richardson', for repreeving the execution of a woman, to gratifie my
L. of Lindsey, then Admiral ; but out of this he emerged with as much
honor as trouble.

   15 Dec. 1634. My Sister Darcy departed this hfe, being arrived to
her 20 yeare of age, in vertue advanc'd beyond her yeares, or the merit
of her husband, the worst of men. She had been brought to bed the 2
June before, but the infant died soon after her. My Sister was interr'd
in a very honorable manner in our dormitory joyning to the parish
church of Wotton, where now her monument stands.

   1635. My deare Mother departed this life upon the 29 Sept., about
the 37th of her age and 22d of her marriage ; her death hastened by
excessive grief for the losse of her daughter. When near her death,
she summoned all her children then living (I shall never forget it), and
express'd herself in a manner so heavenly, with instructions so pious
and Christian, as made us strangely sensible of the extraordinary losse
then imminent ; after which, embracing every one of us, she gave to
each a ring, with her blessing. Then taking my Father by the hand,
she recommended us to his care ; and having importun'd him that what
he design'd to bestow on her funeral he would rather dispose among
the poofe, she labour'd to compose herselfe for the blessed change
which she now expected. There was not a servant in the house whom
she did not expressly send for, advise, and infinitely affect with her
counsell.

   Though her Physicians, Dr. Merwell, Dr. Clement, and Dr. Rand,
had given over all hopes of her recovery, and Sr. Sanders Duncombe
tried his celebrated and famous powder, she was many days impairing,
and endur"d the sharpest conflicts of her sicknesse with admirable

1 He was made a Chief Justice of the Common Pleas in 1626, and of the King's Bench in
1631. There is a monument for him in Westminster Abbey. Fuller says he lived too near
the time to speake fully of him. He took on him to issue an order against keeping wakes on
Sundays, which Laud, then Bishop of Bath and Wells took up as an infringement of the rights
of Bishops, and  got him severely reprimanded    at the Council Table.    He
borough Castle   in Lingficld in Surrey. Bray's   History of Surrey vol.        was    owner  of  Star-
                                                                           II.   345.
                  THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                             21

patience and most Christian resignation, retaining her intellectuals and

ardent affections for her dissolution to the very article of her departure.

When near her dissolution, she laid her hand on every one of her

children, and taking solemn leave of my Father, with elevated heart

and eyes she quietly expired, and resign'd her soule to God. She was

interred, as neere as might be, to her daughter Darcy, 3 Oct. at night,
but with no meane ceremony.
   · 1636. This yeare being extreamely dry, the pestilence much in
creased in London and divers parts of England.
   13 Feb. I was admitted into the Middle Temple, London, though
absent, and as yet at schoole.

  3d April, 1637. I left schoole, where, till about the last yeare, I had

been extreamely remisse in my studies, so as I went to the Universitie

rather out of shame of abiding longer at schoole, than for any

fitncsse, as by sad experience I found, which put me to re-learne all
that I had neglected, or but perfunctorily gain'd.

   10 May. I was admitted a fellow communer of Baliol College, Oxford,

and on the 29th 1 was matriculated in the Vestry at St. Marie's, where

I subscribed the Articles and took the oaths, Dr. Baily, head of St.

John's, being Vice Chancelor, afterwards Bp. The Fellow Communers
in Balliol were no more exempt from exercise than the meanest scholars
                                           to one Mr. Geo. Bradshaw
Ithere, and  my   Father sent me thither   father, beneficed -- Rector  (nomen
             yet  the son of an excellent                               of Ock-
imviswm
ham -- in Surrey.) I ever thought my Tutor had parts enough, but as

his ambition made him much suspected of the College, so his grudge

to Dr. Lawrence, the governor of it (whom he aftenvards supplanted)
tooke up so much of his tyme, that he seldom or never had the oppor
tunity to discharge his duty to his scholars. This I perceiving, asso
ciated myself with one Mr. Jas. Thicknesse (then a young man of the
Foundation, afterwards a Fellow of the House,) by whose learned and
friendly conversation I received great advantage. At my first arival,

Dr. Parkhurst was Master ; and after his discease, Dr. Lawrence, a
chaplaine of his Ma'ties and Margaret Professor, succeeded, an accute
and learned person ; nor do I much reproch his severity, considering

that the extraordinary remissenesse of discipline had (til his coming)
much detracted from the reputation of that Colledg.
There came in my tyme to the Coll : one Nathaniel Conopios out of
Greece, from Cyrill the Patriarch of Constantinople, who returning
many years after, was made (as I understand) Bishop of Smyrna. He
was the first I ever saw drink coffee, which custom came not into Eng
land till 30 years after.
   After I was somewhat settled there in my formalities (for then was

the University exceedingly regular, under the exact discipline of William

   1 Am account of th« visit nude by K. Charles I. and his Queen to the University of Oxford,
la Sept. i6jo, is given in this work ua a letter from Geo. Evelyn, Esq. to his Father.
22 AT CAMBRIDGE-- IN SOMERSETSHIRE-- AND IN LONDON.

Lawd, Abp. of Canterbury, then Chancelor,) I added, as benefactor to
the Library of the Coll. these books :
   Zanchii Opera, vols. 1, 2, 3. Granado in Thomam Aquinatem, vols.

1, 2, 3. Novarini Electa sacra, and Cresolii Anthologia sacra, authors
(it seems) desired by the students of Divinity there.

   1637. At Christmas the Gentlemen of Exeter College presented a
Comedy to the University.

   I was admitted into the dauncing and vaulting Schole, of which late
activity one Stokes, the Master, set forth a pretty book, which was

publish'd with many witty elogies before it.'
           My Father order'd that I should begin
    1638.  which till then my Tutor had done;                  to          manage myne owne
expenses,                                                      at
                                                                           which I was much

satisfied.

   1639. I began to look on the rudiments of musick, in which I

afterwards ariv'd to some formal knowledge, though to small perfec

tion of hand, because I was so frequently diverted by inclinations to

newer trifles.
   20 May. Accompany'd with one Mr. Jo. Craflford, (who afterwards
being my fellow-traveller in Italy there changed his religion,) I tooke a
journey of pleasure to see the Sumersetshire Bathes, Bristol!, Ciren
cester, Malmesbury, Abington, and divers other townes of lesser note,

and returned the 25th.
    1640. Came my bro. Richard from schole to be my chamber-fellow

at the University. He was admitted the next day, and matriculated

the 31st        I went to London to see the solemnity of his Majesties
   I I ApriL
riding through the Citty in state to the Short Parliament, which began
the 13th following, a very glorious and magnificent sight, the King
circled with his royal diademe and the affections of his people.

   27 April. I went to London to be resident in the Middle Temple.
My being at the University, in regard of these avocations, was of very

small benefit to me.

·  520MMaayywIasretthuemP'darlwiaimthenmt yubnrhoa. pGpeiloy.  dissolved.
                                                               to Wotton,
                                                                           who  on  the  28  of

the same month was married at Aldbury to Mrs. Caldwell (an heiress
of an ancient Leicestershire family).*

   10 June I repaired with my Brother to the Tearme, to goe into our

new lodgings, (that were formerly in Essex Court,) being a very hand

  1 It being now become extremely scarce, the title of it is here given : ' The Vaulting

Master, or the Art of Vaulting. Reduced to a method comprised under certain Rules. Illus
trated by examples, and now primarily set forth, by Will. Stokes. Printed for Rich. Davis
in Oxon, 1655/ A small oblong quarto, with the author's portrait prefixed, and a number of
plates beautifully engraved (most probably by Glover) representing feats of activity on horse
back that appear extraordinary ones at this time of day.

  * A daughter of Dan. Caldwell, Esq. by Mary, daughter of Geo. Duncomb, Esq. of Albury.

She died 15 May 1644, and he afterwards married the widow of Sir John Cotton.
                 THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                23

some apartment just over against the Hall-Court, but four pair of stairs
high, w'ch gave us the advantage of the fairer prospect, but did not much

contribute to the love of that impolish'd study, to w'ch (I suppose) my
Father had design'd me, when he paid 145/. to purchase our present
lives, and assignments afterwards.

London, and especially the Court, were at this period in frequent

disorders, and greate insolcncies were com'itted by the abus'd and too
happy Citty : in particular the Bish. of Canterbury's Palace at Lam
beth was assaulted by a rude rabble from Southwark ; my Lord Cham-

berlayne imprison'd, and many scandalous libells and invectives
scattered about the streetes, to the reproach of Government and the

fermentation of our since distractions.
27 June- My Father's indisposition augmenting, by advice of the
physitians he repaired to the Bathe.
   7 July. My brother Geo. and I understanding the peril my Father
was in, rod post from Guildford towards him, and found htm extra
ordinary weake ; but on eighth Sept. I returned home with him in

his litter.                                                     Tearme it

   15 Oct. I went to the Temple, it being Michaelmas;

began then.
   30th. I saw his Ma'tie (coming from his Northern Expedition) ride
in pomp and a kind of ovation, with all the marks of a happy peace,
restor'd to the affections of his people, being conducted through Lond :

with a most splendid cavalcade ; and on 3 Nov. following (a day never
to be mention'd without a curse) to that long, ungratefull, foolish, and
fatal Parliament, the beginning of all our sorrows for twenty yeares

after, and the   period  of  the  most  happy  Monarch  in the  world  :  Quis
talia fando ! '
My Father's disorder appeared to be a dropsy, an indisposition the

most unsuspected, being a person so exemplaryly temperate. On the 24
Dec he died, retaining his senses and piety to the last, which he most

tenderly expressed in blessing us, whom he now left to the world, and

the worst of times, whilst he was taken from the evill to come. .

   1641. 2 Jan. We at night followed the mourning hearse to the
Church at Wotton, when, after a sermon and funeral oration, my

Father was interred neere his formerly erected monument, and mingled
with the ashes of our Mother, his deare wife. Thus we were bereft of

both our parents in a period when we most of all stood in need of theire

counsell and assistance, especially myselfe, of a raw, vaine, uncertain,

and very unwary inclination ; but so it pleased God to make tryall of

my conduct in a conjuncture of the greatest and most prodigious hazard

that ever the youth of England saw. If I did not amidst all this

peach my liberty, nor my vertue, with the rest who made shipwreck of

  I Notwithstanding this expression, it will afterwards sppeax that Mr. Evelyn by no means
approved of arbitrary or tyrannical measures.
24 TRIAL AND EXECUTION OF STRAFFORD-- EMBARKS FOR HOLLAND.

both, it was more the infinite goodness and mercy of God than the
least discretion of myne owne, who now thought of nothing but ths
pursuite of vanity, and the confused imaginations of young men.

   15. I went to London, to heare and see the famous tryall of the

Earl of Strafford, who on 22d March before had been summon'd

before both Houses of Parliament, and now appeared in Westminster
Hall, which was prepaid with scaffolds for the Lords and Commons,
who together with the King, Queene, Prince, and flower of the

Noblesse, were spectators and auditors of the greatest malice and the

greatest innocency that ever met before so illustrious an assembly.
The E. of Arundell and Surrey, Earle Martial of England, was made

High Steward. The sequel is too well known.
   27. Came over from Holland the young Prince of Orange, with a

splendid equipage, to make love to his Ma'ties eldest daughter, the now

Princess Royal.
That evening was celebrated the pompous funerall of the Duke of

Richmond, who was    carried in erfigie  in  an  open  chariot  thro' *London
in great solemnity.
12 May. I beheld on Tower Hill the fatal stroke which severM the

wisest head in England from the shoulders of the Earle of Strafford ;

whose crime coming under the cognizance of no human law, a new one

was made, not to be a precident, but his destruction ; to such exorbitancy

were things arived.
   28 June. I went to London with my sister Jane, and the day after
sate to one Vanderborcht for my picture in oyle, which I presented to

her, being her request, on my resolution to absent myself from this
ill face of things at home, which gave umbrage to wiser than myselfe,

that the medaill was reversing, and our calamities were but yet in

their infancy.                                                                  went to

  IThe 16 July, having procured a passe at the Costome-house,
Gravesend, accompan/d with one Mr. Caryll and our servants, with a
purpose to take the first opportunity of a passage for Holland ; but the

wind as yet not favourable. On the 19th we rode to Rochester and
Chatham, to see the Soveraigne, a monstrous, vessel so called, being

for burthen, dtfense, and ornament, the richest that ever spread cloth

before the wind,1 and especially for this remarkable, that her building

cost his Ma'tie the affections of his subjects, who quarrell'd with

him for a trifle, refusing to contribute either to their own safety or

to his glory.
21. We embarqued in a Dutch Fregat, bound for Flushing, con

voyed and accompanied by 5 other stoute vessells, whereof one was a
man of war. The next day at noon we landed at Flushing.

Being desirous to overtake the Leagure," which was then before

J1 Accidentally burnt at Chatham in 1696.

  Mr. Evelyn means, by this expression, to be in time to witness the siege, &c
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  25

Genep,1 'e:e the Summer should be too far expired, we went this even
ing to Midelbrogh and Derveer. From Dei-veer we passed over many
townes, houses, and mines of demolish'd suberbs, &c. which have for
merly ben swallow'd up by the sea, at what time no less than 8 of those
Hands had been irrecoverably lost.

   The next day we arivM at Dort, the first towne of Holland, furnish'd
with all German commodities, and especially Rhenish wines and tim

ber. It hath almost at the extremity a very spacious and venerable

Church; a stately Senat-house, wherein was holden that famous Synod
against the Arminians in 161S, and in that hall hangeth a picture of the
Passion, an exceeding rare and much esteemed piece.

   From Dort, being desirous to hasten towards the Army, I tooke

wagon to Roterdam, where we were hurried in lesse than an houre,

though it be 10 miles distant, so furiously do these Foremen drive. I

saw the publiq statue of the learn 'd Erasmus, of brasse. They shew'd
us his House, or rather the meane Cottage wherein he was borne, over
»hich there were extant these lines in capital letters :

             iEDIBUS HIS ORTUS, MUNDUM DECORAVIT ERASMUS
                         ARTIBUS INGENUIS, RELIGIONE, FIDE.

   The 26th I passed through Delft to the Hague ; in which journey
I observ'd divers leprous poor creatures dwelling in solitary huts on the
brink of the water, and permitted to aske the charity of passengers,
which is conve/d to them in a floating box that they cast out

   AriVd at the Hague, I went first to the Qucene of Bohemia's
Court ; there were several of the Princesses her daughters, Prince
Maurice newly come out of Germany, and my Ld. Finch not long
before fled out of England from the fury of the Parliament. It was a

fasting-day with the Queene, for the unfortunate death of her husband ;
and the Presence Chamber had been hung with black velvet ever since

 bis discease.

   The 28th I went by Leyden ; and on the 29th to Utricht. We then

came to Rynen, where the Queene of Bohemia hath a neate Palace
or Country-house, built after the Italian manner as I remember. Then
by Nimeguen. And, 2d of August, arriv'd at the Leagure, where was
then the whole Army encamped about Genep, a strong castle on the
nver Wahale ; but being taken 4 or 5 days before, we had only a sight
of the demolitions. The next Sunday was the thanksgiving sermons
perform 'd in CoL Goreing's Regiment (eldest sonne of the since Earle of
 Norwich) by Mr. Goffe his Chaplin (now turned Roman and Father
 Confessor to the Queen-Mother). The evening was spent in firing
 canon, and other expressions of military triumphs.

    I On the Waal-- a place which having been greatly strengthened by the Cardinal Infante
 D. Fernando In 1635. was at this lime besieged by the French and Dutch. There is a full
 accpunt of the siege in the great work of Aitzema, a man who with extraordinary patience
 compiled materials for the History of the United Provinces during the greater part of the

 sere&lecn'Ji century. One o* lis brothers was mortally wounded at this siege.
26 AT LEYDEN. ARRIVE AT ROTTERDAM; THE FAIR THERE,

bfow, according to the compliment, I was received a Volunteere in

the Company of Cap. Apsley, of whose Capt. Lieut. Honywood (Apsley
being absent) I received many civilities.
   3 Aug., at night, we rode    about the lines of circumvallation, the
Genii being then in the field.   The next day I was accom'odated with
a very spacious and com'odious tent for my lodging, as before I was
with an horse, which I had at com'and, and an hutt, which during the

excessive heates was a greate convenience, for the sun piercing the

convass of the tent, it was, during the day, unsufferablc, and at night

not seldome infested with mists and fogg, which ascended from the

river.

  6 Aug. As the turne came about, I watched on a home worke neere

our quarters, and trailed a pike, being the next morning relievM by a
company of French. This was our continual duty till the Castle was

re-fortified.
  The 7th I went to see a Convent of Francisean Friers, not far from

our tents; the Chapell and Refectory full of the goods of such poor
people as at the approch of the Army had fled with them thither for
sanctuary. On the day following I went to view all the trenches,

approches, and mines, &c. of the Besiegers, and in particular the

wheel-bridg, which engine his Excellency had made to run over the

moate when they storm'd the castle. The walls and ramparts of

earth, which a mine had broaken and crumbled, were of prodigious

thicknesse.
8. I din'd in the Horse quarters with Sir Rob. Stone and his
Lady, Sir Will. Stradling, and divers Cavaliers, where there was
very good cheere, but hot service for a young drinker as I then was. --

Being pretty well satisfied with the confusion of Armies and Sieges (if
such that of the United Provinces may be called, where their quarters
and encampments are so admirably regular, and orders so exactly

observed as few Cittys exceede it for all conveniences), I tooke my
leave of the Leagure and Camerades.

   12 Aug. I embarked on the Waal, in company with 3 grave

Divines, who enntertayn'd us a greate part of our passage with
a long dispute concerning the lawfulness of Church Musick. We
touch'd at Bommell, that had divers English in garrison. It stands

upon Contribution land, which subjects the environs to the Spanish
incursions. We passed Lovestine, famous for the escape of the

learned Grotius, whose lady conveyed him out as a trunk of books. We

lay at Gorcum.
   13. We arrived late at Roterdam, where was their annual marte or
faire, so furnished with pictures (especially Landskips and Drolleries,
Ias they call those clounish representations) that I was amaz'd." Some

  bought and sent into England. The reson of this store of pictures
and their cheapness proceedes from their want of land to employ their
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  VJ

stock, so that it is an ordinary thing to find a common Farmer lay out
two or ,£3,000 in this com'odity. Their houses are full of them, and

they vend them at their faires to very greate gaines. Here I first saw
an Eliphant. I passed tliro' Delft, and visited the Church, where was
the monument of Prince William of Nassau, and his sonn and suc
cessor, Grave Maurice. The Senat-house hath a very stately Portico,
supported with very choyse pillars of black marble, as I remember, of
one entire stone. Within, there hangs a weighty vessell, not unlike a

Butter Churne, which the adventurous woman that hath two husbands
at one time is to weare for a time about the towne, her head coming
out at the hole, and the rest hanging on her shoulders, as a pennance
for her incontinency. Risewick is a stately country-house of the
Prince of Orange, for nothing more remarkable than the delicious
walkes planted with lime trees, and the modeme paintings within.

   19 Aug. We visited the Haff or Prince's Court at the Hague, with

the adjoining gardens, which were full of ornament, close-walks,
statues, marbles, grotts, fountains, and artificiall musiq,' &c. There
is a stately Hall, not much inferior to ours of Westminster, hung round
with colours and other trophys taken from the Spanyards ; and the

sides below are fumish'd with shopps.' Next day I returned to

Delft, Rotterdam, the Hague, Leyden, Haerlem, and Amsterdam,
where I went to a Synagogue of the Jews, being Saturday ; the cere
monies, ornaments, lamps, law, and scholes, afforded matter for my
wonder and enquiry. The women were secluded from the men, being
seated above in galleries, and having their heads muffled with linnen
after a fantastical! and somewhat extraordinary fashion. They have a
seperate burying-ground, full of sepulchres with Hebrew inscriptions,
some of them very stately. In one, looking through a narrow crevice,
I perceiv'd divers bookes lye about a corpse, for it seems when any
learned Rabbi dies, they bury some of his books with him. With the
help of a stick I raked out some of the leaves, written in Hebrew cha
racters, but much impaired. -- We stepp'd in to see the Spin-house, a
kind of Bridewell, where incorrigible and lewd women are kept in dis
cipline and labour, but all neate. --We were shew'd an Hospital for
poor travellers and pilgrimes, built by Queene Eliz. of England ; and
another maintained by the Citty.

   The State or Senat-house, if the designe be perfected, will be a

magnificent piece of architecture, especialy for the materialls and the

carvings. In the Doole is paynted on a very large table Marie de

Medicts' statue to the breast, supported by foure royal diademes, the

work of one Vandall, who hath set his name thereon, I Sept. 1638.
   I went to heare an English sermon at the Presbyterian Congrega-

   1 As a* Enatoac is Oxfordshire, see afterwards.

  III.% Westminster Hall used to be so in Term time and the sitting of Parliament, in the

              ; of toe reign of George
28 THE INSTITUTIONS AT AND ADVANTAGES OF AMSTERDAM.

tion, where they had chalked upon a slate the psalms that were to be

sung-, so that all the congregation might see it without the bidding of a
Clerk. After such an age no minister was permitted to preach, but
had his maintenance continu'd during life.           '

I changed my lodgings out of a desire to converse amongst the Sec
taries that swarm 'd in this Citty. It was at a Brownists house, where
we had an extraordinary good table. There was in pension with us

my L. Keeper Finch, and one Sir Jo. Fotherbee. Here I also found
an English Carmelite, with another Irish gentleman. I went to see

the Weese-house, a foundation like our Charter-house, for the educa
tion of decay 'd persons, orphans, and poore children, where they are
taught several occupations. The girls are so well brought up to

housewifry, that men of good worth who seeke that chiefly in a woman,
frequently take their wifes from this seminary. We went to see the

Rasp-house, where the lusty knaves are compcll'd to labour, and the
rasping of Brasill and Logwood is very hard labour. Thence to the

Dull-house, for madmen and fooles. But none did I so much admire

as an Hospitall for their lame and decrepid souldiers, it being for state,

order, and acom'odations, one of the worthiest things that the world

can shew of that nature. Indeede it is most remarkable what pro

visions are here made and maintain'd for publiq and charitable

purposes, and to protect the poore from misery, and the country from

beggers.

  On Sunday moming about II, after their sermons were ended, I

went to see their Dog-market, which lasts till two in the afternoon. I

do not look on the structure of the Exchange to be comparable to that
of Sir Tho. Gresham in our Citty of London, yet in one respect it

exceeds, that ships of considerable burthen ride at the very key con
tiguous to it. It is by extraordinary industry that as well this Citty, as

generaly the townes of Holland, are so accommodated with graffs, cutts,

sluces, moles, and rivers, that nothing is more frequent then to see

a whole navy of marchands and others environ'd with streetes and

houses, every man's barke or vessell at anker before his very doore,

and yet the streete so exactly straite, even, and uniforme, that nothing

can be more pleasing, especialy being so frequently planted and

shaded with the beautifull lime-trees, set in rows before every man's

house.

The next day we were entertain'd at a kind of tavern called the

Briloft, appertaining to a rich Anabaptist, where, in the upper roomes
of the house were divers pretty waterworkes, rising 108 foote from the
ground ; here were many quaint devices, fountaines, artificial! musiq,
noyses of beasts, and chirping of birds, &c. There was a lamp of
brasse, with eight socketts from the middle stem, like those we use in
churches, having counterfeit tapers in them, streams of water issuing

....as out of their wickes, the whole branch hanging loose upon
- THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  20.

the middst of a beame, without any other perceptible com'erce with
any pipe, so that, unlesse it were by compression of the ayre with a
syringe, I could not comprehend how it should be don. There was a
chime of purselan dishes, which fitted to the clock-worke rung many-

changes and tunes.
  The Keiscrs Graft,. or Emperors Strcete, appears a citty in a wood

through the goodly ranges of the stately lime-trees planted before each
man's doore, and at the margent of that goodly aquse-duct, or river,
so curiously wharfcd with clincars (a kind of white sun-bak'd brick),
and of which the spacious streetes on either side are paved. This part
of Amsterdam is gained upon the maine Sea, supported by piles at an
intense charge. Prodigious it is to consider the multitude of vessels

which continual)- ride before this Citty, which is certainly the most
busie concourse of mortalls now upon the whole earth, and the most
addicted to com'erce.

   The Steeples arc adorned after a particular manner for cost and
invention ; the Chimes of Bells are so rarely manag'd, that being
curious to know whether the motion were from any engine, I went up
to that of St. Nicholas (as I take it), where I found one who play'd all
sorts of compositions from the tablature before him. as if he had

fingered an organ, for so were the hammers fastened with wires to
several keys, put into a frame 20 foote below the bells, upon which (by
help of a wooden instrument, not much unlike a weavers shuttle, that
guarded his hand), he struck on the keys and play'd to admiration : all
this while through the clattering of the wires, din of the too nearly
sounding bells, and noise that his wooden gloves made, the confusion

was sogreate that it was impossible for the musician, or any that stood
neare him, to heare any thing himselfe ; yet to those at a distance, and
especialy in the streetes, the harmony and the time were the most

exact and agreeable.

   Generaly there are in all the Churches in Holland, organs, lamps,

monuments, &c carefully preserved from the fury and impiety of

popular reformers, whose zeale had foolishly transported them in other
places rather to act like mad-men than religious.

   I went to Hundius's shop to buy some mapps, greatly pleased with
the designes of that indefatigable person. Mr. Bleaw, the setter forth of
the Atlas's and other workes of that kind, is worthy seeing. At another
shop I furnish'd myselfe with some shells and Indian curiosities.

   Towards the end of August I returned to Haerlem by the river 10
miles in length, straighte as a line and of competent breadth for
ships to saile by one other. They shew'd us a cottage where, they told
ns, dwelt a woman who had been married to her 25th husband, and
being now a widdow was prohibited to marry in future, yet it could
not be proved that she had ever, made any of her husbands away,

though the suspicion had brought her divers times to trouble.
30 LEYDEN UNIVERSITY. JOSEPH SCALIGER. HEINSIUS.

    This is a very delicate towne, and hath one of the fairest Churches,
of the Gotiq design, I had seene. There hang in the steeple two silver
bells said to have been brought from Damiate in Egypt by an Earle
of Holland, in memory of whose successe they are rung out every
evening. In the Nave hang the goodliest branches of brasse for
tapers that I had seene, esteem'd of great value for the curiosity of the
workmanship ; also a faire payre of organs, which I could not find they
made use of in divine service, or so much as to assist them in singing

psalms, but only for shewe, and to recreate the people before and after
their devotions, whilst the Burgomasters were walking and conferring
about their affaires. --There hang near the West window two modells
of shipps compleetely equipp'd, in memory of that invention of saws
under their keeles with which they cutt the chayne before the Port of
Damiatae. Having visited this Church, the Fish-market, and made
 some enquiry about the Printing-house, the invention whereof is sayd
to have been in this towne, I returned to Leyden.

   At Leyden I was carried up to the Castle, or Pyrgus, built on a very

 steepe artificial mount, cast up (as reported) by Hengist the Saxon
on his returne out of England, as a place to retyre to in case of any
sudden inundations.

    The Churches are many and very faire ; in one of them lyes interr'd
that prodigy of learning the noble and illustrious Joseph Scaliger,
without any extraordinary inscription, as having himself left so many
monuments, of his worth behind him, more lasting than marble,
besides giving his Library to this University.

   28. I went to see their Colledge and Schooles, which are nothing

extraordinary, and was matriculated by the then Magnificus Professor,
who first in Latine demanded of me where my lodging in the towne

was, my name, age, birth, and to what faculty I addicted myself; then

recording my answers in a booke, he administered an oath to me that

I should observe the statutes and orders of the University whiles I
stay'd, and then delivered me a ticket by virtue whereof I was made

excise-free, for all which worthy privileges and the paines of writing,

Ihe accepted of a rix-dollar.

    Here was the famous Dan. Heinsius, whom so longM to see, as
well as the Elzivirian printing-house and shop, renown 'd for the polite-
·ness of the character and editions of what he has publish'd through

Europe. I visited their garden of simples, which was indeede well
stor'd with exotic plants, if the Catalogue presented to me by the

 Gardiner be a faithfull register.

   I was much pleased with a sight of their Anatomy schole, theater,

and repository adjoyning, which is well furnish'd with natural
curiosities; skeletons from the whale and eliphant to the fly and spider,

which last is a very delicate piece of art, to see how the bones (if I

may so call them) of so tender an insect could be separated from the
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  31

mucilaginous parts of y* minute animal. Amongst a great variety of
other things, 1 was shew'd the knife newly taken out of a drunken
Dutchman's gut's by an incision in his side, after it had slipped from his
fingers into his stomach. The picture of the chyrurgeon and his

patient, both living, were there.
   There is without the Towne a faire Maill curiously planted.

   I was shew'd the statue, cut in stone, of the happy Monke whom

they report to have been the first inventor of Typography, set over the

doore ; but this is much controverted by others, who strive for the
glory of it, besides John Guttenburg.

   I was brought acquainted with a Burgundian Jew who had married
an apostate Kentish woman. 1 asked him divers questions ; he told
me, amongst other things, that the world should never end, that our

soulcs transmigrated, and that even those of the most holy persons did
pennance in the bodys of bruits after death, and so he interpreted the
banishment and salvage life of Nebucodnezcr ; that all the Jewes should
rise again, and be lead to Jerusalem ; that the Romans only were the
occasion of our Saviour's death, whom he affirm'd (as the Turks do)
to be a greate Prophet, but not the Messias ; he shewed me severall
bookes of their devotion, which he had translated into English for the

instruction of his wife ; he told me that when the Messias came, all the

ships, barkes, and vessells of Holland should, by the powere of ccrtaine
strange whirle-winds be loosed from their ankers and transported in a
moment to all the desolat ports and havens throughout the world

where ever the dispersion was, to convey their breathren and tribes to
the holy Citty ; with other such like stuff. He was a merry drunken

fellow.

   1 Sept. I went to Delft and Rotterdam, and two days after back to
the Hague, to bespeake a suite of armore which I caused to be made
to fit me, with the harnesse of a horseman. I went to see one of the
Prince's Palaces, called The Hoff Van Hounslers Dyck, which is a
very magnificent cloyster'd and quadrangular building. The gallery is

prettily paynted with severall Huntings, and at one end a Gordian knot,
with several rusticall instruments so artificially represented as to deceive
an accurate eye, to distinguish it from actual relievo. The ceiling of
the staire-case is painted with the Rape 0/ Ganyinede, and other pen
dent figures, the worke of F. Covenberg, of whose hand I bought an
excellent drollery, which I afterwards parted with to my brother George
of Wotton, where it now hangs still there. To this Palace joynes a
faire garden and parke, curiously planted with limes.

   8 Sept. to Rotterdam thro' Delfts-haven and Seedam, where was at
that time Coll. Goring's winter-quarters. This towne has heretofore
been much talk'd of for witches.

   10. I took waggon for Don, to be present at the reception of the
Queen Mother, Maria de Medices, Dowager of France, Widdow of
32 AT DORT, BOIS LE DUKE, HYSDUNE, AND ROTTERDAM.

Henry the Greate, and Mother to the French King Lewis xiij and the
Queene of England, whence she newly arived, toss'd to and fro by the
various fortune of her life. From this Citty she design'd for Collin.
[Cologne] conducted by the Earle of Arundell and the Here Van Bre
dered. At this interview I saw the Princesse of Orange, and the Lady
her daughter, afterwards married to the House of Brandenbourg.
There was little remarkable in this reception befitting the greatnesse of
her person, but an universal discontent, which accompan/d that

unlucky woman wherever she went.
12 Sept. I went towards Bois le Duke. We arrived on the 16th,
when the New Citidall was advancing with innumerable hands, and

incomparable inventions for draining off the waters out of the fenns

about being by bucketts, mills, cocklea's, pumps, and the like. Hereit,

were now 16 companies and tropes of horse. They were cutting a
                9
new river to passe from the Towne to Castle not far from it. Here
                       I

                                  a
we split our skiff, falling fowle on another through negligence of the

master, who was faine to run on ground, to our no little hazard. A

Soldier convey'd us to the Governor, where our names were taken, and

our persons examin'd very strictly. was permitted to walk the round

and view the workes, and to visite a Convent of religious women of the

order of St. Clara, who by the capitulation were permitted to enjoy
their monastery and maintenance undisturbed at the surrender of the
towne years since. We had a collation, and very civil entertaynment.
       1

         2

They had a neate Chapell, in which the heart of the Duke of Cleve,
their founder's lies inhum'd under plate of brasse. Within the Cloyster
                a
                     it
is a garden, and in the middle of an overgrowne lime-tree, out of

whose stem, neere the roote, issue upright and exceeding tall suckers
                5

or boles, the like whereof for evenesse and heighth had not obseiVd.
                                     I

The cheife Church curiously carved within and without, with a
            is

paire of organs, and a most magnificent font, all of copper.

1      II   went to that most impregnable towne and fort of Hysdune,

  8.

where       was exceedingly obliged to one Coll: Crombe, the Lieut.

Governor, who would needes make me accept the honor of being Capt.
of the Watch, and to give the word this night. We departed towards
Gorcum. Here Sir Kenelme Digby travelling towards Colin met us.
   19. We arrived at Dort, passing by the Decoys, where they catch
innumerable quantities of fowle.

22. went to Roterdam to receive passe which expected from
       I
                I

                                                                a

                                                                                                     ;

                                                                 I

                                                                                                                      2

                                                                                                I
the Cardinal Infante, then Governor for his brother the K. of Spainc,
in Flanders, being desirous to see that country in my return for Eng

land, whither was now shaping my course and within days after,

having obtained another from the Pr. of Orange, on 24 Sept.
departed through Dort, but met with very bad tempestuous weather,

being several times driven back, and obliged to lie at anker off Keele,

other vessells lying there waiting better weather. The 25th and 26th
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  33

we made other essays, but were driven back to the harbor, where lay
60 vessels waiting to sail. But on the 27th we, impatient of the tyme
and inhospitablenesse of the place, sailed again with a contrary and
impetuous wind, and a terrible sea, in greate jeopardy, for we had
much ado to keepe ourselves above water, the billows breaking despe
rately on our vessel ; we were driven into Williamstadt, a place gar-
nson'd by the English, where the Governor had a faire house. The
workes and especially the Countercamp are curiously hedg'd with
quick, and are planted with a stately row of limes on the Rampart.
The Church is of a round structure with a Cupola.

   23. Failing of an appointement, I was constrained to returne to
Dort for a bill of exchange, but it was 1st October ere I could get
tuck; at Keele I numbered 141 vessells who durst not yet venture out ;
but animated by the master of a stout bark, after a small encounter of
weather, we aiiVd by 4 that evening at Stene-bergen. In the passage
we sailed over a sea call'd the Plaet, which is an exceeding dangerous
water, by reason of 2 contrary tydes which meet there very impetuously.
Here, because of the many shelfes, we were fore'd to tyde it along the

Channel! ; but, ere we could gaine the place, the ebb was so far spent,
that we were compell'd to foote it at least a league thro' a most pelting

shower of raine.
   2 Oct. I went in a cart (for it was no better, and no other ac

comodation could be procured) of 2 wheeles and one horse to Bergen-
op-Zome, meeting divers partys of his Highness' Army retiring
towards their winter quarters. The Fort was heretofore built by the
English.

   The next morning I embarked for Lillo, having refused a convoy of
horse which was afforded me. The tyde being against us, we landed
short of the Fort, on the beach, where we marched half leg deep in mud
ere we could gaine the dyke, which being 5 or 6 miles from Lillo, we
were forced to walke on foote very wett and discompos'd, and then

entering a boat we pass'd the Ferry, and came to the Castle. Being
taken before the Governor, he demanded my passe, to which he set his
aand, and asked 2 rix -dollars for a fee, which methought appeared very

unhandsome in a Soldier of his quality. I told him that I had already
purchased my passe of the Commissaries at Roterdam ; at which, in a

greate fury snatching the paper out of my hand, he flung it scornfully
under a table, and bad me try whether I could get to Antwerp without
his permission ; but when I drew out the money, he return 'd it as scur-
vily again, bidding me pay 14 Dutch shill. to theCantone, or Seascher,
for my contempt, which I was also glad to do with a greate deale of
caution and danger, concealing my Spanish passe, it being a matter of
imprisonment, for that the States were therein treated by the names of
Rebells. Besides all these exactions I gave the Commissary 6 shil., to
the soldiers something, and 'ere penectly clcare ot this trontiore 31

                                                                                                                                 3
34 THE CITY OF ANTWERP ; THE CHURCHES ; JESUIT COLLEGE.

stivers to the man of war who lay blocking up the river 'twixt Lillo and

the opposite sconce called Lifkinshoeck.                                  v

4 Oct. We passed several Spanish Forts, out of one of which came
some Dons, to whom I shewed my Spanish passe, which was signed
by one, and I gave him 6 guilders. We pass'd by another man of war,

to which we lowered our topsails ; and at length ariv'd at Antwerp.
The lodgings here are very handsome and convenient. I lost little
tyme, but with the conduct of one Mr. Lewkner visited .divers
Churches, Colledges, Monasteries, &c. The Church of the Jesuits is
most sumptuous and magnificent, a glorious fabriq without, and within

wholly incrusted with marble, inlay"d and polish'd into divers repre

sentations of histories, landslips, flowers, &c. On the high altar is
plac'd the Statue of the B. Virgin and our Saviour in white marble.
The quire is a glorious piece ; the pulpit is supported by foure angels,
and adorn'd with other carvings. There are rare pictures by Rubens,

now lately deceased, and divers votive tables and reliques. The tower
of Notre Dame d'Anvers, which is the Cathedrall Church, is a very

venerable fabriq, built after the Gotick manner ; the Tower is of an
excessive heighth. I assended it to take a better view of the country.
The sun shon exceeding hot, and darted the rayes without any inter

mission, affording so bright a reflection to us who were above, and had
a full prospect of both land and water about that was much con
                    ;

                                                    it,

                                                       I
                                                                    I
firmed in my opinion of the moon's being of some such substance as

this earthy globe consists of perceiving all the subjacent country, at

so small a horizontal distance, to repercuss such a light as could

hardly look against, save where the river, and other large water within
our view, appeared of a more dark and uniforme colour, resembling
those spotts in the moone supposed to be seas there, according to our
new philosophy, and viewed by optical glasses.
We went to see Jerusalem Church, affirmed to have been founded by
one who, upon divers greate wagers, went to and fro betweene that Citty

and Antwerp on foote, by which he procu^d greate sums of mony,

which he bestowM in this pious structure. Hence to St Mary's
Chapell, where had some conference with two English Jesuites, Con
            I

fessors to Coll. Gage his regiment. These Fathers conducted us to the
Cloyster of religious women, where we heard a Dutch sermon at a
Quarantia, or exposure of the Sacrament as theytearme it. The Senat-
house of this Citty a very spacious and magnificent building.
               is

       Oct. vissited the Jesuits schole, which for the fame of their
method institution had greately desir'dto see. They were divided

into classes with several inscription over each as, Ad majorem
5              a                                ;

   4             I                                     i,

        &I
Dei gloriam; over the 2d, Princeps diligentiaj the 3d, Imperator
Pytantiorum; over the 4th and upmost, Imperator Romanorum.
Under these the scholars and pupils had their places or formes, with
titles and priority according to their proficiency. Their dormitory and
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN. .  35

lodgings above were exceeding neate. They have piisons for the
offenders and lesse diligent ; a court to recreate themselves in, wherein
is an aviary of birds, eagles, foxes, monkeys, &c, to divert the boys at
their times of remission. To the house joyn music and mathematical
scholes, and lastly a pretty chapelL The great streete is built after a
mere Italian mode, and is very faire and noble, cleane and sweete.

   The Oesters house, belonging to the East India Company, is a most
beautifull palace, adom'd with more than 300 windows. From hence
walking into the Gun-garden, I was suffered to see as much of the
Cuadell as is easily permitted to strangers. It is a matchless piece of
modern fortification, accommodated with logiaments for the souldiers
and magazines. The gran's, ramparts, and platforms, are stupendious.
Returning by the shop of Plantine, I bought some bookes for the name-
cake onely of that famous printer.

    But there was nothing about this Citty which more ravished me than
those delicious shades and walkes of stately trees, which render the
fortified workes of the towne one of the sweetest places in Europ ; nor
did I ever observe a more quiet, cleane, elegantly built, and civil place,

then this magnificent and famous Citty of Antwerp. In the evening I

was invited to Signor Duert's, a Portuguese by nation, an exceeding
rich merchant, whose palace I found to be furnish'd like a prince's ;
his three daughters entertain'd us with rare musiq, vocal & instru
mental, which was finish'd with a handsome collation. I tooke leave

of the Ladys, and of sweete Antwerp, as late as it was, embarquing for
Bruxelles on the Scheld, in a vessel which delivered us to a second
boate (in another river) drawn or tow'd by horses. In this passage we
frequently changed our barge, by reason of the bridges thwarting out
course. Here I observed numerous families inhabiting their vessels,
and floating dwellings, so built and divided by cabins, as few houses
on land enjoy'd better accommodation, stor"d with all sorts of utensills,
neate chambers, a pretty parlour, and kept so sweete that nothing
could be more refreshing. The rivers on which they are drawne are

very cleare & still waters, and passe through a most pleasant country
on both the bankes. We had in our boate a very good ordnary, and
excellent company. The cutt is straight as a line for 20 English miles.
What I much admir'd was, neere the midway, another artificial river,
which intersects this at right angles, but on an eminence of ground,
and is carryed in an aqueduct of stone so far above the other as that
the waters neither mingle nor hinder one another's passage.

   At Villefrow all the passengers went on shore to wash at a fountaine

issuing out of a pillar, and then came aboard again. On the margin
of this long tract are aboundance of Shrines and Images, defended
from the injuries of the weather by niches of stone in which they are

placed.
   7 Oct. We arriv'd at Bruxelles at 9 in the morning. The State
 36 AT BRUXELLES j ITS COURTS, HALLS, AND PARKS.

 house, neere the market-place, is for the carving in freestone a most
 laborious and finished piece, well worthy observation. The flesh-

 shambles are also built of stone. I was pleased with certain small
 engines by which a girl or boy was able to draw up, or let downe,

 greate bridges, which in divers parts of this Citty crossed the channel!,
 for the benefit of passengers. The walls of this Town are very intyre,
 and full of towers at competent distances. The Cathedrall is on a very
 high and exceeding steepe ascent, to which we mounted by faire stepps

 of stone. Hence I walked to a Convent of English Nunns, with whom
 I sate discoursing most part of the afternoone.

    8 Oct. being the morning I came away, I went to see the Prince's

 Court, which is an ancient, confus'd building, not much unlike the
 Hofft at the Hague ; there is here likewise a very large Hall, where
 they vend all sorts of wares. Through this we passed by the Chapell,
 which is indeed rarely arch'd, and in the middle of it was the hearse or
 catafalco of the late Arch-Dutchesse, the wise & pious Clara Eugenia.
 Out of this we were conducted to the lodgings, tapistry"d with incom
 parable arras, and adorn'd with many excellent pieces of Rubens, old
 and young Breughel, Titian, and Stenwick, with stories of most of the
 late actions in the Netherlands.

     By an accident we could not see the Library. There is a faire ter
 race which looks to the Vine-yard, in which, on pedestalls, are tix'd the
 statues of all the Spanish Kings of the House of Austria. The oppo
 site walls are paynted by Rubens, being an history of the late tumults
 in Belgia ; in the last piece the Arch-Dutchesse shutts a greate payre
 of gates upon Mars, who is coming out of hell, arm'd, and in a
 menacing posture. On another, the Infanta is seen taking leave of Don
 Philip. -

    From hence we walked into the Parke, which for being intirely
 within the walls of the Citty is particularly remarkable ; nor is it less
 pleasant than if in the most solitary recesses, so naturally is it furnish'd
-with whatever may render it agreeable, melancholy, and country-like.
 Here is a stately heronry, divers springs of water, artificial cascades,
 rocks, grotts, one whereof is composed of the extravagant rootes of
 trees cunningly built and hung together. In this Parke are both
 fallow and red deare.

    From hence we were led into the Manege, and out of that into
 a most sweete and delicious garden, where was another grott, of more
 neate and costly materials, full of noble statues, and entertaining us
 with artificial musiq ; but the hedge of water, in forme of lattice-worke,
 which the fontanier caused to ascend out of the earth by degrees,
 exceedingly pleased and surpris'd me, for thus with a pervious wall, or
 rather a palisad hedge, of water, was the whole parterre environ'd.

    There is likewise a faire Aviary, and in the court next it are kept
 divers sorts of animals, rare & exotic fowle, as eagles, cranes, storks,
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  37

bastards, pheasants of several kinds, a duck having 4 wings, &c.
In another division of the same close, are rabbits of an almost perfect

yellow colour.
  There was no Court now in the Palace, the Infante Cardinal, who

was the Governor of Flanders, being dead but newly, and every one in

dcepe mourning.

  At near 1 1 o'clock, I repaired to his Majesty's Agent Sir Hen. De

Vic, who very courteously recciv'd me and accommodated me with a
coach & six horses, which carried me from Bruxelles to Cant, where it
»as to mccte my Lord of Arundel, Earle Marshal of England, who had

requested me when I was at Antwerp to send it for him, if I went not

thither myselfe.
   Thus taking leave of Druxelles and a sad Court, yet full of gallant

persons (for in this small Cittye the acquaintance being universal, Ladys
and Gentlemen, I percciv'd,had greate divcrsons and frequent meetings),
I hasted towards Gant. On the way I met with divers little wagons
prettily contrived and full of pedling merchandises, drawne by mastive-
dogs, harnessed compleately like so many coach-horses, in some 4, in
others 6, as in Bruxelles itselfc 1 had observed. In Antwerp I saw, as
1 remember, 4 dogs draw 5 lusty children in a charriot : the master
commands them whither he pleases, crying his wares about the streetes.
After passing through Ouse, by 6 in the evening I arriv'd at Ghent.
This is a Citty of so great a circumference that it is reported to be 7
leagues round, but there is not half of it now built, much remaining in

fields and pastures, even within the wall, which has strong gates towards
the West, and two faire churches.

    Here I beheld the Palace wherein John of Gaunt and Cha. V. were
borne ; the statue of the latter stands in the Market-place, on an high
pillar, with his sword drawn, to which (I was told) the Magistrates and
 Bergers were wont to repaire on a certaine day every yeare with roaps
about their necks, in toaken of submission & pennance for an old
Rebellion of theirs ; but now the hemp is changed to a blew ribbon.
Here is the Basilisco, or great Gun, so much talked of. The Ley and
the Scheldt meeting in this vast City divide it into 26 Islands, which
are united by many bridges, somewhat resembling Venice. This
night I supp'd with the Abbot of Andoyne, a pleasant and courteous

priest.

   8 Oct. I passed by boate to Bruges, taking in at a redoutt a
convoy of 14 musketeers, because the other side of the river being
Contribution land, was subject to the inroads and depredations of the
bordering States. This river was cut by the famous Marquiss Spinola,
and is in my judgment a wonderfull piece of labour, and is a worthy
publiq worke, being in some places forced thro' the maine rock, to an
incredible depth, for 30 miles. At the end of each mile is huilt a small
redout, which communicates a line to the next, and so the whole wav
38 AT BRUGES, OSTEND, DUNKIRK, DOVER, AND LONDON.

from whence we received many vollies of shot in compliment to my
Lord Marshall, who was in our vessel, a passenger with us. At 5 that
evening we were met by the Magistrates of- Bruges, who came out to
convoy my Lord to his lodgings, where he was entertaynd that night

at their cost.

   The morning after we went to see the State-house and adjoyning
Aquasduct, the Church, and Market-place, where we saw cheeses and
butter piled up in heapes ; also the Fortifications and Grafts, which are

extreamly large.
   The 9th we arived at Ostend by a straighte and artificial river.
Here, with leave of the Captaine of the Watch, I was carried to survey
the river and harbour, with fortifications on one side thereof : the East
and South are mud & earth walls. It is a very strong place, and lately
stood a memorable siege 3 years, 3 moneths, 3 weeks, & 3 dayes. I went
to see the Church of St. Peter, and the Cloysters of the Franciscans.

   10 Oct. I went by wagon, accompanyM with a jovial Commissary,

to Dynkirk, the journey being made all on the sea sands. On our arrival

we first viewed the Court of Guards, the Workes, the Towne- house,

and the New Church ; the latter is very beautifull within ; and another,

wherein they shew'd us an excellent piece of our Saviour's bearing the
Crosse. The Harbour in two channels coming up to the Towne was
choaked with a multitude of prizes.
From hence, the next day, I marched three English miles towards
the packet-boate, being a pretty fregat of 6 guns, which embarked us

for England about 3 in the afternoone.
   At our going off, the Fort against which our pinnace ankered saluted
my Lord Marshall with 12 greate guns, which we answered with 3.
Not having the wind favourable, we ankered that night before Calais.

About midnight we weighed ; and at 4 in the morning, tho' not far
from Dover, we could not make the Peere till 4 in the afternoon, the
wind proving contrary and driving us Westward ; but at last we got on

shore, Oct. the 12th.
From Dover I that night rod post to Canterbery. Here I visited
the Cathedrall, then in great splendour, those famous windows being
intire, since demolish'd by the Phanatiqs. The next morning by
Sittinbourn I came to Rochester, and thence to Graves-end, where a

Light-horse-man (as they call taking us in, we spent our tide as far
as Greenwich. From hence, after we had little refresh ourselves at
I
       I

                                   2

                                                    

                                            it)
                                                                 a
                                                                                         'd

                                                                                                                                                                   :

                                                                                    I
the Colledge (for by reason of the contagion then in London we baulked
the Inns), we came to London, landing at Arundel-stayres here
took leave of his Lordship, and retyred to my lodgings in the Middle
Temple, being about in the morning.
16 Oct.
         went to       see my   brother at Wotton. On the     31st  of that
                       for the  Irish Rebellion, which broke  out
moneth (unfortunate                                                 on the
23rd) was one and twenty yeares of age.
         THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                39

7 Nov.   I visited my Lord Marshal at Albury.     saw his Majesty
33 Nov.   I returned to London ; and on the 25th
ride thro' the Citty after his coming out of Scotland, and a Peace pro-
daym'd, with greate acclamations and joy of the giddy people.
   15 Dec I was elected one of the Comptrolcrs of the Middle

Temple-revellers, as the fashion of the young Students and Gentlemen
was, the Christmas being kept this yeare with greate solemnity ; but
being desirous to passe it in the Country, I got leave to resigne my
stari'e of office, and went with my brother Richard to Wotton.

   10 Jan. 1642. I gave a visite to my cousin Hatton of Ditton.

  19. I went to London, where I stayed till 5th March, studying a

little, but dancing and fooling more.
   3 Oct. I went to Chichester, and hence the next day to see the

Seige of Portsmouth, for now was that bloody difference betweene the

King and Parliament broken out, which ended in the fatal tragedy so
many yeares after. It was on the day of its being render'd to Sir
William Waller, which gave me an opportunity of taking my leave of

CoD. Goring the Governor, now embarqueing for France.
   From thence I went to South'ton and Winchester, where I vissited
the Castle, Schole, Church, and King Arthur's Round Table, but

espeoaly the Church, and its Saxon Kings Monuments, which I

esteemed a worthy antiquity.

3 Oct. was fought that signal Battaile at Edgehill.
1 2th Nov. was the Battle of Braineford surprisingly fought, and to

the greate consternation of the Citty had his Majesty (as twas believed

he would,) persu'd his advantage. I came in with my horse and armes

just at the retreate, but was not permitted to stay longer than the 1 5th
by reason of the Army's marching to Glocester, which would have left

both me and my brothers expos'd to mine, without any advantage to

his Majesty.

  7 Dec I went from Wotton to London to see the so much celebrated
line of communication, and on the 10th returned to Wotton. no body
knowing of my having been in his Majs. Army.

   1643. IO March. I went to Hartingfordberry, to visite my cousin

Keightly.
1 1. I went to see my Lord of Salisbury's Palace at Hatfield, where

the most considerable rarity besides the house (inferior to few then in
England for its architecture) was the garden and vineyard rarely well
watered and planted. They also shew'd us the picture of Secretary
Cecil in mosaiq worke, very well don by some Italian hand.
   I must not forget what amazed us in the night before, viz. a shining
clowd in the ayre, in shape resembling a sword, the point reaching to
the North : it was as bright as the moone, the rest of the sky being
very serene It began about 11 at night, and vanish'd not till about
one, being seen by all the South of England.
   40 IN LONDON-- OBTAIN LICENCE TO TRAVEL-- AT CALAIS.

     I made many journies to and from London.

      15 April. I went to Hatfield, and neere the Town of Hertford I
   went to see Sir J. Harris [Harrison] his house new built.1 "Returning
   to London, I called to see his Majesty's house and gardens at Theo

   balds, since demolished by the rebels.

      2nd May. I went to London, where I saw the furious and zelous
   people demolish that stately Crosse in Cheapside. On the 4th I re

   turn 'd, with no little regrett for the confusion that threaten'd us.
   Resolving to possess myselfe in some quiet if it might be, in a time of
   so great jealosy, I built by my Brother's permission a study, made a
   fishpond, an island, and some other solitudes and retirements, at Wotton,
   which gave the first occasion of improving them to those water-works
   and gardens which afterwards succeeded them.

      12 July. I sent my black mant^gd horse and furniture with a friend

   to his Majestie then at Oxford.

      23. The Covenant being pressed, I absented myselfe ; but finding

   it impossible to evade the doing very unhandsome things, and which
   had been a greate cause of my perpetual motions hitherto between

   Wotton & London, Oct. 2nd I obtained a lycence of his Majestie,

   dated at Oxford and sign'd by the King, to travell againe.
      6 Nov. Lying by the way from Wotton at Sir Ralph Whitfield's, at

   Blechinglee, (whither both my Brothers had conducted me), I ariv'd at
   London on the 7th, and 2 days after took boate at the Tower-wharfe,
   which carry'd me as far as Sittingburne, tho' not without danger, I being
   onely in a payre of oares, expos'd to a hideous storme ; but it pleas'd
   God we got in before the perill was considerable. From thence I went
   by post to Dover, accompany'd with one Mr. Thicknesse, a very deare
   friend of mine.

       Having a reasonable good passage, though the weather was snowy
   and untoward enough, we came before Calais, where, as we went on
   shore, mistaking the tyde, our shallop struck on the sands, with no
   little danger, but at length we got off.
    . Calais is well fortified, in the old Castle and new Citadell, reguarding
   the Sea. The haven consists of a long banke of sand, lying opposite to
   it. The Market-place and the Church are remarkable things,- besides

   the reliques of our former dominion there. I remember there was

   engraven in stone on the front of an ancient dwelling which was shew'd
   us, these words in English, God save the King, with the name of the
   architect and date. The walls of the towne are substantial, but the
   situation towards the land is not pleasant, by reason of the marisbes
   and low grounds about it.

       12 Nov. After diner we tooke horse with the Messagere, hoping to

-  1 Now called Balls Park, belonging to Lord John Townshend, who inherits it from his
   grandmother. Lady Viscountess  Townshend.    who was a  Miss  Harrison,  and wife to Charles
   Viscount Townshend, Secretary  of State to
                                               George II.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                           41

have arWd at Bollogne that night ; but there fell so great a snow,

accompanied with hayle, rain, and suddaine darknesse, that we had

much adoe to gain the next village ; and in this passage being to crosse
a vally by a causeway and a bridge built over a small river, the raine
that had fallen making it an impetuous streame for neere a quarter of
a mile, my horse slipping had almost been the occasion of my perish
ing. We none of us went to bed, for the souldiers in those parts

leaving little in the villages, we had enough to do to get ourselves dry
by morning, between the fire and the fresh straw. The next day early

we ariv'd at Bollogne.
This is a double towne, one part on a high Rock, or downes, the

other, call'd the Lower Towne, is yet with a greate declivity towards

the Sea. There is a strong Castle on a notable eminence. Under the

towne runs the river, which.is yet but an inconsiderable brooke. Hen.
S:h. in the siege of this place is said to have used those greate leatherne
fguns which 1 have since seen in the Tower of London, inscribed Noit

A arte opus est, cui non deficit Afercurius, if at least the history be true,

which my Lord Herbert in his History doubts.

The next morning, in some danger of party's [Spanish] surprising

us. we came to Monstreuil, built on the sum'it of a most conspicuous

h:lL, environ'd with faire and ample meadows, but all the suburbs had

been from time to time ruin*d, and were now lately burnt by the Spa
nish inroads. This towne is fortified with 2 very deep dry ditches ; the

walls about the bastions and citadel are a noble piece of masonry.
The Church is more glorious without then within. The Market
place is large, but the inhabitants are miserably poore. The next day

we came to Abbeville, having pass'd all this way in continual expecta
tion of the volunteeres, as they call them. This Towne affords a good
aspect towards the hill from whence we descended, nor does it deceive

us, for it is handsomely built, and has many pleasant and useful

st r eames passing through  the maine river being the Some, which
                            it,
                                    is
                                          a
discharges itselfe into the Sea at St. Valery, almost in view of the
towne. The principal Church
                                             very handsome piece of Gothiq
architecture, and the ports and ramparts planted (or ornament. They

brought us choice of guns and pistolls to sell at reasonable rates, and

neately made, being here a merchandize of greate account, the towne

abounding in gun-smiths.

Hence we advanced to Beauvais, a town of good noate, and having
the first vineyards we had seen. The next day to Beaumont, and the

morrow to Paris, having taken our repast at St. Denys, leagues from
                                             2

that greate Citty. St. Denys considerable only for its stately Cathe
                            is
                                       is
dral, and the dormitory of the French Kings, there inhum'd as ours at

Westminster Abbey. The treasury esteemed one of the richest in
Europe. The Church was built by King Dagobcrt, but since much

enlarged, being now 390 foote long, 100 in bredth, and 80 in height,
42 THE TREASURES OF THE CATHEDRAL OF ST. DENYS.

without comprehending the cover ; it has a very high shaft of stone,
and the gates are of brasse. In the choir are the sepulchres of the

most ancient Kings ; without it are many more ; amongst the rest that of
Bertrand du Guesclin, Constable oi France ; in the Chapell of Charles

V. all his posterity, and neere him the magnificent sepulchre of Francis
I. with his children, warres, victories, and triumphs, engraven in marble.
Above, are bodies of several Saints ; below, under a state of black

velvet, the late Lewis xiij. Every one of the 10 chapels, or oratories,
had some Saints in them ; amongst the rests, one of the Holy Inno
cents. The treasury is in the sacristy above, in which are crosses of

massy gold and silver, studded with precious stones, one of gold 3 feet
high. Amongst the still more valuable reliques are a naile from our
Saviour's Cross, in a box of gold full of precious stones ; a crucifix of
III.the true wood of the Crosse, carved by Pope Clement
                                                         inchas'd in a

crystal covered with gold ; a box in which is some of the Virgin's
haire ; some of the linnen in which our blessed Saviour was wrapped
at his nativity ; in a huge reliquary modelled like a church, some of

our Saviour's blood, hair, cloathes, linnen with which he wiped the

Apostles feet ; with many other equally authentic reliques. Amongst

the treasures is the Crowne of Charlemagne, his 7 foote high scepter
and hand of justice, his sword, belt, and spurrs of gold ; the Crowne of

St. Lewis, covered with precious stones, amongst which is one vast

ruby, uncut, of inestimable value, weighing 300 carrats, (under which
is set one of the thorns of our blessed Saviour's crowne,) his sword,"

seal, and hand of justice. The 2 crownes of Hen. IV. his sceptre,
hand of justice, and spurrs. The 2 crowns of his son Lewis. In the

cloak royal of Anne of Bretagne is a very greate and rare rubie.

Divers bookes cover'd with solid plates of gold and studded with
precious stones. Two vasas of berill, 2 of achate, whereof one is

esteemed for its bignesse, colour, and carving imboss'd, the best now to
be seene ; by a special favour I was permitted to take the measure &
dimensions of it ; the story is a Bachanalia. It is really antique.

There is a large gundola of chrysolite, a huge urn of porphyry, another

of chalcedone, a vasa of onyx, the largest I had ever seen of that stone ;
2 of chrystal ; a morsel of one of the water-pots in which our Saviour
did his first miracle ; the effigies of the Queen of Saba, of Julius,
Augustus, Marc Antony, Cleopatra, and others, upon saphyrs, topazes,

agates, and cornelians ; that of the Queen of Saba has a Morish face ;

those of Julius and Nero on achates rarely colour'd and cut. A cup

in which Solomon was us'd to drinke. Apollo on a great amethyst.

There lay in a window a miroir of a kind of stone said to have belonged

to the poet Virgil. Charlemayne's chessemen, full of Arabic charac
ters. In the presse next the doore, the brasse lanthorn full of crystals,
said to have conducted Judas and his company to apprehend our B. S.
A faire unicorne's horn, sent by a K. of Persia, about 7 foote long. In
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  43

another presse (over which stands the picture in oil of their Orleans
Amazon with her sword), the effigies of the late French Kings in wax,
like ours in Westminster, covered with their robes, with a world of
other rarities. Having rewarded our courteous fryer, we tooke horse
for Paris, where we ariv'd about five in the afternoone. In the way
were faire crosses of stone carv"d with fleurs de iys at every furlong's

end, where they affirme St. Denys rested and layd down his head after

martyrdom, carrying it from the place where this monastery is builded.
We lay at the Ville de Venice ; I went to visite Sir Richard Browne,
his Majesties Resident with the French King.

   5 Dec The Earl of Norwich, formerly Geo. Lord Goring, came as
Ambassador Extraordinary ; I went to meet him in a coach and six
horses, at the palace of Mons. de Bassompiere, where I saw that gallant
person, his gardens, terraces, and rare prospects. My lord was waited
on by the master of the ceremonies, and a greate cavalcade of men of

quality, to the Palais Cardinal, where on the 23d he had audience of
the French King and the Queen Regent his mother, in the golden
chamber of presence. From thence I conducted him to his lodgings in

Rue St. Denys, and so tooke my leave.
   34. I went to see the Isle encompassed by the Seine & the Oyse. The

City is divided into 3 parts, whereof the Towne is greatest. The City
lyes between it and the University, in form of an island. Over the
Seine is a stately bridge called Pont Neuf, begun by Hen. 3. in 1578,
finished by Hen. 4. his successor. It is all of hewn free stone found
under the streets, but more plentifully at Mont-Martyre, and consists
of 12 arches, in the midst of which ends the poynt of an island, on

which are built handsome artificers houses. There is one large pas
sage for coaches, and 2 for foot passengers 3 or 4 feet higher, and of
convenient breadth for 8 or 10 to go abreast. On the middle of this

stately bridge on one side stands that famous statue of Hen. the Great

on horseback, exceeding the natural proportion by much ; and on the
4 faces of a stately pedestal, (which is compos'd of various sorts of
pohsh'd marble and rich mouldings,) inscriptions of his victories and
most signal actions are engraven in brasse. 'The statue and horse are
of copper, the worke of the greate John di Bologna, and sent from
Florence by Ferdinand the First, and Cosmo the 2d, unkle & cousin to
Mary di Medices, the wife of this K. Henry. It is inclos'd with a
strong and beautifull grate of yron, about which there are allways
mountebancs shewing their feates to idle passengers. From hence is

a rare prospect towards the Louver and suburbs of St. Germaines, the
Isle of du Palais, and Notre Dame. At the foote of this bridge is a
water house, on the front whereof, at a great height, is the story of our
Saviour and the Woman of Samaria powring water out of a bucket.
Above is a very rare dyal of severall motions, with a chime, &c. The

water is conveyed by huge wheeles, pumps, and other engines, from
44- THE CATHEDRAL, NOTRE DAME DE PARIS.

the river beneath. The confluence of the people and multitude of

coaches passing every moment over the bridge, to a new spectator is

an agreeable diversion. Other bridges there are, as that of Notre

Dame ; and the Pont au Change, Sec. fairly built, with houses of stone

which are laid over this river: only the Pont St. Anne, landing the

suburbs of St. Germaine at the Thuilleries, is built of wood, having

likewise a water-house in the middst of and a statue of Neptune
                               it
casting water out of a whale's mouth, of lead, but much inferior to theis
                                         it is, it,
Samaritane.
The University lyes S.W. on higher ground, contiguous to, but the

lesser part of Paris. They reckon no less than 65 Colleges, but they
in nothing approach ours at Oxford for state and order. The book

sellers dwell within the University. The Scholes (of which more
hereafter) are very regular.

   The suburbs are those of St. Denys, Honore, St. Marcel, Jaques,

St. Michel, St. Victoire, and St. Germaines, which last the largest,
                                                            is

                                                                                    ;
and where the nobility and persons of the best quality are seated and

truely Paris, comprehending the suburbs, for the material the houses

are built with, and many noble and magnificent piles, one of the most

gallant Cittyes in the world large in circuit, of a round forme, very
                       ;;
populous, but situated in a botome, environ'd with gentle declivities,

rendering some places very dirty, and making smell as sulphure
                                                     it     if
                                                        a
were mingled with the mud yet  paved with kind of free-stone,
of neere a foote square, which renders more easy to walk on than

our pebles in London.

On Christmas eve went to see the Cathedrall of Notre Dame,
             :
erected by Philip Augustus, but begun by K. Robert, son of Hugh
Capet. It consists of a Gotiq fabriq, supported by 120 pillars, whichI

make ailes in the Church round about the quire, without comprehendis 2
ing the Chapells, being 174 paces long, 60 wide, and 100 high. The
Quire enclos'd with stone worke graven with the sacred history, and
containes 45 Chapells cancell'd with iron. At the front of the chiefe
entrance are statues in relievo of the Kings, 28 in number, from Childe-

bert to the ·founder, Philip and above them are two high square
                       ;

Towers, and another of a smaller size, bearing a Spire in the middle,

where the body of the Church formes Crosse. The greate Tow'r
                               a                            It

ascended by 389 steps, having 12 gallerys from one to the other. Theyis
greatly reverence the Crucifix over the skreene of the Quire, with an             is

image df the B. Virgin. There are some good modern paintings hang

ing on the pillars the most conspicuous statue the huge Colosse ofis
St. Christopher, with divers other figures of men, houses, prospects, &is

rocks, about this gygantiq piece, being of one stone, and more remark
able for its bulke than any other perfection. This the prime Church
of France for dignity, having Arch-deacons, Vicars, Canons, Priests,

and Chaplaines in good store, to the number of 127.             also the
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  45

Palace of the Archbishop. The young King (Louis XIV.) was there
nith a greate and martial guard, who entered the Nave of the Church
»ith drums and fifes, at the ceasing of which I was entertain'd with

the church musiq.
   1644. 4 January. I pass'd this day with one Mr. Jo. Wall, an Irish

gentleman, who had been a Frier in Spaine, and afterwards a Reader
in St. Isodors Chayre at Rome, but was, I know not how, getting away,

and pretending to be a Souldier of fortune, an absolute Cavaliere,
having as he told us been Capt. of Horse in Germany. It is certaine
be was an excellent disputant, and so strangely given to it that nothing
could passe him. He would needes perswade me to goe with him this
morning to the Jesuites Colledge, to witness his polemical talent. We
found the Fathers in their Church at the Rue St. Anthoine, where one

ot them shew'd us that noble fabriq, which for its cupola, pavings, in
crustations of marble, the pulpit, altars (especially the high altar),
organ, lavatorium, &c. but, above all, the richly carv'd and incom
parable front, I esteeme to be one of the most perfect pieces of archi
tecture in Europ, emulating even some of the greatest now at Rome
itself; but this not being what our Frier sought, he led us into the ad-

joyning Convent, where having shew'd us the Library, they began a
very hot dispute on some poynts of Divinity, which our Cavalier con
tested onely to shew his pride, and to that indiscrecte height that the
Jesuits would hardly bring us to our coach, they being put beside all
patience. The next day we went into the University, and into the
College of Navarre, which is a spacious well-built quadrangle, having
a very noble Library.

   Thence to the Sorbonne, an antient fabriq built by one Robert de

Sorbonne, whose name it retains, but the restauration which the late
Cardinal de Richlieu has made to it renders it one of the most excellent

moderne buildings ; the sumptuous Church, of admirable architecture,
is far superior to the rest. The cupola, portico, and whole designe of

the Church is very magnificent.
   We went into some of the Scholes, and in that of Divinity we found

a grave Doctor in his chaire, with a multitude of auditors, who all write
as he dictates ; and this they call a Course. After we had sate a little,

our Cavalier started up, and rudely enough began to dispute with the

 Doctor ; at which, and especialy as he was clad in the Spanish habit,
which in Paris is the greatest bugbare imaginable, the Scholars &
Doctor fell into such a fit of laughter that nobody could be heard

 speake for a while ; but silence being obtain'd, he began to speake
 Latine, and make his apology in so good a style, that their derision
 was turn'd to admiration, & beginning to argue, he so baffled the Pro
 fessor, that with universal applause they all rose up and did him greate

 honors, waiting on us to the very strcete and our coach, testifying

 greate satisfaction.
46 THE EXCHANGE, PALAIS, CHAPELL, MARAIS DE TEMPLE.

  3 Feb. I went to fhe Exchange. The late addition to the build

ings is very noble, but the gallerys where they sell their petty merchan

dize are nothing so stately as ours at London, no more than the place

where they walke below, being onely a low vault.
    The Palais, as they call the upper part, was built in the time of
Philip the Faire, noble and spacious. The greate Hall annex'd to it

is arched with stone, having a range of pillars in the middle, round
which and at the sides are shops of all kinds, especialy Bookesellers.

One side is full of pewes for the Clearkes of the Advocates, who
swarme here (as ours at Westminster). At one of the ends stands an
altar, at which Masse is said daily. Within are several Chambers,

Courts, Treasuries, &c. Above that is the most rich and glorious Salle

d'Audience, the Chamber of St. Lewis, and other superior Courts

where the Parliament sits, richly guilt on embossed carvings & fretts,
and exceeding beautified.
   Within the place where they sell their wares is another narrower

gallery full of shopps and toys, &c. which lookes downe into the Prison

yard. Decending by a large payre of stayres, we passed by St. Cha-

pelle, which is a Church built by St. Lewis, 1242, after the Gotiq

manner ; it stands on another Church which is under            sustain'd by
                                    &

                                                ;

                                                        it,
pillars at the sides, which seeme so weak as to appear extraordinary in
the artist. This Chapell most famous for its Relicques, having, as
          &
they pretend, almost the intyre Crowne of Thornes the Achat Patine,is

rarely sculptur'd, judg"d one of the largest best in Europ. There
was now a very beautifull Spire erecting. The Court below very
                                                                                                        is
spacious, capable of holding many coaches, and surrounded with                                            is

shopps, especially Engravers, Goldsmiths, and Watchmakers. In                                                   it

is  a fayre Fountaine Portico. The Isle du Palais consists of a tri

angular brick building, whereof one side, looking to the river, in
habited by Goldsmiths. Within the court are private dwellings. The

front looking on the greate bridge  possessed by Mountebanks,
                                    is is
                                                           is
Operators, and Puppetplayers. On the other part                the every day's

market for all sorts of provisions, especially bread, hearbs, flowers,

orange-trees, choyce shrubbs here a shop called Noah's Arke,
                                ;

where are sold all curiosities naturall or artificial, Indian or European,

for luxury or use, as cabinets, shells, ivory, porselan, dried fishes,

insects, birds, pictures, and a thousand exotic extravagances. Passing
hence we viewed the Port Dauphine, an arch of excellent workman

ship the street, bearing the same name, ample and straite.
4

    ;

            I

                               a
                                                   is
                                                       a

                                                                    is
                                                                                                    is
    Feb.  went to see the Marais de Temple, where                                                       a noble

Church and Palace, heretofore dedicated to the Knights Templars,

now converted to Piazza, not much unlike ours at Covent Garden,

but larger and not so pleasant, tho' built all about with divers con

siderable palaces.                 place of greate devotion, dedicated
   The Church of St. Genevieve
                              THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                     47

to another of their Amazons sayd to have deliverM the Citty from the
English, for which she is esteem'd the tutelary Saint of Paris. It

stands on a steepe eminence, having a very high spire, and is govern 'd

by Canons Regular.
At the Palais Royale Hen. IV. built a faire quadrangle of stately
                               In the
Palaces, arched underneath.            mofidLdelewisofXaIIsIp.acwiohuicsh  area   stands
on a noble pedestal, a brazen  Statue                                       tho'   made

in imitation of that in the Roman Capitol, is nothing so much esteem'd

as that on the Pont Neuf.
   The Hospital of the Quinz-Vingts in Rue St. Honore is an excellent

foundation ; but above all is the Hotel Dieu for men and women, neare
Notre Dame, a princely, pious, and expensive structure. That ot the

Charite' gave me great satisfaction in seeing how decently and Chris-

tianly the sick people are attended, even to delicacy. I have seen

them served by noble persons, men and women. They have also gar

dens, walks, & fountaines. Divers persons are here cutt for the stone

with greate successe yearly in May. The 2 Chasteletts (supposed to

have been built by Julius Caesar) are places of Judicature in Criminal
Causes, to which is a strong Prison. The Courts are spacious and

magnificent.
   8 Feb. I took coach and went to see the famous Jardine Royale,

which, is an enclosure walled in, consisting of all varieties of ground for
planting and culture of medical simples. It is well chosen, having in
it hills, meadows, wood and upland, naturall and artificial, and is richly
stor'd with exotic plants. In the middle of the Parterre is a faire

fountaine. There is a very fine house, chapel, laboratory, orangery, &
other accommodations for the President, who is all ways one of the

King's cheife Physitians.
   From hence we went to the other side of the towne, and to some

distance from to the Bois de Vincennes, going by the Bastille, which
is
                         it,
the Fortresse Tower and Magazine of this great Citty. It very
                                    it
                                       a
                                                               is
                                                                      a
                                                                                     it is
spacious within, and there the Grand Master of the Artillery has his
house, with faire gardens and walks.
The Bois de Vincennes has in
                                       square and noble Castle, with

magnificent apartments, fit for a Royal Court, not forgetting -the

ChapelL  the chiefe Prison for persons of quality. About there
is

               It

                       is

                        I
a parke walled in, full of deere, and in one part        grove ot goodly

pine-trees.                   went to see the Louvre with more attention, its

  The next day

severall Courts and Pavilions. One of the quadrangles, begun by Hen.
IV. and finish'd by his son and grandson,
                                           superb but mix'd struc
                               &
                                                 is
                                                    a

                                                                 &
ture. The cornices, mouldings, compartments, with the insertion ol

severall colour"d marbles, have been of great expence.              black marble,
   We went through the long gallery, pav'd with white

richly fretted and paynted a fresco. The front looking to the river
 *8 THE THUILLERIES ; ROYAL APARTMENTS ; GREATE GARDENS.

 tho' of rare worke for the carving, yet wants of that magificence which
 a plainer and truer designe" would have contributed to it.

    In the Cour aux Thuilleries is a princely fabriq ; the winding
 geometrical stone stayres, with the cupola, I take to be as bold and
 noble a piece of architecture as any in Europ of the kind. To this is a

 Corps de Logis, worthy of so greate a Prince. Under these buildings,
 thro' a garden in which is an ample fountaine, was the King's printing-

 house, and that famous letter so much esteem'd. Here I bought divers
 of the classiq authors, poets & others.

    We return'd through another gallery, larger, but not so long, where
 hung the pictures of all the Kings and Queenes and prime Nobility of
 France.

     Descending hence, we went into a lower very large room, caU'd the
 Salle des Antiques, which is a vaulted Cimelia, destin'd for statues

 only, amongst which stands the so celebrated Diana of the Ep'usians,

 said to be the same which utter'd oracles in that temple. There is
 a huge globe suspended by chaynes. The pavings, inlayings, and in-
" crustations of this Hall are very rich.

     In another more privat garden towards the Queene's apartment is a
 walke or cloyster under arches, whose terrace is paved with stones of a
 greate breadth ; it looks towards the river, and has a pleasant aviary,
 fountaine, stately cypresses, &c. On the river are seene a prodigious
 number of barges and boates of great length, full of hay, come, wood,
 wine, &c. Under the long gallery dwell goldsmiths, paynters, sta
 tuaries, and architects, who being the most famous for their art in
 Christendom, have stipends allowed them by the King. We went into
 that of Monsieur Saracin, who was moulding for an image of a Madona
 to be cast in gold, of a greate size, to be sent by the Queene Regent to
  Lauretto, as an offering for the birth of the Dauphine, now the young
 King of France.

    I finish'd this day with a walke in the greate garden of the Thuil

 leries, which is rarely contrived for privacy, shade, or company, by
 groves, plantations of tall trees, especialy that in the middle, being of
 elmes, another of mulberys. There is a labyrinth of cypresse, noble
 hedges of pomegranates, fountaines, fishponds, and an aviary. There
 is an artificial echo, redoubling the words distinctly, and it is never
 without some faire nymph singing to it. Standing at one of the focus's,
 which is under a tree, or little cabinet of hedges, the voice seems to

 descend from the clouds ; at another as if it was under-ground. This

 being at the bottom of the garden, we were let into another, which
 being kept with all imaginable accuratenesse as to the orangery, pre
 cious shrubes, and rare fruites, seem'd a paradise. From a tarrace in
 this place we saw so many coaches, as one would hardly think could
 be maintained in the whole Citty, going, late as it was in the year,
 towards the Course, which is a place adjoyning, of neere an English
                     THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                                49

mile long, planted with 4 rows of trees, making a large circle in the.

middle. This Course is walled about, neere breast high, with squarM
freestone, and has a stately arch at the entrance, with sculpture and
statues about    is  built by Mary di Medices. Here
                        is it,                                               that the
                                                                 a
                                               ;                           it
                                                                                  is
                                               it
                                                  a;                                                               5
gallants and ladys of the Court take the ayre and divert themselves, asis
with us in Hide Park, the circle being capable of containing an hundred
coaches to turne commodiously, and the larger of the plantations for

or coaches a brest.
a
    6   Returning through the Thuilleries, we saw a building in which are
     kept wild beasts for the King's pleasure, a beare, wolfe, a wild boare,

     icopard, <fcc.

   27 Feb. Accompany'd with some English gentlemen we tooke horse
to see St. Gtrmains en Lay, a stately country-house of the King, some

5    leagues fro."n Paris. By the way we alighted at St. Cloes, where, on

an eminence r.eere the river, the Archbishop of Paris has a garden, for

the house not very considerable, rarely water"d and furnish'd with

fountaines, statuos, and groves the walkes are very faire the foun
                                                                          ;

     tain of Laocoon in a large square pool, throwing the water neere 40
feet high, and having about            multitude of statues and basines, and

     is  a surprising object but nothing more esteem'd than the cascade

     failing from the greate stepps into the lowest and longest walke from

     the Mount Parnassus, which consists of a grotto, or shell house, on the
     summit of the hill, wherein are divers water- workes and contrivances to

     wet the spectators this     I iscovered with a fayre cupola, the walles
                     is
     paynted with the Muses, and statues placed thick aboutis ;              whereof
                                                           is
                                                                         is
                                                                              a is
                                                                                      is

                                                                                                    it,

                                                                                                                                           ;
     some are antiq and good. In the upper walkes are two perspectives,
     seeming to enlarge the allys. In this garden are many other con
     trivances. The Palace, as said,
                                                                 not extraordinary. The outer
                                                           In the Court
     »ailes      oonfelCyhapralyensteIdX.aHferens.caII.I.  IV. and Lewis    a Volary, and the
     statues
     mezio-relievod in plaster. In the garden                             XIII. on horseback,
                                                                          small chapell and

     under shelter   the figure of Cleopatra, taken from the Belvidere

     original, with others. From the tarrace above                        a tempest well

     paynted, and there an excellent prospect towards Paris, the meadows,

I in 4   river.

         At an inn in this village an host who treats all the greate persons
                                 is

         princely lodgings for furniture and plate, but they pay well for as
                                                                 is
                                                                                                            it,
         have don. Indeed the entertainment                      very splendid, and not un

     reasonable, considering the excellent manner of dressing their meate,

     and of the service. Here are many debauches and excessive revellings,

     being out of observance.

        About a league farther we went to see Cardinal Richelieu's villa at
     RuelL The house small, but fairely built, in form of a castle, moated
                         is
                                                                                                          4
     round. The offices are towards the road, and over against are large

     vineyards walled in.
50 CARDINAL RICHELIEU'S VILLA ; ITS ATTRACTIONS ; ST. GERMAINS.

   Though the house is not of the greatest, the gardens about it are so

magnificent that I doubt whether Italy has any exceeding it for all
rarities of pleasure, The garden nearest the pavilion is a parterre,

having in the middst divers noble brasse statues, perpetually spouting
water into an ample bassin, with other figures of the same metal ; but
what is most admirable is the vast enclosure, and variety of ground, in

the large garden, containing vineyards, cornefields, meadows, groves,

(whereof one is one of perennial greens), and walkes of vast lengthes,
so accurately kept and cultivated, that nothing can be more agreeable.
On one of these walkes, within a square of tall trees, is a basilisc ' of

copper, which managed by the fountain'ere casts water neere 60 feet
high, and will of itself move round so swiftly, that one can hardly
escape wetting. This leads to the Citroniere, where is a noble conserve
of all those rarities ; and at the end of it is the Arch of Constantine,

painted on a wall in oyle, as large as the real one at Rome, so well

don that even a man skill'd in painting may mistake it for stone and
sculpture. The skie and hills which seem to be betweene the arches

are so naturall that swallows and other birds, thinking to fly through,
have dashed themselves against the wall. At the further part of this

walke is that plentiful though artificial cascade which rolls down a very

steepe declivity, and over the marble steps and bassins, with an aston

ishing noyse and fury ; each basin hath a jetto in flowing like sheetesit,
of transparent glasse, especialy that which rises over the greate shell ofis
lead, from whence glides silently downe a channell thro' the middle of
it
a spacious gravel walke terminating in a grotto. Here are also foun-
                                         :
taines that cast water to a great height, and large ponds, of which
                                                                              2

have islands for harbour of fowles, of which there store. One of

these islands has a receptacle for them built of vast pieces of rock,

neere 50 feet high, growne over with mosse, ivy, &c. shaded at com               a
petent distance with tall trees, in this the fowles lay eggs and breede.
We then saw a large and very rare grotto of shell-worke, in the shape
of satyres and other wild fancys in the middle stands marble table,
                                                                           a

on which a fountaine playes in forms of glasses, cupps, crosses, fanns,

crownes, &c. Then the fountaineere represented a showre of raine
from the topp, mett by small jetts from below. At going out two extra

vagant musqueteeres shot us with a streme of water from their musket

barrells. Before this grotto  a long poole into which ran divers
I.

                              1

                                      is
                                            it is
                                                                       is
.spouts of water from leaden escollop bassins. The viewing this para

dise made us late at St. Germains.

The first building of this palace           of Cha. V. called the Sage; but

Francis (that true virtuoso) made compleate, speaking as to the-
style of magnificence then in fashion, which was with too greate a mix
ture of the Gotic, as may be seen in what there remaining of his in

the old Castle, an irregular peece as built on the old foundation, and

The imaginary animal or serpent so called.
                     THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                  51

hiving a moate about it. It lias yet some spacious & handsome
roomes of state, & a chapell neately paynted. The new Castle is at

some distance, divided from this by a court, of a lower but more
modem designe, built by Hen. IV. To this belong 6 tan-aces built of
brick & stone, descending in cascads towards the river, cut out of the
naturall hill, having under them goodly vaulted galleries ; of these, 4 have
subterranean grotts & rocks, where are represented severall objects in
the manner of sceanes, and other motions by force of water, shewn by
the light of torches onely ; amongst these is Orpheus, with his musiq,
& the animalls, which dance after his harp ; in the second is the King
and Dolphin (Dauphin) ; in the third is Neptune sounding his trum
pet, his charriot drawne by sea-horses ; in the fourth Perseus &

Andromeda ; mills ; hermitages ; men fishing ; birds chirping ; and
many other devices. There is also a dry grott to refresh in, all having a

fine prospect towards the river and the goodly country about especialy
                                  is

                                                                       ;

                                                                            is
                                                                                     it,

                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                     a
the forrest. At the bottom a parterre the upper tarrace neere
half a myle in length, with double declivities, arched and balustered
with stone, of vast and royal cost.
        In the Pavilion of the new Castle are many faire roomes, well

paynted, and leading into a very noble garden and parke, where
pall-maill, in the midst of which, on one of the sides, a Chapell,

with stone cupola, tho' small, yet of an handsome order of architec

ture. Out of the parke you goe into the forrest, which being very

large stoi^d with dcare, wild boares, wolves, and other wild game.
          is
The Tennis Court, and Cavalerizzo for the menag'd horses, are also
             I.
observable.
        We return'd to Paris by Madrid, another villa of the King's, built by
Francis and called by that name to absolve him of his oath that he

would not go from Madrid, in which he was prisoner in Spayne, but
from whence he made his escape. This house
                                                also built in park,
                                     &
                                             &

                                                          is
                                                                 it

                                                                                  ;

                                                                                    a
                                                                                              is is
walled in. We next called in at the Bonnes hommes, well situated,
with a faire Chapel and Library.
                  went to see the Count de Liancourt's Palace in the Rue
if        March.  I
       1
                           is
                              is
de Seine, which well built. Towards his study and bedchamber

joynes a little garden, which tho' very narrow, by the addition of a well
                                  to appearance greatly enlarged to this there
painted perspective
another part, supported by arches, in which runs a streame of water,
rising in the aviary, out of a statue, and seeming to flow for some miles,
by being artificially continued in the painting, when sinkes downe at
the walL It       very agreeable deceipt. At the end of this garden
                  is
                     a
                              a
a little theater, made to change with divers pretty seanes, and the stage
sq ordered that with figures of men women paynted on light-boards,
and cut out, and, by person who stands underneath, made to act as
                                              reciting words in diferent
        they were speaking, by guiding them,
tones as the parts require. We were led into a round cabinet, where
52 ART TREASURES, PAINTINGS, ETC. PROTESTANT TEMPLE.

was a neate invention for reflecting lights by lining divers sconces with
thin shining plates of gilded copper.

   In one of the rooms of state was an excellent paynting of Poussin,
being a Satyre kneeling; over the chimney, the Coronation of the
 Virgin by Paulo Veroneze : another Madona over the dore, and that
of Jos. by Cigali ; in the Hall, a Cavaliero di Malta attended by his
page, sayd to be of Mich. Angelo : the Rape of Proserpine, with a very
large landskip of Corregio. In the next roome some payntings of
Primaticcio, especially the Helena, the naked Lady brought before Alex
ander, well paynted, and a Ceres. In the bedchamber a picture of the
Cardinal de Liancourt of Raphael, rarely colour*d. In the cabinet are
divers pieces of Bassano, 2 of Polemburg, 4 of Paulo Brill, the skyes a
little too blew. A Madona of Nicholao, excellently painted on a stone ;
a yudith of Mantegna ; 3 Women of Jeronimo ; one of Stenwick ; a
 Madona after Titian, and a Magdalen of the same hand, as the Count

esteemes it ; 2 small pieces of Paulo Veroneze, being the Martyrdoms

of St. Justina & St. Catherine,; a Madona of Lucas Van Leyden, sent
him from our King ; 6 more of old Bassano ;- 2 excellent drawings of
Albert ; a Magdalen of Leonardo da Vinci ; 4 of Paulo : a very rare
Madona of Titian, given him also by our King ; the Ecce Homo, shut

 up in a frame of velvet, for the life and accurate finishing exceeding all
 description. Some curious medals, and a chaplet of admirable inven
tion, the intaglias being all on fruit-stones. The Count was so ex
 ceeding civill that he would needes make his Lady goe out of her
dressing-roome, that he might shew us the curiosities and the
pictures in it.

    We went thence to visite one Mons. Perishot, one of the greatest
virtuosos in France, for his collection of pictures, achates, medalls, and
flowers, especially tulips & anemonies. The chiefest of his payntings
was a Sebastian of Titian.

    From him we went to Mons. Frene's, who shew'd us many rare
drawings, a Rape of Helen in black chalke ; many excellent things of
 Sneider ; some of Julio & Michael Angelo ; a Madona of Passignano ;
 some things of Parmensis, & other masters.

    The next morning being recommended to Mons. de Hausse, Pre
 sident du Parliament, and once Ambassador at Venice for the French
 King, we were very civily receiv'd, and shew'd his Library. Amongst
his paintings were, a rare Venus St* Adonis of Veroneze, a St. Anthony
after the first manner of Corregio, and a rare Madona of Palma.

    Sunday 6 March. I went to Charenton, 2 leagues from Paris, to
 heare & see the manner of the French Protestant Churches service.
 The pLice of meeting they call the Temple, a very faire and spacious

 roome, built of free-stone, very decently adorn'd with payntings of the
 Tables of the Law, the Lords Prayer & Creede. The pulpit stands at
 the upper end in the middle, having an enclosure of seates about h,
                     THE DIATlY OF JOHN EVELYN.                ,'               S3

whCTe the Elders, & persons of greatest quality and strangers, sit ; the
rest of the congregation on formes & low stooles, but none in pewes as -
in our Churches, to their greate disgrace & nothing so orderly, as here
the stooles & other  comber are rcmovd when the assembly rises. I

»is greatly pleas'd  with their harmonious singing the Psalms, which
they all learn perfectly well, their children being as duely taught as
their Catechisme.

   In our passage we went by that famous bridge over the Marne, where
                the voice of a good
echo   rctumes                       singer 9 or 10 times.                      a
    7  March.   I went with some     company towards Fontainebleau,

sumptuous palace of the King's, like ours of Hampton Court, about
14 leagues from the Citty. By the way we pass through a Forest so
prodigiously encompass'd with hideous rocks of whitish hard stone,

heaped one on another in mountainous heights, but I think the like is
not to be found elsewhere. It abounds with staggs, wolves, boares,
& not long after a lynx or ounce was kill'd amongst them, which had

devoured some passengers. On the summit of one of these gloomy pre

cipices, intermingl'd with trees and shrubs, the stones hanging over,
& menaceing mine, is built an Hermitage. In these solitudes rogues
frequently lurke & do mischiefe (& for whom we were all well
appoynted with our carabines), but we arived safe in the evening at

the village, where we lay at the Home, going early next morning to

the Palace.
  This house
but Francis I.  is nothing so.  stately and         uniforme   as Hampton Court,
                 began much     to beautifie        it ; most
                                                               of all, Hen. IV. and
not a little the late King. It abounds with faire halls, chambers, and

gallerys ; in the longest, which is 360 foote long, and 18 broad, are

paynted the Victories of that great Prince Hen. IV. That of Francis I.

call'd the grand Gallery, has all the King's Palaces paynted in it ; above
these, in 60 pieces of excellent                               History of Ulysses,
from Homer, by Primaticcio        workein fresca is the
                                  in the tyme of Hen.          III. esteemed thl
most renown'd in Europ for the designe. The Cabinet is full of excellent
pictures, especialy a Woman of Raphael. In the Hall of the Guards is
a piece of tapistry painted on the wall, very naturally, representing the

Victorys of Cha. VII. over our countrymen. In the Salle des Festins

is a rare Chimny-piece, & Hen. IV. on horseback, of white marble,
esteemed worth 18,000 crowns; dementia & Pax, nobly don. On

columns of jasper, 2 lions of brasse. The new Stayres, and a halfe
                  XarIeIIo.famll oodfejarnspaenr,d
circular  Court,                                     good architecture, as is   a Chapell
built by  Lewis                                     with several incrustations  of marble

in the inside.
Having scene the roomes we went to the Volary, which has a cupola
in the middle of greate trees and bushes, being full of birds who
                  it,
                                           is

                                                                it
                                                                            &

                                                                                                                                                   ;
  drank at two fountaines. There a faire Tennis Court noble Stables

" but the beauty of all are the Gardens. In the Court of the Fountaines
54 FONTAINEBLEAU, ITS ATTRACTIONS. CORBEIL, NORMANDY.

stand divers antiquities and statues, especialy a Mercury.  In the

Queenes Garden is a Diana ejecting a fountaine, with numerous other

brasse statues.

   The Greate Garden, 180 toises long and 154 wide, has in the centre
a fountayne of Tyber of a Colossean figure of brasse, with the Wolfe
over Romulus & Rhemus. At each corner of the garden rises a foun
taine. In the Garden of the Fish Pond is a Hercules of white marble.
Next is the Garden of the Pines, and without that a Canale of an
English mile in length, at the end of which rise 3 jettos in the form of
a fleur de lys, of a great height ; on the margin are excellent walkes
planted with trees. The carps come familiarly to hand [to be fed].
Hence they brought us to a spring, which they say being first discovert
by a dog, gave occasion of beautifying this place, both with the Palace
and Gardens. The rocks at some distance in the Forest yeald one of

the most august & stupendous prospects imaginable. The Parke about

this place is very large, & the Towne is full of noblemen's houses.

Next morning we were invited by a Paynter, who was keeper of the
pictures and rarities, to see his owne collection. We were lead thro' a
gallery of old Rosso's worke, at the end of which, in another cabinet,
were 3 Madotias of Raphael, and 2 of Andrea del Sarto. In the
Academy where the Paynter himselfe wrought, was a St. Michael of

Raphael, very rare ; St. Jo. Baptist of Leonardo, & a Woman's heads
a Queene of Sicily 6V* St. Margaret of Raphael ; 2 more Madotias,

whereof one very large, by the same hand ; some more of del Sarto ; a
St. Jerome of Perino del Vaga ; the Rape of Proserpine, very good ;

and a greate number of drawings.
Returning part of our way to Paris that day, we visited an house
cal'd Maison Rouge, having an excellent prospect, grott, & fountaines,

one whereof rises 50 feet, & resembles the noise of a tempest, battailles
of gunns, &c. at its issue. '
We went to Essonc, a house of Monsieur Essling, who is a greate

Vertuoso ; there are many good payntings in but nothing so observ
                           a
able as his gardens, fountaines, fishe-pooles, especialy that in a triangulara
forme, the water cast out by a multitude of heads about  there a
                                                a it,    it

                                                              ;

                                                                         is

noble cascade and pretty bathes, with all accommodations. Under a

marble table a fountaine of serpents twisting about a globe.
            I is

                        &
   We alighted next at Corbeil, towne famous for the siege of Hen.

IV. Here we slept, return'd next morning to Paris.
                 went with Sir Jo. Cotton, Cambridg-shire Knight
18' March.
a journey into Normandy. The first day we passed by Gaillon, the
Archbishop of Rouen's Palace. The gardens are highly commended,
but we did not go in, intending to reach Pontoise by dinner. This
towne built in a very gallant place, has noble bridge over the Oize,
is
   is is
and well refresh'd with fountaines.
This the first towne in Normandy, and the farthest that the Vine
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  55

yards extend to on this side of the country, which is fuller of playnes,
wood and enclosures, with some townes towards the sea, very like
England.

   We lay this night at a vilage call'd Magny. The next day, descending
a very steepe hill, we din'd at Fleury, and after rode 5 leagues downe
St. Catharine, to Rouen, which affords a goodly prospect to the mines
of that chapell & mountaine. This country so abounds with wolves,
that a shepherd whom we met told us one of his companions was
strangled by one of them the day before, & that in the midst of his
flock. The feilds are mostly planted with pears & apples & other cider
fruitcs. It is plentifully furnish'd with quarries of stone & slate, & hath
iron in abundance.

   I lay at the White Crosse in Rouen, which is a very large Citty, on
the Seine, having two smaller rivers besides, call'd the Aubelt and Lobes.
There stand yet the mines of a magnificent bridge of stone, now sup
pled by one of boatcs only, to which come up vessells of considerable
burthen. The other side of the water consists of meadows, and there
have the Reformed a Church.

   The Cathcdrall Nostre Dame was built, as they acknowledge, by
the English ; some English words graven in Gotic characters upon
the front seeme to confirm it. The Towers & whole Church are
full of carving. It has 3 steeples with a pyramid ; in one of these
I saw the famous bell so much talk'd off, 13 foote in height, 32 round,
the diameter I r, weighing 40,000 pounds. In the Chapel d'Amboise,
built by a Cardinal of that name, lies his body, with several

faire monuments. The Quire has behind it a greate dragon
paynted on the wall, which they say had don much harme to the in

habitants till vanquished by St. Romain their Archbishop, for which
there is an annual procession. It was now neere Easter, and many

images were expos'd with scenes & stories representing the Passion,
made up of little puppets, to which there was great resort and devotion,
with offering. Before the Church is a faire Palace. -- St. Owen is an
other goodly Church and an Abbey with fine gardens. Here the King

hath lodgings when he makes his progresse through these parts. The
structure where the Court of Parliament is kept is very magnificent,
containing very faire halles & chambers, especialy La Chambre d'Oree.
The Towne-house is also well built, and so are some gentlemen's
houses ; but most part of the rest are of timber, like our merchants of
London, in the wooden part of the Citty.

    21 March. On Easter Monday we din'd at Totes, a solitary inn
between Rouen & Diepe, at which latter place we arived. This towne
is situated betweene two mountaines, not unpleasantly, and is washed
on the North by our English seas.

   The Port is commodious, but the entrance is difficult It has one
ample and faire streete, in which is a pretty church. The Fort Pollet
56 DIEPPE; HAVRE DE GRACE; CAEN, TOWN AND ABBEY.is
             it,
consists of a strong earth-worke, and commands the Haven, as on the
other side dos the Castle, which is also well fortified, with the Citadel2
before it ; nor is the Towne itself a little strong. It abounds with
isworkmen, who make and sell curiosities of ivory and tortoise-shells ;:
& indeed whatever the East Indies afford of cabinets, purcelan,
natural & exotic rarities, are here to be had with abundant choyce.:

   23 March. We pass'd along the Coast by a very rocky and rugged
way, which fore'd us to alight many times before we came to Havre de
Grace, where we lay that night.

   The next morning we saw the Citadel, strong and regular, well
stored with artillery, &c. The works furnish'd with faire brasse
canon, having a motto, Ratio ultima Region. The allogiaments of
the garrison are uni forme ; a spacious place for drawing up the soldiers,
a pretty chapell, and a faire house for the Governor. The Duke ot
Richelieu being now in the fort, we went to salute him ; who received
us very civily, and commanded that we should be show*d whatever we
desired to see. The Citadel was built by the late Card, de Richelieu,
unkle of the present Duke, and is very strong. The haven is very

capacious.

   We embarqued ourselves and horses to passe to Honfleur, about 4.
or 5 leagues distant, where the Seine falls into the Sea. It is a poore
fisher towne, remarkable for nothing so much as the odd yet usefull
habites which the good women weare, of beares and other skinns, as
of raggs at Dieppe, and all along these coasts.

   25 March. We arriv'd at Caen, a noble and beautifull towne, on the
river Orne, which passes quite thro' the sides of the towne joyn'd
only by a bridg of one arch, We lay at the Angel, where we were
very well us'd, the place being abundantly furnish'd with provisions at

a cheape rate.

   The most considerable object the great Abby and Church, large
and rich, built after the Gotic manner, having two spires and middle
lanterne at the West end, all of stone. The quire round and large,
in the centre whereof, elevated on a square, handsome, but plain
sepulchre, this inscription

   " Hoc Sepulchrum invictissimi juxta et clementissimi Conquestoris,

Gulielmi, dum viveret Anglorum Regis, Normannorum Camomano-
rumque Principis, hujus insignis Abbatiae piissimi Fundatoris Cum
anno 1562 vesano hereticorum furore direptum fuisset, pio tandem
nobilium ejusdem Abbatiae religiosorum gratitudinis sensu in tarn
beneficum largitorem, instauratum fuit, anno D'ni 1642. D'no Johanne
de Baulhache ascetarii Protopriore. P.D.D.P."

   On the other side are these monkish rhymes:
                " Qui rexit rigidos Normanos, atq. Britanos
                       Audacter vicit, fortiter obtinuit,
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  57

                 Et Cxnomanenses virtute coercuit cnsc3,

                        Imperiique sui legibus applicuit,
                    Rex magus parvajacet hie Gulielmus in urna,

                        Surhcit et magno parva domus Domino.

                 Ter septem gradibus se volverat, atq. duobus
                      Virginis in gremio Phoebus, et hie obiit."

   We went to the Castle, which is strong and fayre, and so is the

Towne-house, built on the bridg which unites the two townes. Here

are Scholes and an University for the Jurists.
   The whole Towne is handsomly built of that excellent stone so

well knowne by that name in England. I was lead to a pretty garden,
planted with edges of Alaternus, having at the entrance a skreene at
on exceeding height, accurately cutt in topiary worke, with well under
stood Architecture, consisting of pillars, niches, freezes, and other
ornaments, with greate curiosity ; some of the columns wreathed,
others spiral, all according to art.

   28 March. We went towards Paris, lying the first night at Evreux,

a Bishop's seate, an ancient Towne, with a faire Cathedral.
   The next day we arrived at Paris.

   1 April I went to see more exactly the roomes of the fine Palace

of Luxemburge, in the Fauxbourg St. Germains, built by Mary de

Medices, and I think one of the most noble, entire, and finish'd piles,

that is to be seen, taking it with the garden and all its accomplish
ments. The gallery is of the painting of Rubens, being the history of
the Foundresses life, rarely designed ; at the end of it is the Duke of

Orleans's Library, well furnished with excellent bookes, all bound in

maroquin and gilded, the valans of the shelves being of greene velvet
fnng'd with gold. In the cabinet joyning it are onely the smaler
volumes, with 6 cabinets of medails, and an excellent collection of
shells, and achates, whereof some are prodigiously rich. This Duke
being very learn 'd in medails and plants, nothing of that kind escapes
him. There are other spacious, noble, and princely furnish'd roomes,

which looke towards the gardens, and which are nothing inferior to

the rest.

   The Court below is formed into a square by a corridor, having over
the chiefe entrance a stately cupola, covered with stone ; the rest is
cloistered and arch'd on pillasters of rustiq worke. The tarrace
ascending before the front paved with white & black marble, is balus-
tred with white marble, exquisitely polish'd.

   Onely the Hall below is lowe, and the stayrecase somewhat of an heavy
designe, but the faciata towards the parterre, which is also arched
& vaulted with stone, is of admirable beauty, and full of sculpture.

   The Gardens are neere an English mile in compasse, enclos'd with
a stately wall, and in a good ayre. The parterre is indeed of box, but
so rarely design'd and accurately kept cut, that the embroidery makes
58 THE BEAUTY OF THE GARDENS OF PALAIS DE LUXEMBOURG.

a wonderful effect to the lodgings which front it. Tis divided into 4
osqfumaraersb,le&neaesrema3n0yfeceitrcduialamr ektenrots(a, s.haI vrienmg eimn bethr)e,  center a noble basin
                                                                                         in which a triton oi

brasse holds a dolphin that casts a girandola of water neere 30 foote
high, playing perpetualy, the water being conveyM from Arceuil by
an aqueduct of stone, built after the old Roman magnificence. About
this ample parterre, the spacious walkes & all included, runs a border

of freestone, adorned with pedestalls for potts and statues, and part
of it neere the stepps of the terrace, with a raile and baluster of pure

white marble.
The walkes are exactly faire, long, & variously descending, and so
justly planted with limes, elms, & other trees, that nothing can be
more delicious, especialy that of the hornebeam hedge, which being
high and stately, butts full on the fountaine.

Towards the farther end is an excavation intended for a vast fish-
pool, but never finish'd. Neere it is an inclosure for a garden of

simples, well kept, and here the Duke keepes tortoises in greate

number, who use the poole of water on one side of the garden. Here
is also a conservatory for snow. At the upper part towards the

Palace is a grove of tall elmes cutt into a starr, every ray being a

walk, whose center is a large fountaine.

   The rest of the ground is made into severall inclosures (all hedge-
worke or rowes of trees) of whole fields, meadowes, boxages, some of
them containing divers acres.

Next the streete side, and more contiguous to the house, are knotts
in trayle or grasse worke, where likewise runs a fountaine. Towards

 the grotto and stables, within a wall, is a garden of choyce flowers,

~in which the Duke spends many thousand pistoles. In sum, nothing
is wanting to render this palace and gardens perfectly beautifull & mag
nificent ; nor is it .one of the least diversions to see the number of
persons of quality, citizens and strangers, who frequent and to whom
                                                                                                  it,

                                                                                                                            ;
all accesse freely permitted, so that you shall- see some walkes &
   is
         ; is is
             it
                   is

                                         ;

                                     is,

                                                                 ;
                                                                         ;
retirements full of gallants and ladys in others melancholy fryers in
others studious scholars in others jolly citizens, some sitting or lying
on the grasse, others runing, jumping, some playing at bowles and

ball, others dancing and singing and all this without the least dis
turbance, by reason of the largeness of the place.
  What most admirable you see no gardners or men at worke,

and yet all    kept in such exquisite order as they did nothing .
                                                                                         if

                                                                                              is
else but work  so early in the morning, that all dispatch'd and

don without the least confusion.

I  have been the larger in the description of this Paradise, for the

extraordinary delight have taken in those sweete retirements. The
               I

Cabinet and Chapell neerer the garden front have some choyce pic

tures. All the houses neere this are also noble palaces, especialy petite
THE DIARY OF JOHN EYELYN.  59.

Luxemburge. The ascent of the streete is handsome from its breadth,.
situation, and buildings.

    I went next to view Paris from the top of St. Jacques steeple,
esteem 'd the highest in the towne, from whence I had a full view of

the whole Citty and suburbs, both which, as I judge, are not so large

 as London : though the dissimilitude of their formes and situations,,

-this round, London long, renders it difficult to determine ; but there
 is no comparison between the buildings, palaces, and materials, this

being entirely of stone and more sumptuous, tho' I esteeme our piazza's

 to exceede their' s.

    In St. Innocent's Church-yard, where the s>tory of the devouring
 quality of the ground (consuming bodys in 24 hours), the vast charnells-
 of bones, tombs, piramids, and sepulchres, took up much of my time,,

 together with the hieroglyphical characters of Nicholas Flamen's philo
 sophical worke, who had founded this church, and divers other cha

 ritable workes, as he testifies in his booke.

    Here divers darks get their livelyhood by inditing letters for poor
 mayds and other ignorant people who come to them for advise, and
 to write for them into the Country, every large grave-stone serving.
 for a table. Joyning to this Church is a com'on fountaine, with good
 relievo's on it.

    The next day I was carried to see a French gentleman's curious col
lection, which abounded in faire & rich jewels of all sorts of precious,
stones, most of them of greate sizes and value ; achates & onixes,
 some of them admirably colour'd & antique ; nor inferior were his

 landskips from the best hands, most of which he had caused to be
copy'd in miniature ; one of which, rarely painted on stone, was broken
by one of our company, by the mischance of setting it up ; but such
was the temper & civility of the gentleman, that it altered nothing of
his free & noble humor.

   The next morning I went to the Garden of Monsieur Morine, who-
from being an ordinary gardner is become one of the most skillful and
curious persons in France for his rare collection of shells, flowers, &

 insects.

    His Garden is of an exact oval figure, planted with cypresse cuttflat
 & set as even as a wall : the tulips, anemonies, ranunculus's, crocus's,.
Sec are held to be of the rarest, and draw all the admirers of such
things to his house during the season. He lived in a kind of Hermit
age at one side of his garden, where his collection of purselane and
 coral, whereof one is carved into a large Crucifix, is much esteemed.
 He has also bookes of prints, by Albert [Durer], Van Leyden, Calot,
&c His collection of all sorts of insects, especially of Butterflys, is.

most carious ; these he spreads and so medicates that no corruption
invading them, he keepes them in drawers, so plac'd as to represent a,
beautifuU piece of tapistre.
60 CALAIS CARDINAL; BOIS DE BOULOGNE; LOIRE, PARIS.

He shew'd me the remarks he had made on their propagation, which
he promis'd to publish. Some of these, as also of his best flowers, he
had caus'd to be painted in miniature by rare hands, and some in oyle.

   I went to see divers of the fairest Palaces, as that ofVendosme, very

large and stately ; Longueville ; Guyse ; Condi ; Chevereuse ; Nevers,

esteem'd one of the best in Paris towards the river.

   I often went to the Palais Cardinal, bequeathed by Richelieu to the '
King, on condition that it should be called by his name ; at this time
the King resided in because of the building of the Louvre.
          is                                         &

               I                                                 It

                           it,                                           is
                                                                            a
very noble house, tho' somewhat low the gallerys, paintings of the
most illustrious persons of both sexes, the Queenes bathes, presence&
chamber with its rich carved and gilded roofe, theatre, large garden,
           an ample fountaine, grove, and maille, are worthy of;
in which

remark. Here also frequently went to see them ride and exercise the
Greate Horse, especialy at the Academy of Monsieur du Plessis, and
de Veau, whose scholes of that art are frequented by the Nobility; and

here also young gentlemen are taught to fence, daunce, play on musiq,
                                 the mathematics. The designe
and something in fortification                                           is

admirable, some keeping neere an hundred brave horses, all managed

to the greate saddle.

     2th. took coach to see a general muster of all the gens d'armes
about the Citty in the Bois de Boulogne before their Majesties and all
1

        I

the Grandees. They were reputed to be neere 20,000, besides the

spectators who much exceeded them in number. Here they performed
all their motions, and being drawne up, horse
                                                     foote, into several
                                                 ;&
figures, represented a battell.                            is
The sum'er now drawing neere, determined to spend the rest of
                                 I                                  ; I it
in some more remote towne on the river Loire and on 19 April
tooke leave of Paris, and, by the way of the messenger, agreed for myis

passage to Orleans.
The way, as indeed most of the roades in France, paved with a
small square freestone, so that there little dirt and bad roads, as in
England, onely 'tis somewhat hard to the poor horses feete, which
causes them to ride more temperately, seldom going out of the trot, or
grand pas, as they call it. We passed several wall'd townes or villages
amongst others of note, Chartres and Estampes, where we lay the first
night. This has a faire church.
20 April. We had an excellent road, but had like to come short

home for no sooner were we entred two or three leagues into the
;

Forest of Orleans (which extends itself many miles), but the company
behind us were set on by rogues, who, shooting from the hedges and
frequent covert, slew foure upon the spot. This disaster made such an
alarme in Orleans at our arrival, that the Prevost Martial, with his

assistants, going in persuite, brought in two whom they had shot, and

exposed them in the greate market-place, to see any would take cog
                                                 if
             THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                      6l

mzance of them. I had greate cause to give God thankes for this
escape. I lay at the White Lion, where I found Mr. John Nicholas,
eldest son to Mr. Secretary [Nicholas]. In the night a cat kitten'd on

my bed, and left on it a young one having six ears, eight leggs, two

bodys from the navil downwards, and two tayles. I found it dead, but
warm, in the morning when I awaked.
·21 ApriL The citty is well built of stone, on the side of the Loyre.
About the middle of the river is an island, full of walkes and faire trees,

with some houses. There is a stately stone bridge, reaching to the
opposite suburbs, built likewise on the edge of an hill, from whence is
a beautifull prospect. At one end of the bridge are strong toures, and
about the middle, on one side, is the statue of the Virgin Mary or Pieta,
with the dead Christ in her lap, as big as the life. At one side of the

Crosse kneeles Cha. VII. arm'd, and at the other Joan d'Arc, aim'd
like a cavalier, with boots and spurrs, her hayre dischevel'd, as the

deliveress of the towne from our countrymen, when they besieg'd it.
The figures are all cast in copper, with a pedistall full of inscriptions
as well as a faire columne joyning which adorn'd with fleurs de
                                      it,
                                                     is
                                                                 it
lys aiid a crucifix, with two saints proceeding as were from two

branches  "  out of its capital. The inscriptions on the Crosse are in
Latine
:            Mors Christi in cruce nos a  c"oRnetaxgiionnehoclabsiigsneot  aiturnorum
              sanavit." On the pedestal                                    hostes pro-
morborum                              :

rligavit, et Johan'a Virgo Aureliam obsidio libcravit. Non                                                  diu ab

"unOpcutsandnirouqt'a,Graelslitaitmutasesrvuintut tehoBcriatnannonicDa'nliib1e5r7a8v.it. JeAanDBoumreinto,  m. (."--

                                                                                                             factum

est illud, et est mirabili in oculis nostris in quoram memoria lute
nostra fidei Insignia." To this made an annual procession on 12 May,is ;
                             it,                         it
                                  is
Masse being sung before      attended with great ceremony and con

course of people. The wine of this place so strong, that the King's

cup-bearers are, as was assured, sworne never to give the King any
itof but     a very noble liquor, and much of transported into

   ;

              ; it
                  is

                        I
other countrys. The town     is  much frequented by strangers for the

greate purity of the language here spoken, as well as for divers other

priviledges and the University makes the towne much frequented by
strangers, especialy Germans, which causes the English to make no
long sojourne hear, except such as can drinke and debauch. The Citty
stands in the County of Beaulse, was once stiled a Kingdom, after
wards a Dutchy, as at present, belonging to the second son of France.
Many Councils have been held here, and some Kings crown'd. The
University very antient, divided now by the students into that of four
             is
                         it
nations, French, High Dutch, Normans, and Picardins, who have each
their respective protectors, severall officers, Treasurers, Consuls, Seales,
&c There are in two reasonable faire publiq Libraries, whence one
may borrow a booke to one's chamber, giving but a note under hand,
which is an extraordinary custome, and a confidence that has cost
©2 CITY OF ORLEANS ; BLOIS ; PALACE OF CHAMBOURG.

.many Libraries deare. The first church I went to visit was St. Croix ;
it has been a stately fabric, but has been much ruin'd by the late Civil
Warrs. They report the towre of it to have been the highest in France.

There is the beginning of a faire reperation. About this cathedrall is a
very spacious cemeterie. The towne-hous is nobly built, with a high
tower to it. The market-place and streetes, some whereof are deli-

ciously planted with limes, are ample and straite, so well paved with a
kind of pebble, that I have not seen a neater towne in France. This
Citty was by Francis I. esteemed the most agreeable of his great

dominions.

   28 April. Taking boate on the Loir, I went towards Blois, the pas- .

sage and river being both very pleasant. Passing Mehun, we dined at

Baugency, and slept at a little towne called St. Dieu. Quitting our

barke, we hired horses to Blois, by the way of Chambourg, a famous
house of the King's, built by Francis I. in the middle of a solitary

parke, full of deere ; the enclosure is a wall. I was particularly desirous

of seeing this palace from the extravagance of the designe, especialy
the stayre-case mentioned by Palladio. It is said that 1 800 workmen
were constantly employ'd in this fabric for twelve yeares : if so, it is

wonderfull that it was not finish'd it being no greater than divers gen-
tlemens houses in England, both for rome or circuit. The carvings
-are very rich and full. The stayre-case is devised with four entries or

 ascents, which cross one another, so that tho' four persons meete, they
 never come in sight, but by small loopeholes, till they land. " It con

 sists of 274 stepps (as I remember), and is an extraordinary worke, but

-of far greater expense than use or beauty. The chimnys of the house

appeare like so many towres. About the whole is a large deepe
moate. The country about it full of come and wine, with many faire

noblemens houses.

  We ariv'd at Blois in the evening. The town ii hilly, uneven, and

rugged. It stands on the side of the Loire, having suburbs joyn'd by
a stately stone bridg, on which is a pyramid with an inscription. At

the entrance of the castle is a stone statue of Lewis XII. on horseback,

as large as life, under a Gothic state ; and a little below are these

words :  ' Hie ubi natus erat dextro Ludovicus Olympo

         Sumpsit honorata regia sceptra manu :
         Faelix qua? tanti fulsit Lux nuncia Regis

         Gallica non alio principe digna fuit.'
Under this is a very wide payre of gates, nailed full of wolves and

· wild-boars' heads. Behind the castle the present Duke Gastion had

begun a faire building, through which we walked into a large garden,
esteemed for its furniture one of the fairest, especialy for simples and

exotic plants, in which he takes extraordinary delight. On the right
- hand is a longe gallery full of ancient statues and inscriptions, both of
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  63

warble and brasse ; the length, 300 paces, divides the garden into higher
and lower ground, having a very noble fountaine. There is the por

trait of an hart, taken in the forest by Lewis XII. which has 24 antlers

on its head. In the Collegiate Church of St. Saviour we saw many
sepulchres of the Earls of Blois.

   Sunday, being May day, we walked up into the Pall Mall, very long
and so nobly shaded with tall trees (being in the midst of a greate
wood), that, unless that of Tours, I had not seen a statelier.

   From hence we proceeded with a friend of mine through the ad-
joyning forestt to see if we could meete any wolves, which are here in
such numbers that they often come and take children out of the very
streetes ; yet will not the Duke, who is sov'raigne here, permite them
to be destroy'd. We walked five or six miles outright, but met with

none ; yet a gentleman who was resting himselfe under a tree, with his

horse grazing by him, told us that, halfe an houre before, two wolves
had set upon his horse, and had in probability devour'd him, but for a
dog which lay by him. At a little village at the end of this wood we
eat excellent creame, and visited a castle builded on a very steepe cliff.

    Bloys is a towne where the language is exactly spoken ; the inhabit

 ants very courteous ; the ayre so good, that it is the ordinary nursery
of the King's children. The people are so ingenious, that, for gold
smith's worke and watches, no place in France affords the like. The
pastures by the river are very rich and pleasant.

    1 May. We took boate, passing by Charmont, a proud castle on
the left hand ; before it is a sweete island, deliciously shaded with tall ·
trees. A little distance from hence we went on shore at Ambois, a very
agreeable village, built of stone, and the houses covered with blue slate,
as the towns on the Loyre generally are ; but the castle chiefely invited
ns, the thicknesse of whose towers, from the river to the top, was
admirable. We enter'd by the draw-bridg, which has an invention to
 let one fall, if not premonished. It is full of halls and spacious cham
 bers, and one stayre-case, is large enough, and sufficiently com'odious
 to receive a coach, and land it on the very towre, as they told us had
 been don. There is some artillery. In the ancient chapell is a stag's
 head or branches, hung up by chayns, consisting of twenty brow ant
 lers, the beame bigger than a man's middle, and of an incredible
 length. Indeed it is monstrous, and yet I cannot conceive how it
 should be artificial ; they show also the ribs and vertebrae of the same
 beast ; but these might be made of whalebone.

     Leaving the Castle we pass'd Mont Louis, a village having no house
 above ground, but such onely as are hewn out of the maine rocks
 which are of excellent free-stone. Here and there the funnell of a
 chimny appears on the surface amongst the vineyards which are over
 them, and in this manner they inhabite the caves, as it were sea-cliffs,

 on one side of the river for many miles.
 64 TOURS; ITS ATTRACTIONS. STOP THERE, j SILK- WORMS.

    We now come within sight of Tours, where we were design'd for the
 rest of the time I had resolved to stay in France, the sojournment being
 so agreeable. Tours is on the easy side of an hill on the river Loyre,
 having a faire bridge of stone, called St. Edme ; the strcetes are very
 long, straite, spacious, well built, & exceeding cleane ; the suburbs
 Targe and pleasant, joyn'd to the citty by another bridg. Both the
 Church and Monastryof St. Martin are large, of Gothic building, having
 4 square towers, faire organs, and a stately altar where they shew the
 bones and ashes of St. Martinc, with other reliques. The Mall without
 comparison is the noblest in Europe for length and shade, having 7
 rowes of the tallest and goodliest elms I had ever beheld, the inner
 most of which do so embrace each other, & at such a height, that
 nothing can be more solemn and majestical. Here we play'd a party
 or two, and then walked about the Towne walles, built of square stone,
 fill'd with earth, & having a moate. No citty in France exceeds it in
'beauty or delight.

    6 May. We went to St. Gratian, reported to have been built by our
 countrymen ; the dyal and clock-work are much esteem'd. The
 Church has two handsom towres & spires of stone, and the whole fabric
 is very noble & venerable. To this joynes the Palace of the Arch
 bishop of old and new building, with many faire roomes, and a faire
 garden. Here I grew acquainted with one Mons. Merey, a very good
 Musitian. The Archbishop treated me very courteously. We visited-
 divers other Churches, Chapells, & Monasteries, for the most part
 neatly built, and full of pretty payntings, especialy the Convent of
 the Capucines, which has a prospect over the whole Citty and many
 faire walks.

    8th. I went to see their manufactures in Silke (for in this towne

 they drive a very considerable trade with silk-wormes), their pressing
 & watering the grograms and chambletts, with weights of an extra

 ordinary poyse, putte into a rolling engine. Here I took a master of the

 language and studied the tongue very diligently recreating myself
 sometimes at the Maill, and sometymes about the Towne. The house
 opposite my lodging had been formerly a Palace of the King's, the
 outside was totaly covered with fleurs de lyes, emboss'd out of the
 stone. Here Mary de Medici had her Court when she was compell'd
 to retire from Paris by the persecution of the Cardinal.

    25. Was the File Dieu, and a goodly procession of all the religious

 orders, the whole streetes hung with their best tapistrys, and their
 most precious moveables expos'd ; silks, damasks, velvets, plate, and
 pictures in abundance ; the streets strew'd with flowres, and full of
 pageantry, banners, and bravery.

    6 June. I went by water to visit that goodly and venerable Abby
 of Marmoustier, being one of the greatest in the Kingdome. There is

 a large Church of stone, with a very high pyramid. Amongst other
          THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                   65

reliques the Monkes shew'd us is the Holy Ampoule, the same with
that which sacres their Kings at Rhemes, this being the one which

anoynted Hen. IV. Ascending many stepps we went into the Abbot's

Palace, where we were shew'd a vast Tun (as big as that at Heidel
berg), which they report St. Martin (as I remember) filled from one
cluster of grapes growing there.

   7. We walked about 2 miles from the Citty to an agreeable soli
tude called du Plessis, a house belonging to the King. It has many
pretty gardens, full of nightingales. In the Chapell lyes buried the
famous Poet Ronsard.

   Returning, we stepp'd into a Convent of Franciscans called St

Cosmo, where the Cloister is painted with the miracles of their St.
Francis a Paula, whose ashes lie in their Chapell, with this inscrip
tion : 'Corpus Sancti Fran, a Paula 1507. 13 Aprilis. concrematur
vero ab Haereticis anno 1562, cujus quidem ossa et cineres hie jacent.'
The tomb has 4 small pyramids of marble at each corner.

   9 June. I was invited to a Vineyard, which was so artificialy planted
and supported with arched poles that stooping downe one might see
from end to end, a very greate length, under the vines, the bunches
hanging down in abundance.

   :o June. We took hors to see certain natural Caves, caled Goutiere,

neare Colombiere, where there is a spring within the bowells of the
earth very deepe, & so excessive cold that the dropps meeting with

some stony matter it converts them into an hard stone, which hangs

about like icicles, having many others in the form of comfitures and
sugar plums as wee call them.

   Ncrc this we went under the ground almost two furlongs, lighted

with candles, to see the source and spring which serves the whole
Citty, by a passage cut through the maine rock of free-stone.

   28. I went to see the Palace and Gardens of Chevereux, a sweete

place.
   30. I walked through the vineyards as far as Roche Corb6, to the
mines of an old <& very strong Castle sayd to have ben built by the
English, of great hight, on the precipice of a dreadfull cliff, from

whence the country and river yeald a most incomparable prospect.

   27 July. I heard excellent musiq at the Jesuites, who have here a
Schole and Convent, but a meane Chapell. We had now store of those
admirable melons so much celebrated in France for the best of the
          *
kingdom.
1 Augt. My valet, one Garno, a Spaniard borne in Biscay, having
misbehaved, I was forced to discharge him ; he demanded of me (be
sides his wages) no lesse then 100 crownes to carry him to his country ;
refusing to pay as no part of our agreement, he had the impudence
to arrest me the next day was to appear in Court, where both our
Advocats pleaded before the Lieutennant Civile. The Judge imme-
          :

                 it,

                                I

                                                                                                                   5
66 TROUBLED BY MY VALET. TOURS ; RICHELIEU.

diately acquitting me, after he had reproached the "Advocate who tooke
part with my servant, he rose from the Bench, and making a courteous

excuse to me, that being a stranger I should be so us'd, he conducted
mee through the Court to the streete-dore. This varlet afterwards
threatened to pistol me. The next day I waited on the Lieutennant to

thanke him for his greate civility.
   1 8 Aug. The Queene of England came to Tours, having newly
ariv'd in France, and going for Paris. She was very nobly received by
the People and Cleargy, who went to meete her with the trained bands.

After the harangue the Archbish'p entertain'd her at his Palace, where

I paid my duty to her. The 20th she set forward to Paris.
   8 Sept. Two of my kinsmen came from Paris to this place, where

I settled them in their pension and exercises.

lag1e4. .--  We   tooke post for Richlieu, passing by l'Isle Bouchart, a vil
                  We ariv'd at the Towne, and went to see the Cardinal's
             15.
Palace neare it. The Towne is in a low, marshy ground, having a
small river cut by hand, very even and straite, capable of bringing up

a small vessell. It consists of onely one considerable streete, the

houses on both sides (as indeed throughout the towne) built exactly

uniforme, after a modem handsome designe. It has a large goodly

Markct-house and Place, opposite to which is the Church built of free

stone, having two pyramids of stone, which stand hollow from the
towers. The Church is well-built, of a well-ordered architecture, hand

somely pav'd and adom'd. To this towne belongs an Academy, where,
besides the exercise of the horse, armes, dauncing, &c. all the sciences

are taught in the vulgar French by Professors stipendiated by the greate

Cardinal, who by this, the cheape living there, and divers priviledges,

not only design'd the improvement of the vulgar language, but to draw
people and strangers to the towne ; but since the Cardinal's death it is

thinly inhabited, standing so much out of the way, and in a place not
well situated for health or pleasure. He was allured to build by the

name of the place, and an old house there belonging to his ancestors.
This pretty town is handsomely wall'd about & moated, with a kind of

slight fortification, two faire gates & draw-bridges. Before the gate

towards the Palace is a spacious circle, where the Faire is annually
kept. About a flite-shot from the towne is the Cardinal's house, a

princely pile, tho' on an old designe, not altogether Gotiq, but mix'd,
inviron'd by a cleare moate. The roomes are stately, most richly

furnish'd with tissue, damask, aras, and velvet, pictures, statues, vases,
& all sorts of antiquities, especialy the Caesars in oriental alabaster.
The long gallery is paynted with the famous acts of the Founder ; ' the

roofe with the life of Julius Caesar ; at the end of it is a Cupola or
singing theatre, supported by very stately pillars of black marble. The
Chapell anciently belonging to the family of the Founder. The Court
is very ample. The Gardens without are very large, and the parterres
            THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                        _ 6/

of excellent imbrodry, set with many statues of brasse and marble; the

groves, meadows, and walkes are a real paradise.

   16. We return'd to Tours, from whence, after 19 weekes sojourne,
we went towards the more Southern parte of France, minding now to
shape my course so as I might winter in Italy.
16 Sept. With my friend Mr. Thicknesse and our guide we went

the first day 7 leagues to a castle called Chenonceaux, built by Cath. dc
Medici, and now belonging to the Duke of Vendosme, standing on a
bridg. In the gallery, amongst divers other excellent statues, is that
of Scipio Africanus, of oriental alabaster.
21st. We pass'd by Ville Franche, where we din'd, and so by

Muneton, lying at Viaron au mouton, which was 20 leagues. The next
day by Murg to Bourges, 4 leagues, where we spent the day. This is
the capital of Berry, an University much frequented by the Dutch,
situated on the River Eure. It stands high, is strong, & well placed
for defence. It is inviron'd with meadows and vines ; the living here
is very cheap. In the suburbs of St. Prie there is a fountaine of sharp

water which they report wholesome against the stone. They shew'd us a
vast tree which they say stands in the center of France. The French

tongue is spoken with great purity in this place. St. Stephen's Church

is the Cathedrall, well built d la Gotic, full of sepulchres without-side,

with the representation of the final judgment over one of the ports.

Here they shew the Chapel of Claude de la Chastre, a famous souldier
who had seiVd six Kings of France in their warrs.

St Chapell is built much like that at Paris, full of reliques, and the
bones of one Briat, a gyant of 15 cubits high. This was built by
John Duke of Berry, and they shew'd the coronet of the dukedom.
The gTeat tour is a Pharos for defence of the towne, very strong, in

thicknesse 18 foote, fortified with a graff and workes ; there is a garri

son in and a strange engine for throwing great stones,it,    VanIIdI.theNcyeroren
Cage where Lewes Duke of Orleans was kept by Charlesis

               I
the Town-house stands the Colledge of Jesuites, where was heretofore

an Amphitheatre. was courteously entertayned by a Jesuit, who had
us into the garden. The house of Jaques Coeur worth seeing.
                                                     I
Bourges an Archbishopric, Primate of Aquitain.             tooke my leave
                                                         is

of Mr. Nicholas and some other English there and on the 23d pro;
ceeded on my journey by Pont du Charge and lay that evening at
                                             ;

Coulaiure, 13 leagues.
   24, by Franchede St. Menou, thence to Moulins where we din'd.

This the chiefe towne of the Bourbonois, on the river Allier very
it
navigable. The streetes are faire the Castle has a noble prospect,is
                  ;

                                    is
                                       a
and has been the seat of the Dukes. Here          pretty parke and gar

den. After dinner came many who offered knives and scissars to sell,
being a towne famous for those trifles. This Dutchy of Bourbon
                                                                is

ordinarily assigned for the dowry of the Queenes of France.
68 VARENNE ; BOURBON ; ROAN ; TARRARE ; LIONS.

Hence we tooke horse for Varenne, an obscure village, where we lay
that night. The next day we went somewhat out of the way to see the
towne of Bourbon l'Archambaut, from whose ancient and ragged
castle is derivM the name of the present Royal Family of France. The
castle stands on a flinty rock, overlooking the towne. In the midst of the
streetes are some bathes of medicinal waters, some of them excessively

hot, but nothing so neately wall'd & adorn'd as ours in Somersetshire ;
and indeede they are chiefly for drinking, our Queen being then lodged
there for that purpose. After dinner I went to see the St. Chapel, a
prime place of devotion, where is kept one of the thomes of our
Saviour's crowne, & a piece of the real crosse ; excellent paintings on
glasse, and some few statues of stone and wood, which they show for
curiosities. We went forward to Palisse, a village that lodged us that

night.
   26 Sept. We arivM at Roan, where we quitted our guide and
tooke post for Lions. Roan seem'd to me one of the pleasantest and

most agreeable places imaginable for a retyred person : besides the

situation on the Loire, there are excellent provisions cheape and

aboundant.

  It being late when we left this towne, we rode no farther than

Tarrare that night (passing St. Saforin), a little desolate village in a
vally near a pleasant streame, encompass'd with fresh meadows and
vineyards. The hills which we rod over before we descended, and
afterwards'on the Lions side of this place, are high and mountainous ;
fir and pines grow frequently on them. The ayre methought was
much alterVl, as well as the manner of the houses, which are built
flatter, more after the Easterne manner. Before I went to bed I tooke

a landskip of this pleasant terrace. There followed a most violent
tempest of thunder and lightning.
27. We rod by Pont Charu to Lions, which being but six leagues
                                     it,

                                                                              85

                                                                                  I
we soone accomplish'd                having made  leagues from Toures

in seven days. There at the Golden Lion, rue de Flandre, met
divers of my acquaintance, who coming from Paris, design'd for Italy.
We lost no time in seeing the Citty, because of being ready to accom

pany these gentlemen in their journey.
Lions                              excellently situated on the confluence of the rivers Sonne
isand Rhodanus, which wash the walls of the Citty in a very rapid
streame each of these has its bridg that over the Rhone consists of
                   ;                 I
                                                                      ;
               is
                                                                       it
                                  ;                                                 4)
28 arches. The two high cliffs called St. Just and St. Sebastian are
very stately on one of them stands a strong fort, garrison'd. We
vissited the Cathedrall, St. Jean, where was one of the fairest clockes
lor art and buisy invention had ever seene. The fabriq of the Church
Gotic, as are likewise those of St. Estie"nne and St. Croix. From
the top of one of the towers of St. Jean (for has we beheld the
whole citty and country, with a prospect reaching to the Alpes, many
                THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                            69

leagues distant. The Archbishop's Palace is fairely built. The Church

of St. Niser is the greatest ;' that of the Jacobins is well built. Here
are divers other fine Churches, with other noble buildings. We went
to that of the Charite-, or greate Hospitall for poor infirme people, en

tertaining about 1500, with a schoole, granary, gardens, and all conve

niences, maintained at a wonderful expence, worthy seeing. The
place Of the Belle Court is very spacious, observable for the view it

affords, so various and agreeable, of hills, rocks, vineyards, gardens,

precipices, and other advantages, presenting themselves together. The

Pall Mall is sett with faire trees. This stately, cleane and noble
Citty built all of stone, abounds in persons of quality and rich mer
chants. Those of Florence obtain greate privileges above the rest.
In the Towne-house they shew 2 tables of brass on which is engraven

Claudius's speech to the Senat as to giving the Towne the Roman

priviledges. There are also other antiquities.
   30 Sept. We bargain'd with a waterman to carry us to Avignon on

the river, and got the first night to Vienne in Dauphine". This is an
Archbishoprick, and the Province gives title to the Heir Apparent of
France. Here we supped and lay, having amongst other dainties, a
dish of trufles, an earth nut, found out by an hogg train'd to and
                                                  ;

                                                                      4
                                                                                it,
for which those animals are sold at a great price.* We were shew'd
the mines of an Amphitheatre pretty entire and many handsome
Palaces, especialy that of Pontius Pilate not far from the towne, at

the foote of solitary mountain neere the river, having pinnacles.
a
        isHere 'tis reported he pass'd his exile, and precipitated himselfe into

the lake not far from it. The house modern, and seemes to be the
                                 a
                                     is
seate of some gentleman, being in very pleasant place. The Cathe
dral of Vienne
                St. Maurice and there are many other pretty
                              ;

buildings, but nothing more so than the Mills where they hammer

and polish the sword-blades.

   Hence the next morning we swam (for the river here so rapid that
the boat was only steered) to a small village called Tain, where we
dyn'd.
                                                       is
                                                                 is
Over against this another towne named Tournon, where a very
is

  I

          is
                   is

                        it

                                               ;
strong castle under a high precipice. To the castle joynes the
Jesuits Colledge where they have a fayre library. The prospect was
so tempting that designed with my crayon.

   We then came to Valence, a capital Citty carrying the title of
                                                       is it
                                                                                        a
Dutchy, but the Bishop now sole lord temporal of and the country
about it. The towne having an University famous for the study of

the civil law, much frequented but the Churches are none of the
fairest, having been greatly defaced in the time of the warrs. The
streets are full of pretty fountaines. The Citadell
                                                       strong and gar-

rison'd. Here we pass'd the night. The next morning by Pont St.

                *  In England they are found by dogs.
70 ORANGE ; AVIGNON ; VAUCLUSE ; AIX ; MARSEILLES.

Esprit, which consists of 22 arches ; in the piers of the arches are
windowes as it were, to receive the water when it is high and fulL At

this place we went on shore, it being very dangerous to passe the

bridg in a boat.

Hence leaving our barg we tooke horse, seing at a distance the
Towne and Principality of Orange, and lodging one night on the way

we arivM at noone at Avignon. This towne has belonged to the Popes

ever since the time of Clement VI. being in 1352 alienated by Jane

Queene of Naples and Sicily. Entering the gates the soldiers at the
guard tooke our pistols and carbines, and examin'd us very strictly ;

after that, having obtain'd the Governor's leave and the Vice-Legat's
to tarry three days, we were civilly conducted to our lodging. The

City is on the Rhodanus, and divided from the newer part or towne,

which is on the other side of the river, by a very faire stone bridge

(which has been broken) ; at one end is a very high rock, on which is
a strong castle well furnish'd with artillery. The walls of the Citty are

of large square free-stone, the most neate and best in repaire I ever
saw. It is full of well-built Palaces ; those of the Vice-Legate and

Archbishop being the most magnificent. There are many sumptuous
                                                      whCelermeiennt[thVe It.olmiebs
Churches, especially St. Magdalene and  St. Martial,
of] the Cardinal d'Amboise is the most  observable.

buried in that of the Celestines, the altar whereof is exceeding rich.
There is the tomb of Laura the celebrated mistress of Petrarch. We
saw the Arsenal, the Pope's Palace, and the Synagogue of the Jewes
who here are distinguished by red hats. Vaucluse, so much renowned
for the solitude of Petrarch, we beheld from the Castle, but could not

go to visit it for want of time. We now took mules and a guide for

Marseilles.

   30 Sept. We lay at Loumas ; the next morning came to Aix, having
pass'd that extremely rapid and dangerous river of Durance. In this

tract all the heathes or com'ons are cover"d with rosemary, lavender,

lentiscs, and the like sweet shrubes, for many miles together, which to
me was very pleasant. Aix is the chiefe Citty of Provence, being a

Parliament and Presidential Town, with other Royal Courts and
Metropolitan jurisdiction. It is well built, the houses very high and
the streetes ample. The Cathedrall, St. Saviour's, is a noble pile

adorn'd with innumerable figures especialy that of St. Michael ; the

Baptisterie, the Palace, the Court, built in a most spacious Piazza, are
very faire. The Duke of Guise's house is worth seeing, being furnished
with many antiquities in and about it. The Jesuites have here a Royal
Colledge, and the City is an University.
7 Oct. We had a most delicious journey to Marseilles, thro' a

country sweetely declining to the South and Mediterranean coasts,
full of vine-yards and olive-yards, orange trees, myrtils, pomegranads,

and the like sweete plantations, to which belong pleasantly-situated
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  71

villas to the number of above 1 500 built all of freestone, and in pros
pect shewing as if they were so many heapes of snow dropp'd out

of the clouds amongst those perennial greens. It was almost at the

shutting of the gates that we arived. Marseilles is on the sea coast,
on a pleasant rising ground, well walled, with an excellent port for
ships and gallys, secur"d by a huge chayne of yron drawn across the
harbour at pleasure, and there is a well-fortified tower with 3 other
forts, especialy that built on a rock ; but the castle commanding the
Citty is that of Nostre dame de la Guard. In the Chapel hung up

divers crocodiles skinns.
   We went to visitc the Gallys, being about 25 ; the Captaine of the

Gaily Royal gave us most courteous entertainement in his cabine, the
slaves in the interim playing both loud and soft musiq very rarely.
Then he sheVd us how he commanded their motions with a nod and
his whisrte, making them row out. The spectacle was to me new and
strange, to see so many hundreds of miserably naked persons, having
their heads shaven close and having onely high red bonnets, a payre of
course canvas drawers, their whole backs and leggs naked, doubly
chayn'd about their middle and leggs, in couples, and made fast to
their seates, and all commanded in a trise by an imperious and cruell
seaman. One Turke he much favor'd, who waited on him in his cabin,

but with no other dress than the rest, and a chayne lock'd about his
leg but not coupled. This gaily was richly carvM and gilded, and
most of the rest were very beautifull. After bestowing something on

the slaves, the captain sent a band of them to give us musiq at dinner
where we lodged. I was amaz'd to contemplate how these miserable

catyfs lie in their gaily crowded together, yet there was hardly one but

had some occupation by which, as leisure and calmes permitted, they
gat some little monye, insomuch as some of them have, after many
yeares of cruel servitude, been able to purchase their liberty. Their
rising forward and falling back at their oare is a miserable spectacle,
and the noyse of their chaines with the roaring of the beaten waters
has something of strange and fearfull to one unaccustom'd to it. They
are rul'd and chastiz'd by strokes on their backs and soles of theire

feete on the least disorder, and without the least humanity ; yet are
they chereful and full of knavery.

   In the church of St. Victoire is that Saint's head in a shrine of silver
which weighs 600 lb. Nostre Dame is well built ; it is the Cathedrall.
The Duke of Guyse has a Palace : there is the Palais of Justice, the"
 Maison du Roy, but nothing is more strange than the great number of
slaves working in the streets, and carrying burthens, with their confus'd
 noises and gingling of their huge chaynes. The cheife trade of the
towne is in silks and drougs out of Africa, Syria, and Egypt, and Bar-
 hary horses which are brought hither in great numbers. The towne is
 govem'd by 4 Captaines, has three Consuls and one Assessor, three
72 PERIGUEUX ; CANES ; NICE ; MONACO ; CORSICA.

Judges Royal ; the Merchants have a Judge for ordinary causes. Here
we bought umbrellas against the heats, and consulted of our journey to
Canes by land, for feare of the Pickaron Turkes, who make prize of
many small vessels about these parts, we not finding a gaily bound for
 Genoa, whither we were design'd.

    9 Oct. We tooke mules, passing the first night very late in sight of
 St. Baume, and the solitary grott where they affirme Mary Magdalen
did her pennance. The next day we lay at Perigueux, a Citty built on
an old foundation, witnesse the mines of a most stately amphitheater
which I went out to design, being about a flight shoote from the Towne :
they call it now the Rolsies. There is a strong towre neere the Towne
 call'd the Visone, but the Towne and Citty are at some distance from
each other. It is a bishoprick ; has a Cathedral ; with divers noble
men's houses in sight of the sea. The place was formerly call'd Forum
Julij, well known by Antiquaries.

    10 Oct. We proceeded by the mines of a stately aqueduct. The
 soile about the Country is rocky, full of pines and rare simples.

    1 1. We lay at Canes, which is a small Port on the Mediterranean ;
 here we agreed with a seaman to carry us to Genoa, and having pro
 cure a bill of health (without which there is no admission at any towne
 in Italy,) we embarq'd on the 12th. We touched at the Islands of St.
 Margaret and St. Honore, lately retaken from the Spanyards with
 great bravery by Prince Harcourt. Here, having payd some small
 duty, we bought some trifles offer' d us by the souldiers, but without
 going on shore. Hence we coasted within 2 leagues of Antibes, which
*is the utmost towne in France. Thence by Nice, a Citty in Savoy
 built all of brick, which gives it a very pleasant appearance towards the
 sea, having a castle built very high, which com'ands it. We sailed by
 Morgus, now cal'd Monaco, having passed Villa Franca, heretofore
 Portus Herculis, when, ariving after the gates were shut, we were fore'd
 to abide all night in the barg, which was put into the haven the wind
 coming contrary. In the morning we were hastned away, having no
 time permitted us by our avaricious-master to go up and see this strong
 and considerable place ; it now belongs to a Prince of the family of
 Grimaldi, of Genoa, who has put both it and himself under the protec
 tion of the French. The situation is on a promontory of solid stonc
 and rock. The towne walls very fayre. We were told that within if
 was an ample court, and a palace, furnish'd with the most rich and
 princely moveables, and a collection of statues, pictures, and massif

 plate to an immense amount.

    We sailed by Menton and Vintimiglia, being the first Citty of ths
 Republiq of Genoa : supp'd at Oneglia, where we anker'd and lay on
 shore. The next morning we coasted in view of the Isle of Corsica
 and St. Remo, where the shore is furnish'd with evergreens, oranges,
 citrons, "and date-trees ; we lay at Fort Mauritio. The next morning
                                THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                   73

by Diano Aroisso, famous for the best corrall fishing, it growing in

aboundance on the rocks deepe and continualy covered by the sea. By
Aibenga and Finale a very faire and strong towne belonging to the

King of Spain, for which reason a Monsieur in our vessell was ex-

treamely afraide, as was the patron of our barke, for they frequently
catch French prizes as they creepe by these shores to go into Italy ; he
therefore ply"d both sayles and oars to get under the protection of

a Genoese gaily that pass'd not far before us, and in whose company we

sayl'd as far as the Cape of Savona, a towne built at the rise 01 the Ape-

nines ; for all this coast (except a little at St. Remo) is an high and steepe
mountainous ground consisting all of rock marble, without any grasse,

tree, or rivage, formidable to lookc on. A strange object it is to con-
t sider how some poore cottages stand fast on the declivities of these
 precipices, and by what steps the inhabitants ascend to them. The
rocks consist of all sorts of the most precious marbles.

Here, on the 1 5th, forsaking our gaily, we encounter'd a little foule

weather, which made us creepe Terra, Terra, as they call and so a
                                it

                                                                        ;

                                                                                       it,
vessell that encounter'd us advised us to do but our Patron, striving to

double the point of Savona, making out into the wind put us into

great hazard, for blowing very hard from land betwixt those horrid
gapps of the mountaines, set so violently as rais'd on the sudden so

great a sea that we could not recover the weather shore for many

houres, insomuch that, what with the water already enter'd, and the
confusion of fearful passengers (of which one who was an Irish Bishop,
and his brother, a priest, were confessing some as at the article of

death), we were almost abandon'd to despaire, our pilot himselfe giving
ns up for lost. And now, as we were weary with pumping and laving

out the water, almost sinking,  pleas'd God on the suddaine to>
                                it
                                                                   it
appease the wind, and with much ado and greate perill we recovered the
shore, which we now kept in view within halfe a league, in sight of
those pleasant villas, and within scent of those fragrant orchards which
are on this coast, full of princely retirements for the sumptuousnesse of

their buildings and noblesse of the plantations, especialy those at St.
Pietro d'Arena, from whence, the wind blowing as did, might per
fectly be smelt the joys of Italy in the perlumes of orange, citron, and

jassmine flowers for divers leagues seaward.'

16 Oct. We got to anker under the Pharos, or watch-tower, built
on a high rock at the mouth of the Mole of Genoa, the weather being
still so fowle that for two houres at least we durst not stand into

the haven. Towards evening we adventured, and came on shore by

the Prattiq-house, where, after strict examination by the Syndics, we
were had to the Ducal Palace, and there, our names being taken, we

were conducted to our inne kept by one Zacharias an Englishman.

     Mr. Evelyn was to struck with the circumstance of the fragrancy of the air on this coast,

II.that he has noticed again in his Dedication of the Fumifugium to Charlel
1

                            it
74 GENOA, ITS BEAUTY AND SITUATION. MANNERS OF THE PEOPLE.                            is                       2        I
                                                                                          is it it it,
I shall never forget a story of our host Zachary, who on the relation                                               a3          it
of our perill told us another of his owne, being shipwrecked, as he
1                                                                                                                       is if it    I ; ; is
affirm'd solemnly, in the middle of a greate sea somewhere in the West
         I; ;Indies, that he swam no lesse than 22 leagues to another island, with                                          is
a tinder-box wraped up in his hayre, which was not so much as wett
all the way ; that picking up the carpenter's tooles with other provi                                   is is
sions in a chest, he and the carpenter, who accompan/d him, (good
swimers it seemes both) floated the chest before them, and ariving at                                          :
last in a place full of wood, they built another vessell and so escaped.
After this story we no more talked of our danger, Zachary put us quite                                  a

downe.                                                                                                     ;

    1 7 Oct. Accompan/d by a most courteous merchand call'd Tomson,                                            it
we went to view the rarities. The Citty is built in the hollow or bosom
of a mountaine, whose ascent is very steepe, high, and rocky, so that,
from the Lantern and Mole to the hill, it represents the shape of a
theater ; the streetes and buildings so ranged one above another as our
seates are in play-houses ; but, from their materials, beauty, and struc
ture, never was an artificial scene more beautiful to the eye, nor is
anyplace, for the site of so lull of well-design'd and stately palaces,
as may be easily concluded by that rare booke in a large folio which the
great virtuoso and paynter Paull Rubens has published, tho' contains
[the description of] only one streete and or churches.

    The first Palace we went to visit was that of Hieronymo del Negros,
to which we pass'd by boate acrosse the harbour. Here could not but
observe the sudden and devilish passion of seaman, who plying us
was intercepted by another who interpos'd his boate before him and
tooke us in for the teares gushing out of his eyes, he put his finger in
his mouth and almost bit off by the joynt, shewing to his anta
gonist as an assurance to him of some bloudy revenge ever he came
neere that part of the harbour again. Indeed this beautifull Citty
more stayn'd with such horrid acts of revenge and murthers than any
one place in Europ, or haply in the world, where there a political
government, which makes unsafe to strangers. It made a gaily
matter to carry a knife whose point not broken off.

   This Palace of Negros richly furnish'd with the rarest pictures
on the terrace, or hilly garden, there a grove of stately trees amongst
which are sheepe, shepherds, and wild beasts, cut very artificially in a
grey stone fountaines, rocks, and fish-ponds casting your eyes one
way, you would imagine yourselfe in wildernesse and silent country
sideways, in the heart of a great citty and backwards, in the middst
of the sea. All this within one acre of ground. In the house
noticed those red-plaster flores which are made so hard, and kept so
polished, that for some time one would take them for whole pieces of
porphyrie. have frequently wonder*d that we never practic'd this in
England for cabinets and rooms of state,' for appears to me beyond

      There are such at Hardwick Hall in Derbyshire, a teat of the Duke of Devonshire.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                         75

any invention of that kind ; but by their carefull covering them with

canvas and fine mattresses, where there is much passage, I suppose

they are not lasting in their glory.
   There are numerous other Palaces of particular curiositys, for the

merchands being very rich have, like our neighbours the Hollanders,
little or no extent of ground to employ their estates in : as those in
pictures and hangings, so these lay it out on marble houses and rich

furniture.
   One ot the greatest here for circuit is that of the Prince d'Orias,

which reaches from the sea to the sum'it of the mountaines. The
house is most magnificently built without, nor less gloriously furnish'd
within, having whole tables ' and bedsteads of massy silver, many
of them sett with achates, onyxes, cornelians, lazulis, pearls, turquizes,
and other precious stones. The pictures and statues are innumerable.
To this Palace belong three gardens, the first whereof is beautified with

a terrace, supported by pillars of marble ; there is a fountaine of eagles,
and one of Neptune with other Sea-gods, all of the purest white
marble ; they stand in a most ample basine of the same stone. At
the side of this garden is such an aviary as Sir Fra. Bacon describes in
his Strmones Jidelium, or Essays, wherein grow trees of more than
two foote diameter, besides cypresse, myrtils, lentiscs, and other rare
shrubs, which serve to nestle and pearch all sorts of birds, who have

ayre and place enough under their ayrie canopy, supported with huge
iron worke, stupendious for its fabrick and the charge. The other two

gardens are full of orange-trees, citrons, and pomegranads, fountaines,
grotts, and statues ; one of the latter is a Colossal Jupiter, under which

is the sepulchre of a beloved dog, for the care of which one of this
family receivM of the K. of Spaine 500 crownes a yeare during the life
of that faithfull animal. The reservoir of water here is a most ad

mirable piece of art ; and so is the grotto over against it

   We went thence to the Palace of the Dukes, where is also the Court
of Justice ; thence to the Merchants Walke, rarely covered. Neere
the Ducal Palace we saw the publiq armoury, which was almost all
new, most neatly kept and order'd, sufficient for 30,000 men. We

were shew'd many rare inventions and engines of warr peculiar to that
armory, as in the state where gunns were first put in use. The garrison
of the towne chiefly consists of Germans and Corsicans. The famous
Strada Nova, built wholly of polish'd marble, was design'd by Rubens, '
and for statelinesse of the buildings, paving, and evennesse of the

streete, is far superior to any in Europ, for the number of houses ; that

of Don Carlo d'Orias is a most magnificent structure. In the gardens
of the old Marquiss Spinola I saw huge citrons hanging on the trees,
appl/d like our apricots to the walls. The Churches are no less

1 On* of which. LauelU fays, weighed 24,000 lbs.
is,76 THE MOLE AND HARBOUR OF GENOA. DRESS OF THE PEOPLE.

splendid than the Palaces : than of St. Francis is wholly built of Parian
marble ; St. Lawrence, in the middle of the City, of white and black
polish'd stone, the inside wholly incrusted with marble and other pre
cious materials ; on the altar of St. John stand 4 sumptuous columns of
porphyry ; and here we were shewed an emerald supposed to be one
of the largest in the world.1 The Church of St. Ambrosio belonging
to the Jesuites will, when finish'd, exceed all the rest. That of the
Annunciada, founded at the charges of one family,' in the present and
future designc can never be outdone for cost and art. The Mole is a
worke of solid huge stone stretching neere 600 paces into the main sea,

and secures the harbour, heretofore of no safety. Of all the wonders of

Italy, for the art and nature of the designe, nothing parallels this.3
We pass'd over to the Pharos, or Lantern, a towre of very great height.
Here we tooke horses and made the circuite of the Citty as far as the
new walles would let us ; they are built of a prodigious height, and with
Herculanean industry, witnesse those vast pieces of whole mountaines
which they have hewn away, and blown up with gunpowder, to render
them steepe and inaccessible. They are not much lesse than4 20 Eng
lish miles in extent, reaching beyond the utmost buildings of the Citty.
From one of these promontories we could easily discern the Island of
Corsica ; and from the same, Eastward, we saw a Vale having a great
torrent running thro' a most desolate barren country ; and then turning
our eyes more Northward we saw those delicious Villas of St. Pietro
d'Arena, which present another Genoa to you, the ravishing retire
ments of the Genoese nobility. Hence, with much paine, we de
scended towards the Arsenale, where the gallys lie in excellent order.

   The inhabitants of this City are much affected to the Spanish mode
and stately garbe.4 From the narrowness of the streetes they use

sedans and litters, and not coaches.

    19 Oct. We embarqued in a filuca for Ligorne [Leghorn], but the
sea running very high we put in at Porta Venere, which we made with
peril, between 2 narrow horrid rocks, against which the sea dashed with
great velocity ; but we were soone delivered into as great a calme and
a most ample harbour, being the Golpho di Spetia. From hence we

    1 Lassells calls it a great dish, in which they say here that our Saviour ate the Paschal
 Lamb with his Disciples ; but he adds that he finds no authority for it in any ancient writer,

 and that Venerable Bede writes that the dish used by our Saviour was of silver. Of an au
 thentic relic of St. John he observes that Baronius writes credibly.

    1 Two brothers, named Loracllini, allow the third part of their gains. Lassells.
    1 The Break-water now 11816) forming at Plymouth is at least as stupendous a work.
    * Lassells says, finished in 18 months, and yet 6 miles in compass.
    0 Thus described by Lassells : broad hats without hatbands, broad leather girdles with steel
 buckles, narrow britches with long-waisted doublets and hanging sleeves. The great ladies go in
 guard infanta's (child preservers) ; that in horrible overgrown vertig.ils of whalebone, which
 being put about the waiste of the lady, and full as broad on both sides as she can reach with her
 hands, bear out her coats in such a manner that she appears to be as broad as long. The men
 look like tumblers that leap thro' hoops, and the women like those that anciently danced the
 Hobby-horse in country mummings.
        THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN. ,                                                    7 J.

could sec Pliny's Delphini Promontorittm, now call'd Cap fino. Here
stood that famous City of Luna, whence the Port was named Lunaris,

being about 2 leagues over, more resembling a lake than an haven,

but defended by castles and excessive high mountaines. We landed
at Larici, where, being Sunday, was a great procession, carrying the
Sacrament about the streetes in solemn devotion. After dinner we

took post horses, passing through whole groves of olive-trees, the
way somewhat rugged and hilly at first, but aftewards pleasant. We

passed thro' the townes of Sarazana and Massa, and the vast marble

quarries of Carrara, and lodged in an obscure inn at a place called
Vircgio. The next morning we arivM at Pisa, where I met my old
friend Mr. Thomas Henshaw, who was then newly come out of Spaine,
and from whose company I never parted till more than a yeare
after.
The City of Pisa is as much worth seeing as any in Italy ; it has con
tended with Rome, Florence, Sardinia, Sicily, and even Carthage. The
Palace and Church of St. Stephano (where the order of knighthood
called by that name was instituted) drew first our curiosity, the outside
thereof being altogether of polish'd marble ; within it is full of tables

relating to this order ; over which hang divers banners and pendants,
»ith other trophies taken by them from the Turkes, against whom they

are particularly oblig^ to fight ; tho' a religious order, they are per
muted to marry. At the front of the Palace stands a fountaine, and the
statue of the greate Duke Cosmo. The Campanile, or Settezonio, built
by John Venipont, a German, consists of several orders of pillars, 30 in
a row, design 'd to be much higher. It stands alone on the right side of
the Cathedrall, strangely remarkable for this, that the beholder would

expect it to fall, being built exceedingly declining, by a rare addresse of

the architect ; and how it is supported from falling I think would puzzle a

good geometrician. The Domo, or Cathedrall, standing neere
                                                                                   ;              a

                                                                                          it,
                                                                                              is
superb structure, beautified with columns of greate antiquity the gates
are of brasse, of admirable workmanship. The Cemetere cal'd Campo
                                                  6

                                                                                ;
Santo is made of divers gaily ladings of earth formerly brought from
                                                  a nature as to consume dead bodies in fourty
Jheoruurseasl.emT, issaidclotoistbreedofwsuitchh  marble arches here lies buried the learned         .
Philip Decius who taught in this University. At one side of this
Church stands an ample and well-wrought marble vessell which hereto
                                                                                   is
fore contain'd the tribute paid yearly by the Citty to Caesar. It plac'd,
as remember, on a pillar of opilestone, with divers other antiq urnes.
I

Neere this, and in the same field, the Baptistery of San Giovanni,
                         4 it
                                       is

                                           is
built of pure white marble and cover'd with so artificial a cupola that
                         seemes to breake out of a cloud. The font
the voice uttered under

and puTpit supported by lyons of inestimable value for the precious-
nesse of the materials. The place where these buildings stand they
call the Area. Hence we went to the Colledge, to which joynes a
78 PISA ; PENDANT TOWER. LIGORNE : THE SLAVE MARKET.

Gallery so furnish'd with natural rarities, stones, minerals, shells, drytt
animals, skelletons, &c. as is hardly to be seen in Italy. To this the
Physiq Garden lyes, where is a noble palm-tree and very fine water-
workes. The river Arno runs through the middle of this stately Citye,

whence the streete is named Longarno. It is so ample that the Duke's

gallys, built in the Arsenal here, are easily conveyed to Livorno ; over
the river is an arch, the like of which, for its flatness, and serving for a
bridge, is no where in Europ. The Duke has a stately Palace, before
which is plarod the statue of Ferdinand the Third ; over against it is
the Exchange, built of marble. Since this Citty came to be under the
Dukes of Tuscany it has been much depopulated, tho' there is hardly
in Italy any which exceeds it for stately edifices. The situation of it is
low and flat, but the inhabitants have spacious gardens and even fields
within the walls.

   21 Oct. We tooke coach to Livorno, thro' the Great Duke's new
Parke full of huge corke-trees, the underwood all myrtils, amongst
which were many buffalos feeding, a kind of wild ox, short-nos'd, with
homes revers'd ; those who worke with them com'and them as our

bearewards do the beares, with a ring thro' the nose, and a cord.
Much of this Parke, as well as a greate parte of the country about it,
is very fenny, and the ayre very bad.

   Ligorne is the prime Port belonging to all the Duke's territories ;
heretofore a very obscure Towne, but since Duke Ferdinand has
strongly fortified it (after the modern way), has drain'd the marshes by
cutting a channell thence to Pisa navigable 1 6 miles, and has rais'd a
Mole, emulating that at Genoa, to secure the shipping, it is become a
place of great receipt: it has also a place for the gallys, where they lye
safe. Before the sea is an ample Piazza for the market, where are the
statues in copper of the fower slaves, much exceeding the life for pro
portion, and, in the judgment of most artists, one of the best pieces of
modern worke.1 Here, especialy in this Piazza, is such a concourse of
slaves, Turkes, Mores, and other nations, that the number and confu
sion is prodigious ; some buying, others selling, others drinking, others
playing, some working, others sleeping, fighting, singing, weeping, all
nearly naked, and miserably chayn'd. Here was a tent, where any
idle fellow might stake his liberty against a few crownes, at dice or

other hazard, and, if he lost, he was immediately chayn'd and led away

to the gallys, where he was to serve a tearm of yeares, but from whence
they seldom return 'd : many sottish persons in a drunken bravado
would try their fortune in this way.

   The houses of this neate Towne are very uniforme, and excellently
paynted afresca on the outer walls with representations of many of
their victories over the Turkes. The houses, though low on account

   1 They had attempted to steal a galley, meaning to have rowed it themselves, but we:c
taken in this great enterprise.
   THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN. ·                                                                   79

of the earthquakes which frequently happen here (as did one during
my being in Italy) are very well built ; the Piazza is very fayre and

com'odious, and with the Church whose 4 columns at the portico are
of black marble polish'd, gave the first hint to the building both of
the Church and Piazza in Covent Garden with us, tho' very imper

:;fectly pcrsu'd.

       Oct. From Livomo I took coach to Empoly, where we lay, and

the next day ariv'd at Florence, being recommended to the house
of Sig. Baritiere, in the Piazza dal Spirito Santo, where we were ex

ceedingly well treated. Florence is at the foot of the Appenines, the
West part full of stately groves and pleasant meadows, beautified with
more than a thousand houses and country palaces of note, belonging
to gentlemen of the towne. The river Arno runs through this Citty,
in a broad but very shallow channell, dividing as were, in the
       is
                          ;
                        4
                                          it,
                                                   it
middle and over are fower most sumptuous bridges of stone. On
;  it

that nearest to our quarter are the Seasons in white marble on
                                                                                                 ;
another are the goldsmiths shops at the head of the former stands a
column of opite on which a statue of Justice with her balance and                                     is
sword, cut out of porphyrie, and the more remarkable for being the

first which had been carved out of that hard material, and brought to

perfection after the art had been utterly lost they say this was done
                                                                              ;

by hardening the tools in the juice of certaine herbs. This statue was
erected in that comer because there Cosmo was first saluted with the
newes of Sienna being taken.

Neere this the famous Palazzo di Strozzi, princely piece of archi
a
                is
                        is

                                                             4
                                                                             aa

                                                                                              a
                                                                                            a
tecture, in a rustiq manner. The Palace of Pitti was built by that

family, but of late greatly beautified by Cosmo with huge square stones
of the Doric, Ionic, and the Corinthian orders, with terrace at each

side having rustic uncut balustrades, with fountain that ends in a

cascade seen from the great gate, and so forming vista to the gardens.
Nothing more admirable than the vacant stayrecase, marbles, statues,
Braes, pictures, courte, grotto, and waterworkes. In the quadrangle
huge jetto of water in a volto of faces, with noble statues at each
square, especialy the Diana of porphyrie above the grotto. We were

here shew'd a prodigious greate load-stone.

The garden has every variety, hills, dales, rocks, groves, aviaries,
vivaries, fountaines, especialy one of five jettos, the middle basin being

one of the longest stones ever saw.  Here every thing to make such
a

         is

                                I

                                              a

                                                          I

                                                                            is
paradise delightfull. In the garden                                           saw a rose grafted on an

orange-tree. There was much topiary worke, and columns in architec
ture about the hedges. The Duke has added an ample laboratorye,
over against which stands Fort on a hill where they told us his trea
sure kept. In this Palace the Duke ordinarily resides, living with

his Swiss guards, after the frugal Italian way, and even selling what he
can spare of his wines, at the cellar under his very house, wicker
So FLORENCE ; THE BUILDINGS AND ART TREASURES THERE.

bottles dangling over even the chiefe entrance into the Palace, serving .
for a vintner's bush.

   In the church of Santo Spirito the altar and reliquary are most rich,
full ot precious stones ; there are 4 pillars of a kind of serpentine, and
some of blue. Hence we went to another Palace of the Duke's, called

Palazzo Vecchio, before which is a statue of David by Michael Angelo,
and one of Hercules killing Cacus, the work of Baccio Bandinelli.
The quadrangle about this is of the Corinthian order, and in the hall

are many rare marbles, as those of Leo the Tenth and Clement VII.

both Popes of the Medicean family ; also the acts of Cosmo in rare
painting. In the Chapell is kept (as they would make one believe) the
original Gospel of St. John, written with his owne hand ; and the
famous Florentine Pandects, and divers precious stones. Neere it is
another pendant Towre like that at Pisa, always threatning mine.

   Under the Court of Justice is a stately Arcade for men to walke in,
and over that the shops of divers rare artists who continualy worke for
the great Duke. Above this is that renowned Ceimeliarcha, or Repo
sitory, wherein are hundreds of admirable antiquities, statues of marble
and mettal, vases of porphyrie, &c. ; but amongst the statues none so
famous as the Scipio, Boare, the Idol of Apollo brought from the Del
phic Temple, and two triumphant columnes. Over these hang the
pictures of the most famous persons and illustrious men in arts or
armes, to the number of 300, taken out of the Museum of Paulus
Jovius. They then led us into a large square roome in the middle of
which stood a Cabinet of an octangular forme, so adorn'd and fur-
nish'd with christals, achat, sculptures, &c. as exceeds any description.
This cabinet is called the Tribuna, and in it is a pearle as big as a
hazale nut.' The cabinet is of ebonie, lazuli, and jasper ; over the
door is a round of M. Angelo ; in the cabinet, Leo the Tenth, with
other paintings of Raphael, del Sarto, Perugino, and Correggio, viz.
a St. John, a Virgin, a Boy, 2 Apostles, 2 Heads of Durer rarely
carved. Over this cabinet is a Globe of ivory, excellently carved ; the
Labours of Hercules in massy silver, and many incomparable pictures
in small. There is another, which had about it 8 oriental columns of
alabaster, on each whereof was placed a head of a Caesar, cover*d with
a canopy so richly set with precious stones that they resembled a firma
ment of Starrs. Within it was our Saviour's Passion and 12 Apostles
in amber. This cabinet was valued at two hundred thousand crownes.
In another, with Calcidon pillars, was a series of golden medaills.
Here is also another rich ebony Cabinet cupola'd with a tortoise-shell
and containing a collection of gold medaills esteem'd worth 50,000
crownes ; a wreathed pillar of oriental alabaster, divers paintings of

   1 Sir Gore Ouseley brought from Persia a picture of the Khan, now (1816) in his house in
Bruton-street, on whose dress are represented pearls of such a size as to make the one her*
spoken of very insignificant.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  8l

 Da Vinci, Pontomo, del Sarto, an Ecce Homo of Titian, a Boy of Bron-

 zini, &c They shewed us a branch of corall fixed on the rock which

 they arfirme dos still grow. In another roome is kept the Tabernacle
-appointed for the Chapel of St. Lawrence, about which are placed small
 statues of Saints, of precious materials ; a piece of such art and cost,
 that, having been these 40 years in perfecting, it is one of the most
 curious things in the world. Here were divers tables of Pietra Comessa,

 which is a marble ground inlay'd with severall sorts of marbles and
 stones of various colours, representing flowers, trees, beasts, birds, and
 landskips. In one is represented the town of Ligorne by the same

hand who inlay 'd the altar of St. Lawrence, Domenico Benotti. I
 purchased of him 19 pieces of the same workc for a cabinet. In a

 presse ncere this they shew'd an yron nayle, one halfe whereof being
 converted into gold by one Thornhcuser, a German chymist, is look'd

 on as a greate rarity, but it plainly appeared to have been soldered
 together. There is a curious watch, a monstrous turquoise as big as
 an egg, on which is carved an emperor's head.

    In the Armory arc kept many antiq habits, as those of Chinese kings ;
the sword of Charlemain ; Hannibal's head-piece ; a loadstone of a

 yard long, which bears up S61bs. weight, in a chaine of 17 links, such
as the slaves are tied to. In another roome arc such rare tourneries in

ivory as are not to be described for their curiosity. There is a faire
pillar of oriental alabaster ; 1 2 vast and compleate services ot silver
plate, and one of gold, all of excellent workmanship ; a rich embrodred
saddle of pearls sent by the Emperor to this Duke ; and here is that

embrodred chaire set with precious stones in which he sits, when, on

St. John's Day, he receives the tribute of the Citties.
   25 Oct. We went to the Portico where the famous statues of Judith

and Holofernes stand, also the Medusa, all of copper ; but what is .
most admirable is the Rape of a Sabine with another man under foot,
the confusion and turning of whose limbs is most admirable. It is of

one entire marble, the worke of John di Bologna, and is most stupen
dous ; this stands directly against the greate Piazza, where, to adorne
one fountaine, are erected four marble statues and eight of brasse,

representing Neptune and his family of sea-gods, of a Colossean magni
tude, with four sea-horses in Parian marble of Lamedrati ; this is in
the midst of a very great basin, a work, I think, hardly to be parallel'd.
Here is also the famous statue of David by M. Angelo ; Hercules and
 Cacus by Baccio Bandinelli ; the Perseus in copper by Benevento, and
the Judith of Donatelli, which stand publickly before the old palace
with the Centaur of Bologna, huge Colossean figures. Neere this stands
 Cosmo di Medici on horseback, in brasse on a pedistal of marble, and
four copper bass relievos by John di Bologna, with divers inscriptions ;
the Ferdinand the First on horseback is of Pietro Tacca. The brazen
 Boare which serves for another publiq fountaine is admirable.

                                                                                               6
82 THE CAVALERIZZO OF FLORENCE. PIAZZA OF THE COURT. -.

   After dinner we went to the church of Annunciata, where the Duke
and his Court were at their devotions, being a place of extraordinary
repute for sanctity ; for here is a shrine that dos greate miracles,
[proved] by innumerable votive tablets, &c. covering almost the walles
of the whole church. This is the image of Gabriel who saluted the BL
Virgin, and which the artist finish'd so well that he was in despaire of
performing the Virgin's face, whereupon it was miraculously don for
him whilst he slept ; but others say it was painted by St. Luke him-
selfe. Whoever it was, infinite is the devotion of both sexes to it. The
altar is set off with four columns of oriental alabaster, and lighted by
thirty greate silver lamps. There are innumerable other pictures by
rare masters. Our Saviour's passion in brasse tables inserted in marble
is the worke of John di Bologna and Baccio Bandinelli.

   To this church joynes a Convent whose cloister is painted mfresca
very rarely. There is also neere it an Hospital for loco persons, with
nurse children, and several other charitable accom'odations.

   At the Duke's Cavalerizzo, the Prince has a stable of the finest
horses of all countries, Arabs, Turks, Barbs, Gennets, English, &c
which are continualy exercis'd in the manege.

    Nere this is a place where are kept several wild beasts, as wolves,
catts, beares, tygers, and lions. They are loose in a deep wall'd court,
and therefore to be seene with more pleasure than at the Tower of
 London, in their grates. One of the lions leaped to a surprising height

to catch ajoynt of mutton which I caused to be hung downe.

    1 There are many playne brick towers erected for defence when this
[Sienna] was a free state. The highest is called the Mangio, standing '
 at the foote of the Piazza, which we went first to see after our arivaL

At the entrance of this tower is a Chapel, open towards the Piazza, of

 marble well adorn'd with sculpture.
    On the other side is the Signoria, or Court of Justice, well built a

 la moderna of brick ; indeed the bricks of Sienna are so well made
 that they look almost as well as porphyrie itselfe, having a kind of na
 tural polish.

    In the Senate House is a very faire hall where they sometimes en

 tertain the people with publiq shews and operas as they call them.
 Towards the left are the statues of Romulus and Remus with the
 Wolf, all of brasse, plac'd on a columne of ophite stone which they
 report was brought from the renowned Ephesian Temple. These en-
 signes being the armes of the towne, are set up in divers of the streetes
 and publiq wayes both within and far without the citty.

   The Piazza compasses the faciata of the Court and Chapel, and being

 made with descending steps, much resembles the figure of an escalop
 shell. The white ranges of pavement intermix'd with the excellent
 bricks above mentioned, with which the town is generally well-paved,

    There seems to be an omission in the MS. as to their leaving Florence and going to Sienna.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  83

render it very clean. About this market-place (for so it is) are many
faire palaces, though not built with excesse of elegance. There stands
an Arch the worke of Baltazar di Sienna, built with wonderfull inge

nuity so that it is not easy to conceive how it is supported, yet it has
some imperceptible contignations which do not betray themselves easily

to the eye. On the edge of the Piazza is a goodly fountaine beautified

with statues, the water issuing out of the wolves mouths, being the
worke of Jacobo Quercei, a famous artist. There are divers other pub-
liq fountaines in the Citty, of good dcsigne.

   The Sapienza is the University, or rather Colledg, where the High
Germans enjoy many particular privileges when they addict themselves
to the Civil Law. This place has produced many excellent scholars,

besides those three Popes, Alexander, Pius the Ilnd and the Illrd

of that name the learned yEneas Sylvius, and both were of the antient
bouse of the Piccolomini.

   The chiefe streete is called Strada Romana, in which Pius the

Ilnd has built a most stately Palace of square stone with an incom

parable portico joyning neere to it. The towne is com'anded by a
Castle which hath four bastions and a garison of souldiers. Neere it
is a List to ride horses in, much frequented by gallants in summer.

   Not far from hence is the Church and Convent 01 the Dominicans,
where in the Chapel of St. Catherine of Sienna they shew her head,
the rest of her body being translated to Rome. The Domo or Cathe
dral, both without and within, is of large square stones of black and
white marble polish'd, of inexpressible beauty, as is the front adom'd
with sculpture and rare statues. In the middle is a stately cupola and
two columns of sundry streaked colour*d marble. About the body of

the Church on a cornice within, are inserted the heads of all the Popes.
The pulpit is beautified with marble figures, a piece of exquisite worke ;
but what exceeds all description is the pavement, where (besides the
various emblemes and other figures in the nave) the quire is wrought
with the History of the Bible, so artificialy exprcss'd in the natural co
lours of the marbles that few pictures exceede it. Here stands a Christo
rarely cut in marble, and on the large high Altar is a brasen vessell of
admirable invention and art. The organs are exceeding sweete and well
tun'd. On the left side of the altar is the Library, where are painted
the acts of ./Eneas Sylvius and others by Raphael. They shew'd us an
arme of St. John the Baptist, wherewith, they say, he baptized our
Saviour in Jordan ; it was given by the King of Peloponesus to one of
the Popes, as an inscription signifies. They also have St. Peter's
 Sword, with which" he smote off the ear of Malchus.

   Just against the Cathedral we went into the Hospital, where they
 entertain and refresh for three or four days, gratis, such pilgrimes as
 go to Rome. In the Chapel belonging to it lies the body of St. Suso-
 nus their founder, as yet uncorrupted though dead many hundreds of
84 SIENNA; MONT OLIVETO J MUSCATELLO ; MONTE PIENTIO. _

yeares. They show one of the nailes which pierced our Saviour, and
St. Chrysostom's Comment on the Gospel written by his owne hand.
Below the bill stands the pool called Fonte Brande, where fish are fed
for pleasure more than foode.
St. Francis's Church is a large pile, neere which, yet a little without
the Citty, growes a tree which they report in their legend grew from the
Saint's staff, which on going to sleepe he fix'd in the ground, and at his
waking found it had grown a large tree. They affirme that the wood of

it in decoction cures sundry diseases.

2 Nov. We went from Sienna, desirous of being present at the Ca

valcade of the new Pope Innocent X.1 who had not yet made the grand
                                         We set out by   Porto Romano, the
procession   to St.  John de Lateran.  rare for hunting
country all  about                                       and game. Wild
                     the towne being
boare" and venison are frequently sold in the shops in many of the
townes about it. We pass'd neere Mont Oliveto, where the Monastrie
of that Order is pleasantly situated and worth seeing. Passing over a

bridg, which by the inscription, appears to have been built by Prince
Matthias, we went through Buon-Conventa, famous for the death of

the Emperor Hen. VII. who was here poison'd in the holy Eucharist.
Thence we came to Tormiero, where we din'd. This village is in a

sweete vally in view of Monte Alcini, famous for the rare Muscatello

wine. After three miles more we go by St. Querico, and lay at a pri-
vat Osteria neere where, after we were provided of lodging came in
aCardinal Doughi, a Genoese by birth, now come from Rome he was
                                                                 ;
              1aso civil as to entertaine us with greate respect, hearing we were English,
                             is                                               a
                                it,for that, he told us, he had been once in our country. Amongst other

                                 ifdiscourse he related how a dove was seen to sit on the chayre in the

Conclave at the election of Pope Innocent, which he magnified as
greate good omen, with other particulars which we enquir'd of him, till
our suppers parted us. He came in great state with his owne bed

stead and all the furniture, yet would by no meanes suffer us to resigne
the roome we had taken up in the lodging before his arival. Next
morning we rod by Monte Pientio, or, as vulgarly called, Monte Man-
tuamiato, which of an excessive height, ever and anon peeping above
any clowds with its snowy head, till we had climbed to the inn at Radi-
cofany built by Ferdinand the greate Duke for the necessary refresh
ment of travellers in so inhospitable a place. As we ascended we en

tered a very thick, solid, and dark body of cloudes, which look'd like
rocks at little distance, which lasted neere a mile in going up they
were dry misty vapours, hanging undissolved for a vast thicknesse, and
                                                         it
                                                                                 ;
obscuring both the sun and earth, so that we seemed to be in the sea
rather than in the cloudes, till, having pierced through we came into
most serene heaven, as we had been above all human conversation,

John Baplista Pamphili, chosen Pope in Oct. 1644, died in i6jj.
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                         8$

the mountain appearing more like a greate island than joyn'd to any
other hills, for we could perceive nothing but a sea of thick cloudes

rowling under our feete like huge waves, every now and then suffering

the top of some other mountaine to peepe through, which we could dis

cover many miles off : and betweene some breaches of the cloudes we

could see landskips and villages of the subjacent country. This was
one of the most pleasant, newe, and altogether surprizing objects that

I had ever beheld.

  On the sum'it of this horrid rock (for so it is) is built a very strong
Fort, garrison'd, and somewhat beneath it is a small Towne ; the pro

visions are drawne up with ropes and engines, the precipice being other
wise inaccessible. At one end of the towne lie heapes of rocks so

strangely broaken off from the ragged mountaine as would affright

one with their horror and menacing postures. Just opposite to the
inn gushed out a plentifull and most useful fountaine, which falls into
a great trough of stone, bearing the Duke of Tuscany's armes. Here
we din'd, and I with my black lead pen tooke the prospect.1 It is
one of the utmost confines of the Etrurian State towards St. Peter's

Patrimony since the gift of Matilda to Gregory 7, as they say.
Here we passe a stone bridg built by Pope Gregory XIV. and thence

immediately to Aquapendente,' a town situated on a very ragged

rock, down which precipitates an intire river with a horrid roaring
noise. From this river it has its name. We lay at the Post-house, on

which  is  this"  inscription  :
                  L'Insegna
                               della  Posta,  6  posta                        a  posta,

                  In questa posta, fin che habbia a sua posta

                  Ogn' un Cavallo a Vetturi in Posta."
Before it was darke we went to seethe Monastery of the Franciseans,

famous for 6 learned Popes and sundry other great scholars, especialy

the renowned physician and anatomist Fabricius de Aquapendente,

who was bred and borne here.

4 Nov. After a little riding we descend towards the Lake of Bol-
sena, which being above 20 miles in circuit yields from hence a most
incomparable prospect. Neere the middle of it are 2 small islands, in

one of which is a Convent of melancholy Capucines, where those" of the
Farnesian family are interred. Pliny calls it Tarquiniensis Lacus, and

talks of divers floting islands about but they did not appear to us.
       7

         is is

                 **
                                              it.

                                                        is a it,

                                                                          in
The Lake environ'd with mountaines, at one of whose sides we pass'd
towards the towne Bolsena, anciently Vulsinium, famous in those
times, as testified by divers rare sculptures in the court of St. Chris

tiana's Church, the urne, altar, and jasper columns.
   After miles riding, passing thro' wood heretofore sacred to Juno,
we came to Monte Fiascone, the head of the Falisci a famous people

                  An etching of with Others,                                  the Library at Wotton.
                  is miles from the Duke's Inn, according to Lassells.
   86 THE DUTCH BISHOP. FALERNUM. ARRIVE AT ROME. -

   in old time, heretofore Falernum, as renowned for its excellent wine,
                                                                                                                   Faviano's
   as now  fworitht"hPethrosistpotereypritoEafsptthh, e:EDstu, tcdhomBinisuh·s-opm, ewushomloyretsuubsureiesdt"in         , _'
   Church

i  Because having ordered               his servant   to  ride  before, enquire where the
   best wine was, and there             write Est,   the  man   found some so good that

   he wrote Est, Est, and the Bishop drinking too much of it died.
   From hence we travell a plain and pleasant champain to Viterbo,

   which presents itselfe with much state afarr off, in reguard of her many

   lofty pinnacles and toweres ; neither dos it deceive our expectation, for
   it is exceedingly beautified with publiq fountaines, especialy that at the
   entrance which is all of brasse and adorn'd with many rare figures, and

   salutes the passenger with a most agreeable object and refreshing

   waters. There are many Popes buried in this Citty, and in the Palace
   is this odd inscription :--

     " Osiridis victoriam in Gigantes litteris historiographicis in hoc
   antiquissimo marmore inscriptam, ex Herculis olim, nunc Divi

   Laurentij Templo translatam, ad conversam : vetustiss : patriae monu-

   menta atq' decora hie locandum statuit S. P. Q. V.

   Under it :

   . Sum Osiris Rex Jupi-                  Sum Osiris Rex qui        Sum Osiris Rex qui
   ter universo in ter-                 ab Italia in Gigantes     terrarum pacato Ita-
   rarum orbe.                                                    liam decern a'nos
                                        exercit u veni, vidi, et
                                        vici.                     quorum inventor fui."

   Neere the towne is a sulphureous fountaine which continualy boils.
   After dinner we tooke horse by the new way of Capranica, and so

   passing near Mount Ciminus and the Lake, we began to enter the

   plains of Rome, at .which sight my thoughts were strangely elevated,
   but soon allay'd by so violent a shower which fell just as we were con

   templating that proud mistress of the world, and descending by the

   VI awtaicsawne(tfotor  at that gate  we entered),  that  before  we got  into the                               Citty
                          the skin.
   I came to Rome on the 4 Nov. 1644, about 5 at night, and being
   perplexed for a convenient lodging wandered up and down on horseback,
   till at last one conducted us to Mons. Petit's, a Frenchman, near the
   Piazza Spagnola. Here I alighted, and having bargained with my host
   for 20 crownes a moneth I caused a good fire to be made in my chamber
   and -went to bed, being so very wet. The next morning (for I was
   resolved to spend no time idly here) I got acquainted with several per
   sons who had long lived in Rome. I was especialy recommended to
   Father John, a Benedictine monke and Superior of his Order for the
   English College of Douay, a person of singular learning, religion, and
   humanity ; also to Mr. Patrick Carey, an Abbot, brother to our learned
   Lord Falkland, a witty young priest who afterwards came over to our
     THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                        87

Church ; Dr. Bacon and Dr. Gibbs,1 physicians who had dependence
on Cardinal Caponi, the latter being an excellent poet ; Father
Cortnee, the Chiefe of the Jesuites in the English Colledge ; my Lord
of Somerset brother to the Marquiss of Worcester, and some others,

from whom I received instructions how to behave in towne, with direc

tions to masters and bookes to take in search of the antiquities, churches,

collections, &c Accordingly the next day, Nov. 6th, I began to be

very pragmatical?
   In the first place our Sights-man3 (for so they name certain per

sons here who get their living by leading strangers about to see the
Cty) went to the Palace Famezi, a magnificent square structure, built
by Michael Angelo of the 3 orders of columns after the ancient man
ner, and when Architecture was but newly recovered from the Gotic
barbarity. The court is square and tarrass'd, having two payre of
stures, which leade to the upper roomes, and conducted us to that

famous gallery painted by Agostino Caracci, than which nothing is
more rare of that art ; so deepe and well-studied are all the figures,

that it would require more judgment than I confesse I had, to deter

mine whether they were flat or emboss'd. Thence we passed into
another painted in chiaro oscuro, representing the fabulous history of
Hercules. We went out on a terrace, where was a pretty garden on
the leads, for it is built in a place that has no extent of ground back
wards. The greate Hall is wrought by Salviati and Zuccharo, furnish'd
with statues, one of which being modern is a figure of one of the
Farnese in a triumphant posture, of white marble, worthy of admira
tion. Here we were shewed the Museum of Fulvius Ursinos replete
with innumerable collections ; but the Major Domo being absent, we
could not at this time see all we had a desire to see. Descending into

the court we with astonishment contemplated the 2 statues al Hercules

and Flora, so much celebrated by Pliny. There is a modern statue of
Hercules and two Gladiators not to be despis'd. In a second court

was a temporary shelter of boards over the most stupendous and never
to be sufficiently admir'd Torso of Amphion and Dirces, represented in
5 figures exceeding the life in magnitude, of the purest white marble,
the contending work of those famous statuaries, Apollonius and Taurisco
in the time of Augustus, hewed out of one entire stone, and remaining
unblemished, to be valued beyond all the marbles of the world for its

    I James Alban Gibbs, a Scotchman bred at Oxford, who resided many years at Rome, where
be died in 1677, and was buried in the Pantheon there with an epitaph to his memory under a
axrh! e bust of him. He was an extraordinary character. In Wood's Athens is a long account
of him, and also some curious particulars in Warton's Life of Dr. Bathurst. He was a great
writer of Laton Poetry, a small collection of which he published at Rome, to which is prefixed

hMt  portrait neatly engraved.  tltii  in a good  sense,  very  active  and  full  of business, via.  what he

     Mr. EveJyn must intend
came upon, to view the antiquities and beauties of Rome, both ancient and modern.
* The present name for these gentlemen is with the Italians a Cicerone, but they affect uni-
venaiiy the title of Antiquarui.
88 THE ROMAN TEMPLES, TRIUMPHAL ARCHES, COLUMNS, ETC.

antiquity and workmanship. There are divers other heads and busts.

At the entrance of this stately Palace stands 2 rare and vast fountaines
of garnito stone, brought into this Piazza out of Titus's Bathes. Here
in sum'er the gentlemen of Rome take the fresco in their coaches and
on foote. At the sides of this court we vissited the Palace of Sign.
Pichini, who has a good collection of antiquities, especialy the Adonis
of Parian marble, which my Lord Arundel would once have purchas'd-
if a greate price would have been taken for it.
 " 7 Nov. We went into the Campo Vaccino by the mines of the

Temple of Peace built by Titus Vespasianus, thought to be the
largest, as well as the most richly furnish'd, of all the Roman dedi
cated places ; it is now an heape rather than a temple, yet the roole
and volto continue firme, shewing it to have been formerly of incom
parable workmanship. This goodly structure was, none knows how,
consum'd by fire the very night, by all computation, that our Saviour
was bom.

   Hence we passed by the place into which Curtius precipitated him
self for the love of his country, now without any sign of a lake or
vorago. Neere this stand some columns of white marble, of exquisite
worke, supposed to be part of the Temple of Jupiter Tonans built by
Augustus ; the worke of the capitals (being Corinthian) and architrave
is excellent, full of sacrificing utensils. There are 3 other of Jupiter
Stator. Opposite to these are the Oratories or Churches of St. Cosmo
and Damiano, heretofore the Temples of Romulus and Remus, a pretty
odd fabriq, with a Tribunal, or Tholus within, wrought all of Mosaic.
The gates before it are brasse, and the whole much obliged to Pope
Urban the 8th. Here lie the bodies of those 2 Martyrs ; and in a
Chapel on the right hand is a rare painting of Cavaliero Baylione. We
next entered St. Laurenzo in Miranda. The portico is supported by a
range of most stately columns ; the inscription cut in the architrave

shews it to have been the Temple of Faustina. It is now made a faire

Church, and has an Hospital which joines it. On the same side is St.
Adriano, heretofore dedicated to Saturne. Before this was once placed
a Miliary Column, supposed to be set in the center of the Citty, from
whence they us'd to compute the distance of all the citties and places

of note under the dominion of those universal Monarchs. To this
CRurch are likewise brazen gates and a noble front. Just opposite they

shew'd us heapes and mines of Cicero's Palace. Hence we went towards
Mons Capitolinus, at the foote of which stands the Arch of Septimius
Severus, full and entire, save where the pedestal and some of the lower
members are choaked up with mines and earth. This Arch is exceed
ingly inrich'd with sculpture and trophies, with a large inscription. In
the terrestrial and naval battailes here graven is seen the Roman Aries
Tthe battering-ram]. This was the first triumphal arch set up in Rome.
The Capitol, to which we climbed by very broad steps, is built about a
                   THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                             89 ·

square court, at the right hand of which going up from Campo Vaccino
gushes a plentifull streame from the statue of Tybur in porphyry, very
antiq, and another representing Rome ; but above all is the admirable
figure of Marforius casting water into a most ample Concha. The
front of this court is crowned with an excellent fabriq containing the
        of                                                                                                In
Courts  the  Justice, and                      where the Criminal Notary   XsiItsI,I.aannddoPthaeurlse.
one of        Halls they                      shew the statues of Gregory                                III.
with several others. To this joynes a handsome Tower, the whole
faciata adorn'd with noble statues both on the outside and on the bat

tlements, ascended by a double payre of staires, and a stately Posnrio.
In the center of the court stands that incomparable Horse bearing the
Emperor Marcus Aurelius, as big as the life, of Corinthian mettal,
placed on a pedestal of marble, esteemed one of the noblest pieces
of worke now extant, antique and very rare. There is also a vast Head *
of a Colossean magnitude, of white marble, fixed in the wall. At the

descending stayres are sett two Horses of white marble governed by 2

naked Slaves, taken to be meant for Castor and Pollux, brought from

Pompey's Theatre. On the balustrade the Trophies of Marius against
the Cumbrians, very ancient and instructive. At the foote of the stepps
towards the left hand is that Colonna Miliaria with the globe of brasse >
it,
               is
on mention'd to have been formerly sett in Campo Vaccino. On the

same hand the Palace of the Segniori Conservatori, or Consuls,
now the Civil Governors of the Citty, containing the Fraternities or       ; is

Halls (or Guilds, as we call them) of sundry Companys, and other                23
officers of state. Under the Portico within, are the statues of Augustus

Carsar, a Bacchus, and the so renowned Colonna Rostrata of Duillius,
with the excellent bassi relievi. In smaller court are the statue of
                                              is a
Constantine on fountaine, a Minerva's head of brasse, and that of
        ;
Com'odus to which belongs an hand the thumb of which at least an
                        a

                                           ;
ell long, but the rest of the Colosse lost. In the corner oi this Court

'stand an horse and lyon fighting, as big as life, in white marble,
exceedingly valu'd likewise the Rape of the Sabines
                                                                                    cumbent

figures of Alexander and Mammea monstrous feete of a Colosse of
                                              ;;
                                                  2
Apollo the sepulchre of Agrippina and the Standard, orantiq measure
of the Roman foote. Ascending by the stepps of the other corner, are

inserted fower basse relievo's, viz. the triumph and sacrifice of Marcus

Aurelius, which last, for the antiquity and rareness of the worke,                                       2I

caused my painter Carlo Neapolitano to copy. There are also

statues of' the Muses, and one of Adrian the Emperor above stands
                                                                           ;
                                                                                              ;

                                                                                                 ;
the figure of Marius, and by the wall Marsias bound to a tree all of
them excellent and antique. Above, in the Lobby, are inserted into
the walls those ancient laws on brasse call'd the 12 Tables a faire
Madona of Pietro Perugino, painted on the wall neere which are the
                                                     ;

Archives full of ancient records. In the great Hall are divers excellent .
paintings of Cavaliero Giuseppe d'Arpino, a statue in brasse of Sijp-
QO THE CAPITAL; ARA CCELI. TARPEIAN ROCK.

V. and of Leo X. of marble. In another Hall are many modern statues
of their late Consuls and Governors, set about with fine antique heads ;
others are painted by excellent masters, representing the actions of M.
Scasvola, Horatius Codes, &c. --The room where the Conservatori now

feast on solemn days is tapisstred with crimson damasq embrodred
with gold, haveing a state or balduquino of crimson velvet very rich,
the frieze above rarely painted. Here are in brasse, Romulus and
Remus sucking the wolfe, with the shepherd Faustulus by them ; also
the Boy plucking the th-rne out of Ihs foote (in brasse) so much
admir'd by artists. There are also holy statues and heads of saints.
In a Gallery neere adjoyning are the names of the ancient Consuls,
PraEtors, and Fasti Romani, so celebrated by the learned ; also the
figure of an old woman ; 2 others representing Poverty ; and more in

fragments. In another large roome furnish'd with velvet are the statue
of Adonis very rare, and divers antiq heads. In the next chamber is

an old statue of Cicero, one of another Consul, an Hercules in brasse,
2 women's heads of incomparable worke, six other statues, and over
the chimny a very rare basso relievo and other figures. In a little
Lobby before the Chapell is the statue of Hanniball, a Bacchus very

antiq, bustos of Pan and Mercury, with other old heads. All these
noble statues, &c. belong to the Citty, and cannot be dispos'd of to

any privat person or remov'd hence, but arc preserv'd for the honor
of the place, though greate sumes have been offer'd for them by divers
greate Princes lovers of art and antiquity. We now left the Capitol,
certainely one of the most renowned places in the world, even as now
built by the designe of the famous M. Angelo.

   Returning home by Ara Cceli, we mounted to it by more than 100
marble stepps, not in devotion, as I observed some to do on their bare
knees, but to see those two famous statues of Constantine in white
marble, placed there out of his Bathes. In this Church is a Madona,
reported to be painted by St. Luke, and a column, on which we saw the
print of a foote which they affirme to have been that of the Angel, seene
on the Castle of St. Angelo. Here the feast of our blessed Saviour's
nativity being yearely celebrated with divers pageants, they began to
make the preparation. Having viewed the Palace and Fountaine at
the other side of the stayres, we return'd weary to our lodgings.

    On the 7th we went again towards the Capitol, towards the Tarpeian
rock, whence it has a goodly prospect of the Tyber. Thence descend
ing by the Tullianum, where they told us St. Peter was imprisoned,
they shew'd us a Chapell in which a rocky side of it beares the impres

sion of his face. In the nave of the Church gushes a fountaine which

they say was caused by the Apostle's prayers, when having converted
some of his fellow-captives he wanted water to baptize them. We then
walked about Mount Palatinus and the Aventine, and thence to the
Circus Maximus, capable of holding 40,000 spectators, now a heap of
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.             91

mines converted into gardens. Then by the Forum Boarium, where

they have a tradition that Hercules slew Cacus, some mines of his
Temple remaining. The Temple of Janus quadrifrontis, having 4.
arches importing the 4 Seasons, and on each side niches for the Mo-
nethes, is still a substantial and pretty entire antiquity. Ncere this is
the Arcus Argentariorum. Bending now towards the Tyber we went
iv.o the Theater of Marcellus, which would hold 80,000 persons, built

by Augustus and dedicated to his nephew ; the architecture from what

remaines appeares to be inferior to none. It is now wholly converted
ir.to the house of the Savelli, one of the old Roman families. The people

were now generally busye in erecting temporary triumphs and arches

with statues and flattering inscriptions against his Holinesse's grand

procession to St. John de Lateran, amongst which the Jewes also began
one in testimony of gratitude for their protection under the Papal State.
The Palazzo Barberini, designed by the preser.t Pope's Architect, Ca-

valiero Bernini, seems from the size to be as princely an object as any

moderne building in Europ. It lias a double Portico, at the end of
which we ascended by 2 paire of oval stayrcs all of stone and voide in
the well. One of these led us into a stately Hall, the volto whereof
was newly painted a fresca by the rare hand of Pietro Berretini di
Cortona. To this is annex'd a Gallery compleately furnish'd with
whatever art can call rare and singular, and a Library full of worthy

collections, medails, marbles, and manuscripts, but above all an Egyp

tian Osyris, remarkable for the material being unknown and for its

antiquity. In one of the rooms neere this hangs the Sposaliccio of St.
Sebastian, the original of Annibal Caracci, of which I procured a copy

little inferior to the prototype ; a table in my judgment superior to any

thing I had seen in Rome. In the Court is a vast broaken Gulio Obe

lisk having divers hieroglyphics cut on it.
   8 Nov. We visited the Jesuites Church, the front whereof is
esteem'd a noble piece of architecture, the designe of Jacomo della
Porta and the famous Vignola. In this Church lies the body of their

renown'd Ignatius Loyola, an arme of Xaverius, their other Apostle,

and at the right end of their high altar their Champion Card : Bellar-

mine. Father Kircherus (professor of Mathematics and of the Oriental

tongues) shew'd us many singular courtesies, leading us into their
Refectory, Dispensatory, Laboratory, Gardens, and finally (through an
Hall bung round with pictures of such of their order as had been
executed for their pragmatical and buisy adventures) into his own
study, where, with Dutch patience, he shew'd us his perpetual motions,

catoptrics, magnetical experiments, models, and a thousand other
crotchets and devices, most of them since published by himselfe or

his industrious scholar Schotti.                                      a

   Returning  home  we view'd the Palazzo    de Medici,   which was  r
house of the  Duke  of Florence, neere our   lodging, on   the brow
92 STATUES OF NIOBE. ORATORY OF PHIL. NERIUS AND LENNIAS.

Mons Pincius, having a fine prospect towards the Campo Marzo. It

is a magnificent, strong building, having a substruction very remark
able, and a portico supported with columns towards the gardens, with
two huge lions of marble at the end of the balustrade. The whole out
side of the faciata is incrusted with antiq and rare basse-relieves and
statues. Descending into the garden is a noble fountaine govern'd by
a Mercury of brasse. At a little distance on the left is a lodge full oi"
fine statues, amongst which the Sabines is antiq and singularly rare.
In the arcado neere this stand 24 statues of great price, and hard by Is
a mount planted with cypresses representing a fortresse, with a goodly
fountaine in the middle. Here is also a row balustred with white
marble, covered over with the natural shrubbs, ivy, and other pe
rennial greenes, divers statues and heads being placed as in niches.
At a little distance are those fam'd statues of Niobe and her family, in
all 15, as large as the life, of which we have ample mention in Pliny,
esteemed among the best pieces of worke in the world for the passions
they expresse, and all other perfections of that stupendous art. There
is in this garden a faire obelisq full of hieroglyphics. In going out,
the fountaine before the front casts water neere 50 foote in height
when it is received in a most ample marble basin. Here they usually
rode the greate-horse every morning, which gave me much diversion
from the terrace of my owne chamber, where I could see all their

motions. This evening I was invited to heare rare musiq at the Chiesa
Nova ; the black marble pillars within led us to that most precious
Oratory of Philippus Nerius their founder, they being of the oratory
of secular priests, under no vow. There are in it divers good pictures,
as the Assumption of Girolamo Mutiano ; the Crucifix; the Visitation
of Elizabeth; the Presentation of the Blessed Virgin ; Christo Sepolto
of Guido Rheno, Caravagio, Arpino, and others. This faire Church
.consists of 14 altars and as many chapells. In it is buried (besides

their Saint) Caesar Baronius the greate annalist. Through this we
went- into the Sacristia, where, the tapers being lighted, one of
the Order preach'd ; after him stepp'd up a child of 8 or 9 years old

who pronounced an oration with so much grace, that I never was better
pleas'd than to heare Italian so well and so intelligently spoken. This

course it seemes they frequently use, to bring their scholars to a
habit of speaking distinctly, and forming their action and assurance,

which none so much want as ours in England. This being finish 'J

 began their Motettos, which, in a lofty cupola richly painted, were
 sung by eunuchs and other rare voices, accompanied with theorbos,
 harpsicors, and viols, so that we were even ravish'd with the enter
tainment of the evening. This roome is painted by Cortona, and has
 in it two figures in the niches, and the Church stands in one of the
 most stately streetes of Rome.

    10 Nov. We went to see Prince Ludovisio's villa where was for
                     THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                           93

merly the Viridarium of the poet Sallust. The house is very mag

nificent, and the extent of the ground is exceeding large considering

that it is in a Citty ; in every quarter of the garden are antiq statues,
and walkes planted with cypresse. To this garden belongs a house of
retirement built in the figure of a crosse after a particular ordonance,
especially the stayrecase. The whitenesse and smoothnesse of the par
geting was a thing I much observ'd, being almost as even and polish'd
as if it had been marble. · Above is a faire prospect of the Citty. In
one of the chambers
Vulcan, the other a  Nhaatnivgitytw/o   famous    pieces of  Bassano,     the one a
                                       there is  a German    clock full
                                                                         of rare and

extraordinary motions, and in a little room below are many precious
marbles, columns, umes, vasas, and noble statues of porphyry, Orien
tal alabaster, and other rare materials. About this fabriq is an ample

area, environ'd with 16 vast jarrs of red earth wherein the Romans us'd

to preserve their oyle, or wine rather, which they buried, and such as
are properly called Testa. I must never forget the famous statue of
the Gladiator spoken of by Pliny, so much follow'd by all the rare ar

tists as the many copies testifie, dispersed through almost all Europ

both in stone and metal. There is also an Hercules, a head of por-
phyrie, and one of Marcus Aurelius. In the villa-house is a man's
body, flesh and all, petrified and even converted to marble, as it was
found in the Alps, and sent by the Emperor to one of the Popes ; it
lay in a chest or coffin lin'd with black velvet, and one of the armes

being broken, you mav see the perfect bone from the flesh which re
mains intire. The Rape of Proserpine in marble is of the purest
white, the worke of Bernini. In the cabinet neere it are innumerable

small brasse figures and other curiosities. But what some look upon
as exceeding all the rest, is a very rich bedstead (which sort of grosse
furniture the Italians much glory in, as formerly did our grandfathers
in England in their inlaid wooden ones) inlaid with all sorts of precious
stones and antiq heads, onyxs, achates, and cornelians, esteem'd to be

worth 80 or 90,000 crownes. Here are also divers cabinets and tables

of the Florence work, besides pictures in the gallery especialy the

<4polio. There is a chayre to sleepe in with the leggs stretcht out,

with books, and pieces of wood to draw out longer or shorter.
From this we went to see Sign. Angeloni's study, who very courte
ously shew'd us such a collection of rare medaills as is hardly to be

parallel'd ; divers good pictures, and many outlandish and Indian curi-
*sities and things of nature.

   Hence we went to Monte Cavallo, heretofore call'd Mons. Quiri-
nalis, where we saw those two rare horses, the worke of the rivals
Phidias and Praxiteles, as they were sent as a present to Nero [by Tiri-
dites King] out of Arminia. They were placed on pedestals of white
marble by Sixtus V. by whom I suppose their injuries were repaired.
They are govem'd by 4 naked slaves like those at the foote of the
94 PALACE OF THE POPE. BATHS OF DIOCLESIAN. FONS FELIX.

Capitol. Here runs a most noble fountaine, faceing fower of the most
- stately streetes for building and beauty to be seen in any Citty of -
                               to these statues is the Pope's Sum'er Palace, built
bEyuroGpre. gorOyppXoIsIiIt.e  and in my opinion for the largeness and the archi
tecture one of the most conspicuous in Rome. It has a stately portico

which leads round the court under columns, in the center of which runs

a beautifull fountaine. The chapell is incrusted with such precious
materials, that nothing can be more rich or glorious, nor are the other
ornaments and moveables about it at all inferior. The hall is painted
by Lanfranci and others. The garden which is call'd the Belvedere di
Monte Cavallo, in emulation to that of the Vatican, is most excellent

for ayre and prospect, its exquisite fountaines, close walkes, grotts,
piscinas or stews for fish, planted about with venerable cypresses, and

refresh'd with water-musiq, aviaries, and other rarities.
12 Nov. We saw Dioclesian's Bathes, whose mines testifie the
vastness of the original foundation and magnificence ; by what
M. Arrgelo tooke from the ornaments about
                                                     'tis sayd he restor'd
;

        it
            is

                        is
                                    is

                                                                                ;

                                                   a
                                                      is

                                                                     is
                                                                         it,

                                                                                            is
the then almost lost art of architecture. This monstrous pile was

built by the labour of the primitive Christians, then under one of
the ten great persecutions. The Church of St. Bernardo made out
of one onely of these ruinous cupolas, and in the form of an urne

with a cover.

Opposite to this the Fontana delle Therme, othenvise call'd Fons
Felix in
                         a basso relievo of white marble representing Moses
striking the rock, which adorn'd with camels, men, women, and

children drinking, as large as life worke for the dcsigne and vast-
nesse truly magnificent. The water convey'd no lesse than 22 miles
in an aquaeduct by. Sixtus V. ex agro Columna by way of Praeneste,
as the inscription testifies. It gushes into three ample lavors rais'd
about with stone, before which are placed two lions of a strange black

stone very rare and antiq. Neere this are the Store-houses for the

City's corne, and over against the Church of St. Susanna where
were the gardens of Sallust. The faciata of this church noble, the; it
                                                           is
                                                                    is
soffito within gilded and full of pictures especialy famous that

of Susanna, by Baldassa di Bologna. The tribunal of the high altar
is                                   ;
                     is
of exquisite worke, from whose marble stepps you descend underis
ground to the repository of divers Saints. The picture over this altar
                                                                                                is

the worke of Jac. Siciliano. The foundation for Bernadine Nunns.
   Santa Maria della Vittoria  presents us^with the  most  ravishing front.
                                                           after the signal
In this church was sung the     Te Deuin by Greg.    XV.

victory of the Emperor at Prague the standards then taken still hang
up, and the impresse waving with this motto over the Pope's armes,
Extirpentur. The high altar was much frequented for an image of
the Virgine. There are some rare statues there
                                     :                     Paule ravish'd

                                                   is

into the third heaven, by Ger. Fiamengo, and some good pictures.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN. .. -  95

    We went again to Dioclesian's Bathes, never satisfied with contem

 plating that immense pile, in building which 150,000 Christians were
 destin'd to labour 14 yeares and were then all murther'd. Here is a
 Monastery of Carthusians call'd Santa Maria degli Angeli, the architec
 ture of M. Angelo, the cloister encompassing walls in an ample garden.

    Mont Alto's Villa is enter'd by a stately gate of stone built on the
 Viminalis, and is no other than a spacious parke full of fountaincs,
 especialy that which salutes us at the front ; stews for fish ; the cypresse
 walkcs are so beset with statues, inscriptions, relievos, and other
 ancient marbles, that nothing can be more stately and solemn. The
 citron-trees are uncommonly large. In the Palace joining to it are in
 numerable collections of value.

    In St. Agnes Church is a tribunal of antiq Mosaiq, and on the altar
 a most rich Ciborio of brasse with a statue of St. Agnes in Oriental
 alabaster. The Church of Santa Constanza has a noble cupola. Here

 they shewM us a stone ship borne on a column heretofore sacred
 to Bacchus, as the relievo intimates by the drunken emblemes and in

 struments wrought upon it. The altar is of rich porphyrie, as I remem
 ber. Looking back we had the intire view of the Via Pia downe to the
 two houses before the Monte Cavallo before mention'd, one of the most

 glorious sights for state and magnificence that any Citty can shew
 a traveller. We return'd by Porta Pia and the Via Salaria, neere

 Campo Scelerato, in whose gloomy caves the wanton vestals were here
 tofore im'ured alive.

    Thence to Via Felix a straite and noble streete but very precipitous,
 till we came to the Fountaincs of Lepidus, built at the abbutments of 4
 stately wayes, making an exact Crosse of right angles ; and at the

 Fountaines are as many cumbent figures of marble under very large
 niches of stone, the water pouring into huge basins. The Church of
 St. Carlo is a singular fabriq for neatnesse, of an oval designe, built of
 a new white stone ; the columns are worth notice. Under it is another
 Church of a structure nothing lesse admirable.

    Santa Maria Maggiore is on the Esquiline Mountaine, which gives
 it a most conspicuous face to the streete at a greate distance. The de
 sign is mix'd, partly antiq, partly moderne. Here they affirme that the
 BL Virgin appearing, shewM where it should be built 300 yeares since.
 The first pavement is rare and antiq ; so is the portico built by P. P.

Eugenius II. The Ciborio is the worke of Paris Romano, and the

 Tribunal of Mosaic. We were shew'd in the Church a Concha of por
phyrie wherein they say Patricius the founder lyes. This is one of the
 most famous of the 7 Roman Churches, and is in my opinion at least,
after St, Peter's, the most magnificent. Above all, for incomparable
-glory and materials, are the two Chapels of Sextus V. and Paulus V.
That of Sextus was design'd by Dom. Fontana, in which are two rare
greate statues, and some good pieces of painting ; and here they prp
96 THE INNOCENTS ; CRIB OF BETHLEHEM ; STUMP OF TORTURE.

tended to shew some of the Holy Innocents bodyes slaine by Herod.

That renown'd tabernacle of metall gilt, sustain'd by 4 angels holding
as many tapers, is placed on the altar. In this Chapel is the statue of
Sextus in copper, with basse relievo's of most of his famous acts in
Parian marble.' But that of P. Paulus opposite to this, is beyond all
imagination glorious and beyond description. It is so incircl'd with

achates and other most precious materials as to dazzle and confound the

beholders. The basse relievo's are for the most part of pure snowy

marble, intermixed with figures of molten brasse double gilt on lapis
lazuli. The altar is a most stupendous piece ; but most incomparable

is the cupola, painted by Cavaliero Giuseppe Rheni and the present

Baglioni, full of exquisite sculptures. There is a most sumptuous Sa-
cristia ; and the piece over the altar was by the hand of St. Luke, if
you will believe it. Paule V. hath here likewise built two other altars ;
under the one lye the bones of the Apostle St. Mathias. In another

Oratory is the statue of this Pope, and the head of the Congo Ambas
sador who was converted at Rome and dy*d here. In a third Chapel
odef sTigonle'ddo,byHoMn.oriAunsgeIlIoI.
                                          lyes the body of Platina,  and     the Cardinal
                                                                     of St.  Hierom, and
                                          Nicephorus IV. the ashes
many others. In that of Sextus V. before mentioned was shew'd us

part of the crib in which Christ was swaddl'd at Bethlem ; there is also
the statue of Pius V. Going out at the further end is the resurrection
o" fCLaarzdainrualsi                         In the portico is this late inscription :
                      by a very  rare hand.  Archipresbytero, aream marmoream
                       Antonio   Barberino

quam Christianorum pietas exculpit, laborante sub Tyrannis ecclesia,

ut esset loci sanctitate venerabilior, Franciscus Gualdus Arm. Eques
S. Stephani, & suis aedibus hue transtulit et ornavit 1632." Just before
this portico stands a very sublime and stately Corinthian columne of

white marble, translated hither for an ornament from the old Temple
of Peace built by Vespasian, having on the plinth of the capital the
image of our Lady gilt on mettal ; at the pedestal runs a fountaine. --
Going downe the hill we saw the Obelisq taken from the Mauso
      of Augustus,
leum  this epigraphe  an"d        erected in this  place  by Domenico Fontana,
with                             Sixtus V. Pont.   Max.    obeliscum jEgypto ad-
                       :

vectum, Augusti in mausoleo dicatum, eversum deiride et in plurcs

confractum partes, in via ad. S. Rochum jacentem, in pristinam

faciem restitutum, Salutiferae Cruci felicius hie erigi jussit anno

M.D.L.XXXVIII. Pont III."
At the foote of this hill is the Church of Pudentia, in which is a

well fill'd with the blood and bones of several Martyrs, but grated over

with yron ; it is visited by many Devota's. Neere this is the Church

of her sister S. Praxedeis, much frequented for the same reason. In a
little obscure place cancelled in with yron worke, is the Pillar or Stump
at which they relate our Bl. Saviour was scourged, being full of bloudy

spotts, at which the devout sex are always rubbing their chaplets, and
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  97

 convey their kisses by a stick having a tassel on it. Here, besides a
 noble statue of St. Peter is the tombe of the famous Catdinal Cajetan,
 an excellent piece. Here they hoid that St. Peter sayd his first masse
 at Rome with the same altar and the stone lie kneeled on, he having
 been first lodged in this house, as they compute, about the 44th yeare
 of the incarnation. They also shew many reliques, or rather raggs, of his

 mantle. In the Church of Laurence in Panisperna is the Gridiron on

 which that Martyr was broyl'd. St. Brigit is buried in this Church under
 a stately monument. In the front of the pile is the suffering of St. Lau
 rence painted afresca on the wall. The frabriq is nothing but Gotic. On
 the left is the Therma Novatii, and on the right Agrippina's Lavacrum.

    14 Nov. We pass'd againe thro' the stately Capitol and Campo
 Vacdno towards the Amphitheatre of Vespasian, but were first sta/d
 to looke at Titus's triumphal Arch erected by the people of Rome in
 honour of his victory at Jerusalem, on the left hand whereof he is
 represented drawne in a charriot with 4 horses abreast ; on the right-
 hand, or side of the arch within, is sculptur'd in figures, or basse re-
Iiero as big as the life, and in one intire marble, the Arke of the Cove
nant, on which stands the seaven-branch'd candlestick describ'd in Le

viticus, as also the two Tables of the Law, all borne on men's shoul

ders by the barrs, as they arc describ'd in some of St. Hierom's Bibles ;
before this go many crown'd and laureated figures, and 12 Roman

fisces, with sacred vessels. This much confirmed the idea I before
had ; and, for the light it gave to the Holy History, I caused my
paynter Carlo to copy it exactly. The rest of the worke of the Arch is

of the noblest, best understood composita.
   Santa Maria Nova is on the place where they told us Simon Magus

fell out of the ayre at St. Peter's prayer, and burst himselfe to pieces
on a flint. Neere this is a marble monument erected by the people of
Rome in memory of the Pope's returne from Avignon.

   Being now pass'd the mines of Meta sudante (which stood be
fore the Colosseum) provided to refresh the gladiators, we enter the
mighty ruines of the Vespasian Amphitheatre, begun by Vespasian, and
finished by that excellent prince Titus. It is 830 Roman palmes in
length (i.e, 130 paces), 90 in breadth at the area, with caves for the
wild beasts which us'd to be baited by men instead of doggs ; the
whole oval peripheria 2888f palmes, and capable of containing 87,000
spectators with ease and all accom'odation : the 3 rowes of circles are
yet entire ; the first was for the senators, the middle for the nobility,
the third for the people. At the dedication of this place were 5000
wild beasts slain in 3 months during which the feast lasted, to the ex-
pence of 10 millions of gold. It is built of Tiburtine , stone, a vast
height, with the 5 orders of architecture, by 30,000 captive Jewes. It
is, without, of a perfect circle, and was once adorn'd thick with statues,
and remained intire till of late that some of the stones were carried

                                                                                                                     7
98 AMPHITHEATRE OF VESPASIAN. ARCH OF CONSTANTINE.

away to repaire the Citty walls and build the Farnesian Palace. That
which still appeares most admirable the contrivance of the porticos,
vaults, and staires, with the excessive altitude, which well deserves this
distich of the "pOoemt nis Caesario cedat labor Amphitheatro,
       is it                                 it
            isUnum pro" cunctis fama loquatur opus."
                                                  :
                                          :
Neere    a small chapell call'd Sta Maria della Pieta nel Colisseo,is,
which erected on the steps or stages very lofty at one of its sides oris
ranges within, and where there lives only a melancholy hermite.
                                                                                              I

ascended to the very top of with wonderfull admiration.
The Arch of Constantine the Great close by the Meta sudante
before mentioned, at the beginning of the Via Appia on one side of
Monte Celio, and perfectly intire, erected by the people in memory
         is
                   is
of his victory over Maxentius at the Pons Milvius, now Ponte Mole.
In the front this inscription

         IMP. CAES. FL. CONSTANTINO MAXIMO

                    P. F. AVGVSTO S. P. Q. R.
         QVOD INSTINCTV DIFINITATIS MENTIS

            MAGNITVDINE CVM EXERCITV SVO

         TAM DE TYRANNO QVAM DE OMNI EIVS
               FACTIONE VNO TEMPORE IVSTIS

         REMPVBLICAM VLTVS EST ARMIS

         ARCVM TRIVMPHIS INSIGNEM DICAVIT.

   Hence we went to St. Gregorio in Monte Celio, where are many
privileged altars, and there they shew'd us an arme of that Saint and

other reliques. Before this Church stands a very noble portico.
         walked to Villa Borghesi, a house and ample garden on
. 17.
it

        I

                      a
                                                   a
Mons Pincius, yet somewhat without the Citty walls, circumscrib'd by

another wall full of small turrets and banqueting-houses, which makes
appeare at distance like a little towne. Within
                                                                      ;                   an elysium

                                                                                it
                                                                                      is
of delight, having in the centre a noble Palace but the enterance of

the garden presents us with very glorious fabrick or rather dore-
case adorn'd with divers excellent marble statues. This garden
abounded with all sorts of delicious fruit and exotiq simples, fountaines

of sundry inventions, groves, and small rivulets. There also ad                           is

joining to a vivarium for estriges, peacocks, swanns, cranes, &c and
         is it
                      4

                                 a
                                                 is

                                                    is
divers strange beasts, deare, and hares. The grotto is very rare, and

represents among other devices artificial raine, and sundry shapes
of vessells, flowers, &c. which effected by changing the heads of
the fountaines. The groves are of cypresse, laurell, pine, myrtil,
olive, &c. The sphinxes are very antique and worthy observation.
To this  a volary full of curious birds. The house square, with
                                                                      is

turrets from which the prospect                         excellent towaids Rome and the
invironing hills covered as they now are with snow, which indeed com
monly continues even great part of the sum'er, affording great
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN..  99

refreshment. Round the house is a balustre of white marble, with
frequent jettos of water, and adorn'd with a multitude of statues. The
walls of the house are cover'd with antiq incrustations of history, as
that of Curtius, the Rape of Europa, Leda, &c. The cornices above
consist of frutages and festoons, between which are niches furnish'd with

statues, which order is observ'd to the very roofe. In the lodge at the

entry are divers good statues of consuls, &c. with two pieces of field
artillery upon carriages (a mode much practized in Italy before the
great men's houses), which they looke on as a piece of state more than
defence. In the first hall within are the 12 Roman Emperors, 01
excellent marble : 'twixt them stand porphyry columns and other
precious stones of vast height and magnitude, with urnes of Oriental
alabaster. Tables of Pietra-Commessa. Here is that rcnown'd Diana

which Pompey worshipp'd ; the most incomparable Seneca, of touch
biceding in an huge vasa of porphyrie, resembling the dropps ol

his blood ; the so famous gladiator, and the Hermaphrodite upon
a quilt of stone. The new piece of Daphne, and David, of
Cavalicro Bernini, is observable for the pure whiteness of the stone,
and the art of the statuary which is stupendious. There are a multitude

of rare pictures of infinite value by the best masters ; huge tables of
porphyrie, and two exquisitely-wrought vases of the same. In another
chamber are divers sorts of instruments of musiq : amongst other toyes
that of a satyre with so artificialy express'd an human voice, with
the motion of eyes and head, that it might easily affright one who was
not prepared for that most extravagant sight. They shew'd us also a
chayre which catches any who sitts downe in it so as not to be able
to stirr out, by certaine springs concealed in the armes and back
thereoff, which at sitting downe surprizes a man on the suddaine, lock
ing him in by the armes and thighs, after a true tretcherous Italian
guise. The perspective is considerable, compos'd by the position of
looking-glasses, which render a strange multiplication of things re
sembling divers most richly-furnish'd roomes. Here stands a rare clock
of German worke ; in a word, nothing but what is magnificent is to be
seen in this paradise.

   The next day I went to the Vatican, where in the morning I saw

the ceremony of Pamfilio the Pope's nephew receiving a Cardinal's

hat ; this was the first time I had seen his holiness in pontificalibus.

After the Cardinals and Princes had met in the Consistory, the cere
mony was in the Pope's Chapell, where he was at the altar invested

with most pompous rites.

   17 Nov. I visited St. Peter's, that most stupendious and incom

parable Basilicum, far surpassing any now extant in the world, and
perhaps, Solomon's Temple excepted, any that was ever built. The
largeness of the piazza before the portico is worth observing, because it
affords a noble prospect of the Church, not crowded up as for the mosf
I0O DESCRIPTION" OF THE OBELISK BROUGHT FROM EGYPT.

part is the case in other places where greate churches are erected. In
thisis a fount aine out of which gushes a river rather than a streeme,

which ascending a good height breakes upon a round embosse of marble
into millions of pearles that fall into the subjacent basons with greate
noise ; I esteeme this one of the goodliest fountaines I ever saw.

   Next is the Obelisq transported out of Egypt and dedicated by
Octavius Augustus to Julius Cassar, whose ashes it formerly bore
on the sumit ; but being since overtum'd by the Barbarians, was re-
erected with vast cost and a most stupendious invention by Domenico
Fontana, architect to Sixtus V. The Obelisk consists of one intire
square stone without hieroglyphic, in height 72 foote, but compre
hending the base and all 'tis 108 foote high. It rests on 4 lyons of
gilded copper. You may see through the base of the Obelisq and plinth
of the piede'stal. Upon two faces of the Obelisq is engraven ;

                                          DIVO CAES. DIVI
                                      IVLII F. AVGVSTO
-1 TI. CAES. DIVI AVG.

                                            F. AVGVST. SACRVM.

   It now beares on the top a crosse in which 'tis sayd that Sixtus V.

inclosed some of the holy wood ; and under it is to be read by good eyes :
                                       SANCTISSIMAE CRVCI

                                          SIXTVS V. PONT. MAX.

                                                 CONSECRAVIT.
                                   E PRIORE SEDE AWLSVM

                                     ET CAESS. AVG. AC TIB.
                                  I. L. ABLATVM M.D.LXXXVI.
    On the foure faces of the base below :

                                 I. CHRISTVS VINCIT.

                                             CHRISTVS REGNAT.
                                        CHRISTVS IMPERAL.

                                       CHRISTVS AB OMNI MALO
                                   PLEBEM SVAM DEFENDAT.
                                    2. SIXTVS V. PONT. MAX.
                         OBELISCVM VATICANVM DIIS GENTIVM

                                      IMPIO CVLTV DICATVM
                            AD APOSTOLORVM DIIS LIMINA
                               OPEROSO LABORE TRANSTVLIT

                                AN. M.D.LXXXVI. PONT. II.
                                      3. ECCE CRVX DOMINI
                                            FVGITE PARTES

                                                     ADVERSAE
                                               VINCIT LEO
                                            DE TRIBV IVDA.
                                    4. SIXTVS V. PONT. MAX,
                                            CRVCI INVICTAE
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN!  IOI

                                     OBELISCVM VATICANVM
                                AB IMPIA SVPERSTITIONE

                              > EXPIATVM IVSTIVS

                                  ET FELICIVS CONSECRAVIT
                               AN. M.D.L.XXXVI. PONT. II.

   A little lower :

DOMINICVS FONTANA EX PAGO MILIAGRI NOVO COIIENSIS TRANSTVLIT
                                               ET EREXIT.

   It is reported to have taken a year in erecting, to have cost 37,975
crowns, the labor of 907 men and 75 horses ; it was the first of the 4
Egyptian Obelisks set up at Rome, and one of the 42 brought to the
Citty out of Egypt, set up in several places, but thrown down by the
Goths, Barbarians, and Earthquakes. See Platina in Vita Pontiff, p.
315. -- Some coaches stood before the stepps of the ascent, whereof one
belonging to Card. Medici had all the metall worke of massy silver ;
viz. the bow behind and other places. The coaches at Rome, as well
as cover'd wagons which are also much in use, are generally the richest
and largest I ever saw. Before the faciata of the Church is an ample
pavement. The Church was first begun by St. Anacletus when rather

a Chapel, on a foundation as they give out of Constantine the Great,
who in honour of the Apostles carried 12 baskets full of sand to the
work. After him Julius 1 1, tooke it in hand, to which all his successors
have contributed more or less.

   The front is suppos'd to be the largest and best studied piece of
architecture in the world ; to this we went up by 4 stepps of marble.
The first entrance is supported by huge pilasters ; the volto within is 
the richest in the world, overlayd with gold. Between the 5 large anti-
ports are columns of enormous height and compass, with as many
gates of brasse the worke and sculpture of Pollajuolo the Florentine,
full of cast figures and histories in a dcepe relievo. Over this runs
a terrace of like amplitude and ornament, where the Pope at solemn
times bestowes his benediction on the vulgar. On each side of this
portico are two campaniles, or towers, whereof there was but one per
fected, of admirable art. On the top of all runns a balustrade which
ed^es it quite round, and upon this at equal distances are Christ and
the 12 Disciples of gigantic size and stature, yet below shewing no
greater than the life. Entring the Church, admirable is the bredth of
the volto or roofe which is all carv'd with foliage and roses overlayd
with gold in nature of a deepe bass relievo, a F antiq. The nave, or
body, is in forme of a crosse, whereof the foote part is the longest ; and
at the internodium of the transept rises the cupola, which being all of
stone and of prodigious height is more in compasse than that of the
Pantheon (which was the largest amongst the old Romans, and is yet
intire) or any other in the world. The inside or concave is cover'd
with most exquisite Mosaiq representing the Celestial Hierarchy, by
102 SIZE AND MAGNIFICENCE OF ST. PETERS, ROME- .

Giuseppe d'Arpino, full of Starrs of gold ; the convex or outside expos'd

to the aire, is cover'd with lead with great ribbs of metall double guilt

(as are also the ten other lesser cupolas, for no fewer adorn this glori
ous structure) which gives a great and admirable splendor in all parts
of the Citty. On the sum'it of this is fixM a brasen globe gilt, capable
of receiving 35 persons. This I entered and engraved my name amongst
other travellers. Lastly is the crossc, the _access to which is betweenc
the leaden covering and the stone convex or arch-worke, a most truly
astonishing piece of art. On the battlements of the Church, also all

overlayd with lead and marble, you would imagine yourself in a town,

so many are the cupolas, pinnacles, towers, juttings, and not a few

houses inhabited by men who dwell there, and have enough to do to

looke after the vast reparations which continually employ them.
   We descended into the body of the Church, which is full of collaterall
Chapells and large Oratories, most of them exceeding the size of ordi

nary Churches ; but the principal are fowre incrusted with most precious
marbles and stones of various colours, adom'd with an infinity of statues,

pictures, stately altars, and innumerable reliques. The altar-piece of
                          Mosaiq I could not passe
St.   Michael being   of   that kind. The Chapel    owfitGhroeugtopryarXticIuIIla. rwnhoetree,
as   one of the best  of

he is buried, is most splendid. Under the cupola, and                                                                          iCnletmheenctentVerIIIo.f
the Church, stands the high altar, consecrated first by                                                                        VIII. with that
adorn'd by Paul V. and lately cover'd by Pope Urban
stupendous canopy of Corinthian brasse which heretofore was brought

from the Pantheon ; it consists of 4 wreath'd columns partly channel'd
and incircl'd with vines, on which hang little puti, birds and bees (the
amies of the Barbarini), sustaining a baldachino of the same mettaL
The 4 columns weigh an hundred and ten thousand pounds, all over
richly gilt ; this with the pedestalls, crowne, and statues about form
                                         :

                                            it
                                                is

                                                           is
                                                                               it,
a  thing of that art, vastness, and magnificence, as beyond all that

man's industry has produced of the kind             the work of Bernini, a

Florentine sculptor, architect, painter, and poet, who, a little before my

coming to the Citty, gave a publiq Opera (for so they call shews ol
that kind) wherein he painted the scenes, cut the statues, invented the
engines, compos'd the musiq, writ the comedy, and built the theatre.

Opposite to either of these pillars, under those niches which with their

columns support the weighty cupola, are placed exquisite statues of
                             ;

                                               4
Parian marble, to which are altars that of St. Veronica made by
                          4

Fra. Mochi, has over the Reliquary, where they shew'd us the mira
     :

                it
tclohucilsiouminsasjScerusitpdatasiroinudmec"einnStdaeurlveadctuowsritistohdiimrtehate,giUnpericbmtaunrVueesrooVfniIocIauIs.r  Saviour's face, with

                                                                                                                                Sudario excepta ut
                                                                                                                               Pont. Max. Marmo-

reum signum et Altare addidit, Conditorium extruxit et ornavit."
   Right against this that of Longinus, of Colossean magnitude, also
                      is                 a

by Bernini, and over him the Conservatory of the iron lance inserted In
              THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                         I03

aVInnmIIooIc.setsntptairtueuscaioVaupsIpIcIo.hsrityaasteBatal,sSwaagicteehtleltohiTssuubercsptairgruurcamtop,h  : " Longini Lanceam quam

transtulit."                                                                                                    Tyranno accepit, Urbanus
                                                                                                                in exornatum Conditorium

The third Chapel has over the altar the statue of our countrywoman
St. Helena, the mother of Constantine the Great, the worke of Boggi,
an excellent sculptor ; and here is preserved a greate piece of the pre
tended wood of the holy crosse, which she is said to have first detected
miraculously in the Holy Land.                               It was
with this inscription : " Partem                             Cruris  placed                                     here by the late Pope
                                                                     quam                                       Helena Imperatrix e
Calvario in Urbem adduxit, Urbanus VIII. Pont. Max. e Sissoriana
Basilica desumptam, additis ara et statua, hie in Vaticano collocavit."
The 4th hath over the altar, and opposite to that of St. Veronica,
the statue of St. Andrew, the worke of Fiamingo, admirable above all
the other ; above is preserved the head of that Apostle richly inchas'd.
It is said that this excellent sculptor died mad to see his statue placed

in a disadvantageous light by Bernini the chiefe architect, who found

VIII.him" sSetlf.eAnodurtedaoenecabpyutthqisuoadrtiPstiu. s  The inscription over it is this :
dum curavit, Urbanus
                                                             II. ex Achaiii in Vaticanum asportan-

                      novis hie ornamentis decoratum sacrisq'
status, ac Sacclli honoribus coli voluit."

   The Rcliques shew'd and kept in this Church are without number,
as are also the precious vessels of gold, silver, and gems, with the vests
and services to be seene in the Sacristy, which they shew'd us. Under

the high altar is an ample, grot inlaid with Pietra Com'essa, wherein
half of the bodies of St. Peter and St. Paul are preserved ; before hang

divers greate lamps of the richest plate burning continually. About

this and contiguous to the altar runns a balustrade in forme of a
theatre, of black marble. Towards the left as you goe out of the

Church by the portico, a little beneath the high altar is an old brasse
statue of St. Peter sitting, under the soles of whose feete many devout
persons rub their heads and touch their chaplets. This was formerly
cast from a statue of Jupiter Capitolinus. In another place stands a
coluinne grated about with yron, whereon they report that our BL
Saviour was often wont to leane as he preached in the Temple. In the
work of the reliquary under the cupola there are 8 wreathed columns
which were brought from the Temple of Solomon. In another Chapell
they shew'd us the chayre of St. Peter, or as they name the Apos
tolical Throne but amongst all the Chapells the one most glorious
has for an altar-piece, a Madona bearing a dead Christ on her knees
in white marble, the work of M. Angelo. At the upper end of the

Cathedral are several stately monuments, especialy that of Urban VIII.

Round the cupola and in many other places in the Church are con»
fession-scates for all languages, Hebrew, Greek, Latin, Spanish, Italian,
              ;

                                                                                         it it,
                                                                                       is
French, English, Irish, Welsh, Sclavonian, Dutch, &c. as                                                        written
104 -CHURCH OF ST. JOHN DE LATERANA. SCALA SANCTA.

on their freezes in golden capitals, and there are still at confessions
some of all nations. Towards the lower end of the Church and on the
side of a vast pillar sustaining a weighty roofe, is the depositum and
statue of the Countess Matilda, a rare piece, with basso-relievos about
iItVo.fawnhditePamulaursbleI,IIt.he&cw.orkAemoofnBgesrtnitnhie.   Here are also those of Sextus
                                                                 exquisite pieces in this sump

tuous fabriq is that of the Ship with St. Peter held up from sinking by
our Saviour ; the emblems about it are the Mosaiq of the famous

Giotto, who restor'd and made it perfect after it had been defaced by

the Barbarians. Nor is the pavement under the cupola to be passed
over without observation, which with the rest of the body and walls of
the whole Church, are all inlaid with the richest of Pietra Com'essa, in

the most splendid colours of polish'd marbles, achats, serpentine, por
phyry, calcedone, &c. wholy incrusted to the very roofe. Coming out
by the portico at which we entred, we were shew'd the Porto Santo,
never opened but at the year of jubilee. This glorious foundation hath

belonging to it 30 Canons, 36 Beneficiates, 28 Clearks beneficed, with
in'umerable Chaplaines, &c. a Cardinal being always Arch-Priest ; the
present Cardinal was Franc. Barberini, who also stiled himselfe Pro

tector of the English, to whom he was indeede very courteous.
   20 Nov. I went to visite that ancient See and Cathedral of St. John
de Laterana, and the holy places thereabout. This is a Church of

extraordinary devotion, though for outward forme not comparable to

St. Peter's, being of Gotiq ordonance. Before we went into the Cathe

dral, the Baptisterie of St. John Baptist presented itselfe, being for
merly part of the Greate Constantine's Palace, and as it is sayd, his

chamber where by St. Silvester he was made a Christian ; it is octago

nal, having before the entrance 8 faire pillars of rich porphyrie, each of

one intire piece, their capitalls of divers orders supporting lesser

columnes of white marble, and these supporting a noble cupola, the

moulding whereof is excellently wrought. Women are prohibited from

entering this chamber, for the malice of Herodias who caus'd him to
loose his head. Here are deposited several sacred reliques of St.

James, Mary Magdalen, St. Matthew, &c. and two goodly pictures.
 Another Chapel or Oratory neere it is called St. John the Evangelist,
" well adorn'd with marbels and tables, especialy those of Cavalier
Giuseppe, and of Tempesta, in fresco. We went hence into another
called St. Venantius, in which is a Tribunal all of Mosaiq in figures of

Popes ; here is also an altar of the Madona much visited, and divers

Sclavonish Saints, companions of Pope John IV. The portico of the
Church is built of materials brought from Pontius Pilate's house in

Jerusalem.
   The next sight which attracted our attention was a wonderful con

course of people at their devotions before a place call'd Scala Sancta,
to which is built a noble front. Entering the portico, we saw those
                   THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                          105

Urge marble stayres, 28 in number, which are never ascended but on

the knees, some lip-devotion being used on every step, on which you

may perceive divers red specks of blood under a grate which they

arorme to have been drops of our BI. Saviour at the time he was so bar

barously mis-us'd by Herod's souldiers, for these stayres are reported

to have been translated hither from his Palace in Jerusalem. At the
top of these stayres is a Chapell, whereat they enter, but we could not

be permitted, by gates of marble, being the same our Saviour passed
when he went out of Herod's house. This they name the Sanctum

Sanctorum, and over it we read this epigraph : Non est in toto sanc-
tior orbe locus. Here, through a grate, we saw that picture of Christ

paynted as they say by St. Luke to the life. Descending again, we

saw before the Church the Obelise, which is indeed most worthy of
admiration. It formerly lay in the Circo Maximo, and was erected
here by Sixtus V. in 15S7, being 112 foote in height without the base
or pedestal ; at the foote 9^ one way and 8 the other. This pillar
was first brought from Thebes at the utmost confines of Egypt, to
Alexandria, from thence to Constantinople, thence to Rome, and is

said by Ammianus Marcellinus to have been dedicated to Ramises
King of Egypt. It was transfcrr'd to this City by Constantine the
sonne of the Great, and is full of hieroglyphics, serpents, men, owles,

falcons, oxen, instruments, &c. containing (as Father Kercher the
Jesuit will shortly tell us in a book which he is ready to publish) all the
recondite and abstruse learning of that people. The vessel, gaily, or

lloate that brought it to Rome so many hundred leagues must needs
liave been of wonderful bignesse and strange fabriq. The stone is

one and intire, and [having been thrown down] was erected by the
famous Dom. Fontana for that magnificent Pope Sixtus V. as the rest
were ; 'tis now cracked in many places, but solidly joyn'd. The

Obelisk is thus inscrib'd at the several faciatas :
   Fl. Constantinus Augustus, Constantini Augusti F. Obeliscum a
patre suo motum diuq ; Alexandria; jacentem trecentorum remigum
impositum navi mirandi vastitatis per mare Tiberimq ; magnis molibus
Romam convectum in Circo Max. ponendum S. P. Q- R. D. D.
On the second square :
Fl. Constantinus Max : Aug : Christianas fidei Vindex & Assertor

Obeliscum ab jEgyptio Rege impuro voto Soli dicatum sedibus avul-
sum suis per Nilum transfer. Alexandriam ut novam Romam ab sc

tunc conditam eo dacoraret monumento.

On the third :
Sixtus V. Pontifex Max : Obeliscum hunc specie eximia temporum

calamitate fractum, Circi Maximi minis humo limoq ; alte demersum,

multi impensa extraxit, hunc in locum magno labore transtulit,
fomueq ; pristine
                   Paocncut.raItIeIIv.estitum,  Cruci  invictissinue  dicavit anno
M.D.LXXXVIII.
106 ALTAR OF ST. PETER. PILLARS OF TITUS.

On the fourth :
Constantinus per Crucem Victor a Silvestro hie baptisatus Crucis

gloriam propagavit.

Leaving this wonderful monument (before which is a stately publiq
fountaine, with a statue of St. John in the middle of  we visited his
         ;

                     is

                                                    ;

                                     I

                                                                                      it)

                                                                                                                                                                            :

                                                                                I
Holyness's Palace, being a little up on the left hand, the designe of Fon-
tana architect to Sixtus V. this take to be one of the best Palaces

in Rome but not staying, we entered the Church of St. John de
Lateran, which                 properly the Cathedral of the Roman See, as
learn'd by these verses engraven upon the architrave of the portico

Dogmate Papali datur, et simul Imperiali

Quod sim cunctarum mater caput Ecclesiaru
Hinc Salvatoris ccelestia regna datoris

Nomine sanxerunt, cum cuncta peracta fuerunt           it ;

Sic vos ex toto conversi supplice voto

Nostra quod haec sedes tibi Christe sit inclyta sedes.
Tis call'd Lateran from noble family dwelling
                               a                             seems here

abouts, on Mons Caelius. The Church Gotiq, and hath a stately
                                            is

                                                   It
tribunal the paintings are of Pietro Pisano.           was the first Church
is
that was consecrated with the ceremonies now introdue'd and where
      ;                                                ;

altars of stone supplied those of wood, heretofore in use and made like
large chests for the easier removal in times of persecution, such an
altar still the greate one here preserved, as being that on which (they
hold) St. Peter celebrated masse at Rome, for which reason none but
the Pope may now presume to make that use of it. The pavement
of all sorts of precious marbles, and so are the walles to a great height,;
over which 'tis painted a fresca with the life and acts of Constantine
the Greate, by most excellent masters. The organs are rare, sup          is
ported by columns. The suffito all richly gilded and full of pic
is                             is
                                        is
               ;

             4
                 4

                           it
tures. Opposite to the porte an altar of exquisite architecture with
a tabernacle on all of precious stones, the worke of Targoni on this
a Ccena of plate, the invention of Curtius Vanni, of exceeding
value the tables hanging over are of Giuseppe d'Arpino. About
                                  it

this are excellent columnes transported out of Asia by the Emperor
Titus, of brasse double gilt, about 12 foote in height; the walls
betweene them are incrusted with marble and set with statues in

niches, the vacuum reported to be fill'd with holy earth which St.

Helena sent from Jerusalem to her sonn Constantine, who set these

pillars where they now stand. At one side of this an Oratory
                it,
                           4

                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                    is
                                                                                                      is
full of rare paintings and monuments, especialy those of the great
Connestable Colonna. Out of this we came into the Sacristia, full
of good pictures of Albert and others. At the end of the Church a

flat stone supported by pillars which they affirme to have beene the
exact height of our Bl. Saviour, which they say never fitted any mortal
man that tried
                               but he was either taller or shorter two columns
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  . 107

of the vaile of the Temple which rent at his passion ; the stone on
which they threw lots for his seamelesse vesture, and the pillar on
which the cock crow'd after Peter's denial ; and, to omit no fine thing,
the just length of the Virgin Mary's foote as it seems her shoemaker

affirm'd. Here is a most sumptuous crosse beset with precious stones,
containing some of the very wood of the holy crosse itselfe ; with

many other things of this sort. Here are many most magnificent monu

ments, especialy those of St. Helen of porphyrie ; Cardinal Farneze ;
Martine the first of copper. The pictures ofA/ary Magdalen, Martine
V., Laurent. Valla. &c. are of Gaetano ; the Nunciata, designed by
M. Angelo ; and the greate Crucifix of Semoneta. In a Chapel at
one end of the porch is a statue of Henry IV. of France in brasse,

standing in a darke hole, and so has don many yeares ; perhaps from
not believing him a thorough proselyte. The two famous (Ecumenical
Councils were celebrated in this Church by Pope Simachus, Martin the
first, Stephen, &c

   Leaving this venerable Church (for in truth it has a ccrtaine majesty
in it) we pass'd through a faire and large Hospital of good architecture,
having some inscriptions put up by Barberini, the late Pope's nephew.
We then went by St. Sylvia, where is a noble statue of St. Gregory P.
be.^an by M. Angelo, a St. Andrewe, and the Bath of St. Cecilia. In
this Church are some rare paintings, especialy that story on the wall of
Guido Rheni. -- Thence to St. Giovanni e Paula, where the Friers are

reported to be greate chymists. The quire, roofe and paintings in the
Tribuna are excellent.-- Descending the Mons Caelius we come against

the vestiges of the Palazzo Maggiore, heretofore the Golden House ol

Nero ; now nothing but an heape of vast and confused mines, to shew

what  time and the vicissitude  of  hthuemamn ostthindgesfordmosedcahnadngeconffruosmed.th--e
most  glorious and magnificent  to

We next went into St. Sebastian's Church, which has an handsome
front We then pass'd by the place where Romulus and Remus were

taken up by Faustulus ; the Forum Romanum ; and so by the edge of
the Mons Palatinus, where we were shew'd the mines of Pompey's
house, and the Church of St. Anacletus : and so into the Circus Maxi-

raus, heretofore capable of containing an hundred and sixty thousand
spectators, but now all one entire heape of rubbish, part of it converted
into a garden of pot-herbs. We concluded this evening with hearing

the rare voices and musiq at the Chiesa Nova.

   a 1 Nov. I was carried to see a great virtuoso Cavaliero Pozzo,
who shew'd us a rare collection of all kind of antiquities, and a choice

library, over which are the effigies of most of our late men of polite
literature. He had a great collection of the antiq bassi-relievos about
Rome, which this curious man had caus'd to be design 'd in several
folios ; many fine medails ; the stone which Pliny calls Enhydrus ; it
had plainly in it the quantity of halfe a spoonfull of water of a yellow
   Io8 PROCESSION OF INNOCENT X. TO ST. JOHN THE LATERAN.

   pebble colour, of the bigness of a walnut. A stone in a ring without

   foiles, paler than an amethyst, which yet he affirm'd to be the true
   carbuncle, and harder than a diamond ; 'twas set in a ring, without

   foile or any thing at the bottom, so as it was transparent, of a greenish
   yellow, more lustrous than a diamond. He had very pretty tilings

   painted on crimson velvet, design'd in black, and shaded and

   heighten'd with white, set in frames ; also a number of choice designs

   and drawings.

      Hence we walked to the Suburra and Erarii. Saturni, where yet
   'remaine some ruines and an inscription. From thence to St. Pietro in
   Vinculi, one of the 7 Churches on the Esqueline, an old and much fre
   quented place of greate devotion for the relicks there, especially the
   bodyes of the seaven Maccabean breathren which lye under the altar.
   On the wall is a St, Sebastian of Mosaic, after the Greeke manner ;

   but what I chiefly regarded was that noble sepulchre of Pope Julius II.

   the worke of M. Angelo, with that never sufficiently to be admired

   statue of Moses in white marble, and those of Vita Contemplativa and
   Activa by the same incomparable hand. To this Church belongs a

   Monastery, in the Court of whose Cloisters grow two tall and very

   stately palme-trees. Behind these are the Bathes of Titus with pro

   digious receptacles for water, which the vulgar call the Setti Sali, now
   all in heapes.
   23 Nov. There was the solemnc and greatest ceremony of all the
   Ecclesiastical States, viz. the procession of the Pope (Innocent X.) to
   St. John  de Lateran. Standing on  the stepps of Ara Celi, neere the
.  Capitol,                           manner :-- First went a guard of
             I saw it passe in this

   Swissers to make way, and divers of the avant guard of horse carrying
   lances. Next follow'd those who carried the robes of the Cardinals,

   two and two ; then the Cardinals Mace-bearers ; the Caudatari on

   mules ; the Masters of their Horse ; the Pope's Barber, Taylor, Baker,

. Gardner, and other domestic officers, all on horseback in rich liveries ;

   the Squires belonging to the guard ; 5 men in rich liveries led 5 noble
   Neapolitan horses white as snow covered to the ground with trappings
   richly embroidered, which is a service paid by the King of Spaine for

   the kingdomes of 'Naples and Sicily, pretended feudatorys to the Pope ;

   3 mules of exquisite beauty and price, trapp'd in crimson velvet : 3 rich
   litters with mules, the litters empty; the Master of the Horse alone,
   with his Squires ; 5 Trumpeters ; the Amerieri estra muros ; the Fis-
   cale and Consistorial Advocates ; Capellani, Camerieri dc honorc,

   Cubiculari and Chamberlaines, call'd Secreti ; 4 other Camerieri with
   4 capps of the dignity Pontifical, which were Cardinals' hatts carried
   on staffs ; 4 Trumpets : after them a number of noble Romans and
   gentlemen of quality very rich, follow'd by innumerable Staffieri and
   Pages ; the Secretaries of the Chancellaria, Abbreviatori-Acoliti in
   their long robes and on mules ; Auditori di Rota ; the Deane of the
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  109

Rod and Master of the sacred Palace on mules, with grave but rich

foote clothes, and in flat episcopal hatts ; then went more of the Roman
and other Nobility and Courtiers, with divers Pages in most rich
liveries on horseback ; 14 Drums belonging to the Capitol ; the Mar-
shalls with their staves ; the 2 Sindics ; the Conservators of the Citty
in robes of crimson damask ; the Knight Confalonier and Prior of the

R. R. in velvet tocques; 6 of his holynesses Mace-bearers ; then the

Captaine or Governor of the Castle of St. Angelo upon a brave prancer ;
the Governor of the Citty ; on both sides of these 2 long ranks of

Swissers ; the Masters of the Ceremonies ; the Crosse-bearer on horse

back, with two Priests at each hand on foote ; Pages, Footmen, and

Guards inaboundance ; then came the Pope himselfe, carried in a litter

or rather open chaire of crimson velvet richly embrodred, and borne by
two stately mules ; as he went he held up two fingers, blessing the mul
titude who were on their knees or looking out of their windows and
houses, with loud viva's and acclamations of felicity to their new Prince.

This was follow'd by the Master of his Chamber, Cupp-bearer, Secre

tary, and Physitian ; then came the Cardinal Bishops, Cardinal Priests,
Cardinal Deacons, Patriarchs, Archbishops, and Bishops, all in their

several and distinct habits, some in red, others in greene flat hatts with

tassells, all on gallant mules richly trapp'd with velvet and lead by

their servants in great state and multitudes ; then came the Apostolical
Protonotari, Auditor, Treasurer, and Referendaries ; lastly, the Trum
pets of the reare-guard, 2 Pages of Armes in helmets with feathers and
carrying launces ; 2 Captaines ; the Pontifical Standard of the Church:
the two Alfieri or Cornets of the Pope's Light Horse, who all follow'd
in armor and carrying launces ; which, with innumerable rich coaches,
Utters, and people, made up the procession. What they did at St. John

di Laterano I could not see by reason of the prodigious crowd ; so I

spent most of the day in viewing the two triumphal arches which had
been purposely erected a few days before, and till now covered ; the
one by the Duke of Parma in the Foro Romano, the other by the
Jewes in the Capitol, with flattering inscriptions. They were of excel
lent architecture, decorated with statues and aboundancc of ornaments
proper for the occasion, since they were but temporary, and made up of
boards, cloatb, &c. painted and fram'd on the suddaine, but as to out
ward appearance solid and very stately. The night ended with fire-

workes. That which I saw was that which was built before the Spanish
Ambassadoos house in the Piazza del Trinita, and another of the
French. The first appeared to be a mighty rock, bearing the Pope's

armes, a dragon, and divers figures, which being set on fire by one

who flung a roquet at tooke fire immediately, yet preserving the
figure both of the rock and statues a very long time, insomuch as
was deemed ten thousand reports of squibbs and crackers spent them
selves in order. That before the French Ambassadors Palace was
it,
                                                                      it
I IO THE JESUITS'C OLLEGE. LIBRARY. ALDOBRANDINI PALACE.

a Diana drawne in a chariot by her doggs, with aboundance of other

figures as large as the life, which plaied with fire in the same manner. ·

In the meane time the windows of the-whole Citty were set with tapers
put into lanterns or sconces of several colour*d oyl'd paper, that, the

wind might not annoy them ; this rendered a most glorious shew. Be

sides these there were at least 20 other fire-workes of vast charge and

rare art for their invention before diverse Ambassadors, Princes and Car

dinals Palaces, especialy that on the Castle of St. Angelo, being a pyra
mid of lights, of greate height, fastned to the ropes and cables which
 support the standard pole. The streetes were this night as light as day,
 full of bonfires, canon roaring, musiq playing, fountaines running
' wine, in all excesse of joy and triumph.

   24 Nov. I went to the Jesuites Colledge againe, the front whereoff

-gives place to a few for its architecture, most of its ornaments being of

 rich marble. It has within a noble Portico and Court, sustained by
stately columnes, as is the Corridor over the Portico, at the sides of

which are the Scholes for the Arts and Sciences, which are here taught

as at the University. Here I heard Father Athanasius Kercher upon
a part of Euclid, which he expounded. To this joynes a glorious and

ample Church for the Students ; a second is not fully finish'd ; and

there are two noble Libraries where I was shew'd that famous wit and
historian Famianus Strada. Hence we went to the house of Hippolito

Vitellesco (afterwards Bibliothecary of the Vatican Library) who
shew'd us one of the best collections of Statues in Rome, to which he

frequently talkes as if they were living, pronouncing now and then

orations, sentences, and verses, sometimes kissing and embracing them.
He has an head of Brutus scarr'd in the face by order of the Senate

for killing Julius ; this is much esteem'd. Also a Minerva and others
of greate value. This gentleman not long since purchased land in the

kingdome of Naples, in hope by digging the ground to find more -

statues ; which it seemes so far succeeded as to be much more worth

than the purchase. We spent the evening at the Chiesa Nova, where

was excellent musiq ; but before that began the courteous Fathers led

me into a nobly-furnish'd Library contiguous to their most beautifull

Convent.

  I28. went to see the garden and house of the Aldobrandini, now
Cardinal Borghese's. This palace
4                                 for architecture, magnificence,

                                             ;

                              is

                                                                               ;

                                                                is,
                                                                       is

                                                                                                                              ;
pompe and state, one of the most considerable about the Citty. It has
fronts, and a noble Piazza before it. Within the court, under arches

supported by marble columns, are many excellent statues. Ascending
the stayrcs there a rare figure of Diana of white marble. The St.
Sebastian and Hermaphrodite are of stupendious art. For paintings,
our Saviour's head by Corregio several pieces of Raphael, some of
which are small some of Bassano Veroneze the Leda, and two admir

able Venns's, are of Titian's pensill; so the Psyche and Cupid; the
                                 THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                   Ill

head of St. John borne by Herodias; two heads of Albert Durer, very
exquisite. We were shewn here a fine cabinet and tables of Florence-
worke in stone. In the garden are many fine fountaines, the walls

covered with citron-trees, which being rarely spread invest the stone

worke intirely ; and towards the streete, at a back gate, the Port is so

handsomely cloath'd with ivy as much pleas'd me. About this Palace

are many noble antiq bassi relievi, two especialy are placed on the

ground, representing armor and other military furniture of the Romans ;

beside these stand about the garden numerous rare statues, altars, and

umes. Above all, for antiquity and curiosity (as being the onely rarity
of that nature now knowne to remaine) is that piece of old Roman
paynting representing the Roman Sponsalia, or celebration of their

marriage, judged to be 1400 yeares old, yet are the colours very lively
and the designe very intire, tho' found deepe in the ground. For this
morcell of paintings sake onely 'tis sayd that Borghesi purchased the
house, because this being on a wall in a kind of banqueting house in the

garden could not be removed, but passe with the inheritance.
29 Nov. I a second time visited the Medicean Palace, being neere
my lodging, the more exactly to have a view of the noble collections that

adorne especialy the bass relievi and antiq frezes inserted about the
         is it,
             a
stone worke of the house. The Saturne of mcttal standing in the
                 rare piece so the Jupiter and Apollo in the hall. We
portico                          ;
                                          ;

                                         is

                                                                 ;

                                                           is

                                                                               ;
were now led into those roomes above we could not see before, full of

incomparable statues and antiquities above all, and happly preferable
to any in the world, are the two Wrestlers, for the inextricable mixture
                                                                                stupendious. In the greate
with each others armes and legges

chamber the Gladiator whetting a knife but the Venus without
          ; is                                                                       ;
                       6
                                                                                                    is
parallel, being the master-piece of whose name you see graven under                                          it

in old Greeke characters nothing in sculpture ever approached this
miracle of art. To this add Marcius, Ganymede, a little Apollo playing

on a pipe some relieui incrusted on the palace walls and an antiq vasa.

of marble neare foote high. Among the pictures may be mentioned
                                                                                passe over the cabinets and
the Magdalen and St. Peter weeping.
                                    is
                                        a

                                           I
tables of Pietra Com'essa, being the proper invention of the Floren
tines. In one of the chambers        whimsical chayre, which folded
into so many varieties as to turn into a bed, a bolster, table, or
                                                                                                          a

a couch.         had another walk in the garden, where are two huge vasa's
I
or bathes of stone.yI
went farther up the hill to the Pope's Palace at Monte Cavallo,
          I

                              ;

                       is
where now saw the garden more exactly, and found to be one of
                                                                                  I
                                                                                           I

                                                                                                      it
the roost magnificent and pleasant in Rome.                                       am told the gardener is

annual alowed 2000 scudi for the keeping it. Here obsniVd hedges
of myrtle above a man's height others of laurell, oranges, nay of ivy
                                 ;

and juniper the close walks, and rustic grotto a crypta, o.r which the
                                                                                  ;

Liver or basin of one vast, intire, antiq porphyrie, and .below this flows
112 PALAZZO DI GHISI. RELICS IN ROME. CHRISTMAS.

a plentifull cascade ; the steppes of the grotto and the roofs being of rich

Mosaiq. Here are hydraulic organs, and a fish-ponH in an ample bath.
From hence we went to taste some rare Greco, and so home.

   Being now pretty weary of continual walking, I kept within, for the
most part, till the 6 Dec, and during this time I entertain'd one Sign.

Alcssandro, who gave me some lessons on the theorba.

   The next excursion was over the Tiber, which I crossed in a ferry-

boate, to see the Palazzo di Ghisi, standing in Transtevere, fairely built,

but famous onely for the painting a fresca on the volto of the portico

towards the garden ; the story is the Amours of Cupid and Psyche, by
the hand of the celebrated Raphael d'Urbin. Here you always see

Painters designing and copying after                      being esteemed one of the
it
                                                           it,
                                                         it

                                                         I
                                                                             I
rarest pieces of that art in the world, and with greate reason.                 must

not omit that incomparable table of Galatea (as remember), so care
fully preserved in the cupboard at one of the ends of this walke, to pro

tect from the aire, being a most lively painting. There are likewise
excellent things of Baldassare and others.

   Thence we went to the noble house of the Duke of Bracciano, fairely

built, with a stately court and fountaine. -- Next we walked to St Mary's

Church, where was the Taberna Meritoria, where the old Roman sol

diers received their triumphal garland, which they ever after wore.

The high altar very faire, adorn'd with columns of porphyrie here
is                                                                    is

       I                                                                                    ;

                           is                                                          is
                                  is
also some mosaic worke about the quire, and the Assumption an
esteem'd piece. It sayd that this Church was the first that was dedi
cated to the Virgin at Rome. In the opposite Piazza
                                                                      a very sump

tuous fountaine.

12. went againe to St. Peter's, to see the Chapells, Churches, and

Grotts under the whole Church (like our St. Faith's under Paules,) in
which lie interred a multitude of Saints, Martyrs, and Popes amongst

them our countryman Hadrian IV. in chest of porphyrie; St. Jo:

Chrysostom Petronella the heads of St. James Minor, St. Luke, St.
Sebastian, and our Thomas a Becket, shoulder of St. Christopher
;                                                         aa          ;
                                    ;                                                            ;
                                                       ;           ;
an arme of Joseph of Arimathea Longinus besides 134 more Bishops,
Souldiers, Princes, Scholars, Cardinals, Kings, Emperors, their wives,

too long to particularize.

   Hence we walked into the Cemitery cal'd Campo Santo, the earth
consisting of severall ship loads of mould transported from Jerusalem,

which consumes a carcasse in 24 houres. To this joynes that rare Hos

pital, where once was Nero's Circus and next to this the Inquisition
                  I
                                 I

                                                   ;

                                        I
                                                             I is
house and prison, the inside thereof, thanke God, was not curious

to see. To this joins his Holinesse's Horse-guards.

On Christmas Eve went not to bed, being desirous of seeing the

many extraordinary ceremonies performed then in their Churches, as

midnight masses and sermons.                              went from Church to Church the

whole night in admiration at the multitude of sceanes and pageantry
       THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                   113

which the Friers had with much industry and craft set out, to catch the

devout women and superstitious sort of people, who never parted with

out dropping some money into a vessell set on purpose ; but especialy
observable was the pupetry in the Church of the Minerva, representing
the Nativity. I thence went and heard a sermon at the Apollinare, by

» hic'a time it was morning. On Christmas Day his Holinesse saing

Masse, the artillerie at St. Angelo went off, and all this day was expos'd

the cradle of our Lord.

   2<ju We were invited by the English Jesuites to dinner, being their
greate feast of Thomas [a Becket] of Canterbury. We dined in their
common Refectory, and afterwards saw an Italian Comedy acted by

their alumni before the Cardinals.

   1645. Jan. We saw passe the new officers of the people of Rome ;
especialy for their noble habits were most conspicuous the 3 Consuls,
now call'd Conservators, who take their places in the Capitol, having
been swome the day before, betwene the hands of the Pope. We ended

the day with the rare musiq at the Chiesa Nova.
   6 Jan. Was the ceremony of our Saviour's Baptisme in the Church

of St. Athanasius, and at Ara Celi was a greate procession, del Bam

bino as they call where were all the Magistrates, and a wonderfull
concourse of people.is
                        it,

                                             is

                                                                             ;

                                                                  it
                                                                      is
                                                                                                           it
7. A Sermon was prcach'd to the Jewes at Ponte Sisto, who are con
strained to sit till the houre don but  with so much malice in

their countenances, spitting, hum'ing, coughing, and motion, that is

almost impossible they should heare a word from the preacher. A con-

rersion very rare.
   14. The heads of St. Peter and St. Paul are expos'd at St. John de
Laterano.

   15. The Zitelle, or young wenches, which are to have portions given
them by the Pope, being poore, and to marry them, walked in proces

sion to St. Peter's, where the Veronica was shew'd.

       went to the Ghetto, where the Jewes dwell as in a suburbe by them-
I

     I;

                                                                                                                                                                                          ;
selues being invited by a Jew of my acquaintance to see a circumci
sion.  passed by the Piazza Judea, where their Seraglio begins for

being inviron'd with walls, they are lock'd up every night. In this
place remaines yet part of a stately fabric, which my Jew told me had
been a palace of theirs for the ambassador of their nation when their

country was subject to the Romans. Being led through the Synagogue
into a privat house, found a world of people in a chamber by and
by came an old man, who prepared and layd in order divers instruaa
ments brought by a little child of about yeares old in a box. TheseI
                                    7                           :
the man Iay'd in silver bason the knife was much like short razora
                         ;

to shut into the haft. Then they burnt some incense in a censer, which
pcrfum'd the rome all the while the ceremony was performing. In the
basin was a little cap made of white paper like capuchins hood, not

                                                     8
1 14 CIRCUMCISION OF A JEW. MAGNIFICENCE OF THE VATICAN. .

bigger than the finger ; also a paper of a red astringent powder, I sup
pose of bole ; a small instrument of silver, cleft in the middle at one

end to take up the prepuce withall ; a fine linen cloth wrapped up.

These being all in order, the women brought the infant, swaddl'd, out
of another chamber, and delivered it to the Rabbie, who carried and
presented it before an altar or cupbord dress'd up, on which lay the
5 Bookes of Moses, and the Commandments a little unrowled ; before
this, with profound reverence, and mumbling a few words, he waved the
child to and fro awhile ; then he delivered it to another Rabbie, who
sate all this time upon a table. Whilst the ceremony was performing,

all the company fell a singing an Hebrew hymn in a barbarous tone,
waving themselves to and fro, a ceremony they observe in all their de
votions. -- The Jewes in Rome all wear yellow hatts, live onely upon
brokage and usury, very poore and despicable beyond what they are in

other territories of Princes where they are permitted.

   18 Jan. I went to see the Pope's Palace, the Vatican, where he for
the most part keeps his Court. It was first built by Pope Simachus,
and since augmented to a vast pile of building by his successors. That
part of it added by Sixtus V. is most magnificent. This leads us into
divers tarraces arched sub dio, painted by Raphael with the Historys.of
the Bible, so esteem'd that artists come from all parts of Europe to
make their studies from these designes. The foliage and grotesq about
some of the compartments are admirable.1 In another rome are repre

sented at large mapps and plotts of most countries in the world, in vast
tables, with briefe descriptions. The stayres which ascend out of St.

lPeeatdeer'sinptoortthiceohianltlootfhGe refigrsotryhaXllI, IIa.rethrearwealyllscwonhterrievoMf,  for ease ; these
                                                                                                  halfe way to the
roofe, are incrusted with most precious marbles of various colours and

workes. So is also the pavement inlaid worke ; but what exceeds de

scription is the volta or rooff itselfe, which is so exquisitely painted, that

'tis almost impossible for the skilfullest eye to discerne whether it be
the worke of the pensil upon a flatt, or of a toole cutt deepe in stone.
The Rotadentala in this admirable perspective, on the left hand as one
goes out, the Stella, &c. are things of art incomparable. Certainly this
is one of the most superb and royall appartements in the world, much
too bcautifull for a guard of gigantic Swissers, who do nothing but
drinke and play at cards in it. Going up these stayres is a paynting
of St. Peter walking on the sea towards our Saviour.
Out of this I went into another hall, just before the chapell called
the Saladel Conclave, full of admirable paintings ; amongst others is

the Assassination of Colignij, the greate [Protestant] French Admiral,
murder'd by the D. of Guise, in the Parisian          mitassisacwreritatet nth, e"nCuopltiiganlsi
of Hen. IV. with
                     Queen Margarite ;     "uRnedxer  Coligni necem probat."
et sociorum caedes  :" on the other side,

   1 Painted by John of Udine, scholar of Raphael, from the designs of Raphael. Painter1
Voyage of Italy, p. 17.
                      THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                          IIS

T"hAelreexaisndaenrothPearpaverIyII.larFgreedpricictui reP,rimunideImr pwehriacthoriiss  inscribed,
                                                                                         iram et impetum

fugiens abdidit es Venetijs ; cognitum et a senatu perhonorifice sus-

ceptum, Othone Imperatoris filio navali praelio victo captoq ; Frederi
cus pace facta supplex adorat ; fidem et obedientiam pollicilus. Ita
                          Venet. Rep. beneficio restituta mclxxviii."
Pontifici sua dignitas    the rather took notice of, because Urban                        '

  This inscription I                                                                     VIII.

had caused it to be blotted out during the difference betweene him and

·that State ; but it was now restored and refresh'd by his successor, to
the greate honor of the Venetians. The Battaile of Lepanto is another
(aire piece here.
  Now we came into the Pope's Chapell, so much celebrated for the
T.ati fudgment, painted by M. Angelo Buonarotti. It is a painting in

fresco, upon a dead wall at the upper end of the Chapell, just over the

high altar, of a vast designe and miraculous fancy, considering the
multitude of naked figures and variety of posture. The roofe also is
full of rare worke. -- Hence we went into the Sacristia, where we were
showM all the most precious vestments, copes, and furniture of the

Chapell. One priestly cope, with the whole suite, had been sent from
one of our English Henrys, and is shewn for a greate rarity. There

were divers of the Pope's pantofles that are kissed on his foote, having
rich Jewells embrodred on the instep, covered with crimson velvet ; also
ha tyara, or triple crown, divers miters, crosiers, &c. all bestudded with

precious stones, gold, and pearle, to a very great value ; a very large
crosse, carved (as they affirme) out of the holy wood it selfe ; also
numerous utensils of chrystal, gold, achat, amber, and other costly

materials for the altar.

We then went into those chambers painted with the Historys of the
;bunting of Rome, quenched by the procession of a Crucifix;
                                                                                         the Victory
of Constantine over Maxentius St. Peter's delivery out
                                                                                         of Prison;
all by Julio Romano,* and are therefore cal'd the Paynters' Academy,
because you always find some young men or other designing from them ;
a civility which is not refused in Italy where any rare pieces of the old

and best masters are extant, and which is the occasion of breeding up

many excellent men in that profession.
The Sala Clementina's Suffito is painted by Cherubin Alberti, with
an ample landskip of Paul Brill's.
We were then conducted into a new Gallery, whose sides were

painted with views of the most famous places, towns, and territories in
Italy, rarely don, and upon the roofe the chiefe acts of the Roman

III.t Pop* Alexander  flying from the wrath and attack of the Emperor Frederick I. took

shelter ax Venice, where he was acknowledged, and most honourably received by the Senate.
The Esvpcror's ton Otho being conquered and taken in a naval battle, the Emperor, having
sude peace, became a suppliant to the Pope, promising faith and obedience. Thus his dig*
tety was restored to the Pontiff by the aid of the Republic of Venice, MCi.xxvul.
> A famous scholar of Raphael.
1 16 THE LIBRARY OF THE VATICAN, AND ITS LITERARY TREASURES

Church since St. Peter's pretended See there. It is doubtlesse one of
the most magnificent galleries in Europ. -- Out of this we came into the
Consistory, a noble roome, the volto painted in grotesq, as I remember.
At the upper end is an elevated throne, and a baldachino or canopy of
state, for his Holinesse, over it.

   From thence, through a very long gallery (longer, I think, then the
French king's at the Louvre), but onely of bare walls, we were brought
into the Vatican Library. This passage was now full of poore people,
to each of whom, in his passage to St. Peter's, the Pope gave a mezzo
grosse. I believe there were in number neer 1500 or 2000 persons.

   This Library is the most nobly built, furnish'd, and beautified of any

in the world ; ample, stately, light, and cherefull, looking into a most
pleasant garden. The walls and roofe are painted, not with antiques

and grotescs, like our Bodleian at Oxford, but emblems, figures, dia

grams, and the like learned inventions, found out by the wit and
industry of famous men, of which there are now whole volumes extant

There were likewise the effigies of the most illustrious men of letters
and fathers of the Church, with divers noble statues in white marble

at the entrance, viz. Hippolitus and Aristides. The Generall Councils
are painted on the side walls. As to the ranging of the bookes, they
are all shut up in presses of wainscot, and not expos'd on shelves to the

open ayre, nor are the most precious mix'd amongst the more ordinary,
which are show'd to the curious onely ; such as are those two Virgils
written in parchment, of more then a thousand yeares old ; the like a
Terence ; the Acts of the Apostles in golden capital letters ; Petrarch's
Epigrams, written with his owne hand ; also an Hebrew parchment
made up in the ancient manner, from whence they were first call'd

Volumina, with    the Cornua  H;ebnu. tVwIIhIa.t    we  English    do much  enquire
after, the booke  which our                       writ  against  Luther.'

The longest roome is 100 paces long; at the end is the gallery of
printed books : then the gallery of the D. of Urbans librarie, in whicli
are MSS. of remarkable miniature, and divers China, Mexican, Sama

ritan, Abyssin, and other Oriental books.
   In another wing of the edifice, 200 paces long, were all the bookes
taken from Heidelburg, of which the learned Gruter and other greate
scholars had been keepers. These walls and volto are painted with
representations of the machines invented by Domenico Fontana for
erection of the obelisqs ; and the true designe of Mahomet's sepulchre
at Mecca.

Out of this we went to see the Conclave, where, during a vacancy,

   1 This very book, by one of those curious chances that occasionally happen, has recently
been brought to England, where the Editor has seen it ; and what is very remarkable, wher.
ever the title of Defender of the Faith is subjoined to the name of Henry, the Pope has drawn
his pen through the epithet. The name of the King occurs in his own hand-writing both at
the beginning and end ; and on the binding are the royal arms. The present possessor pur
chased it in Italy for a few shillings from an old book-stall.
1HE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                    , 117

the Cardinals are shut up till they are agreed upon a new election, the

whole manner whereof was describ'd to us.

   Hence we went into     the"  Pope's Armory  under the Library.      Over the
dore is this inscription                       Littcris Arma, Arma     Litteris."
                           :    Urbanus VIII.

I hardly believe any Prince in Europ is able to shew a more complcately
furnish'd Library of Mars for the quality and quantity, which is 40,000
compleate for horse and foote, and most neatcly kept. Out cf this we

pass d againe by the long Gallery and at the lower end of it downe a
very large payr of stayres, round, without any stepps as usualy, but
-descending with an evenesse so ample and easy that a horse litter or

coach may with ease be drawne up ; the sides of the vacuity are set

with columns ; those at Amboise on the Loire in France are something

of this invention, but nothing so spruce. By these we descended into

the Vatican Gardens cal'd Belvedere, where cntring first into a kind of
Court we were shew'd those incomparable statues (so fam'd by Pliny
and others) of Laocoon with his three sonns embrae'd by an huge ser
pent, all of one entire Parian stone very white and perfect, somewhat

bigger then the life, the worke of those three celebrated sculptors, Age-

sandrus, Polidorus, and Artcmidorus, Rhodians ; it was found amongst
the ruines of Titus's Baths, and placed here. Pliny says this statue is
to be estcem'd before all pictures and statues in the world ; and I am

. of bis opinion, for I never beheld anything of art approach it. Here
 are also those two famous images of Nylus with the Children playing

about him, and that of Tyber ; Romulus and Rhemus with the Wolfe ;

the dying Cleopatra ; the Venus and Cupid, rare pieces ; the Mercury ;

Cybel ; Hercules ; Apollo ; Antinous : most of which are, for defence
against the weather, shut up in niches with wainscot dores. We were

likewise shewed the reliquesof the Hadrian Moles, vis. the Pine, a vast
piece of mettall which stood on the summit of that mausoleum ; also a
Peacock of coper, supposed to be part of Scipio's monument.
In the Garden without this (which containes a vast circuit of ground)
are many stately fountaines, especialy two casting water into antiq
lavon brought from Titus's Bathes ; some faire grotts and water works,

that noble cascade where the ship daunces, with divers other pleasant
inventions, walkes, terraces, meanders, fruite-trees, and a most goodly
prospect over the greatest part of the Citty. One fountaine under the
gate I must not omitt, consisting of three jettos of water gushing out of
the mouthes or proboscis
of the inscription : --         of bees (the armes of the late Pope),  because
                                                                         ,

Quid miraris Apem, qus mel dc floribus haurit ?

   Si tibi mellitam gutture fundit aquam.
   23. We went without the walls of the Citty to visite St. Paules, to
which place 'tis sayd the Apostle bore his ownehead after Nero had
caus'd it to be cut off. The Church was founded by the Greate Con-

stantine ; the maine roofe is supported by 100 vast columns of marble.
_Il8  ST. PAULES ; TRIA FONTANA ; PALAZZO FARNESE.

and the Mosaiq work of the greate arch is wrought with a very ancient
story Anno 440 ; as]is likewise that of the faciata. The gates are brasse
made at Constantinople in 1070, as you may reade by those Greeke
verses engraven on them. The Church is neere soofoote long and 258
in breadth, and                                                    j"oFynl.'dEutogeniuosn                 of one of
whose columns                          ishas 5  great iles                                 the bases       C. Prarf.
                                                               isthisodd title             Asellus C.

                                                                                      :
                                                                                          :

                                                                                         it,
                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                      is
Urbis V.S.I, reparavit." Here they shewed us that miraculous Crucifix
which they say spake to St. Brigit and just before the Ciborio stand
two excellent statues. Here are buried part of the bodys of St. Paule

and St. Peter. The pavement richly interwoven with precious orien

tal marbles about the high altar, where are also excellent payntings,
whereof one, representing the stoning of St. Stephen, by the hand of
a Bolognian lady named Lavinia. The tabernacle on this altar of
excellent architecture, and the pictures in the Chapel del Sacramento                                     is

are of Lanfranchi. Diuers other reliques there be also in this venerable                                             ;·

Church, as a part of St. Anna the head of the Woman of Samaria
                                                       ;
the chayne which bound St. Paule, and the Eculeus us'd in tormenting
the primitive Christians. The Church stands in the Via Ostensis aboutis

a mile from the walles of the Citty, separated from any buildings neere
   except the Tria Fontana, to which (leaving our coach) we walked,
going over the mountaine or little rising upon which story says an hun
' I itdred seaventy and thousand Christians had been martyr'd by Maxi-
                                       4
         I is ;
                                    ;              ;

                                                 is
mianus, Dioclesian, and other blody Tyrants. On this stand St. Vin

cent's and Anastasius likewise the Church of St. Maria Scala del
Cielo, in whose Tribuna a very faire Mosaiq worke. The Church ot
the Tre Fontane (as they are call'd)
                                                                   perfectly well built tho' but
                                                                   3 is
small (whereas that of St. Paule but Gotiq) having a noble cupola in        it
the middle in this they shew the pillar to which St. Paule was bound

when his head was cut off, and from whence made three prodigious

leaps, where im'ediately broke out the remaining fountaines which

give denomination to this Church. The waters are reported to be me

dicinal over each erected an altar and a chayned ladle for better
                                       is

tasting of the waters. That most excellent picture of St. Peter's cruci

fixion of Guido.
   25. went againe to the Palazzo Farnese, to see some certaine sta
tues and antiquities which by reason of the Afajor Domo not being within
· could not formerly obtaine. In the hall stands that triumphant Colosse
of one of the family, upon figures, a modern, but rare piece. About
                                           ;                                                              it

                                                    3
stood some Gladiators and at the entrance into one of the first chambers

are two cumbent figures of Age and Youth brought hither from St.

Peter's to make roomeforthe Longinus under the cupola. Here was the
statue of a ram running at a man on horseback, most incomparable ex
                                                                   I

                                                                                a
pression of Fury cut in stone and table of Pietra Com'esse very curious.
The next chamber was all painted afresca by a rare hand, as was the
carving in wood of the cieling which as remember was in cedar, as the
                                                      ;

                                                                a
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  II9

Italian mode is, and not poore plaster as ours are ; some of them most
richly gilt In a third rome stood the famous Venus, and the child
Hercules strangling a serpent of Corinthian brass antiq, on a very
curious bass-relievo; the sacrifice to Priapus; the Egyptian Isis in the
hard black ophit stone taken out of the Pantheon, greately celebrated by
the Antiquaries ; likewise two tables of brasse containing divers old
Roman laws. At another side of this chamber was the statue of a
wounded Amazon falling from her horse, worthy the name of the ex

cellent sculptor, whoever the artist was. Neere this was a bass relievo
of a Bacchanalia with a most curious Silenus. The 4th room was totally
in viron'd with statues ; especialy observable was that so renowned piece
of a Venus looking backward over her shoulder, and divers other naked

figures by the old Greeke masters. Over the doores are two Venues,

one of them looking on her face in a glasse by M. Angelo, the other
is painted by Caracci. I never saw finer faces, especialy that under the
masque whose beauty and art are not to be describ'd by words. The

next chamber is also full of statues most of them heads of Philoso
phers, very antiq. One of the Cxsars and another of Hannibal cost
isoocrownes. Now I had a second view of that never to be sufficiently
admired gallery painted in dcepe relievo, the worke of 10 years study
for a trifling reward. In the wardrobe above they shcw'd us fine

v.TOught plate, porcelan, mazers of beaten and solid gold set with dia
monds, rubies, and emeralds ; a treasure, especialy the workmanship
considered, of inestimable value. This is all the Duke of Parma's.
Nothing seem'd to be more curious and rare in its kind then the
compleate service of the purest chrystal for the altar of the Chapell, the
very bell, cover of a book, sprinkler, &c. were all of the rock, incom

parably sculpturM with the holy story in deepe Levati ; thus was also
wrought the crucifix, chalice, vases, flower-pots, the largest and purest
chrystall that my eyes ever beheld. Truely I looked on this as one of
the greatest curiosities I had seene in Rome. In another part were
presses fumish'd with antiq armes, German clocks, perpetual motions,

watches, and curiosities of Indian workes. A very ancient picture of

Pope Eugenius ; a St. Bernard, and a head of marble found long since,
supposed to be a true portrait of our B : Saviour's face.

   Hence we went to see Dr. Gibbs, a famous poet and countryman of
ours, who had some intendency in an Hospital built on the Via Tri-

umphalis, called Christ's Hospital, which he shew'd us. The Infirmitory
where the sick lay was paved with various colour'd marbles, and the

walls hung with noble pieces ; the beds are very faire ; in the middle is
a stately cupola, under which is an altar decked with divers marble
statues, all in sight of the sick, who may both see and hcare masse as
they lye in their beds. The organs are very fine, and frequently play'd
on to recreate the people in paine. To this joyns an apartiment des
tined for the orphans ; and there is a schoolc ; the children wearr
120 CHRIST'S HOSPITAL, OR INFIRMARY. AQUEDUCT OF AUGUSTUS.

blew like ours in London at an Hospital of the same appellation. Here

are 40 nurses who give suck to such children as are accidentaly found
expos'd and abandon'd. In another quarter are children of bigger

growth, 450 in number, who are taught letters. In another, 500 girles

under the tuition of divers religious matrons, in a Monastry, as it were,

by itselfe. I was assurM there were at least 2000 more maintain'd in
other places. I think one appartiment had in it neere 1000 beds ;

these are in a very long rome having an inner passage for those who

attend, with as much care, sweetenesse, and conveniency as can be

imagin'd, the Italians being generaly very neate. Under the portico

the sick may walke out and take the ayre. Opposite to this are other
chambers for such as are sick of maladies of a more rare and difficult

cure, and they have romes apart. At the end of the long corridore is an

apothecary's shop, fair and very well stot^d ; neere which are chambers

for persons of better quality who are yet necessitous. Whatever the

poore bring is at their coming in deliver'd to a treasurer, who makes an

inventory and is accoumptable to them, or their representatives if they
dye. To this building joynes the house of the com'endator, who with

his officers attending the sick make up 90 persons ; besides a convent
and an ample church for the friers and priests who daily attend. The

church is extreamely neate, and the sacristia very rich. Indeede 'tis

altogether one of the most pious and worthy foundations I ever saw :

nor is the benefit small which divers young physitians and chirurgeons

reape by the experience they learne here amongst the sick, to whom

those students have free accesse. Hence we ascended a very steepe
hill neere the Port St. Pancratio to that stately fountaine call'd Acqua
Paula, being the aquaeduct which Augustus had brought to Rome, now

re-edified by Paulus V. ; a rare piece of architecture, and which serves
the City after a journey of 35 miles, here pouring itselfe into divers
ample lavors, out of the mouthes of swans and dragons, the armes of

this Pope. Situate on a very high mount, it makes a most glorious

shew to the Citty, especialy when the sun darts on the waters as it
gusheth out. The inscriptions on it are :
Paulus V. Romanus Pontifex Opt. Max. Aquaeductus ab Augusto
Caesare extructos, aevi longinqua vetustate collapsos, in ampliorem for-

mam restituit anno salutis M.D. CIX. Pont V.

And towards the feilds,
Paulus V. Rom. Pontifex Optimus Maximus, priori ductu longissimi

temporis injuria pene diruto, sublimiorem
[One or more leaves are here wanting in Mr. Evelyris MS. descriptive
of other parts of Rome, and of his leaving the City.}
   Thence to   sVteatleuetri,ofaPt.oUwrnbeanheVretIoIIfo.rien  of the   Volsci, where  is a pub-
liq and faire                                                  brasse,  and a stately  fountaine

in the streete. Here we lay, and drank excellent wine.
Jan : 28. We dined at Sermoneta, descending all this morning
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                   121

downe a stony mountaine, unpleasant, yet full of olive-trees ; and anon

passe a towrc built on a rock, kept by a small guard against the Ban
ditti who infest these parts, daily robbing and killing passengers, as my
Lord Banbury and his company found to their cost a little before. To

this guard we gave some mony, and so were suffered to passe, which
was still on the Appian to
came from Rome to meete     the   Tres   Tabernae    (whither the breathren
                            St.  Paule,            28) ; the ruines whereof
                                         Acts, c
are yet very faire, resembling the remainder of some considerable edi

fice, as may be judged by the vast stones and fairenesse of the arched
worke. The country invironing this passage is hilly, but rich ; on the
right hand stretches an ample playne, being the Pomptini Campi. We

repos'd this night at Piperno, in the Post-house without the towne ;
and here I was extreamely troubled with a sore hand from a mischance

at Rome, which now began to fester, upon my base, unlucky, stiff-

necked, trotting, carrion mule, which are in the world the most wretched
beasts. In this towne was the Poet Virgil's Camilla borne.
   The day following we were faine to hire a strong convey of about 30
firelocks to guard us through the Cork-woods (much infested with the
Banditti) as far as Nova Fossa, where was the Appii Forum, and now
stands a Church with a greate Monastry, the place where Thomas

Aquinas both studied and lyes buried. Here we all alighted, and were

most courteously received by the Monks, who shew'd us many reliques
of their learned Saint, and at the high altar the print forsooth of the
mule's hoofe which he caused to kneele before the Host. The Church

is old, built after the Gotiq manner ; but the place is very agreeably

melancholy. After this, pursuing the same noble [Appian] way (which
we had before left a little) we found it to stretch from Capua to Rome

itselfe, and afterwards as far as Brundusium. It was built by that

famous Consul, 25 foote broad, every 12 foote something ascending for
the ease and firmer footing of horse and man ; both the sides are also a
little rais'd for those who travell on foote. The whole is paved with a
kind of beach-stone, and, as I say'd, ever and anon adorn'd with some
old ruine, sepulcher, or broken statue. In           of these monuments
Pancirollus tells us that in the time of Paul  one
                                                     there was found the
                                               III.
body of a young lady swimming in a kind of bath of precious oyle or
liquor, fresh and entire as if she had been living, neither her face disco-
lour'd, nor her haire disordered : at her feete burnt a lamp which sud-

dainely expir'd at the opening of the vault ; having flam'd, as was com
puted, now 1500 yeares, by the conjecture that she was Tulliola the
daughter of Cicero whose body was thus found, and as the inscription
testified. We din'd this day at Terracina, heretofore the famous Anxur,

which stands upon a very eminent promontory, the Cercean by name.

Whilst meate was preparing I went up into the town, and view'd the ·
fayre remainders of Jupiter's Temple, now converted into a Church,

adorn'd with most stately columns ; its architecture has been excellent.
122 THE APPIAN WAY. TOMB OF CICERO. CAJETA.

as may be deduc'd from the goodly cornices, mouldings, and huge
white marbles of which 'tis built. Before the portico stands a pillar

thus inscrib'd :
             Inclyta Gothorum Regis monumenta vetusta
                  Anxuri hoc Oculos exposuere loco.

for it seemes Theodoric drayn'd their marches. On another more
ancient : Imp. Caesar Divi Nervse Filius Nerva Trajanus Aug. Ger-
manicus Dacicus, Pontif. Max Trib. Pop. xvm. Imp. VI. Cos. v. p.p.
xvill. Silices sua pecunia stravit.
Meaning doubtlesse some part of the Via Appia. Then,

   Tit. Upio. Aug. optato Pontano Procuratori et Proefect. Classis-- TL

Julius T. Fab. optatus II vir.

   Here is likewise a Columna Miliaria with something engraven on
                         I
                                I

                                                        a

                                                                                                    ;

                                                                       it I

                                                                                                  a it,
but could not stay to consider it. Coming down againe, went to
I
wards the sea side to contemplate that stupendious strange rock and
   ispromontory, cleft by hand, suppose, for the better passage. Within

this the Cercean Cave, which went into good way            makes

dreadfull noyse by reason of the roaring and impetuous waves con-
tinualy assaulting the beach, and that in an unusual manner. At the
top at an excessive height stands an old and very greate castle. We

ariv'd this night at Fundi, a most dangerous passage for robbing and
                  by Galba's Villa, and anon entred   is :
                  at the gate this epigraph saluted us             a

                                                                               :
                                                                                        ;

                                                                              it
                                                                                     is
so we pass'd                                            t"heHoskpinegsdhoime esunotf
Naples, where

fines Regni Neopolitani  amicus advenis, pacate omnia invenies, et
                         ;

                             si
                                           it
maiis moribus pulsis, bonas leges." The Via Appia here noble pros

pect having before consider^ how was carried through vast moun-
;

taines of rocks for many miles, by most stupendious labour here
infinitely pleasant, beset with sepulchres and antiquities, full of sweete
shrubbs in the invironing hedges. At Fundi we had oranges and cit

rons for nothing, the trees growing in every corner, charged with fruite.
   29. We descried Mount Cascubus, famous for the generous wine
heretofore produe'd, and so rid onward the Appian Way, beset with it

myrtils, lentiscus, bayes, pomegranads, and whole groves of orange-
trees and most delicious shrubbs, till we came to Formiana, where they

shew*d us Cicero's Tomb standing in an olive grove, now a rude heap
of stones, without forme or beauty for here that incomparable Orator
                         ;

was murther'd.    ;I  shall never forget how exceedingly was delighted
                                                        I

with the sweetenesse of this passage, the sepulcher mixed amongst all
sorts of verdure besides being now come within sight of the noble Citty

Cajeta, which gives a surprizing prospect along the Tyrrhen Sea in
manner of a Theater and here we beheld that strangely cleft rock, a
                      :

frightfull spectacle, which they say happen'd upon the passion of our
BL Saviour but the hast of our Procaccio did not suffer us to dwell so
          ;

long on these objects, and the many antiquities of this towne, as we

desired.
              THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                  I23

At Fonnia we saw Cicero's grott, dining at Mola, and passing
Senuessa, Garigliano (once the Citty Mintema), and beheld the mines
of that vast amphitheatre and aqueduct yet standing ; the river Liris,
which bounded the old Latium, Falernus, or Mons Massicus, cele
brated for its wine, now named Garo ; and this night we lodged at a
little village called Agatha, in the Falernian Feilds ncere to Aurunca
and Sessa.

   The  dnieFxrtadnacyo,lehsasvei,ngwhepraesseHdan[nthibealrivinerd]aVnugletur mfroums,   we come by the
Torre                                                                                    Fabius Maximus

escaped by debauching his encmyes ; and so at last we enter'd the most
pleasant plaines of Campania, now call'd Terra di Lavoro ; in very truth,

I thinke, the most fertile spot that ever the sun shone upon. Here we saw

the slender ruines of the once mighty Capua, contending at once both
with Rome and Carthage, for splendor and empire, now nothing but a
heape of rubbish, except shewing some vestige of its former magnificence
in pieces of temples, arches, theaters, columns, ports, vaults, colossas,

&c confounded together by the barbarous Goths and Longobards ;

there is however a new Citty, neerer to the road by two miles, fairely

rays'd out of these heapes. The passage from this towne to Naples
(which is about 10 or 12 English post miles,) is as straight as a line, of
grtat breadth, fuller of travellers than I remember any of our greatest

and most frequented roads neere London ; but what is extreamely
pleasing, is the great fertility of the feilds, planted with fruit-trees,
whose boles are serpented with excellent vines, and they so exuberant

that 'tis commonly reported one vine will loade 5 mules with its grapes.
What adds much to the pleasure of the sight is that the vines, climbing

to the summit of the trees, reach in festoons and fruitages from one tree

to another, planted at exact distances, forming a more delightful pic
ture than painting can describe. Here grow rice, canes for suggar,
olives, pomegranads, mulberrys, cittrons, oranges, figgs, and other
sorts of rare fruites. About the middle ol the way is the towne Aversa,
wither came 3 or 4 coaches to meete our ladye-travellers, of whom we
now tooke leave, having ben very merry by the way with them and the

capitano their gallant.
   31 Jan. About noone we enter'd the Citty of Naples, alighting
at the 3 Kings, where we found the most plentiful lare all the
tyme we were in Naples. Provisions are wonderfully cheape ; we

seldom sat downe to fewer than 18 or 20 dishes of exquisite meate

and fruites.

The morrow after our arival, in the afternoone, we hired a coach to
carry us about the towne. First we went to the Castle of St. Elmo,

built on a very high rock, whence we had an intire prospect of the whole
Citty, which lyes in shape of a theatre upon the sea brinke, with all
the circumjacent islands, as far as Caprex, famous for the debauched
recesses of Tiberius. This Fort is the bridle ol the whole Citty, and
.124 NAPLES ; ST. ELMO ; THE MOLE ; CATHEDRAL AND CHURCHES.

-was well stor'd and garrison'd with native Spanyards. The strangenesse

·of the precipice and rarenesse of the prospect of so many magnificent
-and stately Palaces, Churches, and Monasteries, with the Arsenall, the

 Mole, and Mount Vesuvius in the distance, all in full com'and of the
-eye, make it one of the richest landskips in the world.

   Hence we descended to another strong Castle, cal'd II Castello

 Nuovo, which protects the shore, but they would by no intreaty permit

-us to go in ; the outward defence secmes to consist but in 4 towrs, very
 high, and an exceeding deepe graft with thick walls. Opposite to this
is the Toure of St. Vincent, which is also very strong.
   Then we went to the very noble Palace of the Viceroy, partly old

   and part of a newer work, but we did not stay long here. Towards the

· evening we tooke the ayre upon the Mole, which is a streete on the

   rampart or banke rays'd in the Sea for security of their gallys in port,
   built as that of Genoa. Here I observed a rich fountaine in the middle
-of the Piazza, and adorn'd with divers rare statues of copper repre

 senting the Sirens or Deities of the Parthenope, spouting large streames
 of water into an ample shell, all of cast metall, and of great cost ; this
· stands at the entrance of the Mole, where we mctt many of the Nobility

   both on horseback and in their coaches to take the fresco from the Sea,
   as the manner is, it being in the most advantageous quarter for good

   ayre, delight, and prospect. Here we saw divers goodly horses who
   handsomly become their riders, the Neapolitan gentlemen. This Mole
is about 500 paces in length, and paved with a square hewn stone.
 From the Mole we ascend to a Church, of greate antiquity, formerly
 sacred to Castor and Pollux, as the Greeke letters carvM on the archi-

·trave and the busts of their two statues testify. It is now converted

   into a stately Oratory by the Theatines.

   The Cathedrall is a most magnificent pile, and, except St. Peter's in

   Rome, Naples exceeds all Cittys for stately Churches and Monasteries.
   We were told that this day the blood of St. Genuarius and his head

· should be expos'd, and so we found                 it,but obtain'd not to see the

   miracle of the boiling of this blood, as was told us. The next we went  ;

   to see was St. Peter's, richly adorned, the Chapel especialy, where that

   Apostle sayd masse, as testified on the walle.
                          is
                                          is
   After dinner we went to St. Dominic, where they shew'd us the

'  "CrBuecnifeixdethmaet        reported to have sayd   these               words to St. Thomas,
                          scripsisti Thoma." Hence     to the               Padri Olivetani, famous

   for the monument of the learned Alexand. ab Alexandre

   We went the next day to visite the Church of Sta. Maria Maggiore,
-where we spent much tyme in surveying the Chapell of Joh. Jov. Pon-
 tanus, and in the severall and excellent sentences and epitaphs onit
 himselfe, wife, children, and friends, full of rare witt and worthy of
 recording as we find them in severall writers. In the same Chapell           is

· shew'd an arme of Titus Livius with this epigraph "Titi Livij brachium
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  1 25

quod Anton. Panormita a Patavinis impetravit, Jo. Jovianus Pontanuy
multos post annos hoc in loco ponendum curavit."

   Climbing a steepe hill we came to the Monastery and Church of the
Carthusians, from whence is a most goodly prospect towards the Sea

and Citty, the one full of gallys and ships, the other of stately palaces,
churches, monasteries, castles, gardens, delicious fields and meadows,

Mount Vesuvius smoaking, the Promontory of Minerva and Misenum,

Capreac, Prochyta, Ischia, Pausilipe, Puteoli, and the rest, doubtlesse

one of the most divertisant and considerable vistas in the world. The

Church is most elegantly built ; the very pavements of the common
cloyster being all layd with variously polish'd marbles richly figur'd.
They shewM us a massie crosse of silver much celebrated for.the work

manship and carving, and sayd to have been 14 yeares in perfecting.
The Quire also is of rare arte ; but above all to be admir"d is the yet
untinish'd Church of the Jesuites, certainly if accomplished not to be-
equal d in Europe. Hence we pass'd by the Palazzo Caraffi, full of
ancient and very noble statues ; also the Palace of the Ursini. The-
next day we did little but visite some friends, English merchants resi

Ident for their negotiation ; onely this morning at the Viceroy's Cavale-

rizzo saw the noblest horses that I had ever beheld, one of his senns

riding the menage with that addressc and dexterity as I had never seenc

any thing approch it.
   4 Feb. We were invited to the collection of exotic rarities in the

Museum of Ferdinando Imperati, a Neapolitan nobleman, and one of
the most observable palaces in the Citty, the repository of incompara

ble rarities. Amongst the naturall Herbals most remarkable was the
Bysius marina and Pinna marina; the male and female Camelion ; an
Onacratulus; an extraordinary greate Crocodile ; some of the Orcades
Anates, held here for a great rarity ; likewise a Salamander ; the male
and female Manucodiata, the male having an hollow in the back, in

which 'tis reported the female both layes and hatches her egg ; the
Mandragoras of both sexes ; Papyrus made of severall reedes, and some
of silke ; tables of the rinds of trees written with Japoniq characters ;
another of the branches of palme ; many Indian fruites ; a chrystal that

had a quantity of uncongealed water within its cavity ; a petrified
fisher's net ; divers sorts of Tarantulas, being a monstrous spider with
lark-like clawes, and somewhat bigger.

   5 Feb. The next day we beheld the Vice-king's procession, which
was very splendid for the reliques, banners, and musiq, which accom
panied the B. Sacrament. The ceremony tooke up most of the morning.

   6 Feb. We went by coach to take the ayre, and see the diversions

or rather maddnesse of the Carnival ; the courtisans (who swarme in
this Citty to the number, as we are told, of 30,000, registred and pay
ing a tax to the State) flinging eggs of sweete water into our coach as
we passed by the houses and windows. Indeed thetowne is so pester'd
1 26 ASCENT OF VESUVIUS, AND DESCRIPTION OF THE VOLCANO

with these cattell, that there needes no small mortification to preserve
from their enchantment, whilst they display all their naturall and ar-

titicia.ll beauty, play, sing, feigne compliment, and by a thousand stu
died devices seeke to inveigle foolish young men.

   7. The next day being Saturday we went 4. miles out of towne on
mules to see that famous Volcano Mount Vesuvius. Here we passe a

faire fountaine cal'd Labulla, which continually boyles, suppos'd to pro

ceed from Vesuvius, and thence over a river and bridg, where on a

large upright stone is engraven a notable inscription relative to the

memorable eruption in 1630.
   Approching the hill as we were able with our mules, we alighted
crawling up the rest of the proclivity with great difficulty, now with our
feete, now with our hands, not without many untoward slipps which

did much bruise us on the various colour'd cinders with which the
whole mountaine is cover'd, some like pitch, others full of perfect brim

stone, others metaliq, interspers'd with innumerable pumices (of all

which I made a collection), we at the last gain'd the sum'it of an exces

sive altitude ; turning our faces towards Naples, it presents one of the

goodliest prospects in the world ; all the Baia;, Cuma, Elyssian Fields,

Capreae, Ischia, Prochita, Misenus, Puteoli, that goodly Citty, with a

great portion of the Tyrrhcn Sea, offering themselves to your view at

once, and at so agreeable a distance, as nothing can be more delight-
full. The mountaine consists of a double top, the one pointed very

sharp, and com'only appearing above any clouds, the other blunt.
Here as we approch'd we met many large gaping clefts and chasms,
out of which issued such sulphureous blasts and smoke that we durst
not stand long neere them. Having gain'd the very summit, I layd

myself downe to looke over and into that most frightfull and terrible

vorago, a stupendious pit of neere three miles in circuit and halfe a mile

in depth, by a perpendicular hollow cliffe (like that from the highest
part of Dover Castle), with how and then a craggy prominency jetting
out. The area at the bottom is plaine like an even'd floore, which

seemes to be made by the winds circling the ashes by its eddy blasts.

In the middle and center is a hill shaped like a great e browne loafe,

appearing to consist of sulphurous matter, continualy vomiting a foggy

exhalation, and ejecting huge stones with an impetuous noise and roar
ing like the report of many musquets discharging. This horrid Bara
thrum engaged our attention for some houres, both for the strangnesse
of the spectacle and the mention which the old histories make of as
i*
                      it
                                                                                    is

                                                                                         it
                                                                                             is

                                                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                                 it,
one of the most stupendious curiosities in nature, and which made the
learned and inquisitive Pliny adventure his life to detect the causes, ·
and to loose in too desperate an approch. It likewise famous for
the stratagem of the rebell Spartacus, who did so much mischiefe to

the State, lurking amongst and protected by these horrid caverns, when

was more accessible and lesse dangerous than now   but especialy
                        THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                            127

 notorious it is for the last conflagration, when, in anno 1630, it burst
 out beyond what it had ever don in the memory of history, throwing
 out huge stones and fiery pumices in such quantity as not onely invi-
 ron'd the whole mountaine, but totaly buried and overwhelm'd divers,
  townes and their inhabitants, scattering the ashes more than an hun-
" dred miles, and utterly devastating all those vineyards where formerly

 grew the most incomparable Greco ; when bursting thro' the bowels of
 the earth it absorb'd the very Sea, and with its whirling waters drew in
  divers gallyes and other vessells to their destruction, as is faithfully re
 corded. We descended with more ease than we climb'd up, thro'
  a deepe vallie of pure ashes, which at the late eruption was a flowing
 river of mealted and burning brimstone, and so came to our mules at
 the foote of the mountaine.

     On Sunday we with our guide visited the so much celebrated Baiaa
 and natural rarities of the places adjacent. Here we enter the moun
  taine Pausilipo, at the left hand of which they shew'd us Virgil's sepul
  chre erected on a steepe rock, in forme of a small rotunda or cupolated
  columne, but almost overgrowne with bushes and wild baye trees. At
  the entrance is this inscription :

                                           Stanisi Cencovius.

                                                                 1589.

                 Qui cineres ? Tumuli h«ec vestigia, conditur olim
                         Ille hoc qui cecinit Pascua, Rura, Duces.

                                Can. ReeMDLIII.1

     After we were advanc'd into this noble and altogether wonderfull
  crypt, consisting of a passage spacious enough for two coaches to go
  on breast, cut thro' a rocky mountaine neere three quarters of a mile,
 (by the ancient Cimmerii as reported, but as others say by L. Cocceius,
  who employed an hundred thousand men on it,) we came to the mid
  way, where there is a well borM through the diameter of this vast moun
 taine, which admitts the light into a pretty chapel, hewn out of the -
 natural rock, wherein hang divers lamps perpetualy burning. The way
  is pav'd under foote, but it does not hinder the dust, which rises so
 excessively in this much frequented passage that we were forc'd at mid
 day to use a torch. At length we were deliver'd from the bowels of the
 earth into one of the most delicious plaines in the world : the oranges,
 lemons, pomegranads, and other fruites, blushing yet on the perpetualy
 greene trees ; for the summer is here eternal, caus'd by the natural and
 adventitious heate of the earth, warm'd through the subterranean fires,

1 Such ta th« inscription, as copied by Mr. Evelyn ; but as its sense is not very clear, and
as the Diary contains   instances of incorrectness                                  Editor   has thought it
sirable to subjoin the  distich said by Keysler in          in transcribing,   the  p. 433,  to be the only  de
                                                            his Travels, vol.                                one
                                                                               II.
is the
        whole  "aaausoleum :
                                Quae
                                      cineris  tumulo haec  vestigia ?  conditur  oUm

                        Ille hoc qui cecinit, pascua, rura, duces."
 128 LAGO DI AGNANO ; CHARON'S CAVE ; COURT OF VULCAN.

as was shewn us by our guide, who alighted, and cutting up a turf with
his knife, and delivering it to me, was so hot I was hardly able to hold
it in my hands. This mountaine is exceedingly fruitfull in vines, and
exotics grow readily. We now came to a lake of about two miles,
in circumference, inviron'd with hills ; the water of it is fresh and swete
on the surface, but salt at botome, some mineral salt conjectured to be
the cause, and 'tis reported of that profunditude in the middle that it is
botomelesse. The people call it Lago di Agnano from the multitude
of serpents which involved together about the spring fall downe from
the cliffy hills into it. It has no fish, nor will any live in it. We tried
the old experiment on a dog in the Grotto del Cane, or Charon's Cave ;
it is not above three or four paces deepe, and about the height of a man,

nor very broad. Whatever having life enters it presently expires. Of

this we made tryal with two doggs, one of which we bound to a short
pole to guide him the more directly into the further part of the den,
where he was no sooner enter'd, but without the least noyse, or so much
as a struggle, except that he panted for breath, lolling out his tongue,
his eyes being fix'd ; we drew him out dead to all appearance, but im
mediately plunging him into the adjoyning lake, within lesse than halfe
an houre he recover'd, and swimming to shore ran away from us. We
tried the same on another dogg without the application of the water,
and left him quite dead. The experiment has been made on men, as
on that poore creature whom Peter of Toledo caus'd to go in ; likewise
on some Turkish slaves ; two souldiers, and other foole-hardy persons,
who all perished, and could never be recover'd by the water of the lake
as are doggs, for which many learned reasons have ben offer*d, as
Simon Majolus in his booke of the Canicular-dayes has mention'd,
colloq. 15. And certainely the most likely is, the effect of those hot
and dry vapours which'ascend out of the earth and are condensed by
the ambient cold, as appeares by their converting into chrystaline drops
on the top, whilst at the botome 'tis so excessively hott that a torch
being extinguished neere and lifted a little distance, was suddainely
relighted. Neere to this cave are the natural stoves of St. Germain, of
the nature of sudatories, in certaine chambers partition'd with stone
for the sick to sweate in, the vapours here being exceedingly hot, and
of admirable successe in the goute and other cold distempers of the '
nerves. Hence we climb'd up an hill, the very highway in several
places even smoaking with heate like a fournace. The mountaines were
by the Greekes called Leucoyei, and the fields Phlacgrean. Hercules
here vanquished the Gyants assisted with lightning. We now came to
the Court of Vulcan, consisting of a valley neere a quarter of a mile in
breadth, the margent inviron'd with steepe cliffes, out of whose sides
and foote break forth fire and smoke in aboundance, making noyse
like a tempest of water, and sometimes discharging in lowd reports
like so many guns. The heate of this place wonderfull the earth
it,
                                   is

                                                                       ;

                                                              a
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                 129

itselfe being almost unsufferable, and which the subterranean fires have

made so hollow, by having wasted the matter for so many yeares, that

it sounds like a drum to those who walke upon it ; and the water thus
struggling with those fires bubbles and spoutes aloft into the ayre. The
mouthes of these spiracles are bestrew'd with variously-colour'd cinders,

which rise with the vapour, as do many colour'd stones, according to

the quality of the combustible matter, insomuch as 'tis no little adven

ture to approch them ; they are however daily frequented both by sick
and well, the former receiving the fumes have been recovered of diseases

esteem'd incurable. Here we found a greate deal of sulphure made,

which they refine in certaine houses neere the place, casting it into
canes, to a very greate value. Neere this we were shew'd an hill of

aiurae, where is one of the best mineries, yielding a considerable reve

nue. Some flowres of brasse are found here ; but I . could not but
smile at those who perswade themselves that here are the Gates of

Purgatory, (for which it may be they have erected very neere it a
Convent and named it St. Januarius,) reporting to have often heard
screeches and horrible lamentations proceeding from these caverns and

volcanos ; with other legends of birds that are never seene save on

Sundayes, which cast themselves into the lake at night, appearing no
more all the weeke after.

We now approach'd the ruines of a very stately Temple or Theatre

of 172 foote in length and about 80 in breadth, throwne downe by an
earthquake not. long since ; it was consecrated to Vulcan, and under

the ground are many strange meanders, from which it is nam'd the

Labyrinth ; this place is so haunted with batts that their perpetual flut

tering endangered the putting out our linkes.

Hence we passed againe those boiling and smoking hills till we came

to Puzzolo, formerly the famous Puteoli, the landing-place of St. Paule

when he came into Italy after the tempest described in the Acts of'

the Apostles. Here we made a good dinner, and bought divers
niedailes and other curiosities, antiquities, &c. of the country people, who
daily find such things amongst the very old ruines of those places. This
Towne was formerly a Greeke Colonie, built by the Samians, a reason
able commodious Port, and full of observable antiquities. We saw

the ruines of Neptune's Temple, to whom this place was sacred, and
neere it the stately palace and gardens of Peter de Toledo, formerly
mentioned. Afterwards we visited that admirably built Temple of
Augustus, seeming to have been hewn out of an intire rock, tho' in-
tadhenuedsd,eu"ncdLoe_nrsCiistatli;pnh"guLr.onfiCuosseccvLee.jruaEsl.  square stones. The inscription remaines
                                                                       Templum Augusto cum ornamentis D. D."

                                                                       L. C. Postumi L. Auctus Architectus." It

is now converted into a Church, in which they shew'd us huge bones,
which they affirme to have ben of some gyant.
We went to see the ruines of the old Haven, so compact with that

                                                                       9
I30 ' EARTHQUAKES. LUCRINE LAKE. LAKE AVERNUSiit,!
           4
bituminous sand in which the materials are layd, as the like is hardly
to be found, though all this has not ben sufficient to protect it from theI
fatal concussions of several earthquakes (frequent here) which have
almost demolish'd 13 vast piles of marble onely remaining, a stu;
pendous worke in the bosome of Neptune To this joynes thebridgof
Caligula, by which (having now embarq'd ourselves) we sail'd to theit,
pleasant Baias, almost miles in length, all which way that prowd        it
Emperor would passe in triumph. Here we row'd along towards a
villa of the orator Cicero's, where we were shewed the ruines of his        a
Academy, and at the foote of a rock his Bathes, the waters reciprocat
;ing their tides with the neighbouring sex Hard at hand rises Mounta
Gaurus, being, as conceiv'd, nothing save an heape of pumices,
which here floate in aboundance on the sea, exhausted of all inflamI

mable matter by the fire, which renders them light and porous, so as the
beds of nitre which lye deepe underthem having taken fire dos easily eject
them. They dig much for fancied treasure said to be conceil'd about
this place. From hence we coasted neere the ruines of Portus Julius,
where we might see divers stately palaces that had ben swallowM up by
the sea after earthquakes. Coming to shore we passe by the Lucrine
Lake, so famous heretofore for its delicious oysters, now producing few
or none, being divided from the sea by a bankeof incredible labour, the
suppos'd worke of Hercules 'tis now halfe chock'd up with rubbish, and
by part of the new mountaine, which rose partly out of and partly
out of the sea, and that in the space of one night and a day, to neere
the altitude of a mile, on the 29 Sept. 1538, after many terrible
earthquakes which ruined divers places thereabout, when at midnight
the sea retiring neere 200 paces, and yawning on the sudaine, con
tinued to vomit forth flames and fiery stones in such quantity as pro
duced this whole mountaine by their fall, making the inhabitants of
Puzzole to leave their habitations, supposing the end of the world
had ben come.

   From the left part of this we walked to the Lake Avernus, of
round forme, and totaly inviron'd with mountaines. This lake was
fain'd by the Poetefor the gates of Hell, by which ./Eneas made his
descent, and where they sacrificed to Pluto and the Manes. The
waters are of a remarkable black colour, but tasted of them without
danger hence they faigne that the river Styx has its source. At one
side stand the handsome ruines of Temple dedicated to Apollo, or
rather Pluto, but 'tis controverted. Opposite to this, having new
lighted our torches, we enter a vast cave, in which having gon about
two hundred paces, we passe a narrow entry which lead us into a roome
of about 10 paces long, proportionable broad and high the side walls
and roofe retaine still the golden Mosaiq, though now exceedingly
deca/d by time. Here a short cell, or rather niche, cut out of the
solid rock, somewhat resembling couch, in which they report that
      is
                       a

                                                                       ;
                THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                         13!

the Sibylla lay and utter'd her oracles ; but is supposed by most to have
been a bath onely. This subterranean grott leads quite through to

Cuma, but is in some places obstructed by the earth which has sunk in,
so as we were constraint back againe & to creep on our bellys beiore

we came to the light. Tis reported Nero had once resolved to cut a
channel for two greate gallys that should have extended to Ostia, an
150 miles distant. The people now call it Licola.
   From hence we ascended to that most ancient Citty of Italy, the re
nowned Cuma, built by the Grecians. It stands on a very eminent pro
montory, but is now an heape of ruines. A little below stands the
Arco Felice, heretofore part of Apollo's Temple, with the foundations
of divers goodly buildings ; amongst whose heapes are frequently found
statues and other antiquities, by such as dig for them. Neere this is
the Lake Acherutia and Acheron. Returning to the shore we came
to the Bagnie de Tritoli and Diana, which are onely long narrow pas

sages cut through the maine rock, where the vapours ascend so hot
that entring with the body erect you will even faint with excessive perspi
ration, but stooping lower as suddaine a cold surprizes. These suda
tories are much in request for many infirmityes. Now we enterd the
haven of the Baix, where once stood that famous Towne, so calfd
from the Companion of Ulysses here buried ; not without greate reason

celebrated for one of the most delicious places that the sunn shines on,

according  to"  that of Horace  :
                Nullus in Orbe
                                locus  Baiis pnelucet  amoenis."

Though as to the stately fabrics there now remaine little save the

ruines, whereof the most intire is that of Diana's Temple, and another

of Venus. Here were those famous poolcs of lampreys that would
come to hand when call'd by name, as Martial tells us. On the
sumlte of the rock stands a strong Castle garison'd to protect the shore
from Turkish Pyrates. It was once the retyring place of Julius Caesar.
Passing by the shore againe we entered Bauli, observable from the
monstrous murther of Nero com'itted on his mother Agrippina. Her

sepulchre was yet shew'd us in the rock, which we enter'd, being cover'd

with sundry heads and figures of beasts. We saw there the rootes of a

tree turn'd into stone, and are continualy dropping.
Thus having view'd the foundations of the old Cimeria, the palaces
of Marius, Pompey, Nero, Hortensius, and other villas and antiquities,

we proceeded towards the Promontory of Misenus, renown'd for the
sepulchre of /Eneas's Trumpeter. Twas once a greate Citty, now
hardly a mine, sayd to have ben built from this place to the Promon

tory of Minerva, 50 miles distant, now discontinu'd and demolish'd
by the frequent earthquakes. Here was the villa of Caius Marius,
where Tiberius Caesar died ; and here runs the Aquaeduct, thought to
be dug by Nero, a stupendous passage, heretofore nobly arched with

marble, as the ruines testifie. Hence we walked to those receptacles
132 THE ELYSIAN FIELDS ; PUZZOLO ; ANTIQUITIES. .

of water cal'd Piscina Mirabilis, being a vault of 500 feet long, and
22 in breadth, the roofe prop'd up with 4 rankes of square pillars,
12 in a row ; the walls are brick plaster'd over with such a composi
tion as for strength and politure resembles white marble. 'Tis con
ceive to have ben built by Nero, as a conservatory for fresh water ;

as were also the Centi Camerelli, into which we were next led. All

these Crypta being now almost sunke into the earth, shew yet their
former amplitude and magnificence.

   Returning towards the Bairc we againe passe the Elyssian Fields,
so celebrated by the Poetes, nor unworthily, for their situation and
verdure, being full of myrtils and sweete shrubs, and having a most
delightful prospect towards the Tyrrhen Sea. Upon the verge of these
remaine the mines of the Mercato di Sabato, formerly a Circus ; over
the arches stand divers urnes full of Roman ashes.

   Having well satisfied our curiosity among these Antiquities, we
retired to our felucca, which row'd us back againe towards Puzzolo, at
the very place of St. Paule's landing. Keeping along the shore they
shewM us a place where the sea-water and sands did exceedingly boyle.
Thence to the Island Nesis, once the fabulous Nymph ; and thus we
leave the Baix, so renowned for the sweete retirements of the most
opulent and voluptuous Romans. They certainly were places of uncom

mon amoenitie, as their yet tempting site and other circumstances of

natural curiosities easily invite me to believe, since there is not in the
world so many stupendious rarities to be met with as in the circle of a
few miles which inviron these blissfull aboades.

   8 Feb. We went to see the Arsenal, well furnish'd with gallics and
other vessells. The Citty is crowded with inhabitants, gentlemen and
merchants. The Government is held of the Pope by an annual tribute
of 40,000 ducats and a white Genet ; but the Spanyard trusts more to
the power of those his natural subjects there ; Apulia and Calabria
yielding him neere 4 millions of crownes yearely to maintaine it. The
country is divided into 13 Provinces, 20 Archbishops, and 107 Bishops.
The estates of the nobility in default of the male line, reverting to the
King. Besides the Vice-Roy there is amongst the Chiefe Magistrates
an High Constable, Admiral, Chiefe Justice, Greate Chamberlaine, and
Chancelor, with a Secretary ; these being prodigiously avaricious, do
wonderfully inrich themselves out of the miserable people's labour,
silks, manna, sugar, oyle, wine, rice, sulphur, and alome, for with all
these riches is this delicious country blest. The manna falls at certain
 seasons on the adjoyning hills in forme of a thick dew. The very
winter here is a Summer, ever fruitfull, so that in the middle of Feb
ruary we had melons, cheries, abricots, and many other sorts of fruite.

    The building of the Citty is for the size the most magnificent of any
 in Europe, the streetes exceeding large, well paved, having many vaults
 and conveyances under them for the sullage, which renders them very
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  133

sweete and cleane even in the midst of winter. To it belongeth more
than .3000 Churches and monasteries, and those the best built and
adora'd of any in Italy. They greately affect the Spanish gravity in
their habite ; delight in good horses ;' the streetes are full of gallants
on horseback, in coaches and sedans, from hence brought first into
England by Sir Sanders Duncomb. The women are generaly well
featured but excessively libidinous. The country-people so jovial and

addicted to musick, that the very husbandmen almost universaly play
on the guitarr, singing and composing songs in prayse of their sweete-
hearts, and wil commonly goe to the field with their fiddle ; they arc

merry, witty, and genial, all which I much attribute to the excellent
quality of the ayre. They have a deadly hatred to the French, so that
some our company were flouted at for wearing red cloakes, as the mode

then was.

   This I made the non ultra of my travels, sufficiently sated with
rolling up and downe, and resolving within myselfe to be no longer an
individuum vagum if ever I got home againe, since from the report of
divers experiene'd and curious persons I had ben assured there was

little more to be seene in the rest of the civil world, alter Italy, France,
Flanders, and the Low Country, but plaine and prodigious barbarismc.

   Thus about Feb. 7 we set out on our return to Rome by the same
way we came, not daring to adventure by Sea, as some of our company
were inclin'd to do, for fear of Turkish pirates hovering on that coast ;
nor made we any stay save at Albano, to view the celebrated place and
sepulchre of the famous Duelists who decided the ancient quarrell

betweene their imperious neighbours with the loss of their lives. These

brothers, the Horatij and Curiatij, lye buried neere the highway, under

two ancient pyramids of stone, now somewhat decay'd and overgrowne
with rubbish. We tooke the opportunity of tasting the wine here, which

is famous.

    Being arived at Rome on Feb. 13 we were againe invited to Signor
Angeloni's study, wherewith greater leysurewe survey 'd the rarities, as

h:s cabinet and medaills especialy, esteem'd one of the best collections
of them in Europe. He also shew'd us two antiq lamps, one of them
dedicated to Pa/at, the other Laribus Sacrri', as appeared by their in
scriptions ; some old Roman rings and keyes ; the ^Egyptian Isis cast
in yron ; sundry rare bas-relievos ; good pieces of paynting, princi
pally the Christ of Corregio, with this painter's owne face admirably

;don by himselfe : divers of both the Bassanos ; a greate number of

pieces by Titian, particularly the Triumphs an infinity of naturall
rarities, dry'd animals, Indian habits and weapons, shells, &c. ; divers
very antiq statues of brasse ; some lamps of so fine an earth that they
resembled cornelians for transparency and colour ; hinges of Corin
thian brasse, and one greate nayle of the same mettal found in the
mines of Nero's golden house.
134 TRANSTEVERE ; SANTA CECILIA; TEMPLE OF iESCULAPlUS. .

   In the afternoone we ferried over to Transtevere, to the Palace of
Gichi, to review the works of Raphael : and returning by St Angelo,

we saw the Castle as far as was permitted, and on the other side con- .
sidered those admirable pilasters suppos'd to be of the foundation of
the Pons Sublicius, over which Hor. Codes pass'd ; here ankor 3 or 4
water-mills invented by Belizarius ; and thence had another sight of
the Farnesi's gardens, and of the tarrace where is that admirable
paynting of Raphael, being a Cupid playing with a Dolphin, wrought
i/resca, preseiVd in shutters of wainscott, as well it merites, being cer-
tainely one of the most wonderful pieces of worke in the world.

   14 Feb. I went to Santa Cecilia, a church built and endowed by

Cardinal Sfrondasti, who has erected a stately altar neere the body of
this martyr, not long before found in a vesture of silk girt about, a veile
on her head, and the bloody scarrs of 3 wounds on the neck ; the body
is now in a silver chest, with her statue over it in snow-white marble.
Other Saints lie here decorated with splendid ornaments, lamps, and

incensories of greate cost. A little farther they shew us the Bathe of
St. Cecilia, to which joynes a Convent of Friers, where is the picture of
the Flagellation by Vanni, and the columns of the Portico taken from

the Bathes of Septimius Severus.
   15 Feb. Mr. Henshaw and I walked by the Tiber and visited the

Stola Tybertina (now St. Bartholomew's), formerly cut in the shape of
a ship, and wharfed with marble, in which a lofty obelisq represented
the mast. In the Church of St. Bartholomew is the body of the
Apostle. Here are the mines of the Temple of vEsculapius, now con
verted into a stately Hospital and a pretty Convent. Opposite to it is
the Convent and Church of St. John Calabita, where I saw nothing re
markable save an old broken altar. Here was the Temple of Fortuna
Virilis. Hence we went to a cupola, now a Church, formerly dedi
cated to the Sun. Opposite to it Santa Maria Schola Graeca, where for
merly that tongue was taught, said to be the second Church dedicated
in Rome to the Bl. Virgin, bearing also the title of a Cardinalat.
Behind this stands the greate altar of Hercules, much demolish'd.
Neere this, being at the foote of Mount Avantine, are the Pope's salt-
houses. Ascending the hill we came to St. Sabina, an ancient fabric,
formerly sacred to Diana ; there in a Chapel is an admirable picture,
the work of Livia Fontana, set about with columns of alabaster, and in
the middle of the Church is a stone, cast as they report, by the Devil
at St. Dominic whilst he was at masse. Hence we travelled towards
an heape of rubbish called the Atarmorata on the bank of the Tyber,
a magazine of stones, and neere which formerly stood a triumphal arch
in honor of Horatius vanquishing the Tuscans. The mines of the
bridg yet appeare.

   We were now got to Mons.Testaeceus, an heape of potshards almost
200 foote high, thought to have ben amassed and thrown there by the
                 THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                         1 35

subjects of the Commonwealth bringing their tribute in earthen ves-
sells, others (more probably) that it was a quarter of the towne where
potters lived ; at the sum'it Rome affords a noble prospect. Before it

is a spacious greene called the Hippodrom, where Olympic games were
celebrated, and the people mustertt as in our London Artillerie-ground.
Going hence to the old wall of the Citty, we much admirM the pyramid
or tomb of C. Cestius,      of white marble,                  of the most
monuments, inserted         in the wall, with          one    inscription  : a"ncCie. nCt einsttiiures
                                                      this
L. F. Pob. Epulo (an order of priests) Pr. Tr.pl. VII. Vir. Epulonum."
An"d   a little beneath
      Opus absolutum     :

                            ex  testamento            diebus  CCCXXX.  arbitratu.  Ponti

P. F. Cla. Mete Heredis et Pothi L." .
At 'the left hand is the Port of St. Caule, once Tergemina, out of
which the 3 Horatii pass'd to encounter the Curiatii of Albano. Hence
bending homewards by St. Saba, by Antoninus's Bathes (which we
enter'd) is the marble Sepulchre of Vespasian. The thickness of the
walls and stately ruines shew the enormous magnitude of these Bathes.

Passing by a corner of the Circus Maximus, we view*d the place where
stood the Septizonium, demolish'd by Sixtus V. for feare of its falling.
Going by M. Ccelius we beheld the devotions of St. Maria in Navicula,

so naxn'd from a ship carv'd out in white marble standing on a pedestal
if               suppos'd to be the vowe of one escaped from shipwreck. It
     Ibefore

            it,has a glorious front to the streete. Adjoining to this are the Horti
Matluei, which only of all the places about the Citty omitted visiting,
                                j

                                                       I
tho' was told inferiour to no garden in Rome for statues, ancient mo

numents, aviaries, fountaines, groves, and especialy a noble obelisq,

and maintain'd in beauty at the expense of 6000 crown es yearely, which
not expended to keepe up its beauty forfeits the possession of a

greater revenue to another family so curious are they in their villas
and places of pleasure, even to excesse.

The next day we went to the once famous Circus Caracalla, in the
midst of which there now lay prostrate one of the most stately and an
cient Obelisks, full of ./Egyptian hieroglyphics. It was broken into
                                                                           is
                                                                                     4
pieces when o'rethrowne by the Barbarians, and would have ben pur-
chis'd and transported into England by the magnificent Thomas Earle
of Arundel, could have ben well removed to the sea. This since
                 it
                                a
                                                         is
set together and placed on the stupenduous artificial rock made by
Innocent X. and serving for fountaine in Piazza Navona, the worke of
Bernini, the Pope's Architect. Neere this the Sepulchre of Metellus,

of massy stone, pretty entire, now cal'd Capo di Bove. Hence to a
small Oratorie nam'd Domine quo vadii, where the tradition is, that

cur B. Saviour met St. Peter as he fled, and turne'd him back againe.

   St. Sebastians was the next, a meane structure (the faciata excepted)
but venerable especialy for the reliques and grotts in which lie the
is
                                                  is
ashes of many holy men. Here kept the pontificial chaire sprinkled
I j6 ACADEMY OF THE HUMORISTS. WASHING OF PILGRIMS' FEET."

with the blood of Pope Stephen, to which greate devotion is paid ; also
a well full of Martyres bones, and the sepulchre of St. Sebastian, with

one of the arrowes [used in shooting him] ; these are preserved by the
Fulgentine Monks, who have here their Monasterie, and who led us

down into a grotto which they affirm'd went divers furlongs under

ground ; the sides or walls which we passed were fill'd with bones and

dead bodies, laid as it were on shelfes, whereof some were shut up

with broad stones, and now and then a crosse or a palme cut in them,
At the end of some of these subterranean passages were square roomes

with altars in them, said to have ben the receptacles of primitive Chris

tians in the times of persecution, nor seems it improbable.

   17 Feb. I was invited after dinner to the Academie of the Humorists

kept in a spacious hall belonging to Signor Mancini, where the Witts of

the towne meete on certaine daies to recite poems, and debate on severall

subjects.    The   first that  speakes is   cal'd the Lord, and stands in an
eminent    place,  and then                 the Virtuosi recite in order. ' By
                               the rest of

these ingenious exercises, besides the learn'd discourses, is the purity
of the Italian tongue daily improv'd. The roome is hung round with

devises or emblemes, with mottos under them. There are severall other
Academies of this nature, bearing like fantastical titles. In this of the

Humorists is the picture of Guarini, the famous author of the Pastor
Fido, once of this society. The cheife part of the day we spent in hear

ing the academic exercises.

   18 Feb. We walked to St. Nicholas in Carcere ; it has a faire front,
and within are parts of the bodys of St. Mark and Marcellino ; on the
Tribuna is a painting of Gentileschi, and the altar of Caval Baglioni,

with some other rare paintings. Coming round from hence we passed

by the Circus Flaminius, formerly very large, now totaly in mines. In
the afternoon we visited the English Jesuites, with whose Superior, P.
Stafford, I was well acquainted ; who received us courteously. They

call their Church and College St. Tkomasso de gli Inglesi, and is a

Seminarie. Amongst other trifles they shew the relicq of Beckett, their

reputed Martyr. Of paintings there is one of Durante, and many repre
senting the sufferings of severall of their society executed in England,

especialy F. Champion.

   In the Hospital of the Pelerini della S. Trinita I had seen the feete
of many pilgrims wash'd by Princes, Cardinals, and Noble Romans

and serv'd at table, as the Ladys and Noble Women did to other poore
creatures in another roome. 'Twas told us that no lesse than 444,000
men had ben thus treated in the Jubilee of 1,600 and 25,500 women, as
appeares by the register, which brings store of money.

   Returning homeward I saw the Palace of Cardinal Spada, where is
a most magnificent hall painted by Daniel da Volterra and Giulio Pia-

centino, who made the fret in the little Court ; but the rare perspectives
are of Bolognesi. Neere this is the Monte Pieta, instituted as a Bank
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  J37-

for the Poore, who, if the sum be not greate, may have mony upon=
pawns, &c. To this joynes St. Martino, to which belongs a Schola or
Corporation that do many works of charity. Hence we came through.
Campo di Fiori, or Herb Market, in the midst of which is a fountaine

casting water out of a dolphin in coper ; and in this Piazza is common,

Iexecution don.

      went this afternoone to visite my Lord John Somerset, brother to-
the Marques of Worcester, who had his appartment in Palazzo della
Canccllaria, belonging to Cardinal Francesco Barberini as Vice-chan-
celor of the Church of Rome and Protector of the English. The build
ing is of the famous architect Bramante, of incrusted marble, with 4
ranks of noble lights ; the principal cnterance is of Fontana's designe, .
and all of marble ; the portico within sustain'd by massie columns;
on the second peristyle above, the chambers are rarely painted by
Salviati and Vasari ; and so ample is this Palace that six Princes

with their families have ben receiv'd in it at one time, without incommod

ing each other.

   30 Feb. I went (as was my usual costome) and spent an afternoone.
in Piazza Navona, as well to see what antiquities I could purchase

among the people who hold mcrcat there for mcdaills, pictures, and
such curiosities, as to heare the Montebanks prate and distribute their
medicines. This was formerly the Circus or Agonales, dedicated to ·
sports and pastimes, and is now the greatest mercat of the Citty, having
three most noble fountaines, and the stately Palaces of the Pamfilij, St.
Giacomo de Spagnoli belonging to that nation, to which add two Con
vents for Friers and Nuns, all Spanish. In this Church was erected a
most stately Catafalco, or Capella ardente, for the death of the Queene

of Spaine ; the Church was hung with black, and heare I heard a .

Spanish sermon or funebral oration, and observed the statues, devises,
and impreses hung about the walls, the Church and Pyramid stuck
with thousands of lights and tapers, which made a glorious shew. The
statue of St. James is by Sansovino; there are also some good pictures
of Caracci. The facciata too is faire. Returning home I pass'd by the ·
stumps of old Pasquin at the comer of a streete call'd Strada Pontificia ;
here they still past up their drolling lampoons and scurrilous papers.

This had formerly ben one of the best statues for workmanship and art

in all the Citty, as the remaining bust does still shew.

   21 Feb. I walked in the morning up the hill towards the Capuchins,
where was then Cardinal Onufrio (brother to the late Pope Urban

VIII.) of the same order. He built them a pretty Church, full of rare

pictures, and there lies the body of St. Felix, that they say still does -
miracles. The piece at the great altar is by Lanfranc. 'Tis a lofty
edifice, with a beautifull avenue of trees, and in a good aire. After
dinner passing along the Strada del Carso, I observed the column of
Antoninus, passing under Arco Portugallo, which is but a relic, hereto-
138 THE PANTHEON, ANCIENT MAGNIFICENCE AND PRESENT STATE.

fore erected in honor of Domitian, cal'd now Portugallo from a Cardinal

living neere it. · A little further on the right hand stands the column,

in a small piazza, heretofore set up in honor of M. Aurelius Antoninus,
comprehending in a basse-relievo of white marble his hostil acts against

the Parthians, Armenians, Germans, &c. but it is now somewhat decay'd.
On the su'mit has been placed the image of St. Paule of gilded coper.
The pillar is said to be 161 foote high, ascended by 207 steps, receiving

light by 56 apertures, without defacing the sculpture.
   At a little distance are the relicques of the Emperors Palace, the heads
of whose pillars shew them to have ben Corinthian.
Turning a little down we came to another piazza, in which stands a
sumptuous vase of porphyrie, and a faire fountaine ; but the grace of
this merket, and indeede the admiration of the whole world, is the
Pantheon, now called S. Maria della Rotonda, formerly sacred to all the
Gods, and still remaining the most entire antiquitie of the Citty. It was

built by Marcus Agrippa, as testifies the architrave of the portico sus-

tain'd by 13 pillars of Theban marble, 6 foote thick and 53 in height, of

one intire stone. In this porch is an old inscription.
Entring the Church we admire the fabric, wholly covertt with one

cupola, seemingly suspended in the aire, and receiving light by a hole
in the middle onely. The structure is neere as high as broad, viz. 144
VIII.foote, not counting the thicknesse of the walls, which is 22 more to the
top, all of white marble, and til Urban  converted part of the
metall into ordnance to warr against the Duke of Parma, and part to

make the high altar in St. Peters, it was all over covertt with Corinthian

brasse, ascending by 40 degrees within the roof or convex of the cupola,
richly carved with octagons in the stone. There are niches in the walls,
in which stood heretofore the statues of Jupiter and the other Gods and

Goddesses ; for here was that Venus which bad hung in her ear the

other Union, that Cleopatra was about to dissolve and drink up as she
had done its fellow. There are severall of these niches one above

another for the celestial, terrestrial, and subterranean deities, but the

place is now converted into a Church dedicated to the B. Virgin and
all the Saints. The pavement is excellent, and the vast folding gates
of Corinthian brasse. Inaword,'tis of all the Roman antiquities the most
worthy of notice. There lie interr'd in this Temple the famous Raphael
da Urbino, Perino del Vaga, F. Zuccharo, and other painters.

                            1 And in the cup an union shall he throw
                              Richer than that which four successive kings
                           In Denmark's crown have worn. -
                                           Shakespeare, Hamlet, Act V. Sc. 9 ; ed. Johnson and Steevens.

  Theobald says, an union is the finest sort of pearl, and has its place in all crowns and
coronets. Steevens cites from Soliman and Perseda --' Ay, were it Cleopatra's union' --add
ing the following elucidation of the term from P. Holland's Translation of Pliny's Natural

History : 'And hereupon it is that our dainties and deticates here at Rome, kc call them
unions, as a man would say sir.j-iiir aad by themselves alone.' Edit.
           THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                          135

Returning home we passe by Cardinal Cajetan's Palace, a noble piece
of architecture of Vincenzo Ammanatti, which is the grace of the

whole Corso.

  22 Feb. I went to Trinita del Monte, a monasterie of French, a noble
Church built by Lewis XI. and Charles VI 1 1, the Chapells well painted,

especialy that by ZuccarivVolterra, and the cloyster with the miracles

of their St Francis di Paulo and the heads of the French Kings. In
the pergolo above, the walls arc wrought with excellent perspective,
especialy the St. John ; there are the Babylonish dials invented by
Kircher the Jesuite. This Convent so eminently situated on Mons
Pincius, has the intire prospect of Campus Martius, and has a faire

garden which joynes to the Palazzo di Medici.

  23rd. I went to heare a sermon at St. Giacomo de gli Incurabili, a
faire Church built by F. Volaterra, of good architecture, and so is the
Hospital, where only desperate patients are brought. I pass'd the
evening at St. Maria del Copolo, heretofore Nero's sepulchre, where his
ashes lay many yeares in a marble chest. To this Church joynes the
Monasterie of St. Augustine, which has pretty gardens on Mons Cin-
III.cius, and in the Church is -the miraculous shrine of the Madona which
Pope Paul  brought barefooted to the place, supplicating for a vic
tory over the Turks in 1464. In a Chapell of the Ghisi are some rare
paintings of Raphael and noble sculptures. Those two in the Choire

are by Sansovino, and in the Chapel de Cerasii a piece of Caravaggio.

Here lie buried many greate scholars and artists, of which I tooke

notice of this inscription :

           Hospes, disce novum mortis genus ; improba felis,

           Dum trahitur, digitum mordet, et intereo.

   Opposite to the faciata of the Church is a superb obelise full of hiero
glyphics," the same that Sennesertus K. of Egypt dedicated to the Sun,
brought to Rome by Augustus, erected in the Circus Maximus, and

since placed here by Pope Sixtus V. It is 88 foote high, of one intire
stone, and placed with greate art and engines by the famous Domenico

Fontana.
Hence turning on the right out of the Porto del Popolo, we came to
Justinian's gardens neere the Muro torto, so prominently built as threat-
ning every moment to fall, yet standing so for these thousand yeares.
Under this is the burying-place for the com'on prostitutes, where they

are put into the ground sans ceremonit.
   24 Feb. We walked to St. Roches and Martines neere the brink of

the Tyber, a large Hospital for both sexes. Hence to the Mausoleum
Augusti 'twixt the Tyber and the Via Flaminia, now much ruin'd, which
had formerly contended for its sumptuous architecture. It was intended
as a cemeterie for the Roman Emperors, had twelve ports, and was
cover'd with a cupola oi white marble, inviron'd with stately trees and
innumerable statues, all of it now converted into a garden. We pass'd
140 BAPTISM OF A JEW AND TURK. THE PILLAR OF TRAJAN.

the afternoone at the sapienza, a very stately building full of good mar
                                                         These are
bles, especialy the Portico, of admirable architecture.
properly the Universitie Scholes, where lectures are read on law,
medicine, and anatomie, and students perform their exercises.
Hence we walk'd to St. Andrea della Valle neere the former Theater
of Pompey, and the famous Piccolomini, but given to this Church and
the Order who are Thcatines. The Barberini have in this place a

Chapell, of curious incrusted marbles of severall sorts, and rare paint

ings. Under it is the place where St. Sebastian is said to have been

beaten with rods before he was shot with darts. The cupola is paynted

by Lanfranc, an inestimable work, and the whole fabric and Monastery

adjoining are admirable.

  25 Feb. I was invited by a Dominican Frier, whom we usually
heard preach to a number of Jewes, to be god-father to a converted
Turk and Jew. The ceremonie was perform'd in the Church of Santa
Maria sopra la Minerva, neere the Capitol. They were clad in white,

then exorcis'd at their entering the Church with aboundance of cere

monies, and when led into the Choir were baptiz'd by a Bishop in

pontificalibus. The Turk lived afterwards in Rome, sold hot waters,

and would bring us presents when he met us, kneeling and kissing the
hems of our cloaks ; but the Jew was believ'd to be a counterfeit.
This Church, situate on a spacious rising, was formerly consecrated to

Minerva. Tis well built and richly adorn'd, and the body of St.
Catherine di Sienna lies buried here. The paintings of the Chapel are
by Marcello Venuti ; the Madona over the altar is by Giov. di Fiesole,

cal'd the Angelic Painter, who was of the Order of these Monks.

There are many charities dealt publiqly here, especialy at the Proces
sion on the Annunciation, when I saw his Holinesse, with all the Car
dinals, Prelates, &c. in pontificalibus; dowries being given to 300
poore girls all clad in white. The Pope had his tiara on his head, and

was carried on mens shoulders in an open arm-chaire, blessing the
people as he pass'd. The statue of Christ at the Columna is esteem'd
one of the master-pieces of M. Angelo : innumerable are the paintings

by the best artists, and the organ is accounted one of the sweetest in

Rome. Cardinal Bembo is interred here. We return'd by St. Marcs,

a stately Church, with an excellent pavement, and a fine piece by Peru-
gino, of the two Martyrs. Adjoyning to this is a noble Palace built by
the famous Bramanti.

26 Feb. Ascending the hill we came to the Forum Trajanum, where
his column stands yet intire, wrought with admirable bass-relievo re
cording the Dacian war, the figures at the upper part appearing of the

same proportion with those below. Tis ascended by 192 steps, en

lightened with 44 apertures or windows, artificial)- dispos'd ; in height
from the pedestal 140 foote.

   It had once the ashes of Trajan and his statue, where now stands
                     THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.          141

St. Peter's of gilt brasse, erected by Pope Sixtus V. The sculpture of
this stupendious pillar is thought to be the work of Apollodorus ; but
what is very observable is the descent to the plinth of the pedestale,

shewing how this ancient Cittie lies now buried in her ruines, this
monument being at first set up on a rising ground. After dinner we

took the aire in Cardinal Bentivoglio's delicious gardens, now but

newly deceas'd. He had a faire Palace built by several good masters

on part of the ruines of Constantine's Bathes : well adorn'd with
columns and paintings, especialy those of Guido Rheni.
   27 Feb. In the morning Mr. Henshaw and my selfe walked to the
Trophies of Marius, erected in honour of his victorie over the Cim-
brians, but these now taken out of their niches are plac'd on the balusters
of the Capitol, so that their ancient station is now a ruine. Keeping

on our way we came to St. Crosse of Jerusalem, built by Constantine

over the demolition of the Temple of Venus and Cupid, which he

threw down ; and 'twas here they report he deposited the wood of the

true Crosse found by his mother Helena in honour whereof this Church

was built, and in memory of his victory over Maxentius when that

holy signe appear'd to him. The edifice without is Gotiq, but very

glorious within, especialy the roofe, and one tribune well painted.

Here is a Chapel dedicated to St. Helena, the floore whereoffis of earth

brought from Jerusalem ; the walls are of faire Mosaic, in which they
suffer no women to enter it save once a yeare. Under the high altar
of the Church
               is buried  St. Anastasius, in Lydian marble, and Bene
dict VII. and  they shew  a number of reliques, expos'd at our request,
with a phial of our B. Saviour's blood ; two thornes of his Crowne ;
three chips of the real Crosse ; one of the nailes, wanting a point ; St.

Thomas's doubting finger ; and a fragment of the title [put on the
Cross], being part of a thin board ; some of Judas's pieces of silver,
and many more, if one had faith to believe it. To this venerable
Church joynes a Monasterie, the gardens taking up the space of an

ancient amphitheater. Hence we pass'd beyond the walls out at the
Port of St. Laurence to that Saint's Church, and where his ashes are
enshrin'd. This was also built by the same great Constantine, famous
for the Coronation of Pietro Altisiodorensis, Emperor of Constantino

ple, by Honorius the Second. Tis sayd the corps of St. Stephen the
protomartyr was deposited here by that of St. Sebastian, which it had
no sooner touch'd but Sebastian gave it place of its own accord. The

Church has no less than 7 privileg'd altars and excellent pictures.
About the walls are painted this martyr's sufferings, and when they

built them, the bones of divers Saints were translated to other Churches.

The front is Gotic. In our return we saw a small ruine of an aquas-

duct built by Q. Marcius the praetor ; and so pass'd thro' that incom
parable strait streete leading to Santa Maria Maggiore, to our lodging,

sufficiently tired.
142 THE CARNIVAL AT ROME. BLESSING THE GOLDEN ROSES.

We were taken up next morning in seeing the impertinences of the

Carnival, when all the world are as mad at Rome as at other places ;
but the most remarkable were the 3 races of the Barbarie horses, that
run in the Strada del Corso without riders, onely having spurrs so

placed on their backs, and hanging downe by their sides, as by their
motion to stimulate them ; then of mares, then of asses, of buffalos,
naked men, old and young, and boys, and aboundance of idle ridicu
lous passetime. One thing is remarkable, their acting comedies on a

stage placed on a cart, or plaustrum, where the scene or tiring-place is
made of boughs in a rural manner, which they drive from streete to

strcete with a yoake or two of oxen, after the ancient guise. The
streetes swarm with prostitutes, buffoones, and all man'er of rabble.
1 March. At the Greke Church we saw the Eastern ceremonies per-
form'd by a Bishop, &c in that tongue. Here the unfortunate Duke
and Dutchess of Bullion received their ashes, it being the first day of
Lent ; there was now as much trudging up and downe of devotees as
the day before of licentious people, all Saints alike to appearance.
The gardens of Justinian, which we next visited, are very full of sta

tues and antiquities, especialy urnes, amongst which is that of Min.
Felix; a Terminus that formerly stood in the Appian Way, and a huge

colosse of the Emperor Justinian. There is a delicate aviarie on the
hill ; the whole gardens furnish'd with rare collections, fresh, shady,

and adorn 'd with noble fountaines. Continuing our walke a mile far
                  Pons Milvius, now Mela, where
ther, we came to  and saw the miraculous signe of  thCeonCsrtoasnst,in"e    over
threw Maxentius,
                                                                          in hoc
signo vinces." It was a sweete morning, and the bushes were full of

nightingals. Hence to Aqua Claudia, againe, an aqueduct finish'd by
that Emperor at the expense of 8 millions. In the afternoone to Far-

neze's gardens, neere the Campo Vaccino j and upon the Palatine
Mount to survey the mines of Juno's Temple in the Piscina, a Piazza
so call'd neere the famous bridg built by Antoninus Pius and re-edified
by Pope Sixtus IV.
The rest of this weeke we went to the Vatican, to heare the sermons
at St. Peter's of the most famous preachers, who discourse on the same
subjects and texts yearely, full of Italian eloquence and action. On our
Lady-day, 25 March, we saw the Pope and Cardinals ride in pomp to
the Minerva, the greate guns of the Castle St. Angelo being fired, when

he gives portions to 500 zitelle [young women], who kisse his feete in
procession, some destin'd to marry, some to be nunns. The scholars of
the Colledge celebrating the B. Virgin with their compositions. The
next day his Holinesse was busied in blessing golden roses, to be sent
to severall greate Princes ; the Procurator of the Carmelites preaching

on our Savior's feeding the multitude with 5 loaves, the ceremony ends.
The Sacrament being this day expos'd and the reliques ol the Holy

Crosse, the concourse about the streetes is extraordinarie. On Palm

Sunday there was a greate procession after a papal masse.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                              143

  ii April. St. Veronica's handkercheif [with the impression of our

Saviours face] was expos'd, and the next day the speare, with a world
ol ceremonie. On Holy Thursday the Pope said masse, and afterwards
carried the Host in procession about the Chapcll, with an infinitie of
tapers ; this finish'd, his Holinesse was carried in his open chaire on
men's shoulders to the place where, reading the Bull in Ca-na Domini,

he both curses and blesses all in a breath ; then the guns are againe
fired. Hence he went to the Ducal hall of the Vatican, where he

wash'd the feete of 12 poore men, with almost the same ceremonie
as 'tis don at Whitehall ; they have clothes, a dinner, and almes, which
he gives with his owne hands, and serves at their table ; they have also

gold and silver medailles, but their garments are of white wollen long
robes, as we paint the Apostles. The same ceremonies are don by the
Conservators and other Officers of State at St. John de Lateran ; and
now the table on which they say our Blessed Lord celebrated his last
supper, is set out, and the heads of the Apostles. In every famous
Church they are busy in dressing up their pageantries to represent the
Holy Sepulchre, of which we went to visite divers.

   On Good Friday we went againe to St. Peter's, where the Handker

chief, Launce, and Crosse were all expos'd and worshipp'd together.

All the confession-seates were filled with devout people, and at night

was a procession of several who most lamentably whipped themselves

till the blood stained their clothes, for some had shirts, others upon the
bare back, having vizors and masks on their faces ; at every 3 or 4 steps
dashing the knotted and ravelled whipcord over their shoulders, as hard

as they could lay it on, whilst some of the religious orders and fraterni

ties sung in a dismal tone, the lights and crosses going before, making

altogether a horrible and indeede heathenish pompe.
   The next day there was much ceremony at St. John de Lateran, so

as the whole weeke was spent in running from Church to Church, all the
towne in buisy devotion, greate silence, and unimaginable superstition.

  Easter-day I was awaken'd by the guns from St. Angelo : we went to

St. Peters, where the Pope himselfe celebrated masse, shew'd the

reliques before named, and gave a publiq benediction.

Monday we went to heare music in the Chiesa Nova, and tho' there

were aboundance of ceremonies at the other greate Churches, and greate
exposure of reliques, yet being wearied with sights of this nature, and
the season of the yeare, summer, at Rome being very dangerous by

reason of the heates, minding us of returning Northwards, we spent the
rest of our time in visiting such places as we had not yet sufficiently

scene ; onely I do not forget the Pope's benediction of the Con/aiont,

or Standard, and giving the hallowed palmes ; and on May-day the

greate procession of the Universitie and the Mulatiers at St. Antonie's,
and their setting up a foolish May-pole in the Capitol, very ridiculous.

We therefore now tooke coach a little out of towne, to visite the fames
J44 . EXPLORE THE CATACOMBS. TOURNAMENT AT ROME

Roma soterranea, being much like what we had seen at St. Sebastian's.
Here in a cornfield, guided by two torches, we crept on our bellies into
-a little hole, about 20 paces, which delivered us into a large entrie that
led us into several streetes or allies, a good depth in the bowells of the
earth, a strange and fearefull passage for divers miles, as Bosio has
measured and described them in his book.1 We ever and anon came
into pretty square roomes, that seem'd to be Chapells with altars, and

some adom'd with very ordinary ancient painting. Many skeletons
and bodies are plac'd on the sides one above the other in degrees like

shelves, whereof some are shut up with a coarse flat stone, having

ingraven on them Pro Christo, or a Cross and Palmes, which are sup

posed to have been martyrs. Here, in all likelyhood, were the meet
ings of the primitive Christians during the persecutions, as Pliny the

younger describes them. As I was prying about, I found a glasse

phiale, fill'd as was conjecture with dried blood, and 2 lachrymatories.

Many of the bodies, or rather bones (for there appear'd nothing else)

lay so intire as if plac'd by the art of the chirurgeon, but being only
touched fell all to dust. Thus after wandering two or three miles in

this  subterranean    meander,  we return'd almost blind  when we came
into  the day-light,  and even  choked by the smoake of
                                                          the torches. It

is said that a French Bishop and his retinue adventuring too far in these

denns, their lights going out, were never heard of more.
   We were entertain'd at night with an English play at the Jesuites,
where we before had dined ; and the next at Prince Galicano's who

himself composed the musiq to a magnificent opera, where were present
Cardinal Pamphilio the Pope's nephew, the Governors of Rome, the
Cardinals, ambassadors, ladies, and a number of nobility and strangers.
There had been in the morning a Just and Tournament of severall
young gentlemen on a formal defy, to which we had been invited ; the
prizes being distributed by the ladies after the knight-errantry way.
The launcers and swordsmen running at tilt against the barriers, with

a greate deale of clatter, but without any bloodshed, giving much

diversion to the spectators, and was new to us travellers.

   The next day Mr. Henshaw and I spent the morning in attending

the .entrance and cavalcade of Card. Medici, the Ambassador from the
Grand Duke of Florence, by the Via Flaminia. After dinner we went
again to see the Villa Borghesi, about a mile without the Cittie ; the
garden is rather a park or paradise, contrived and planted with walkes
and shades of myrtils, cypresse and other trees and groves, with
aboundance of fountaines, statues, and bass-relievos, and several pretty

murmuring rivulets. Here they had hung large netts to catch wood
cocks. There was also a Vivarie, where amongst other exotic fowles

was an ostridge ; besides a most capacious aviarie ; and in another in-
dosed part, an herd of deere. Before the palace (which might become

      1 Intituled Roma Sottemnea, folio. Rom. 1633.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                145

the courtc of a great prince) stands a noble fountaine of white marble,
inricb'd with statues. The outer walls of the house are incrusted with

excellent antique basse-relievos of the same marble, incornish'd with

festoons and niches set with statues from the foundation to the roofe.

A stately Portico joynes the palace, full of statues and columnes of mar

ble, urnes and other curiosities of sculpture. In the first hall were the
1 2 Caesars of antiq marble, and the whole apartments furnish'd with
pictures of the most celebrated masters, and two rare tables of porphy-
ric of greate value. I often visited this delicious place.

   This night were glorious fire-works at the palace of Card. Medici

before the gate, and lights of severall colours all about the windows

through the Cittie, which they contrive by setting the candles in little
paper lanterns died with various colours, placing hundreds of them
from storie to storie, which renders a gallant shew.
   4 May. Having seen the entrie of the Ambassador of Lucca, I went

to the Vatican, where, by favour of our Cardinal Protector, Fran. Bar-
berini, I was admitted into the Consistorie, heard the Ambassador

make his oration in Latine to the Pope, sitting on an elevated state or
throne, and changing two pontifical miters ; after which I was presented

to kissc his toe, that is, his embroider'd slipper, two Cardinals holding

up his vest and surplice, and then being sufficiently bless'd with his

thumb and two fingers for that day, I return 'd home to dinner.
We went againe to see the medails of Signor Gotefredi, which are

absolutely the best ollection in Rome.
   Passing the Ludovisia Villa, where the petrified human figure lies,
found on the snowy Alps ; I measured the Hidra, and found it not

a foot long ; the three necks and 1 5 heads seeme to be but patch'd up
with several pieces of serpents skins.
   5 May. \Ve tooke coach, and went 1 5 miles out of the Cittie to
Frascati, formerly Tusculanum, a villa of Cardinal Aldobrandini, built

for a country-house, but surpassing, in my opinion, the most delicious
places I ever beheld for its situation, elegance, plentifull water, groves,
ascents, and prospects. Just behind the palace (which is of excellent
architecture) in the center of the  inclosure rises  an high hill or moun-
tame all over clad with tall wood,  and so form'd
                                                     by nature as if it had

been cut out by art, from the sum'it whereof falls a cascade, seeming

rather a greate river than a streame precipitating into a large thcat :.·
of water, representing an exact and perfect rainebow when the sun

shines out. Under this is made an artificiall grott, wherein are curious
rocks, hydraulic organs, and all sorts of singing birds moving and

chirping by force of the water, with severall other pageants and sur
prising inventions. In the center of one of these roomes rises a coper

ball that continually daunces about 3 foote above the pavement by
virtue of a wind conveyed secretely to a hole beneath it ; with many
other devices to wett the unwary spectators, so that one can hardly

                                                     10
146 FRASCATI ; MONTDRAGONE ; TIVOLI ; PALACE D'ESTE.

step without wetting to the skin. In one of these theaters of water is
an Atlas spouting up the streame to a very great height ; and another
monster makes a terrible roaring with an horn ; but above all, the re
presentation of a storm is most naturall, with such fury of raine, wind,
and thunder, as one would imagine ones self in some extreame tempest.
The garden has excellent walkes and shady groves, abundance of rare
fruit, oranges, lemons, &c. and the goodly prospect of Rome, above all
description, so as I do not wonder that Cicero and others have celebrated
this place with such encomiums. The palace is indeed built more like
a cabinet than any thing compos'd of stone and mortar ; it has in the
middle a hall furnish'd with excellent marbles and rare pictures, espe
cially those of Gioseppi d'Arpino ; the moveables are princely and rich.
This was the last piece of architecture finish'd by Giacomo de la Porta, whc
built it for Pietro Card. Aldobrandini in the time of Clement VIII.1

   We went hence to another house and garden not far distant, on the
side of a hill called Montdragone, finish'd by Cardinal Scipio Borghese,
an ample and kingly edifice. It has a very long galerie, and at the end

a theater for pastimes, spacious courts, rare grotts, vineyards, olive
grounds, groves, and solitudes. The aire is so fresh and sweete, as
few parts of Italy exceed it ; nor is it inferior to any palace in thecittie
itselfe for statues, pictures, and furniture ; but it growing late we could

not take such particular notice of these things as they deserVd.
   6 May. We rested ourselves ; and next day in a coach tooke our

last farewell of visiting the circumjacent places, going to Tivoli or the
old Tyburtine. At about 6 miles from Rome we passe the Teverone,
a bridge built by Mammea the mother of Severus, and so by divers
ancient sepulchres, amongst others that of Valerius Volusi ; and neere
it passe the stinking sulphurous river over the Ponte Lucano, where we
found an heape or turret full of inscriptions, now call'd the Tomb
of Plautius. Arriv'd at Tivoli we went first to see the Palace d'Este'
erected on a plaine, but where was formerly an hill. The palace is very
ample and stately. In the garden on the right hand are 16 vast
conchas of marble jetting out waters ; in the midst of these stands a

Janus quadrifrons, that cast forth 4 girandolas, call'd from the resem
blance [to a particular exhibition in fireworks so named] the Fontana
di Speccho [looking-glass.] Neere this is a place for tilting. Before
·the ascent of the palace is the famous fountaine of Leda, and not far
from that 4 sweete and delicious gardens. Descending thence are two
pyramids of water, and in a grove of trees neere it the fountaines of
Tethys, Esculapius, Arethusa, Pandora, Pomona, and Flora ; then the
prancing Pegasus, Bacchus, the Grott of Venus, the two Colosses of
Melicerta, and Sibylla Tibertina, all of exquisite marble, coper, and
other suitable adornements. The Cupids pouring out water are espe

m1enCt aVrdIiInIa.l   Hippolito Aldobrandini  was elected Pope in January 1593 by the name of Cle
                     and died in March 1605.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                 1 47

cialy most rare, and the urnes on which are plac'd the 10 nymphs. The

Crotts are richly pav'd with Pietra Commcssa, shells, corall, &c.

Towards Roma Triumphans leades a long and spacious walk, full of

fountaines, under which is historized the whole Ovidian Metamorphosis
in rarely sculptured mezzo relievo. At the end of this, next the wall, is

the Cittie of Rome as it was in its beauty, of small models, representing
that Cittie, with its Amphitheaters, Naumachia, Thermae, Temples,

Arches, Aqueducts, Streetes, and other magnificences, with a little
streame running thro' it for the Tyber, gushing out of an urne next the
statue of the river. In another garden is a noble aviarie, the birds arti
ficial, and singing till an owle appeares, on which they suddainly change

their notes. Near this is the fountaine of Dragons casting out large
streames of water with great noises. In another Grotto called Grotto
di jYatura, is an hydraulic organ ; and below this are divers stews and

nsh-pounds, in one of which is the statue of Neptune in his chariot on
a sea-horse, in another a Triton ; and lastly a garden of simples. There

are besides in the palace many rare statues and pictures, bedsteds richly
inlaied, and sundry other precious moveables ; the whole is said to have

cost the best part of a million. Having gratified our curiositie with

these artificial miracles, and din'd, we went to see the so famous natural

precipice and cascade of the river Anio, rushing down from the moun-
nines of Tivoli, with that fury that, what with the mist it perpctualy

casts up by the breaking of the water against the rocks, and what with
the sun shining on it and forming a natural Iris, the prodigious depth
of the gulph below, it is enough to astonish one that lookes on it. Upon
the sum'ite of this rock stand the ruines and some pillars and cornishes
of the temple of Sibylla Tybertina, or Albunea, a round fabric, still dis

covering some of its pristine beauty. Here was agreate deal of gunpowder

drying in the sun, and a little beneath, mills belonging to the Pope.
And now we returned to Rome. By the way we were shew'd at some
distance the citty Pncneste, and the Hadrian Villa, now onely an heape

of mines, and so came late to our lodging.

We now determined to desist from visiting any more curiosities, ex

cept what should happen to come in our way when my companion

Mr. Henshaw and myself should go to take the aire : onely I may not

omit that one afternoone, diverting ourselves in the Piazza Navona, a

Montebanke there to allure curious strangers, taking off a ring from

his finger, which seemed set with a dull, darke stone, a little swelling

out, like what we call (tho' untruly) a toadstone, and wetting his finger a
little in his mouth and then touching       emitted a luculent flame as
;

       it,
                      a

                              is

                          aI

                                                      it,
                                                         ; it

                                                                     I

                                                                                      it
bright and large as small wax candle then blowing out, he re

peated this several times.  have much regretted that did not pur

chase the receipt of him for making that composition at what price

soever for tho' there       processe in Jo. Baptista Porta and others

how to do yet on severall trials none of them have succeeded.
148 RESUME OF OBSERVATIONS ON MATTERS CONCERNING ROME.

Amongst other observations I made in Rome are these : As to Coins
and Medails, 10 Asses make the Roman Denarius, 5 the Quinarius,
10 Denarii an Aureus; which accompt runs almost exactly with what

is now in use of Quatrini, Baiocs, Julios, and Satdi, each, exceeding
the other in the proportion of ten. The Sestertius was a small silver
coyne marked H. S. or rather LLs, valu'd 2 pound and half of silver,
viz. 250 Denarii, about 25 golden Ducati. The stamp of the Roman
Denarius            having   sometimes a Janus bifrons,  the head of Roma
armed, or  varied,  chariot  and two horses, which were
           with a                                        call'd Bigi; if with
4, Quadrigi; if with a Victoria, so nam'd. The marke of the Denarius
was distinguish'd > J < thus, or X ; the Quinarius of halfe value, had
on one side the head of Rome and V, the reverse Castor and Pollux

on horseback, inscribed Roma, &c.
I observ'd that in the Greek Church they made the signe of the

Crosse from the right hand to the left ; contrary to the Latines

and the Schismatic Greekes ; gave the benediction with the first,

second, and little finger stretched out, retaining the third bent down,

expressing a distance of the third Person of the Holy Trinity from

the first two.
For sculptors and architects we found Bernini and Algardi were in

the greatest estecme ; Flamingo as a statuary, who made the Andrea

in St. Peter's, and is said to have died madd because it was placed in
an ill light. Amongst the painters, Antonio de la Cornea, who has
such an addresse of counterfeiting the hands of the ancient masters so

well as to make his copies passe for originals ; Pietro de Cortone, Mons.

Poussine a Frenchman, and innumerable more. Fioravanti for armour,
plate, dead life, tapistry, &c. The chiefe masters of music, after
Marc Antonio the best trebble, is Cavalier Lauretto an eunuch ; the

next Card. Bichi's eunuch, Bianchi tenor, and Nicholai base. The
Jewes in Rome wore red hatts til the Card, of Lions, being short
sighted, lately saluted one of them thinking him to be a Cardinal as

he pass'd by his coach ; on which an order was made that they should
use only the yellow colour. There was now at Rome one Mrs. Ward,
anAEtnegxlieschutidoenvsoteI es,awwhoonem, uachgesnotlilceimteadn,fohraanng'dOridnerhisofcJleosaukiteassneds. hatt
for murder. Thes struck the malefactor with a club that first stunn'd
him, and then cut his throat. At Naples they use a frame, like ours at
HaIltifiasxre(paorgtueidllotthinaet ).Rome has ben once no lesse than 50 miles in com
pass, now not   13, containing in   it 3000 Churches and Chapells, Mo
nasteries, &c.                      14 Regions or Wards ; has 7 Moun-
                It is divided into

taines, and as many Campi or Vally's ; in these are faire Parks or
Gardens call'd Villas, being onely places of recesse and pleasure, at
some distance from the stieetes, yet within the walls.

  The Bills of Exchange I tooke up from my first entering Italy till I
                  THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                149

went from Rome amounted but to 616 ducati di Banco, though I pur-

chas'd many books, pictures, and curiosities.

  18 May. I intended to have seen Loietto, but being disappointed
of monies long expected, I was forc'd to returne by the same way I
came, desiring, if possible, to be at Venice by the Ascension, and
therefore I diverted to take Legorne in the way, as well to furnish me

with credit by a merchant there, as to take order for transporting such

collections as I had made at Rome. When on my way, turning about
to behold this once and yet glorious City, from an eminence, I did not

without some regret give it my last farewell.

   Having taken leave of our friends at Rome, where I had sojourn'd
now about 7 moneths, Autumn, Winter, and Spring, I tooke coach in
company with two courteous Italian Gentlemen. In the afternoone we

ariv'd at an house, or rather castle, belonging to the Duke of Parma,
called Caprarola,1 situate on the brow of an hill that overlooks a little

town, or rather a naturall and stupendous rock ; witnesse those vast

caves serving now for cellerage, where we were entertain'd with most
generous wine of severall sorts, being just under the foundation. The
Palace was built by the famous Architect Vignola at the cost of Card.

Alex. Farnese, in forme of an octagone, the court in the middle being

exactly round, so as rather to resemble a fort or castle ; yet the cham

bers within are all of them square, which makes the walls exceeding

thick. One of these rooms is so artificialy contriv'd that from the two

opposite angles one may hear the least whisper ; they say any perfect

square dos it. Most of the paintings are by Zuccari. It has a stately
entrie, on which spouts an artificiall fountaine within the porch. The
hall, chapell, and great number of lodging chambers are remarkable,
but most of all the pictures and witty inventions of Hannibal Caracci ;
the dead Christ is incomparable. Behind are the gardens full of

statues and noble fountaines, especialy that of the Shepherds. After

din'er we tooke horse, and lay that night at Montrosso, twenty

miles from Rome.
    19 May. We dined at Viterbo, and lay at St. Laurenzo.
at Radicofani, and slept at Tumera.                        Next day

21. We dined at Sienna, where we could not passe admiring the

greate Church built intirely both within and without with white and
black marble in polish'd squares, by Macarino, shewing so beautifull
after a showre has fall'n. The floore within is of various coloured mar
bles, representing the storie of both Testaments admirably wrought.
Here lies Pius the Second. The Bibliothec is painted by P. Perugino
and Raphael. The life of iCneas Sylvius is in fresco; in the middle
are the 3 Graces of antiq marble, very curious, and the front of this
building, tho' Gotic, is yet very fine. Amongst other things they shew

  I Caprarola. There is a large descriptive account published of this Palr.ce, with magnificent

plates of the buildings, pictures, and statues.
I JO PISA ; LEGIIORNE ; LUCCA ; TOMB OF ST. RICHARD.

St. Catharine's disciplining Cell, the doore whereof is half cut out into
chipps by the pilgrimes and devotees, being of deale wood.
                hence for Pisa, we  went againe to see the Domo in which
   Setting out                      buried, poyson'd by a Monk in the
the Emperor      Henry VII. lies
Eucharist. The bending Tower was built by Busqueto Delichio, a
Grecian architect, and is a stupendious piece of art. In the gallery of
curiosities is a faire mummy ; the taile of a sea-horse ; corall growing
on a man's skull ; a chariot automaton ; two pieces of rock chrystall,

in one of which is a drop of water, in the other three or foure small
wormes ; two embalm'd children ; divers petrifactions, &c. The gar
den of simples is well furnish'd, and has in it the deadly yew or taxus
of the ancients ; which Dr. Bellueccio, the superintendant, affirmes that
his workmen cannot endure to clip for above the space of halfe an houre
at a time, from the paine of the head which surprizes them.
   We went hence for Ligorne by coach, where        I took up
for the rest of my journey, with letters of credit               9a0ftecrroIwhneasd
                                                    for Venice,

sufficiently complain'd of my defeate of correspondence at Rome.

  The next day I came to Lucca, a small but pretty territorie and state

of itselfe. --The Citty is neatc and well fortified, with noble and plea

sant walkes of trees on the workes, where the gentry and ladies use to
take the aire. 'Tis situate on an ample plaine by the river Serchio, yet
the country about it is hilly. The Senate-bouse is magnificent. The

Church of St. Michael is a noble piece, as is also St. Fredian, more

remarkable to us for the corpse of St. Richard, an English King,1 who
died here in his pilgrimage towards Rome. This epitaph is on his tomb:
Hie rex Richardus requiescit, sceptifer, almus :

Rex fuit Anglorum, regnum tenet iste polorum.

Regnum demisit pro Christo cuncta reliquit.
Ergo Richardum nobis dedit Anglia sanctum.
Hie genitor Sane tee Walburgas Virginis alma;
Est Vrillebaldi sancti simul et Vinebaldi,

Suftragium quorum nobis det regna Polorum.
Next this we visited St. Crosses, an excellent structure, all of marble
both without and within, and so adorn'd as may vie with many of the
fairest even in Rome; witness the huge Crosse valued at ,£15,000,
above all venerable for that sacred volto which (as tradition goes) was
miraculously put on the image of Christ, and made by Nicodemus,
whilst the artist, finishing the rest of the body, was meditating what
face to set on it. The inhabitants are exceedingly civill to strangers,

above all places in Italy, and they speake the purest Italian. Tis also

cheape living, which causes travellers to set up their rest here more
than in Florence, tho' a more celebrated Citty ; besides, the ladys here

are very conversable, and the religious women not at all reserVd ; of

   1 Who this Richard King of England was. it is impossible to say : the tomb still exists, and
has long been a crux to Antiquaries and Travellers. -- Editor.
            THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  15 1

tnese we bought gloves and embroidered stomachers generaly worn by;is
gentlemen in these countries. The circuit of this state is but two easyit, it it,
days journey, and lies mixed with the Duke of Tuscany's, but havingit
Spain for a Protector (tho' the least bigotted of all Roman Catholics),
and being one of the best fortif/d Citties in Italy, it remains in peace.
This whole country abounds in excellent olives, &c.

   Going hence for Florence, we dined at Pistoia, where besides one

church there was little observable : onely in the highway we crossed
a rivulet of salt water tho' many miles from the sea. The country is
extreamly pleasant, full of gardens, and the roads straight as a line for

the best part of that whole day, the hedges planted with trees at equal
distances, watered with cleare and plentifull streames.

   Rising early the next morning we alighted at Poggio Imperiale,
being a Palace of the Greate Duke, not far from the Citty, having omitted
it in my passage to Rome. The ascent to the house is by a stately
gallery as it were of talle and overgrown cypresse trees for neere half a
mile. At the enterance of these ranges are placed statues of the Tybcr
and Arno, of marble ; those also of Virgil, Ovid, Petrarch, and Dante.
The building is sumptuous and curiously furnish'd within with cabinets

of Pieta Commessa in tables, pavements, &c. which is a magnificence
or work particularly affected at Florence. The larger pictures are, Adam
and Eve by Albert Durer, very excellent ; as is that piece of carving in

wood by the same hand standing in a cupboard. Here is painted the

whole Austrian line ; the Duke's Mother, sister to the Emperor, the

foundresse of this Palace, than which there is none in Italy that I had

seene more magnificently adorn'd or furnish'd.
   We could not omit in our passage to revisit the same and other curio

sities which we had omitted at our first being at Florence. We went
therefore to see the famous piece of Andrea del Sarto in the Annunciata;
the storie is, that the Painter in a time of dearth borrow'd a sack of
come of the religious of that convent, and repayment being demanded,
he wrought it out in this picture, which represents Joseph sitting on a
sack of corn and reading to the B. Virgin ; a piece infinitely valued.
There fell down in the Cloister an old man's face painted on the wall in

fresco, greately esteem'd, and brake into crumbs ; the Duke sent his

best painters to make another instead of but none of them would
presume to touch a pencil where Andrea had wrought, like another

Apelles but one of them was so industrious and patient, that, picking

up the fragments, he laied and fastned them so artificialy together, that
the injury had received was hardly discemable. Andrea del Sarto

lies buried in the same place. Here also that picture of Bartolomeo,
who having spent his utmost skill in the face of the Angel Gabriel, and
being troubl'd that he could not exceede in the Virgin, he began the
body and to finish the clothes, and so left minding in the morning to
work on the face but when he came, no sooner had he drawn away
         ;
152 THE ART TREASURES AND THE RICHES OF FLORENXE.;; it,;

the cloth that was hung before it to preserve it from the dust, than an2;3a
admirable and ravishing face was found ready painted, at which miraclea
all the Citty came in to worship ; 'tis now kept in the Chapell of the;
Salutation, a place so enrich 'd by the devotees that none in Italy save
Loretto is said to exceede it. This picture is always covered with 3;             ;;
shutters, one of which is of massie silver ; methinks it is very brown,
the forehead and cheekes whiter, as if it had ben scraped. They reporta
that those who have the honour of seeing it never lose their sight --
happy then we ! There is belonging to this Church a world of plate,4                        ;;
some whole statues of and lamps innumerable, besides the costly
vowes hung up, some of gold, and a cabinet of precious stones.; is                    ;a ;

   Visiting the Duke's repository againe, we told at least 40 ranks of's;                       :
porphyry and other statues, and 28 whole figures, many rare paintings
and relievo's, square columns with trophies. In one of the galleries;6                             6;
24 figures and 50 antiq heads a Bacchus of M. Angelo, and one of;
Bandinelli a head of Bernini, and most lovely Cupid of Parian
marble at the further end, two admirable women sitting, and a manis
fighting with a Centaur figures in little of Andrea an huge candle
stick of amber table of Titian's painting, and another representing;
God the Father sitting in the aire on the Evangelists animals divers
smaller pieces of Raphael piece of pure virgin gold as big as an egg.is;
In the third chamber of rarities the square cabinet valued at 80,000is;
crownes, shewing on every front a variety of curious work one of birds
and flowers of Pietra Commessa one, a descent from the crosse, of4             2
M. Angelo on the third our Bl. Saviour and the Apostles, of amber
and on the 4th a crucifix of the same. 'Twixt the pictures two nakedis
Venus by Titian Adam and Eve by Durer and severall pieces of
Pordenone and del Frate. There a globe of foote diameter. In
the Armourie were an entire elk, a crocodile, and amongst the hamesse
several targets and antiq horse armes, as that of Cha. V. Two set with
turcoises and other precious stones a horse's taile of wonderfull
length. Then passing the Old Palace, which has a very greate hall for
feasts and comedies, the roofe rarely painted, and the side walls with
very large pictures representing batailes, the worke of Gio. Vassari.
Here a magazine full of plate a harnesse of emeralds the furni
tures of an altar foote high and six in length, of massy gold in the

middle placed the statue of Cosmo II. the bass relievo's of precious

stones, his breeches cover'd with diamonds the mouldings of this sta
tue, and other ornaments, festoons, &c. are garnish'd with Jewells and
great pearls, dedicated to St. Charles, with this incription in rubies

       Cosimus Secundus Dei gratia Magnus Dux Etrurias, ex voto.
There also a King on horseback of massy gold foote high, and an
infinity of such like rarities. Looking at the Justice in copper, set up
on a column by Cosmo in 1555 after the victory over Sienna, we were
told that when the Duke asking a Gentleman how he liked the piece,
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  1 53

he answered that he liked it very well, but that it stood too high for

poore men to come at it.

    Prince Leopold has in this Citty a very excellent collection of paint
ings, especialy a St. Catharine of P. Veroneze ; a Venus of marble,
veiled from the middle to the feete, esteem'd to be of that Greeke work
man who made the Venus at the Medici's Palace in Rome, altogether
as good, and better preserved, an inestimable statue, and not long since
found about Bologna.

   Signor Gaddi is a letter'd person, and has divers rarities, statues and
pictures of the best masters, and one bust of marble as much esteem'd
as the most antiq in Italy, and many curious manuscripts ; his best
paintings are, a Virgin of del Sarto, mention'd by Vassari, a St. "John
by Raphael, and an Ecu Homo by Titian.

   The Hall of the Academic de la Crusca is hung about with impresses
and devices painted, all of them relating to come sifted from the brann ;

the seatcs are made like bread baskets and other rustic instruments us"d
about wheate, and the cushions of satin, like sacks.

   We took our farewell of St. Laurence, more particularly noticing that
piece of the Resurrection, which consists of a prodigious number ot
naked figures, the work of Pontarno. On the left hand is the Martyr
dom of St. Laurence by Bronzini, rarely painted indeed. In a Chapell
is the tomb of Pietro di Medici and his brother John, of coper, excel
lently designed, standing on 2 lions' feete which end in foliage, the work
of M. Angelo. Over against this are selpulchers of all the ducal family.
The altar has a statue of the Virgin giving suck, and two Apostles.
Paulus Jovius has the honour to be buried in the cloister. Behind
the quire is the superb chapell of Ferdinand I. consisting of eight faces,
foure plaine, foure a little hollow'd, in the other are to be the sepul
chres and a niche of paragon for the statue of the Prince now living,
all of coper gilt ; above is a large table of porphyrie for an inscrip
tion for the Duke in letters of jasper. The whole Chapell, walls, pave
ment, and roofe are full of precious stones united with the mouldings,
which arc also of gilded coper, and so are the bases and capitals of the
columns. The tabernacle with the whole altar is inlaid with cornelians,

lazuli, serpentine, achats, onyxes, &c. On the other side are 6 very
large columns of rock chrystal, S figures of precious stones of several
colours, inlayed in natural figures not inferior to the best paintings,

amongst which are many pearls, diamonds, amethysts, topazes, sump
tuous and sparkling beyond description. The windows without side are
of white marble. The library is the architecture of Raphael ; before the
port is a square vestibule of excellent art, of all the orders without con
fusion ; the ascent to it from the library is excellent. We number'd
88 shelves, all MSS. and bound in red, chain'd ; in all about 3500
volumes, as they told us.

   The Arsenal has sufficient to armc 70,000 men, accurately preserv'd
154 STATUES, FOUNTAINS, AND CASCADES, ARTIFICIAL AND MUSICAL.

and kept, with divers lusty pieces of ordinance, whereof one is for a
ball of 300 pounds weight, and another for 160 which weighs 72,500

pounds.-.  I was  at  Florence  the  celebrated     masters  were, for Pietra
   When
Commessa (a kind of mosaiq or inlaying of various colour'd marble,
and other more precious stones) Dominico Benetti and Mazzotti ; the
best statuarie, Vincentio Brochi ; painter, Pietro Beretino di Cortona.
This statuary makes those small statues in plaster and pasteboard
which so resemble coper, that till one handles them they cannot be
distinguish'd, he has so rare an art of bronzing them. I bought four
of him.
This Duke has a daily tribute for every courtezan or prostitute allowed
to practice that infamous trade in his dominions, and so has his holi-

nesse the Pope, but not so much in value.
Taking leave of our two jolly companions Signor Giovanni and his
fellow, we tooke horses for Bologna, and by the way alighted at a villa
of the Grand Duke's called Pratoline. The house is a square of 4 pavi
lions, with a faire platform about balustred with stone, situate in a
large meadow, ascending like an amphitheater, having at the bottom aa
                                       it,
huge rock with water running in small channell like a cascade on
the other side are the gardens. The whole place seems consecrated tc      ;
pleasure and summer retirement. The inside of the palace may com             ;
pare with any in Italy for furniture of tapistry, beds, &c. and the gar
dens are delicious and full of fountaines. In the grove sits Pan feeding

his flock, the water making a melodious sound through his pipe and
an Hercules whose club yields a shower of water which falling into a
greate shell has a naked woman riding on the backs of dolphins. In

another grotto Vulcan and his family, the walls richly compos'd of
                  is

corals, shells, coper, and marble figures, with the hunting of severall

beasts, moving by the force of water. Here, having ben well washed

for our curiosity, we went down a large walke, at the sides whereof
several slender streams of water gush out of pipes concealed underneath,

that interchangeably fall into each others channells, making lofty and
                                                             I

                                                                    it a
perfect arch, so that a man on horseback may ride under and not
receive one drop of wet. This canopy or arch of water, thought one
of the most surprising magnificencies
           is a                                     had ever seene, and very re
                             is

                                                 I
freshing in the heate of the sum'er. At the end of this very long walk

stands a woman in white marble, in posture of a laundress wringing
water out of piece of linen, very naturally formed, into a vast lavor

the work and invention of M. Angelo Buonarotti. Hence we ascended

Mount Parnassus, where the Muses plaied to us on hydraulic organs.

Neere this a greate aviarie. All these waters came from the rock in
the garden, on which the statue of a gyant representing the Apen
nines, at the foote of which stands this villa. Last of all we came to
the labyrinth in which a huge colosse of Jupiter throws out streame
                                                             a
                 THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                    1 55

over the garden. This is 50 foote in height, having in his body a.
square chamber, his eyes and mouth serving for windows and dore.

  We took horse and supped that night at II Ponte, passing-a dread-
full ridge of the Apennines, in many places capped with snow, which

covers them the whole sum'er. We then descended into a luxurious

and rich plaine. The next day we passed through Scarperia, mounting

the hills againe where the passage is so strait and precipitous towards
the right hand that we climbed them with much care and danger ;

lodging at Fiorenzuolo, which is a fort built amongst the rocks and

defending the confines of the greate Duke's territories.
   The next day we passed by the Pietra Mala, a burning mountaine.
At the sum'it of this prodigious masse of hills we had an unpleasant

way to Pianura, where we slept that night and were entertain'd with

excellent wine. Hence to Scargalasino, and to bed at Loiano. This

plaine begins about six miles from Bologna.
   This towne belongs to the Pope, and is a famous University, situate
in one of the richest spots of Europe for all sorts of provisions. 'Tis

built like a ship, whereof the Torre d'Asinello may go for the main

mast. The Citty is of no greate strength, having a trifling wall about
     in circuit neere miles, and in length. This Torre d'Asinello,
it,              5

                           a

                                                  2
ascended by 447 steps of foote rise, seems exceedingly high, very
narrow, and the more conspicuous from another tower call'd Garisenda   it
                                                                          is
so artificially built of brick (which increases the wonder) that seems
ready to fall 'tis not now so high as the other, but they say the upper
     :

part was formerly taken down for feare should really fall and do
                                                     it

some mischief.

Next we went to see an imperfect Church cal'd St. Petronius, shew

ing the intent of the founder had he gon on. From this our guide led
us to the Schooles, which indeede are very magnificent. Thence to St.
Dominic's, where that saint's body lies richly inshrin'd. The stalls, or

seates of this goodly church have the historie of the Bible inlaied with
severall woods very curiously don, the work of one Fr. Damiano di
Bergomo and a frier of that order. Amongst other reliques they shew
the two books of Esdras written with his own hand. Here lie buried

Jac. Andreas and divers other learn'd persons. To the Church joynes

the Convent, in the quadrangle whereof are old cypresses, said to have

been planted by their Saint.
Then we went to the Palace of the Legat, faire brick building, as
                 is

                                           ;

                                                                    a
are most of the houses and buildings for the whole towne, full of excel

lent carving and mouldings, so as nothing in stone seemes to be better

finish'd or more ornamentall witnesse those excellent columns to be
seene in many of their churches, convents, and publiq buildings, for
                 so cloyster'd that one may passe from house to
the whole towne
house through the streetes without being expos'd to raine or sun.
   Before the stately hall of this Palace stands the statue of Paule          IV.
156 STATUARY, PICTURES, CARVINGS, AND RARE PIECES. '

and divers others ; also the monument of the coronation of Charles V.
The Piazza before it is the most stately in Italy, Sf. Mark's at Venice
onely excepted. In the center of it is a fountain of Neptune, a noble
figure in coper. Here I saw a Persian walking about in a very rich
vest of cloth of tissue, and severall other ornaments, according to the
fashion of his country, which much pleased me ; he was a young hand-
som person, of the most stately mien.

   I would faine have seene the Library of St. Saviour's, famous for the

number of rare manuscripts, but could not, so we went to St. Francis's,
a glorious pile and exceedingly adorn'd within.

   After dinner I enquired out a priest and Dr. Montalbano, to whom

I brought rccom'endations from Rome ; this was he who invented or

found out the composition of the lapis illutninabilis, or phosphorus.
He shew'd me their property (for he had severall), being to retaine the
light of the sun for some competent time, by a kind of imbibition, by a
particular way of calcination. Some of these presented a blew colour
like the flame of brimstone, others like coals of a kitchen fire. The
rest of the afternoone was taken up in St. Michael in Bosco, built on
a steepc hill on the edge of the Citty, for its fabrick, pleasant shade and
groves, cellars, dormitory, and prospects, one of the most delicious re
tirements I ever saw, art and nature contending which shall exceede ;

so as till now I never envied the life of a frier. The whole towne and
country to a vast extent arc under com'and of their eyes, almost as far
as Venice itselfe. In this Convent there are many excellent paintings
of Guido Rheni, above all, the little cloister of 8 faces painted by
Carracci in fresco. The carvings in wood in the sacristy are admirable,

as is the inlay 'd work about the Chapell, which even emulates the best
paintings, the work is so delicate and tender. The paintings of St.
Saviour are of Carracci and Leonardo, and there are excellent things
of Raphael which we could not see.

   In the Church of St. John is a fine piece of St. Cecilia by Raphael.
As to other paintings, there is in the Church of St. Gregorie an excel

lent picture of a Bishop giving the habit of St. Bernard to an arm'd
souldier, with severall other figures in the piece, the work of Guerchino.
Indeede this Citty is full of rare pieces, especialy of Guido, Domenico,
and a virgin named Isabella Sirani,now living, who has painted many
excellent pieces, and imitates Guido so well that many skilfull artists
have been deceiv'd.

   At the Mendicants are the Miracles of St. Eloy by Rheni, after the

manner of Caravagio, but better ; and here they shew'd us that famous
piece of Christ calling St. Matthew, by Hannibal Carracci. The Mar
ques Magniani has the whole freeze of his Hall painted in fresco by the
same hand.

   Many of the religious men here nourish those lap-dogs which the
ladies are so fond of, and which they here sell. They are a pigmy sort
                           THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.           ·57

of spaniels, whose noses they break when puppies, which in my opinion
deforms them.

   At the end of the turning in one of the wings of the dormitorie

of Sl Michael I found a paper pasted ncere the window, containing the

dimensions of most of the famous Churches in Italy compard with their
Toures here, and the length of this Gallery, a copy whereof I tooke.

                                       Braccia. ' Piedi di Bolognia. Cana di Roma.

St. Pietro  di--           Roma.     284   473 84
    Ion go                       --

Cupola del murro, alta               210   35° 60
Torre d'Asinello, alto
DMorimchit,oarioBologdne.     St.    208J  348        S9pr. 6
                           longo
                                     254   423 72*

   From hence being brought to a subterranean territorie of cellars, the
courteous Friars made us taste a variety of excellent wines, and so we
departed to our Inn.

   This Citty is famous also for sausages ; and here is sold greate quan
tities of Parmegiano cheese, with Botaryo, Caviare, &c. which makes
some of their shops perfume the streetcs, with no agreeable smell. We
furnishd ourselves with wash-balls, the best being made here, and being
a considerable commodity. This place has also been famous for lutes
made by theold masters, Mollen Hans Frey, and N icholas Sconvelt, which
were' of extraordinary price ; the workmen were cheifly Germans. The
cattle used for draught in this country (which is very rich and fertile,
especialy in pasturage) are coverd with housings of linnen fring'd at
the bottome, that dangle about them, preserving them from flyes, which

in sum'er are very troublesome.
   From this pleasant Citty we went now towards Ferrara, carrying with

us a bulletino or bill of health, (customary in all these parts of Italy,
especialy in the State of Venice,) and so put ourselves into a boate that
was towd with horses, often interrupted by the sluices (inventions there
to raise the water for the use of mills, and to fill the artificial canalls) at
every one of which we stayed till passage was made. We went by the
Castle Bentivoglio, and about night ariv'd at an ugly inn call'd Mai

Albergo, agreeable to its name, whence, after we had supp'd, we em-
bark'd and passd that night thro' the Fenns, where we were so pestered
with those flying glow-worms called Luccioli, that one who had never
heard of them would think the Country full of sparks of fire ; beating

some of them downe, and applying them to a book, I could reade in

the dark by the light they afforded.
   Quitting our boate we took coach, and by morning got to Ferrara,

where, before we could gain entrance, our gunns and armes were taken
from us of custom, the lock being taken off before, as we were advis'd.

                                             1 A measure of half an ell.
IS8 FERRARA ; THE PO, THE ADICE, CANALS, VENICE.

The Citty is in a low marshy country, and therefore well fortified. The
houses and streetes have nothing of beauty, except the Palace and

Church of St. Benedict, where Ariosto lies buried ; and there are some
good statues, the Palazzo del Diamante, Citadel, Church of St. Dominico.
The Market-place is very spacious, having in its center the figure of
Kicholao Olao, once Duke of Ferrara, on horseback, in coper. It is in
a word a dirty towne, and tho' the streetes be large they remaine ill
pav'd ; yet it is an University, and now belongs to the Pope. Tho'

there ate not many fine houses in the Citty, the inn where we lodg'd

was a very noble palace, having an Angel for its sign.
   We parted from hence about 3 in the afternoone, and went some of

·our way on the Chanell, and then imbark'd on the Po, or Padus, by the

poets called Eridanus, where they faine Phaeton to have fallen after

his rash attempt, and where Io was metamorphos'd into a cow. There
was in our company, amongst others, a Polonian Bishop, who was ex
ceeding civill to me in this passage, and afterwards did me many kind
nesses at Venice. We supp'd this night at a place called Corbua,

neere the mines of the ancient Citty Adria, which gives name to the

Gulph, or Sea. After 3 miles, having passed 30 on the Po, we imbarked
in a stout vessell, and thro' an artificial chanell, very strait, we entred

the Adice, which carried us by breake of day into the Adriatic, and so

sailing prosperously by Chioza, (a towne upon an island in this Sea,)
and Palestina, we came over against Malamocco (the cheife port and
ankerage where our English merchantmen lie that trade to Venice,)

about 7 at night, after we had stayed at least 2 houres for permission
to land, our bill of health being deliver'd according to costome. So

soone as we came on shore we were conducted to the Dogana, where

our portmanteaus were visited, and then we got to our lodging, which
was at honest Signor Paulo Rhodomante's at the Black Eagle near the
Rialto, one of the best quarters of the towne. This journey from Rome
to Venice cost me 7 pistoles and 13 julios.
           The next   morning, finding myself extreamly wear)-
   June.  journey, I  went to one of their bagnios, where you   and  beaten
with my                                                         are  treated

after the Eastern manner, washing with hot and cold water, with oyles,
and being rubbed with a kind of strigil of seal's-skin, put on the ope
rator's hand like a glove. This bath did so open my pores that it cost
me one of the greatest colds I ever had in my life, for want of neces

sary caution in keeping myselfe warme for some time after ; for coming

out I im'ediately began to visit the famous places of the Citty ; and
Travellers who come into Italy do nothing but run up and down to see
sights, and this Citty well deserved our admiration, being the most

wonderfully placed of any in the world, built on so many hundred

islands, in the very Sea, and at good distance from the Continent. It

has no fresh water except what is reserv'd in cisterns from raine, and
such as is daily brought from terra firma in boates, yet there was no
want of and all sorts of excellent provisions were very cheape.it,
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                          159

Tis said that when the Huns overran Italy some meane fishermen

and others left the mainc land and fled for shelter to these despicable
and muddy islands, which in processe of time, by industry, are growne

to the greatnesse of one of the most considerable States, considered as
a Republic, and having now subsisted longer than any of the foure

ancient Monarchies, flourishing in greate state, wealth, and glory, by
the conquest of greate territories in Italy, Dacia, Greece, Candy, Rhodes,
and Sclavonia, and at present challenging the empire of all the Adriatiq

Sea, which they yearly espouse by casting a gold ring into it with

greate pomp and ceremony on Ascension Day : the desire of seeing

this was one of the reasons that hastened us from Rome.

The Doge, having heard masse in his robes of state (which are very
particular, after the Eastern fashion,) together with the Senat in their
gownes, imbark'd in their gloriously painted, carved, and gilded Bu-

centora, inviron'd and folio w*d by innumerable gallys, gondolas, and

boates, filled with spectators, some dressed in masquerade, trumpets,

musiq, and canons ; having rowed about a league into the Gulph, the
Duke at the prow casts a gold ring and cup into the Sea, at which a loud
acclamation is ecchoed from the greate guns of the Arsenal and at the
Liddo. We then return'd.
Two days after, taking a gondola, which is their water-coach (for
land-ones there are many old men in this Cit'ty who never saw one, or

rarely a horse), we rowed up and downe the Channells, which answer
to our streetes. These vessells are built very long and narrow, having

necks and tailes of Steele, somewhat spreading at the beake like a
fishes taile, and kept so exceedingly polish'd as to give a greate lustre ;

some are adorn'd with carving, others lined with velvet (commonly
black), with curtains and tassells, and the seates like couches, to lie
stretch'd on, while he who rowes stands upright on the very edge of
the boate, and with one oare bending forward as if he would fall into

the Sea, rows and turnes with incredible dexterity ; thus passing from
channell to cbannell, landing his fare or patron at what house he pleases.
The beakes of these vessells are like the ancient Roman rostrums.
The first publiq building I went to see was the Rialto, a bridge of

one arch over the grand Canall, so large as to admit a gaily to row
under built of good marble, and having on besides many pretty
it,
              it

                                           It

                                                                      it,

                                                                                                                                                             ;

                                                                                                  is ;
shops, three ample and stately passages for people without any incon

venience, the two outmost nobly balustred with the same stone a piece
of Architecture much to be admir'd.
                                     was evening, and the Canall

where the Noblesse go to take the air, as in our Hide-park, was full of

ladys and gentlemen. There are many times dangerous stops by rea
son of the multitude of gondolas ready to sink one another and

indeede they affect to leane them on one side, that one who not
accostom'd to would be afraid of over-setting. Here they were

singing, playing on harpsicords and other musick, and serenading their
160 THE RI ALTO; GONDOLAS; EXCHANGE; CHURCH OF ST. MARC

mistresses; in another place racing and other pastimes upon the water,

it being now exceeding hot.

   Next day I went to their Exchange, a place like ours frequented by

merchants, but nothing so magnificent : from thence my guide led me

to the Fondigo di Todeschi, which is their magazine, and here many of

the merchants, especialy Germans, have their lodging and diet as in a
college. The outside of this stately fabric is painted by Gioigione da
Castelfranco, and Titian himselfe.
   Hence I pass'd thro' the Merceria, which is one of the most delicious

streetes in the world for the sweetnesse of and all the way on both
                                ;
sides tapistred as were with cloth of gold, rich damasks and other
       ;                                 it,
                                                    is
              I it                                                 a
                                                                                            6,
silks, which the shops expose and hang before their houses from the
first floore, and with that variety that for neere halfe the yeare spent

cheifly in this Citty hardly remember to have scene the same piece

twice expos'd to this add the perfumes, apothecaries shops, and the

innumerable cages of nightingales which they keepe, that entertaine
you with their melody from shop to shop, so that shutting your eyes you

would imagine yourselfe in the country, when indeede you are in the

middle of the Sea. It almost as silent as the middle of field, there
                    is

being neither rattling of coaches nor trampling of horses. This streete,
pav'd with brick and exceedingly cleane, brought us thro' an arch into

the famous Piazza of St. Marc.

Over this Porch stands that admirable Clock, celebrated next to that

of Strasburg for its many movements amongst which, about 12 and
which are their houres of Ave Maria when all the towne are on their

knees, come forth the Kings led by a starr, and passing by the image
of Christ in his Mother's armes do their reverence, and enter into the;
              3
clock by another doore. At the top of this turret another automaton

strikes the quarters an honest merchant told me that one day walking

in the Piazza, he saw the fellow who kept the Clock struck with this

hammer so forceably, as he was stooping his head neere the bell to

mend something amisse at the instant of striking, that being stunn'd he
reel'd over the battlements and broke his neck. The buildings in this

Piazza are all arch'd, on pillars, pav'd within with black and white
polish'd marble even to the shops, the rest of the fabric as stately as
                                                          of the
any in Europ, being not only marble but the architecture
       is

                                                       :

                                        is
                                                                                is
                                                                                            is

                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                                              ;
famous Sansovini, who lies buried in St. Jacomo at the end of the
Piazza. The battlements of this noble range of building are rail'd with
stone, and thick set with excellent statues, which add a great orna
ment. One of the sides yet much more Roman-like than the other

which reguards the Sea, and where the Church plac'd. The other
       plainly Gotiq and so we entred into St Marc's Church,
range

before which stand two brasse piedestals exquisitely cast and figured,
which beare as many tall masts painted red, on which upon greate

festivals they hang flags and streamers. The Church also Gotic
                     THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                       161

yet for the preciousnese of the materials being of severall rich marbles,
aboundance of porphyrie, serpentine, &c. far exceeding any in Rome,
St. Peter's hardly excepted. I much admired the splendid historic of
our B. Saviour compos'd all of Mosaic over the faciata, below which
and over the cheife gate are four horses cast in coper as big as the life,

the same that formerly were transported from Rome by Constantine to

Byzantium, and thence by the Venetians hither.1 They are supported
by 8 porphyrie columns of very great size and value. Being come into
the Church, you see nothing, and tread on nothing, but what is
precious. The floore is all inlayed with achats, lazuli's, calcedons, jas

pers, porphyries and other rich marbles, admirable also for the work ;

the walls sumptuously incrusted and presenting to the imagination the
shapes of men, birds, houses, flowers, and a thousand varieties. The

roofe is of most excellent Mosaic ; but what most persons admire is the
new work of the emblematic tree at the other passage out of the Church.

In the midst of this rich volto rise five cupolas, the middle very large

and sustayn'd by 36 marble columns, eight of which are of precious
marbles : under these cupolas is the high altar, on which is a rcliquarie
of severall sorts of Jewells, engraven with figures after the Grceke
miner, and set together with plates of pure gold. The altar is cover'd
with a canopy of ophit, on which is sculptur'd the storie of the Bible,

and so on the pillars, which are of Parian marble, that support it.

Behind these are four other columns of transparent and true Oriental

alabaster, brought hither out of the mines of Solomon's Temple as they
report. There are many chapells and notable monuments of illustrious

persons, Dukes, Cardinals, &c. as Zeno, Jo. Soranzi, and others : there
is likewise a vast baptistcric of coper. Among other venerable reliques

is a stone on which they say our Blessed Lord stood preaching to those
of Tyre and Sidon, and neere the doore is an image of Christ, much
ador'd, esteeming it very sacred, for that a rude fellow striking they
t

                                                                                                                it,
say, there gush'd out a torrent of blood. In one of the corners lies the

body of St. Isidore, brought hither 500 years since from the island of
Chios. A little farther they shew the picture of St. Dominic and
Francis, affirm'd to have ben made by the Abbot Joachim (many yeares
before  any of them   were born.)  ItIhIaG.totivrnoegrdseoounot fotthfheethpneseacClkmhu,orcf"htshutehpeeyErmbsahpeseiwrlio'sdr-
ns the                Alexander
Fred.   stone where  pronouncing
        Barbarossa,

cum" Slc. The dores of the Church are of massic coper. There are
neere 500 pillars in this building, most of them porphyrie and serpen
tine, and brought cheifly from Athens and other parts of Greece
formerly in their power. At the corner of the Church are inserted into
the maine wall four figures as big as life cut in porphyrie, which they
say are the images of four brothers who poysoned one another, by

IITb*7 were token away by Buonaparte to Paris, but in 1815 were tent back to Venice. Edit.
162 TRESORO DI SAN MARCO ; SENATE-HOUSE ; DUCAL PALACE.

which meanes there escheated to the Republiq that vast treasury of
relicques now belonging to the Church. At the other entrance that
looks towards the Sea, stands in a small chapell that statue of our
Lady, made (as they aftirme) of the same stone or rock out of which
Moses brought water to the murmuring Israelities at INIeriba.

   After all that is said, this Church is in my opinion much too dark
and dismal, and of heavy work ; the fabric, as is much of Venice both
for buildings and other fashions and circumstances, after the Greekes,
their next neighboures.

   The next day, by favour of the French Ambassador I had admittance
with him to see the Reliquary call'd here Tresoro di San Marco, which
very few even of travellers are admitted to see. It is a large chamber
full of presses. There are twelve breast-plates, or pieces of pure golden
armour studded with precious stones, and as many crownes dedicated
to St. Mark by so many noble Venetians who had recovered theirwives
taken at sea by the Saracens ; many curious vases of achats ; the cap
or cornet of the Dukes of Venice, one of which had a rubie set on it
esteemed worth 200,000 crownes ; two unicorns homes ; numerous
vasas and dishes of achat set thick with precious stones and vast
pearles ; divers heads of Saints inchas'd in gold ; a small ampulla or
glasse with our Saviour's blood ; a greate morcell of the real crosse ;
one of the nailes ; a thorn ; a fragment of the column to which our
Lord was bound when scourged ; the standard or ensigne of Constan-
tine ; a piece of St. Luke's arme ; a rib of St. Stephen ; a finger of
Mary Magdalene ; numerous other things which I could not remem
ber ; but a priest, first vesting himselfe in his sacerdotals with the stole
about his neck, shew'd us the Gospel of St. Mark (their tutelar patron)
written by his own hand, and whose body they shew buried in the
Church, brought hither from Alexandria many years ago.

   The Religious de li Servi have fine paintings of P. Veroneze, espe-
cialy that of the Magdalen.

  A French Gentleman and myself went to the Courts of Justice, the

Senate-house, and Ducal Palace. The first Court neere this Church is
almost wholly built of several colourM sorts of marble, like chequer
work on the outside ; this is sustain'd by vast pillars, not very shapely,
but observable for their capitals, and that out of thirty-three no two are
alike. Under this fabrick is the Cloyster where Merchants meete mor

ning and evening, as also the grave Senators and Gentlemen, to confer
of state affaires in their gownes and caps like so many Philosophers ;

'tis a very noble and solemn spectacle. In another quadrangle stood

two square columns of white marble, carved, which they said had ben
erected to hang one of their Dukes on who design'd to make himselfe
Soveraigne. Going through a stately arch there were standing in
niches divers statues of greate value, amongst which is the so celebra
ted F.ve, esteem'd worth its weight in gold ; it is just opposite to the
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  163

 staires where are two Colossus's of Mars and Neptune by Sansovino.
 We went up into a Coridore built with several Tribunals and Courts ot

 Justice ; and by a well contrived stair-case were landed in the Senate-
 hall, which appears to be one of the most noble and spacious rooms in
 Europ, being 76 paces long and 32 in breadth. At the upper end are
 the Tribunals of the Doge, Council of Ten, and Assistants ; in the body
 of the hall are lower ranks of seates capable of containing 1500
 Senators, for they consist of no fewer on grand debates. Over the

 Duke's throne are the paintings of the Final Judgment by Tintoret,

 esteem'd amongst the best pieces in Europe. On the roofe are the
 famous Acts of the Republick painted by severall excellent masters,
 especialy Bassano ; next them are the Effigies of the severall Dukes,
 with their Elogies. Then we turned into a great Court painted with

 the Battail of Lepanto, an excellent piece ; thence into the Chamber
 of the Council of Ten, painted by the most celebrated masters. From

 hence, by the special favour of an Illustrissimo, we were carried to see
 the private Armorie of the Palace, and so to the same Court we first
 enter'd, nobly built of polish'd white marble, part of which is the Duke's
 Court pro tempore; there are two wells adom'd with excellent work in
 coper. This led us to the sea-side, where stand those two columns of
 ophite stone in the intire piece, of a greate height, one bearing St. Mark's
 Lion, the other St. Theodoras ; these pillars were brought from Greece,
 and set up by Nic. Baraterius the architect ; betweene them publique

 executions are performed.
    Having fed our eyes with the noble prospect of the Island St. George,

the gallies, gondolas, and other vessells passing to and fro, we walked
tinder the Cloyster on the other side of this goodly Piazza, being a most
magnificent building, the design of Sansovino. Here we went into the
Zecca, or Mint ; at the entrance stand two prodigious Giants or Her
cules of white marble : we saw thero melt, beate, and coyne silver, gold,
and coper. We then went up into the Procuratorie, and a Library of
excellent MSS. and books belonging to it and the Publiq. After this
we climb'd up the Toure of St. Mark, which we might have don on
horseback, as 'tis said one of the French Kings did, there being no
stayres or steps, but returnes that take up an entire square on the arches
40 foote, broad enough for a coach. This Steeple stands by itselfe
without any Church neere and rather a watch toure in the corner

of the greate Piazza, 230 foote in height, the foundation exceeding

deepe on the top an Angel that turns with the wind, and from hence

is prospect down the Adriatic as far as Istria and the Dalmatian side,
with the surprizing sight of this miraculous Citty, which lies in the bo-
some of the sea, in the shape of a lute, the numberless Islands tacked
together by no fewer than 450 bridges. At the foote of this Toure a
public Tribunal of excellent work in white marble polish'd, adorn'd
with several brasse statues and figures of stone in mezzo relievo, the
worke of some rare artist.
a

         ;

                             is
                                           it,
                                                       is

                                                                                                                is
164 APPEARANCE, DRESS, AND HABITS OF THE VENETIANS.

It was now Ascension Weeke, and the greate Mart or Faire of the
jwhole yeare was now kept, every body at liberty and jollie. The noble

men stalking with their ladys on choppines these are high-heel'd shoes,

particularly affected by these proude dames, or, as some say, invented
to keepe them at home, it being very difficult to walke with them ;

whence one being asked how he liked the Venetian dames, replied,

that they were mezzo came, mezzo ligno, half flesh, half wood, and he
would have none of them. The truth their garb very odd, as seem
                                                             ;         is
                                                                                        it
ing allwayes in masquerade their other habits also totaly different fromis,
      ;

                                                          ;
all nations. They weare very long crisped haire, of severall strakes

and colours, which they make so by a wash, dischevelling on the

brims of a broade hat that has no head, but an hole to put out their

heads by they drie them in the sunn, as one may see them at their

windows. In their tire they set silk flowers and sparkling stones, their

peticoates coming from their very arme-pits, so that they are neere
three quarters and an half apron their sleeves are made exceeding

wide, under which their shift sleeves as wide, and commonly tucked up

to the shoulder, shewing their naked armes, thro' false sleeves of tiffany,

girt with a bracelet or two, with knots of points richly tagged about

their shoulders and other places of their body, which they usually cover

with kind of yellow vaile of lawn very transparent. Thus attirM they
set their hands on the heads of two matron-like servants or old women,it a

to support them, who are mumbling their beades. 'Tis ridiculous to see;
                                   ;

                               ;I
how these ladys crawle in and out of their gondolas by reason of their
choppines, and what dwarfs they appeare when taken downe from their

wooden scaffolds of these saw near thirty together, stalking half as

high again as the rest of the world, for courtezans or the citizens may
not weare choppines, but cover their bodies and faces with a vaile of a

certaine glittering taffeta or lustrce, out of which they now and then
dart a glaunce of their eye, the whole face being otherwise entirely hid

with  nor may the com'on misses take this habit, but go abroad bare-
fac'd. To the corners of these virgin-vaites hang broad but flat tossells
of curious Point de Venize the married women go in black vailes.
The nobility weare the same colour, but of fine cloth lin'd with taffeta

in Summer, with fur of the bellies of squirrells in the Winter, which all
put on at a certaine day girt with girdle emboss'd with silver the
                                                             aa        is

                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                               ;
vest not much different from what our Bachelors of Arts weare in Ox
ford, and a hood of cloth made like sack, cast over their left shoulder,

and a round cloth black cap fring'd with wool which not so comely

they also weare their collar open to shew the diamond button of the

stock of their shirt. have never seene pearle for colour and bignesse
      is
           is

                I
comparable to what the ladys wear, most of the noble families being

very rich in Jewells, especialy pearles, which are always left to the son
or brother who destined to marry, which the eldest seldome do. The
Doge's vest of crimson velvet, the Procurator's, &c. of damasc, very
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  165

stately. Nor was I lease surprised with the strange variety of the
'overall nations which were seen every day in the streetes and piazzas ;
Jews, Turks, Armenians, Persians, Moores, Greekes, Sclavonians, some
with their targets and boucklers, and all in their native fashions, nego

tiating in this famous Emporium, which is alhvays crowded with

strangers.

   This night, having with my Lord Bruce taken our places before, we

went to the Opera where comedies and other plays are represented in
recitative musiq by the most excellent musicians vocal and instrumen
tal, with variety of sceanes painted and contrived with no lesse art of
perspective, and machines for flying in the aire, and other wonderfull
motions ; taken together it is one of the most magnificent and expen
sive diversions the wit of man can invent. The history was, Hercules
in Lydia ; the sceanes changed thirteen times. The famous voices,
Anna Rencia, a Roman, and reputed the best treble of women ; but
there was an eunuch who in my opinion surpass'd her ; also a Genoeze
that sung an incomparable base. This held us by the eyes and earcs

till two in the morning, when we went to the Chetto de san Felice, to

see the noblemen and their ladies at Basset, a game at cards which
is much used, but they play not in public, and all that have inclination
to it are in masquerade, without speaking one word, and so they come
in, play, loose or gaine, and go away as they please. This time of
licence is onely in Carnival and this Ascension Weeke ; neither are
their Theaters open for that other magnificence or for ordinary come
dians save on these solemnities, they being a frugal and wise people
and exact observers of all sumptuarie laws.

   There being at this time a ship bound for the Holy Land, I had re
solved to imbark, intending to see Jerusalem and other parts of Syria,
Egypt, and Turkey ; but after I had provided all necessaries, laid in
snow to coole our drink, bought some sheepe, poultry, biscuit, spirits,
and a little cabinet of drouggs in case of sicknesse, our vessell (where-
off Capt. Powell was master) happen'd to be press'd for the service of
the State to carry provisions to Candia, now newly attacqued by the
Turkes, which altogether frustrated my designe, to my very greate

mortification.
   On the . . . June we went to Padua, to the Faire of their St. Anthony

in company of divers passengers. The first terra firma we landed at
was Fesina, being onely an inn, where we changed our barge and were
then drawne up by horses thro' the river Brenta, a strait chanell as
even as a line for 20 miles, the country on both sides deliciously adorn'd
with country villas and gentlemen's retirements, gardens planted with
oranges, figs and other fruit belonging to the Venetians. At one
of these villas we went ashore to see a pretty contriv'd Palace.
Observable in this passage was buying their water of those who farme
the sluices, for this artificial river is in some places so shallow that
l66 PADUA; TOMB OF ST. ANTHONY; SCULPTURES.Iis

reserves of water are kept with sluices, which they open and shut withit,;
a most ingenious invention or engine, govern'd even by a child. Thus
they keep up the water, or let it go, till the next channell be eitherI'
filled by the stop, or abated to the levell, of the other, for which everyI
boate pays a certain dutie. Thus we stay'd neere halfe an houre andI
more at three severall places, so as it was evening before we got to:

Padua. This is a very ancient Cittie if the tradition of Antenor's',       is
                                   is                                             is
being the founder be not a fiction ; but thus speakes the inscription
over a stately gate :                  is
                                                            a
   Hanc antiquissimam urbem literarum omnium asylum, cujus agrum
fertilitatis Lumen Natura esse voluit, Antenor condidit an'o ante
Christum natum M.Cxviii, Senatus autem Venetus his belli propugnan-
dis ornavit.

   The towne stands on the river Padus, whence its name, and is gene
rally built like Bologna on arches and on brick, so that one may walk
all round dry, and in the shade, which very convenient in these
hot countries, and think was never sensible of so burning a heate
as was this season, especialy the next day, which was that of the
Faire, fill'd with noble Venetians by reason of a greate and solemn
procession to their famous Cathedral. Passing by St. Lorenzo met
with this inscription

                  Inclytus Antenor patriam vox nisa quietem
                   Transtulit hue Henetum Dardanidumq fuga,

                Expulit Euganeos, Patavinam condidit urbem,
                     Quern tegit hie humili marmore cssa domus.

   Under the tomb was a cobler at his work. Being now come to St.
Antonies (the streete most of the way strait, well built, and outside ex
cellently painted in fresco) we surve/d the spacious piazza, in which
erected a noble statue of coper of a man on horseback, in memorie of
one Catta Malata a renowned captaine. The Church a la Greca con
sists of five handsome cupolas leaded. At the left hand within the
tomb of St. Anthony and his altar, about which mezzo relievo of the
miracles ascrib'd to him exquisitely wrought in white marble by the
three famous sculptors Tullius Lombardus, Jacobus Sansovinus, and
Hieron. Compagno. A little higher the quire, wall'd parapet fashion
with sundry coloured stone halfe relievo, the work of Andrea Reccij.
The altar within of the same metall, which with the candlestick and
bases in my opinion as magnificent as any in Italy. The wainscot of
the quire rarely inlayed and carved. Here are the sepulchres of
many famous persons, as of Rodolphus Fulgosi, &c. and among the
rest one that for an exploit at sea has a gaily exquisitely carved thereon.
        is
               is

                           is

Vol.21  III.Keysler very justly observes that the first line of this inscription conveys no meaning.
        p. 220.

        Lassells calls him GatU Mela, the Venetian Central, nicknamed Gata, because of his

watchfulness, p. 439.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                         1 6/

The Procession bore the banners with all the treasure of the cloyster,

which was a very fine sight.

   Hence walking over the Prato delle Valle, I went to see the Convent

of St. Justina's, than which I never beheld one more magnificent. The
Church is an excellent piece of architecture of Andrea Palladio, richly
pav'd, with a stately cupola that covers the high altar inshrining the

ashes of that Saint. It is of Pietra Comtnessa, consisting of flowers
very naturally don. The quire is inlay'd with severall sorts of wood
representing the holy history, finish'd with exceeding industry. At the
far end is that rare painting of St. Justincts martyrdom by P. Vero

nese ; and a stone on which they told us divers primitive Christians
had ben decapitated. In another place (to which leads a small cloister
well painted) is a dry well covered with a brasse-work grate wherein
are the bones of divers martyrs. They shew also the bones of St. Luke

in an old alabaster coffin ; three of the Holy Innocents ; and the bodys
of St. Maximus and Prosdocimus ' . The Dormitory above is exceed
ing commodious and stately, but what most pleas'd me was the old
cloyster so well painted with the legendarie Saints, mingled with many
ancient inscriptions, and pieces of urnes dug up it seemes at the foun
dation of the Church. Thus having spent the day in rambles, I retum'd

the next day to Venice.
   The Arsenal is thought to be one of the best furnish'd in the world.

We entred by a strong port always guarded, and ascending a spacious
gallery saw armes of back, breast, and head, for many thousands ; in

another were saddles, over them ensignes taken from the Turks. An
other Hall is for the meeting of the Senat ; passing a graff are the

smiths forges, where they are continualy at work on ankers and iron
work. Neere it is a well of fresh water, which they impute to two
rhinoceros's horns which they say lie in it and will preserve it from

ever being empoison'd. Then we came to where the carpenters were
building their magazines of oares, masts, &c. for an hundred gallys and

ships, which have all their aparell and furniture neere them. Then the

founderie, where they cast ordinance ; the forge is 450 paces long, and .
one of them has thirteen furnaces. There is one cannon weighing
16,573 lbs. cast whilst Henry the Third dined, and put into a gaily
built, rigg'd, and fitted for launching within that time. They have also
armes for 12 galeasses, which are vessells to rowe, of almost 150 foote
long and 30 wide, not counting prow   or poop, and contain        28 banks of
oares, each 7 men, and to carry 1300  men, with 3 masts.          In another

a magazin for 50 gallys, and place for some hundreds more. Here
stands the Bucentaur, with a most ample deck, and so contriv'd that
the slaves are not seene, having on the poop a throne for the Doge to
sit, when he gos in triumph to espouse the Adriatic. Here is also a
gallery of 200 yards long for cables, and over that a magazine of hemp.

> St. Peter's disciple, first Bishop of Padua. Lasseils, p. 430.
168 THE ARSENAL ; CRIMANl'S PALACE ; CHURCH OF ST. ZACHARY.

Over against these are their saltpetre houses, and a large row of cells
or houses to protect their gallies from the weather. Over the gate as

we go out, is a roome full of greate and small guns, some of which dis
charge six times at once. Then there is a court full of can'on, bullets,

chaines, grapples, granados, &c. and over that armes for 800,000 men,

and by themselves armes for 400 taken from some that were in a plot
against the State ; together with weapons of offence and defence for 62
ships ; 32 pieces of ordnance on carriages taken from the Turks, and
one prodigious mortar-piece. In a word, 'tis not to be reckoned up

what this large place containes of this sort. There were now 23 gallys,
and 4 gally-grossi of 100 oares of a side. The whole Arsenal is wall'd
about and may be in compasse about 3 miles, with 12 towres for the
watch, besides that the sea invirons it. The workmen, who are ordi

narily 500, march out in military order, and every evening receive their

pay thro' a small hole in the gate where the Governor lives.

   The next day I saw a wretch executed who had murther'd his master,

for which he had his head chop'd off by an axe that slid down a frame
of timber,1 between the two tall columns in St. Mark's Piazza at the sea

brink ; the executioner striking on the axe with a beatle, and so the

head fell off the block.

   Hence by Gudala we went to see Grimani's Palace, the portico
whereof is excellent work. Indeed the world cannot shew a Citty of

more stately buildings considering the extent of all of square stone,              it,

and as chargeable in their foundations, as superstructure, being all built
on piles at an immense cost. We return'd home by the Church of St.

Johanne and Paulo, beforewhich in coper the statue of Bartolomeois
Colone on horseback, double gilt, on a stately pedestal, the work of
And. Verrochio, a Florentine. This
                                              is    very fine Church, and has in
                                                 a

   many rare altar pieces of the best masters, especialy that on the leftit
hand of the Two Friers slaine, which of Titian.
                                              is

   The day after, being Sunday, went over to St. George's to the cere-I
monie of the schismatic Greekes, who are permitted to have their

Church, tho' they are at defiance with Rome. They allow no carved

images, but many painted, especialy the story of their patron and his
dragon. Their rites differ not much from the Latines, save that of
communicating in both species, and distribution of the holy bread.
We afterwards fell into dispute with Candiot concerning the proces
sion of the Holy Ghost. The Church a noble fabric.
                              is
                                     a

                                          is
   The Church of St. Zachary of Greeke building, by Leo the 4th
Emp. and has in the bones of that prophet with divers other Saints.
Neere this we visited St. Luke's, famous for the tomb of Aretine.*
J
                         1
                          it
    The maiden at Halifax, in Yorkshire, and the guillotine in France.
    This epitaph has been made for this Satyrist and Atheist
                              ;
                                                |I

                                                If
                                                                                :
    Here lies the man who no man spared,      Nor God himself had better fared.
       When the angry fit was on him                 Aretine had known him.
                            THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                   169

Tuesday we visited severall other Churches, as Santa Maria, newly

incrusted with marble on the outside, and adorned with porphyrie,
ophit, and Spartan stone. Neere the altar and under the organ are

sculptures, that are said to be of the famous artist Praxiteles. To that
of St. Paul I went purposely to see the tomb of Titian. Then to St.

John the Evangelist, where amongst other heroes lies Andr. Baldarius,
the inventor of oares applied to greate vessells for fighting.
We also saw St. Roch, the roofe whereof with the school or hall
                                                                             I is,
of that rich confraternity, admirably painted by Tintoret, especialy the
Crucifix in the sacristia. We saw also the Church of St. Sebastian,
and Carmelites monasterie.

Next day taking our gondola at St. Mark's, pass'd to the Island of
St. George Maggiore, where a Convent of Benedictines, and well
                            it,                                                         is a
                                          is is
                                                a
built Church by Andrea Palladio, the greate architect. The pavement,

cupola, choire, and pictures, very rich and sumptuous. The cloyster

has fine garden to which                                   rare thing at Venice, tho' this an
in is a
       aisland a little distant from the Cittie                 has also an olive orchard all
                                                                ;
           ; isinviron'd by the sea. The new cloyster now building has a noble
                                                                   it
                         ;                                               is
stayrecase pav'd with white and black marble.

From hence we visited St. Spirito and St. Laurence, faire Churches

in severall islands but most remarkable that of the Padri Qlivetani
in St. Helen's island, for the rare paintings and carvings, with inlay'd
                            ;
work, &c.
                                        is

                                                        ;
The next morning we went againe to Padoa, where next day we

visited the market, which plentifully furnish and exceedingly cheape.        'd

Here we saw the greate hall, built in a spacious piazza, and one of the
most magnificent in Europe its ascent by steps a good height, of
                                                                is

reddish marble polish'd, much us'd in these parts and happly found

not far off 'tis almost 200 paces long and 40 in breadth, all cover'd
with lead, without any support of columns. At the farther end stands
the bust in white marble of Titus Livius the historian. In this town
                                                                                        ;
the house wherein he was borne, full of inscriptions and pretty faire.                                        ;

Neere to the monument of Speron Speronii, painted on the cieling                                           is
                                                                             is

                                                                                     ;
the celestial zodiaq and other astronomical figures without side there

a corridor in manner of a balcony, of the same stone and at the
entrie of each of the three gates the head of some famous person, as
                            is
                               a
                                          is

                                                            is
Albert Eremitano, Jul. Paullo (lawyers), and Peter Aponius. In the
piazza the Podesta and Capitano Grande's Palace, well built but

above all the Monte Pieta, the front whereof of most excellent archi
                                                                    is
                                                                      is
tecture this                foundation of which there one in most of the Citties

Italy, where there a continual banq of mony to assist the poorer

sort, on any pawn, and at reasonable interest, together with magazines

for deposit of goods till redeemed.

Hence to the Scholes of this flourishing and ancient University, espe
cialy for the studie of physic and anatomic They are fairly built in
170 MATRICULATE AT PADUA. THE EARLE OF ARUNDEL,

quadrangle, with cloysters beneath, and above with columns. Over
the greate gate are the armes of the Venetian State, and under the lion
of "StS. icMainrcgre: dere et teipso quotidie doctior ; sic egredere ut indies
Patriae Christianasq ; Reipublicae utilior evadas ; ita demum Gymna

sium a te feliciter ornatum existimabit.                            CID.IX."
About the court walls are carv'd in stone and painted the blazons of

the Consuls of all the nations that from time to time have had that

charge and honor in the Universitie, which at my being there was my

worthy friend Dr. Rogers, who here tooke that degree.

The scholes for the lectures of the severall sciences are above, but

none of them comparable, or so much frequented as the theatre for

anatomie, which is excellently contriv'd both for the dissector and spec

tators. I was this day invited to dinner, and in the afternoone (being
30 July) received my Matricula, being resolved to spend some moneths
here at study, especialy physic and anatomie, of both which there was
now the most famous professors in Europe. My Matricula contained
a clause, that I, my goods, sen-ants, and messengers, should be free

from all toll and reprises, and that we might come, pass, return, buy or

sell, without any toll, &c.
The next morning I went to see the Garden of Simples, rarely fur-

nish'd with plants, and gave order to the gardener to make me a col

lection of them for an /tortus hyemalis, by permission of the Cavalier

Dr. Vestlingius, who was then Prefect and Botanic Professor as well as
of Anatomie.

Next morning the Earle of Arundel,' now in this Citty, a famous
collector of paintings and antiquities, invited me to go with him to see
the Garden of Mantua, where as one enters stands a huge colosse of
Hercules. From hence to a place where was a roome cover'd with a

noble cupola, built purposely for musiq ; the fillings up, or cove 'twixt
the walls were of urnes and earthen pots for the better sounding; it was
also well painted. After dinner we walked to the Palace of Foscari all'

Arena, there remaining yet some appearances of an ancient theater,

tho' serving now for a court onely before the house. There were now
kept in it two eagles, a crane, a Mauritanian sheepe, a stag, and sundry
foules, as in a vivarie.

  Three days after, I retum'd to Venice, and pass'd over to Murano,
famous for the best glasses of the world, where having viewed their
furnaces and seene their worke, I made a collection of divers curiosities

and glasses, which I sent for England by long sea. Tis the white
flints which they have from Pavia, which they pound and sift exceed

ingly small and mix with ashes made of a sea-weede brought out of

1 The celebrated Thomas Earl of Arundel, part of whose collection was eventually procured
for the University of          by Mr. Evelyn, and is distinguished  by the name of Marmora
A rundtliana.          Oxford
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                           171

Syria, and a white sand, that causes this manufacture to excell. The
Towne is a Podestaria by itselfe, at some miles distant on the sea from

Venice, and like it built upon severall small islands. In this place are

excellent oysters, small and well tasted like our Colchester, and they

were the first, as I remember, that I ever could eate, for I had naturally

an aversion to them.
At our retume to Venice we met several gondolas full of Venetian

ladys, who come thus far in fine weather to take the aire, with musiq
and other refreshments. Besides that Murano is itselfe a very nobly

built Towne, and has divers noblemen's palaces in it and very hand

some gardens.
In coming back we saw the Hands of St. Christopher and St. Michael,
the last of which has a Church inrich'd and incrus ted with marbles and

other architectonic ornaments, which the Monkes very courteously

shew'd us. It was built and founded by Margaret .fEmiliana of Verona,

a famous courtezan, who purchased a greate estate, and by this founda
tion hoped to commute for her sins. We then rowed by the lies of St.
Nicholas, whose Church with the monuments of the Justinian family
entertain'd us awhile ; and then got home.

   The next morning Capt. Powell, in whose ship I was to embark

towards Turkey, invited me on board, lying about 10 miles from Venice,

where we had a dinner of English pouder'd beefe and other good meate

with store of wine and greate gunns, as the manner is. After dinner

the Captaine presented me with a stone he lately brought from
Grand Cairo, which he tooke from the Mummy-pitts, full of hierogly
phics ; I drew it on paper with the true dimensions, and sent it in a
letter to Mr. Henshaw to com'unicate to Father Kircher, who was then

setting forth his greate work Obeliscus Pamphilius, where it is described,

but without mentioning my name. The stone was afterwards brought
for me into England and landed at Wapping, where before I could

hcare of          was broken into severall fragments and utterly defaced,
8
             it,to my do small disappointment.
The boatswaine of the ship also gave me a hand and foote of
              I it              it
                                                        it
                                                                                        a
mummy, the nailes whereof had been overlaid with thin plates of gold,

and the whole body was perfect when he brought out of Egypt, but
the avarice of the ship's crue broke to pieces and divided the body
among them. He presented me also with two Egyptian idols, and
some loaves of the bread which the Coptics use in the Holy Sacrament,

with other curiosities.

August.             had newes from Padoa of my election to be Syndicus
Artistarum, which caused me after two days idling in a country villa
with the Consul of Venice, to hasten thither, that might discharge my
                         it
                                         a

                                                  I

                                                                                     a
selfe of that honour, because was not only chargeable, but would have

hindred my progresse, and they chose Dutch gentleman in my place,
which did not well please my countrymen, who had labour'd not little
172 HONOURED AT PADUA. RARE COLLECTION OF SIGN. RUGINI.

to do me the greatest honour a stranger is capable of in that Univer-
sitie. Being freed from this impediment, and having taken leave of
Dr. Janicius, a Polonian, who was going physician in the Venetian
gallys to Candy, I went againe to Venice, and made a collection of
severall books and some toys. Three days after, I return 'd to Padoa,
where I studied hard till the arrival of Mr. Henshaw, Bramstone, and
some other English gentlemen whom I had left at Rome, and who
made me go back with them to Venice, where I spent some time in
shewing them what I had scene there.

26 Sept. My dear friend, and till now my constant fellow traveller,
Mr. Thicknesse, being obliged to returne to England upon his parti
cular concerne, and who had served his Majesty in thewarrs, I accom
panied him part of his way, and on the 28th returned to Venice.
   29. Michaelmas day, I went with my Lord Mowbray (eldest son to

the Earle of Arundell and a most worthy person) to see the collection
of a noble Venetian, Sign. Rugini. He has a stately Palace richly
fumish'd with statues and heads of Roman Emperors, all plac'd in an

ample roome. In the next was a cabinet of medals, both Latin and

Greek, with divers curious shells and two faire pcarles in two of them ;

but above all he abounded in things petrified, wallnuts, eggs in which

the yealk rattl'd, a peare, a piece of beefe with the bones in an whole
                    a
                                                                                          it,
hedge-hog, a plaice on a wooden trencher turn'd into stone and very
perfect, charcoale, morsel of cork yet retaining its levitie, sponges,
and a piece of taffety part roll'd up, with innumerable more. In

another cabinet supported by 12 pillars of Oriental achat and rail'd
about with chrystal, he shewM us severall noble intaglias of achat,

especialy a head of Tiberius, a woman in a bath with her dog, some rare
cornelians, onixes, chrystals, &c. in one of which was a drop of water

not congeal'd, but moving up and down when shaken above all, a
                                      I
diamond which had a very faire rubie growing in  divers pieces of
                                                it
amber wherein were several insects, in particular one cut like an heart
                                                            ;
                                                                       ;
that contained in a salamander without the least defect, and many
it
         a
pieces of Mosaic. The fabriq of this cabinet was very ingenious, set

thick with achats, turquoises, and other precious stones, in the midst of

which was an antiq of dog in stone scratching his eare, very rarely
cut and comparable to the greatest curiositie had ever seene of that
kind for the accuratenesse of the work. The next chamber had a bed

stead all inlay'd with achats, chrystals, cornelians, lazuli, &c. esteemed

worth 16,000 crownes but for the most part the bedsteads in Italy are
I
                 ;
                    it
                           is
of forged iron gilded, since   impossible to keepe the wooden ones
from the chimices.

From hence returned to Padoa, when that towne was so infested

with souldiers that many houses were broken open in the night, some

murders comitted, and the nunns next our lodging disturb'd, so as wc

were fore'd to be on our guard with pistols and other fire-armes to
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  1 73

defend our doores ; and indeede the students themselves take a barba

rous liberty in the evenings when they go to their strumpets, to stop all
that passe by the house where any of their companions in folly are with
them ; this costome they call Chi vali, so as the streetes are dangerous

when the evenings grow dark ; nor is it easy to reforme this intollerable
usage where there are so many strangers of severall nations.

   Using to drink my wine cool'd with snow and ice, as the manner
here is, I was so afflicted with an angina and soare-throat that it had

almost cost me my life. After all the remedies Cavalier Vestlingius,

cheife professor here, could apply, old Salvatico (that famous physician)
being calld made me be cupp'd and scarified in the back in foure

places, which began to give me breath, and consequently life, for I was
in the utmost danger ; but God being mercifull to me, I was after a

fortnight abroad againe, when changing my lodging I went over against
Pozzo Pinto, where I bought for winter provision 3000 weight of excel
lent grapes, and pressed my owne wine, which proved incomparable

liquor.
    10 Oct. Soon after came to visite me from Venice Mr. Henry

Howard, grandchild to the Earle of Arundel, Mr. Bramstone, son to the
 Lord Cheif Justice, and Mr. Henshaw, with whom I went to another
part of the Citty to lodge neere St. Catherine's, over against the Monas-
terie of Nunns, where we hired the whole house and lived very nobly.
 Here I learned to play on the theorba, taught by Sig. Dominico Bas-

 sano, who had a daughter married to a Doctor of Laws, that played
 and sung to nine severall instruments, with that skill and addresse as
 few masters in Italy exceeded her ; she likewise compos'd divers

excellent pieces. I had never seene any play on the Naples viol before.

 She presented me afterwards with two recitativos of hers, both words

 and musiq.
    31 Oct. Being my birth-day, the Nunns of St. Catharine's sent me

 flowers of silk-work. We were very studious all this winter till Christ
 mas, when on twelfth day we invited all the English and Scotts in towne
 to a feast, which sunk our excellent wine considerably.

    1646. In January Sign. Molino was chosen Doge of Venice, but the

 extreame snow that fell, and the cold, hindered my going to see the

 solemnity, so as I stirred not from Padoa till Shrovetide, when all the

 world repaire to Venice to see the folly and madnesse of the Carnevall ;
 the women, men, and persons of all conditions disguising themselves in
 antiq dresses, with extravagant musiq and a thousand gambols, tra
 versing the streetes from house to house, all places being then
 accessible and free to enter. Abroad, they fling eggs fill'd with sweete

 water, but sometimes not over sweete. They also have a barbarous
 costome of hunting bulls about the streetes and piazzas, which is very
 dangerous, the passages being generally narrow. The youth of the
 severall wards and parishes contend in other masteries and pastimes,
174 THE CARNIVAL AT VENICE. HOSPITALS OF PADUA.

so that 'tis impossible to recount the universal madnesse of this place
during this time of licence. The greate banks are set up for those who
will play at bassett ; the comedians have liberty, and the operas are

open ; witty pasquils are thrown about, and the mountebanks have
their stages at every corner. The diversion which cheifely tooke me up

was tnree noble operas, where were excellent voices and musiq, the
most celebrated of which was the famous Anna Rencha, whom we

invited to a fish dinner after foure daies in Lent, when they had given

over at the theater. Accompanied with an eunuch whom she brought
with her, she entertain'd us with rare musiq, both of them singing to

an harpsichord. It growing late, a gentleman of Venice came for her
to shew her the gallys, now ready to sayle for Candia. This entertain
ment produced a second, given us by the English Consul of the mer

chants, inviting us to his house, where he had the Genoeze, the most
celebrated base in Italy, who was one of the late opera band. This

diversion held us so late as night, that conveying a gentlewoman who
had supped with us to her gondola at the usual place of landing, we

were shot at by two carbines from out another gondola in which was

a noble Venetian and his courtezan unwilling to be disturb'd, which

made us run in and fetch other weapons, not knowing what the matter

was, till we were informed of the danger we might incur by pursuing
it farther. Three days after this I tooke my leave of Venice, and went

to Padoa to be present at the famous Anatomie Lecture, which is

here celebrated with extraordinary apparatus, lasting almost a whole

moneth. During this time I saw a woman, a child, and a man dis
sected with all the manual operations of the chirurgeon on the humane
body. The
Athelsteinus  one was performed by Cavalier Vestlingius and Dr.  Jo.
                                                                  of
               Leonaenas, of whom I purchased those rare tables
Veines and Nerves, and caus'd him to prepare a third of the Lungs,
Liver, and Nervi sexti par : with the Gastric Veines, which I sent into

England, and afterwards presented to the Royall Society, being the first

of that kind that had been seen there, and for aught I know in the

world, tho' afterwards there were others. When the Anatomie Lec
tures, which were in the mornings, were ended, I went to see cures don

in the Hospitals ; and certainly as there are the greatest helps and the

most skilfull physitians, so there are the most miserable and deplorable

objects to exercise upon. Nor is there any, I should think, so power-
full an argument against the vice reigning in this licentious Country, as
to be spectator of the miserie these poore creatures undergo. They are

indeede very carefully attended, and with extraordinary charity.

  20 March. I retum'd to Venice, where I tooke leave of my friends.
  22. I was invited to excellent English potted venison at Mr. Hobb-

son's, a worthy merchant.

  23. I tooke my leave of the Patriarche and the Prince of Wirtem-

burg, and Mons. Grotius (son of the learned Hugo) now going a com
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                            175

mander to Candia, and in the afternoone receiv'd of Vandervoort my
merchant, my bills of exchange of 300 ducats for my journey. He
shewed me his rare collection of Italian books, esteem'd very curious

and of good value.
                   I
   The next day        was conducted     to the Ghetta, where     the Jewes
dwell together as  in  a tribe or ward,                          a marriage.
                                         where I was present at
The bride was clad in white, sitting in a lofty chaire, and covered with

a white vaile ; then two old Rabbies joyned them together, one of
them holding a glasse of wine in his hand, which in the midst of the

ceremony, pretending to deliver to the woman, he let fall, the breaking

whereof was to signify the frailty of our nature, and that we must ex

pect disasters and crosses amidst all enjoyments. This don, we had

a fine banquet, and were brought into the bride-chamber, where the

bed was dress'd up with flowers, and the counterpan strewed in workes.

At this ceremony we saw divers very beautifull Portuguez Jewesses
with whom we had some conversation.

  I went to the Spanish Ambassador with Bonifacio his confessor, and

obtained his passe to serve me in the Spanish dominions, without which
I was not to travel, in this pompous form :

   ' Don Gaspar de Teves y Guzman, Marques de la Fuente, Señor Le

Lerena y Verazuza, Comendador de Colos, en la Orden de Sant Yago,
Alcalde Mayor perpetuo y Escrivano Mayor de la Civdad de Sevilla,
Gentilhombre de la Cámara de S. M. su Azemilero Mayor, de su

Consejo, su Embaxador extraordinario a los Principes de Italia, y
Alemania, y a esta serenissima República de Venetia, &c. Haviendo
de partir de esta Ciudad para La Milan el Sig. Cavallero Evelyn Ingles,
con un Criado, mi han pedido Passa-porte para los Estatos de su M.

Le he mandado dar el presente, firmado de mi mano, y sellado con el
sello de mis armas, por el qual encargo a todos los menestros de S. M.
antes quien le presentase y a los que no lo son, supplico les dare passar

libramente sin permitir que se le haya vexacion alguna antes mandar

le las favor para continuar su viage. Fecho en Venecia a 24 del mes
de Marzo dell an'o 1646.                 Mar. de la Fuentes, &c.'

Having pack'd up my purchases of books, pictures,, castes, treacle,
                                                     whereof I had ben
&c. (the making and    extraordinary     ceremonie  and worth seeing) I  cu
rious to observe, for  'tis extremely    pompous                         de

parted from Venice, accompanied with Mr. Waller (the celebrated
Poet), now newly gotten out of England, after the Parliament had
extreamely worried him for attempting to put in execution the Com
mission of Aray, and for which the rest of his Collegues were hanged

by the Rebells.

  The next day I tooke leave of my comrades at Padoa, and receiving
some directions from Dr. Salvatico as to the care of my health, I pre
pared for my joijney towards Milan.
  It was Easter Monday that I was invited to breakfast at the Earle of
tj6 LEAVE VENICE. VINCENZA AND ITS ATTRACTIONS.

Arundel's1. I tooke my leave of him in his bed, where I left that greate

and excellent man in teares on some private discourse of crosses that
had befall'n his illustrious family, particularly the undutifullnesse of his
Grandson Philip's turning Dominican Frier (since Cardinal of Norfolk),
anc'; the miserie of his Countrie now embroil'd in civil war. He caus'd
hi'. Gentleman to give me directions, all written with his owhe hand,

what curiosities I should enquire after in my journey ; and so, enjoyn-
ing me to write sometimes to him, I departed. There stayed for me
below, Mr. Henry Howard (afterwards Duke of Norfolk), Mr. J. Digby,
son of Sir Kenelm Digby, and other gentlemen, who conducted me to

the coach.

   The famous Lapidaries of Venice for false stones and pastes so as
to emulate the best diamonds, rubies, &c. were Marco Terrasso and
Gilbert.

   An Accompt of what Bills of Exchange I tooke up at Venice since
my coming from Rome, till my departure from Padoa : 1 1 August
1645 200, 7 Sept. 135, 1 October 100, 13 Jan. 1646 100, 23 April 300,

835 Ducati di Banco.
    In company then with Mr. Waller, one Capt. Wray (son of Sir

Christopher, whose father had ben in armes against his Majesty, and
therefore by no meanes welcome to us), with Mr. Abdy, a modest and
learned man, we got that night to Vincenza, passing by the Eugane"an
hills, celebrated for the prospects and furniture of rare simples, which
we found growing about them. The wayes were something deepe, the
whole country flat and even as a bowling greene. The comon fields
lie square, and are orderly planted with finite trees which the vines run
upon and embrace for many miles, with delicious streames creeping
along the ranges.

    Vincenza is a Citty in the Marquisate of Treviso, yet appertaining
to the Venetians, full of gentlemen and splendid palaces, to which the
famous Palladio, borne here, has exceedingly contributed as having ben
the architect. Most conspicuous is the Hall of Justice ; it has a toure
of excellent work ; the lower pillars are of the first order ; those in the
three upper corridors are Doric ; under them are shops in a spacious
piazza. The hall was built in imitation of that at Padoa, but of a
nobler designe, a la moderna. The next morning we visited the Theater,
as being of that kind the most perfect now standing, and built by Pal
ladio, in exact imitation of the ancient Romans, and capable of con
taining 5000 spectators. The sceane, which is all of stone, represents
an imperial citty, the order Corinthian, decorated with statues. Over
the Scenario is incribed, ' Virtuti ac Genio Olympior : Academia The-
atrum hoc a fundamentis erexit Palladio Architect: 1584.' The sceane

   tLassells, who travelled a short time after Mr. Evelyn, says, that the Earl died here, and
that his bowels are buried under a black marble stone, inscribed ' Interiora Thomas Howard
Comitis Arundelue ' p. 439.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  177

declines n foote, the suffito painted with cloudcs. To this there joyncs

 a spacious Hall for sollemn days to ballot in, and a second for the
 Academics. In the Piazza is also the Podesta, or Governor's house,
the faciata being of the Corinthian order, very noble. The Piazza it-
 selfe is so large as to be capable of justs and tournaments, the Nobility
 of this Citty being exceedingly addicted to this knight errantry and
other martial diversions. In this place are two pillars in imitation of
 those at St. Marc's at Venice, bearing one of them a winged lion, the
 other the statue of St. Jo. Baptist.

    In a word, this sweete Towne has more well-built Palaces than any
 of its dimensions in all Italy, besides a number begun and not yet
 finished (but of stately designe) by reason of the domestic dissentions
'twixt them and those of Brescia, fomented by the sage Venetians least
by combining they might think of recovering their ancient liberty.
 For this reason also are permitted those dissorders and insolences
 committed at Padoa among the youth of these two territories. It is
 no dishonour in this country to be some generations in finishing their
palaces, that without exhausting themselves by a vast expence at once,

they may at last erect a sumptuous pile. Count Oleine's Palace is

neere perfected in this manner. Count Ulmarini is more famous for
his gardens, being without the walls, especialy his Cedrario or Conserve
of Oranges eleaven score of my paces long, set in order and ranges,
making a canopy all the way by their intermixing branches for more
than 200 of my single paces, and which being full of fruite and blos
soms was a most delicious sight. In the middle of this garden was a
cupola made of wyre, supported by slender pillars of brick, so closely
covered with ivy, both without and within, that nothing was to be per
ceived but greene ; 'twixt the arches there dangled festoones of the

same. Here is likewise a most inextricable labyrinth.

   I had in this towne recommendation to a very civil and ingenious

apothecarie call'd Angelico, who had a pretty collection of paintings.

I would faine haye visited a place call'd the Rotunda, which was a
mile out of towne belonging to Count Martio Capra, but one of our

companions hasting to be gone, and little minding any thing save
drinking and folly, which caus'd us to take coach sooner than we should

have done.

   A-little from the towne we pass'd the Campo Martio, set out in imi
tation of ancient Rome, wherein the noblesse exercise their horses, and

the ladys make the Corso ; it is entred by a stately triumphal arch, the
invention of Palladio.

    Being now set out for Verona, about midway we din'd at Ostaria
Nova, and came late to our resting-place, which was the Cavaletto,
just over the monument of the Scaligeri, formerly Princes of Verona,
adorn'd with devices in stone of ladders, alluding to the name.

   Jiarly next morning we went about the Citty, which is built on the

                                                                                                                                12
I78 AMPHITHEATER OF VERONA. JULIUS CESAR SCALIGER.

gentle declivity and bottome of an hill, inviron'd in part with some
considerable mountaines and downes of fine grass like some places in
the South of England, and on the other side having the rich plaine
where Caius. Marius overthrew the Cimbrians. The Citty is divided
in the midst by the river Athesis, over which are divers stately bridges,
and on its banks are many goodly palaces, whereof one is well
painted in chiaro oscuro on the outside, as are divers others in this
drie climate of Italy.

   The first thing that engaged our attention and wonder too, was the
amphitheater, which is the most entire of ancient remaines now extant.
The inhabitants call it the Arena : it has two portico's, one within the
other, and is 34 rods long, 22 in bredth, with 42 ranks of stone benches
or seates which reach to the top. The vastnesse of the marble stones
is stupendious. ' L. V. Flaminia Consul, ano. urb. con. LIII.' This I
esteeme to be one of the noblest antiquities in Europ, it is so vast and
intire, having escaped the ruines of so many other public buildings for

above, 1400 yeares.

   There are other arches, as that of the victorie of Marius ; temples,
aquasducts, &c. shewing still considerable remaines in severall places of
the towne and how magnificent it has formerly ben. It has three
strong castles, and a large and noble wall. Indeede the whole Citty is
bravely built, especialy the Senate-house where we saw those cele
brated statues of Cornelius Nepos, Emilius Marcus, Plinius and Vi-
truvius, all having honoured Verona by their birth, and of later date
Julius Caesar Scaliger, that prodigie of learning.

   In the evening we saw the garden of Count Giusti's villa, where are
walkes cut' out of the maine rock, from whence we had the pleasant
prospect of Mantua and Parma, though at greate distance. At the en
trance of this garden growes the goodliest cypresse I fancy in Europ,

cut in pyramid ; 'tis a prodigious tree both for breadth and height, en
tirely covered and thick to the base.

   Dr. Cortone, a Civilian, shew'd us amongst other rarities a St. Doro
thea of Raphael. We could not see the rare drawings, especialy of
Parmensis, belonging to Dr. Marcello, another advocate, on account of
his absence.

   This Citty deserVd all those elogies Scaliger has honoured it with,
for in my opinion the situation is the most delightfull I ever saw, it is
so sweetly mixed with rising ground and vallies, so elegantly planted
with trees on which Bacchus seems riding as it were in triumph every
autumn, for the vines reach from tree to tree ; here of all places I have
seene in Italy would I fix a residence. Well has that learn'd man
given it the name of the very eye of the world :--

                    Ocelle mundi, Sidus Itali cceli,
                    Flos Urbium, flos corniculumq' amasnum,
                      Quot sunt, eruntve, quot fuere, Verona.
         THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                             179

   The next morning we travell'd over the downes where Marius fought,
and fancied ourselves about Winchester and the country towards Dor
setshire. We dined at an inn called Cavalli Caschieri, neere Peschiera,

a very strong fort of the Venetian Republic, and neere the Lago di

Garda, which disembogues into that of Mantua, neere 40 miles in
length, highly spoken of by my Lord Arundel to me, as the most plea
sant spot in Italy, for which reason I observ'd it with the more dili
gence, alighting out of the coach and going up to a grove of cypresses
growing about a gentleman's country house, from whcnce'indeede it

presents a most surprizing prospect. The hills and gentle risings about
it produce oranges, citrons, olives, figs, and other tempting fruits, and
the waters abound in excellent fish, especialy troutts. In the middle of
this lake stands Sermonea on an island ; here Capt. Wray bought a
pretty nag of the master of our inn where we dined, for eight pistoles,

which his wife, our hostesse, was so unwilling to part with, that she
did nothing but kisse and wecpe and hang about the horse's neck till

the captaine rid away.
   We came this evening to Brescia, which next morning we travcrst

according to our custom in search of antiquities and new sights. Here
I purchas'd of old Lazarino Cominazzo my fine carabine, which cost
me 9 pistoles, this Citty being famous for these fire-armes, and that
workman, with Jo. Bap. Franco, the best esteem'd. This Citty consists
most in artists, every shop abounding in gunns, swords, armorers, &c.
Most of the workmen come out of Germanie. The Citty stands in a
fertile plaine, yet the Castle is built on an hill. The streetes abound
in faire fountaines. The Torre della Fallada is of a noble Tuscan
Order, and the Senate-house is inferior to few. The Piazza is but
indifferent ; some of the houses arched as at Padoa. The Cathedrall
was under repaire. We would from hence have visited Parma, Pia-
cenza, Mantua, &c. but the banditti and other dangerous parties being
abroad, committing many enormities, we were content with a Pisgah

sight of them.
   We din'd next day at Ursa Vecchia, and after dinner pass'd by an

exceeding strong fort of the Venetians cal'd Ursa Nova, on their fron
tier. Then by the river Oglio and so by Sonano, where we enter the

Spanish dominions, and that night ariv'd at Crema, which belongs to
Venice, and is well defended. The Podesta's Palace is finely built,
and so is the Domo or Cathedral and the Tower to with an ample
         4
Piazza.     a
                                 it
                                     is

                                                          it,
Early next day, after miles riding, we enter'd into the State of
Milan, and pass'd by Lodi, greate Citty famous for cheese little short
of the best Parmeggiano. We din'd at Marignano, 10 miles before
coming to Milan, where we met halfe a dozen suspicious Cavaliers, who
yet did us no harme. Then passing as through a continual garden,

we went on with exceeding pleasure, for  the paradise of Lombardy.
I So AT MILAN. THE CATHEDRALS. PALACE OF ARCHBISHOP.

tne highways as even and straite as a line, the fields to a vast extent
planted with fruit about the inclosures, vines to every tree at equal
distances, and water'd with frequent streames. There was likewise
much come, and olives in aboundance. At approch of the Citty some
of our company, in dread of the Inquisition (severer here than in all
Spain), thought of throwing away some Protestant books and papers.
We ariv'd about 3 in the afternoone, when the officers search'd us tho
roughly for prohibited goods, but finding we were onely gentlemen tra
vellers, dismiss'd us for a small reward, and we went quietly to our inn,

the Three Kings, where for that day we refreshed ourselves, as we had
neede. The next morning we delivered our letters of recommendation
to the learned and courteous Ferrarius, a Doctor of the Ambrosian

College, who conducted us to all the remarkable places of the towne,
the first of which was the famous Cathedral. We enter'd It by a por
tico so little inferior to that of Rome, that when it is finished it will be

hard to say which is the fairest ; the materials are all of white and
black marble, with columns of great height of Egyptian granite. The
outside of the Church is so full of sculpture, that you may number

4000 statues all of white marble, amongst which that of St. Bartholo
mew is esteemed a masterpiece. The Church is very spacious, almost

as long as St. Peter's at Rome, but not so large. About the Quire the
sacred storie is finely sculptured in snow-white marble, nor know I

where' it is exceeded. About the body of the Church are the miracles
of St. Char. Boromeo, and in the vault beneath is his body before the

high altar, grated, and inclos'd in one of the largest chrystals in Europe.

To this also belongs a rich treasure. The cupola is all of marble
within and without, and even cover'd with great planks of marble, in
the Gotick designe. The windows are most beautifully painted. Here

are two very faire and excellent organs. The fabriq is erected in the
midst of a faire Piazza, and in the center of the Citty.

   Hence we went to the Palace of the Archbishop, which is a quad

rangle, the architecture of Theobaldi, who design 'd much for Philip II.
in the Escurial, and has built much in Milan. Hence I went into the
Governor's Palace, who was Constable of Castile ; tempted by the

glorious tapissries and pictures, I adventur'd so far alone, that peeping
into a chamber where the greate man was under the barber's hands, he
                                    to know what I was ; I made the best
sent one  of his Negro's (a slave)
                                    only admiring the pictures, which he
excuse I  could, and that I was
returning and telling his lord, I heard the Governor reply that I was a
spie, on which I retir'd with all the speede I could, pass'd the guard of

Swisse, got into the streete, and in a moment to my company, who

were gone to the Jesuites Church, which in truth is a noble structure,
the front especialy, after the moderne. After dinner we were conducted

to St. Celso, a church of rare architecture, built by Bramante ; the
carvings of the marble faciata are by Hannibal Fontana, whom they
                        THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                                         l8l

esteeme at Milan equal to the best of the ancients. In a roome
joyning to the Church is a marble Madona like a Colosse, of the same
sculptor's work, which they will not expose to the aire. There are two
Sacristias, in one of which is a fine Virgin of Leonardo da Vinci, in
the other is one by Raphael d'Urbino, a piece which all the world
admires. The Sacristan shewM us a world of rich plate, Jewells, and

embroder'd copes, which are kept in presses.

Next we went to see the Create Hospital, a quadrangular Cloysterof

a vast compassc, a truly royal fabric, with an annual endowment of
50,000 crowns of gold. There is in the middle of it a crosse building

for the sick, and just under it an altar so plac'd as to be seene in all
places of the Infirmarie.

There are divers Colleges built in this quarter, richly provided for by

the same Borromeo and his nephew the last Cardinal Frederico, some

not yet finish'd, but of excellent designe.

   In St. Eustorgio, they tell us, fonnerly lay the bodyes of the 3 Magi,

since translated to Colin (Cologne) in Germany ; they however pre

asenrdveunthdeertomb",   which is a           square  stone, on which                    is  engraven                                                     a star,
                        Sepulchrum             trium  Magorum."
              it,

                                                                                                                                                       :
Passing by St. Laurence we saw 16 columns of marble, and the ruins

of a Temple of Hercules, with this inscription yet standing
                        LIm. Apu. rIeIliIoI.
   Imp. Caesari                               Vero   AIIuIg..  Arminiaco    Medico           Parthico Max.
                                               Cos.            P. P. Divi  Antonini           Pij Divi Ha-
Trib. Pot. VII.
driani Nepoti Divi Trajani Parthici Pro Nepoti Divi Nervae Abnepoti

Dec. Dec.

We concluded this day's wandring at the Monasterie of Madona

della Gratia, and in the Refectorie admir'd that celebrated Coena Domini
of Leonardo da Vinci, which takes up the intire wall at the end, and
                                                                                                                                                             is is
the same that the greate Virtuoso Francis the First of France was so

enamour"d of, that he consulted to remove the whole wall by binding

  about with ribs of iron and timber to convey into France. It
1 it

            is
                  is

                       is
                                it

                                                  H
                                                            it

                                                                 a is
                                                                                     it
indeede one of the rarest paintings that was ever executed by Leonardo,

who was long in the service of that Prince, and so deare to him that the

King coming to visite him in his old age and sicknesse, he expired in
his armes. This incomparable piece now exceedingly impair'd.
                                                                                                                                                          '

Early next morning came the learned Dr. Ferarius to visite us, and

took us in his coach to see the Ambrosian Librarie, where Cardinal

Fred. Borromeo has expended so vast sum on this building and in
furnishing with curiosities, especialy paintings and drawings of inesti-

It not noticed in the Painter's Voyage of Italy, published 1679, probably from its decay.
              still there, but having been often retouched, on account of the dampness of
The painting
the wall, certainly not what once was. The picture has been again drawn into notice in
England from the magnificent print of lately engraved in Italy by Raphael Morghen, which
                                                                                                                                                          is
                                                                                                                                                                   is
esteemed one of the finest works of art in this kind that has ever been executed. There also

an old engraving from by Peter Soutman, but which by no means exhibits a true delineation
of the characters of the piece, as designed by Leonardo.
I S3 BEAUTY, SITUATION, STRENGTH, AND EXTENT OF MILAK. .

mable value amongst painters. It. is a schole fit to make the ablest
artists. There are many rare things of Hans Breugill, and amongst
"them the Four Elements. In this room stands the glorious [boasting}
inscription of Cavaliero Galeazzo Arconati, valueing his gift to the
librarie of severall drawings by Da Vinci, but these we could not see,
the keeper of them being out of towne and he always carrying the key*
with him ; but my Lord Martial, who had seene them, told me all but
one booke are small, that an huge folio contain'd 400 leaves full of
scratches of Indians, &c. but whereas the inscription pretends that our
King Charles had offer'd j£.iooo for them, the truth is, and my Lord
himselfe told me, that it was he who treated with Galeazzo for himselfe

in the name and by permission of the King, and that the Duke of Feria,
who was then Governour, should make the bargain : but my Lord
having seene them since, did not think them of so much worth.
   In the great roome, where is a goodly librarie, on the right hand of

the doore is a small wainscot closset furnish'd with rare manuscripts.
Two original letters of the Grand Siguor were shew'd us, sent to two
Popes, one of which was (as I remember) to Alexander VI. (Borgia),
and the other mentioning the head of the launce which piere'd our B.
Saviour's side sent as a present to the Pope : I would faine have gotten a
copy of them, but could not ; I hear,however, that they aresincetranslated
into Italian, and therein is a most honourable mention of Christ.
We revisited St. Ambrose's Church. The high altar is supported by
4 porphyrie columns, and under it lie the remaines of that holy man.
Neere it they shew'd us a pit or well (an obscure place it is) where they
say St. Ambrose baptized St. Augustine and recited the Te Deum, for
so imports the inscription. The place is also famous for some Councils
that have ben held here, and for the coronation of divers Italian Kings
and Emperors, receiving the Iron Crown from the Archbishop of this
sefc They shew the History by Josephus written on the bark of trees.
The high altar is wonderfully rich.
Milan is one of the most princely Citties in Europe : it has no-

suburbs, but is circled with a stately wall for 10 miles, in the center oi
a country that seemes to flow with milk and hony. The aire is excellent ;
the fields fruitfull to admiration, the market abounding with all sorts of
provisions. In the Citty are neere 100 Churches, 71 Monasteries,
40,000 inhabitants ; it is of a circular figure, fortified with bastions, full
of sumptuous palaces and rare artists, especialy for works in chrystal,

which is here cheape, being found among the Alpes. They are curious
straw worke among the nunns, even to admiration. It has a good

river, and a citadell at some small distance from the Citty, commanding

   of greate strength for its works and munition of all kinds. It was

built by Galeatius II. and consists of bastions, and works at the
it,
       2

                                          ;

                                                 is
                                                                    4

                                                                                       is
                                                                                                                                    ;
angles and fronts the graff fae'd with brick to a very great depth
has strong towres as one enters, and within
                                             another fort and
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                                             1 83

spacious lodgings for the souldiers and for exercising them. No;
accommodation for strength is wanting, and all exactly uniforme. They
      is
have here also all sorts of work and tradesmen, a greate magazine ofa
armes and provisions. The fosse is of spring water with a mill for
grinding corn, and the ramparts vaulted underneath. Don Juan Vas-it,
quez Coronada was now Governor ; the garrison Spaniards onely.is

   There is nothing better worth seeing than the collection of Sig.                                                            ;

Septalla," a canon of St. Ambrose, famous over Christendome for his              it
learning and virtues. Amongst other things he shew'd us an Indian
wood that has the perfect scent of civet ; a flint or pebble, that has ait
quantity of water in which plainly to be seen, being clearc as
achat divers chrystals that have water moving in them, some of them;
having plants, leaves, and hogs bristles in them much amber full of
insects, &c. and divers things of woven amianthus.3

   Milan a sweete place, and tho' the streetes are narrow they abound
in rich coaches, and are full of noblesse, who frequent the course every
night. Walking turn in the Portico before the Dome, a cavaliero

who pass'd by hearing some of us speaking English, looked a good
while earnestly on us, and by and by sending his servant desi^d we
would honour him the next day at dinner. We looked on this as an odd

invitation, he not speaking to us himselfe, but we returned his civilitie

with thanks, tho' not fully resolv'd what to do, or indeed what might
be the meaning of in this jealous place but on enquirie 'twas told us
he was a Scots Colonel who had an honorable command in the Citty,
so that we agreed to go. This afternoon wc were wholly taken up in

seeing an opera represented by some Neapolitans, performed all in
most excellent music with rare sceanes, in which there acted a cele

brated beauty.
   Next morning we went to the Colonel's, who had sent his servant

againe to conduct us to his house, which we found to be a noble palace
richly furnish'd. There were other guests, all souldiers, one of them a
Scotchman, but we could not learn one of their names. At dinner he

excus'd his rudenesse that he had not himselfe spoken to us, telling us
   was his custome when he heard of any English travellers (who but

rarely would be knowne to passe thro' that Citty for feare of the

Inquisition) to invite them to his house, where they might be free.
We had a sumptuous dinner, and the wine was so tempting that after
some healths had gon about, and we had risen from table, the Colonel
it

     ·1

                           it

                                            ;

                                         is

                                                                                                                                   ;
     The Painter's Voyage particularizes 85 pictures in this Collection, but few of them by
great Masters.

       There are two descriptive Catalogues of the Museum in its day, one of the roost celo.
Drated in all Italy both are in small quarto, the one in Latin, the later and most complete
one in Italian. To this prefixed a large inside view of the Museum, exhibiting its curious-
contents of busts, statues, pictures, urns, and every kind of rarity natural and artificial.

   Keysler in his Travels laments the not being able to see it, on account of a law-suit then
depending, and has been long since dispersed, probably in consequence of it.
 J84 HOSPITALITY OF THE SCOTCH, COLONEL. ACCIDENT-- HIS DEATH. -

 led us into his hall, where there hung up divers colours, saddles,
 bridles, pistols, and other armes, being trophies which he had taken
 with his owne hands from the enemy ; amongst them he would needs
 bestow a paire of pistols on Capt. Wray, one of our fellow-travellers
 and a good drinking gentleman, and on me a Turkish bridle woven
 with silk and very curiously emboss'd, with other silk trappings, to
 which hung a halfe moone finely wrought, which he had taken from a

 basshaw whom he had slaine. With this glorious spoile I rid the rest

 of my journey as far as Paris, and brought it afterwards into England.
 He then shew'd us a stable of brave horses, with his menage and
 cavalerizzo. Some of the horses he caus'd to be brought out, which he
'mounted, and performed all the motions of an excellent horseman.
 When this was don, and he had alighted, contrary to the advice of
 his groome and page, who knew the nature of the beast and that their
 master was a little spirited with wine, he would have a fiery horse

 that had not yet been menaged and was very ungovernable, but was
 otherwise a very beautifull creature ; this he mounting, the horse getting
 the reines in a full carriere, rose so desperately that he fell quite back,
 crushing the Colonell so forceably against the wall of the menage, that
 tho' he sat on him like a Centaure, yet recovering the jade on all foure
 againe, he desir'd to be taken down and so led in, where he cast him
 self on a pallet, and with infinite lamentations, after some time we

 tooke leave of him being now speechlesse. The next morning going to
 visite him, we found before the doore the canopie which they usually
 carry over the host, and some with lighted tapers, which made us
 suspect he was in very sad condition, and so indeede we found him,
 an Irish Frier standing by his bed side as confessing him, or at least
 disguising a confession, and other ceremonies us'd in extremis, for we
 afterwards leam'd that the gentleman was a Protestant and had this"
 Frier his confidant, which was a dangerous thing at Milan, had it ben
 but suspected. At our entrance lie sighed grievously and held up his
 his hands, but was not able to speake. After vomiting some blood, he
 kindly tooke us all by the hand, and made signes that he should see us
 no more, which made us take our leave of him with extreame reluctancy
 and affliction for the accident. This sad disaster made us consult

 about our departure as soon as we could, not knowing how we might
 be enquired after or engag'd, the Inquisition being so cruelly formidable
 and inevitable on the least suspicion. The next morning, therefore,
 discharging our lodgings, we agreed ior a coach to carry us to the foote
 of the Alpes, not a little concern'd for the death of the Colonell, which
 we now heard of, and who had so courteously entertain'd us.

    The first day we got as far as Castellanza, by which runs a consi
 derable river into Lago Maggiore ; here at dinner were two or three
 Jesuites, who were very pragmatical and inquisitive, whom we declin'd
 conversation with as decently as we could : so we pursu'd our journey
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  185

 thro' a most fruitfull plaine, but the weather was wet and uncomfort
 able. At night we lay at Sesto.

    The next morning leaving our coach we embarked in a boate to
 cany us over the Lake (being one of the largest in Europe) and whence
 we could see the touring Alps, and amongst them the greate San Ber
 nardo, esteemed the highest mountaine in Europe, appearing to be
 some miles above the clouds. Thro' this vast water passes the river
 Ticinus, which discharges itselfe into the Po, by which meanes Hel
 vetia transports her merchandizes into Italy, which we now begin to

 leave behind us.

    Having now sailed about two leagues, we were hal'd ashore at Arona,
 a strong towne belonging to the Dutchy of Milan, where being examin'd

 by the Governor and paying a small duty, we were dismiss'd. Opposite

 to this forte is Angiera, another small towne, the passage very pleasant
 with the prospect of the Alps cover'd with pine and fir trees, and
 above them snow. We pass'd the pretty Island Isabella,1 about the
 middle of the Lake, on which is a faire house built on a mount, indeede
 the whole island is a mount ascended by several terraces and walks all

 set about with orange and citron trees.
    The next we saw was Isola,' and we left on our right hand the Isle

 of St. Jovanni,' and so sailing by another small towne built also on an

 island, we ariv'd at night at Margazzo, an obscure village at the end of
 the Lake, and at the very foote of the Alpes, which now rise as it were

 suddenly after some hundreds of miles of the most even country in the
 world, and where there is hardly a stone to be found, as if Nature had
 here swept up the rubbish of the Earth in the Alpes to forme and cleare
 the Plaines of Lombardy, which we had hitherto pass'd since our
 coming from Venice. In this wretched place I lay on a bed stuffd
 with leaves, which made such a crackling, and did so prick my skin

thro' the tick, that I could not sleepe. The next morning I was fur-

 nish'd with an asse, for we could not get horses ; instead of stirrups we
 had ropes tied with a loope to put our feete in, which supplied the
 place of other trappings. Thus with my gallant steed, bridled with my
 Turkish present, we pass'd thro' a reasonably pleasant but very narrow
 valley till we came to Duomo, where we rested, and having shew'd the
 Spanish Passe, tht Governor would presse another on us that his
 Secretary might get a croune. Here we exchanged our asses for mules,
 sure footed on the hills and precipices, being accustom'd to passe them ;

 hiring a guide, we were brought that night thro' very steepe, craggy
 and dangerous passages to a village called Vedra, being the last of the
 King of Spain's dominions in the Dutchy of Milan. We had a very

 infamous wretched lodging.
    The next morning we mounted again thro' strange, horrid and fear-

     These are called "the Borromean Islands in the Lago Maggiore, belonging to the
great Milanese family of Borromeo."
186 ASCENT OF THE ALPS ; UGLY NATIVES ; MOUNT SAMPION.

full craggs and tracts, abounding in pine trees, and onely inhabited by

beares, wolves, and wild goates ; nor could we any where see above a

pistol shoote before us, the horizon being terminated with rocks and

mountaines, whose tops cover'd with snow seem'd to touch the skies,
and in many places pierced the clowdes. Some of these vast mountaines

were but one entire stone, 'twixt whose clefts now and then precipitated

greate cataracts of mealted snow and other waters, which made a ter

rible roaring, echoing from the rocks and cavities ; and these waters in

some places breaking in the fall wett us as if we had pass'd through a
mist, so as we could neither see nor heare one another, but trusting to

our honest mules we jogged on our way. The narrow bridges in some
places made onely by felling huge fir trees and laying them athwart
from mountaine to mountaine over cataracts of stupendious depth, are

very dangerous, and so are the passages and edges made by cutting

away the maine rock ; others in steps ; and in some places we passe be-

tweene mountains that have ben broken and fallen on one another, which

is very terrible, and one had neede of a sure foote and steady head to

climb some of these precipices, besides that they are harbours for beares
and wolves who have sometimes assaulted travellers. In these straights

we frequently alighted, now freezing in the snow, and anon frying by

the reverberation of the sun against the cliffs as we descend lower, when

we meete now and then a few miserable cottages so built upon the de
clining of the rocks as one would expect their sliding down. Amongst

these inhabite a goodly sort of people having monstrous gullets or

wenns of fleshe growing to their throats, some of which I have seene
as big as an hundred pound bag of silver hanging under their chinns,

among the women especialy, and that so ponderous as that to ease

them many wear linen cloth bound about their head and coming under

the chin to support it ; but quts tumidum guttur miratur in Alpibus t

Their drinking so much snow-water is thought to be the cause of it ; *

the men using more wine are not so strumous as the women. The truth
is,they are a peculiar race of people, and many greate water drinkers
      is

                                     ;
here have not these prodigious tumours  a         runs as we say in the bloud,
                                            ;
and a vice in the race, and renders them so ugly, shrivel'd and de-it

form'd by its drawing the skin of the face downe, that nothing can be

more fritefull to this add a strange puffing dress, furrs, and the bar
barous language, being a mixture of corrupt High German, French and
Italian. The people are of greate stature, extreamely fierce and rude,

yet very honest and trustie.
This night thro' almost unaccessible heights we came in prospect of

Mons Sempronius, now Mount Sampion, which has on its sum'it a

few huts and a chapell. Approaching this, Captaine Wray's water-

spaniel huge filthy cur that had follow'd him out of England) hunted
(a

an heard of goates downe the rocks into river made by the melting of the
snow. Ariv'd at our cold harbour (tho' the house had a stove in every
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  1 87

roome) and supping on cheese and milk with wretched wine, we went
to bed in cupbords so high from the floore that we climb'd them by a
ladder; we were covered with feathers, that is we lay between two ticks
stuff'd with them, and all little enough to keepe one warme. The
cieling of the rooms are strangely low for those tall people. The house
was now, in September, halfe cover'd with snow, nor is there a tree or

bush growing within many miles.
   From this uncomfortable place we prepared to hasten away the next

morning, but as we were getting on our mules, comes a huge young
fellow demanding mony for a goat which he affirm'd that Capt. Wray*s
dog had kill'd ; expostulating the matter and impatient of staying in the
cold, we set spurrs and endeavourM to ride away, when a multitude of

people being by this time gotten together about us (for it being Sonday
morning and attending for the priest to say masse) they stopp'd our
mules, beate us off our saddles, and disarming us of our carbines, drew
us into one of the roomes of our lodging, and set a guard upon us. Thus

we continu'd prisoners till masse was ended, and then came halfe a score

grim Swisse, who taking on them to be magistrates sate downe on the
table, and condemn'd us to pay a pistole for the goate and ten more for

attempting to ride away, threat'ning that if we did not pay it speedily,

they would send us to prison and keep us to a day of publiq justice,
where, as they perhaps would have exaggerated the crime, for they pre
tended we had prim'd our carbines and would have shot some of them

(as indeede the Captaine was about to do) we might have had our heads
cut oft", as we were told afterwards, for that amongst these rude people
a very small misdemeanor dos often meete that sentence. Tho' the

proceedings appear'd highly unjust on consultation among ourselves
we thought it safer to rid ourselves out of their hands and the trouble
we were brought into, and therefore we patiently layde downe the mony
and with fierce countenances had our mules and armes deliver'd to us,
and glad we were to escape as we did. This was cold entertainment

but our journey after was colder, the rest of the way having ben as they
told us cover'd with snow since the Creation ; no man remember'd it to

be without; and because by the frequent snowing the tracts are continualy

fill'd up, we passe by severall tall masts, set up to guide travellers, so as

for many miles they stand in ken of one another like to our beacons. In

some places where there is a cleft between 2 mountaines the snow fills
it up, whilst the bottome being thawed leaves as it were a frozen arch of
snow, and that so hard as to beare the greatest weight ; for as it snows

often, so it perpetualy freezes, of which I was so sensible that it flaw'd

the very skin of my face.
   Beginning now to descend a little, Capt. Wray's horse (that was our

sumpter and carried all our baggage) plunging thro' a bank of loose
snow slid downe a frightfull precipice, which so incens'd the choleriq
cavali ;r his master that he was sending a brace of bullets into the poore
*8S brica; the lake of geneva; sion.

beast, least our guide should recover him and run away with his bur
then ; but just as he was lifting up his carbine we gave such a shout,
.and so pelted the horse with snow-balls, as with all his might plunging
through the snow he fell from another steepe place into another bot-

tome neere a path we were to passe. It was yet a good while ere we
.got to him, but at last we recovered the place, and easing him of

his charge hal'd him out of the snow, where he had ben certainly

.frozen in if we had ..ot prevented it before night. It was as we judg'd

almost two miles that he had slid and fall'n, yet without any other
harme than the benuming of his limbs for the present, but with lusty
rubbing and chafing he began to move, and after a little walking per-

form'd his journey well enough. All this way, affrited with the disaster
of this horse, we trudg'd on foote driving our mules before us ; some

times we fell, sometimes we slid thro' this ocean of snow, which after
October is impassable. Towards night we came into a larger way,
.thro' vast woods of pines which clothe the middle parts of these rocks.
 Here they were burning some to make pitch and rosin, piling the
knotty branches as we do to make charcoale, reserving what mealts
from them, which hardens into pitch. We pass'd severall cascades of
·dissolv'd snow, that had made channels of formidable depth in the
crevices of the mountaines, and with such a fearfull roaring as we could
heare it for 7 long miles. It is from these sources that the Rhone and
the Rhine which passe thro' all France and Germanie, derive their
·originals. Late at night we got to a towne called Briga at the foote of
the Alpes, in the Valtoline. Almost every doore had nail'd on the
-outside and next the streete a beare's, wolfe's, or foxe's head, and divers
of them all three ; a savage kind of sight, but as the Alpes are full of
these beasts the people often kill them. The next morning we re-
rturn'd our guide, and tooke fresh mules and another to conduct us to
the Lake of Geneva, passing thro' as pleasant a country as that we

had just travel'd was melancholy and troublesome. A strange and

suddaine change it seem'd, for the reverberation of the sun-beames
from the mountaines and rocks that like walls range it on both sides,
not above two flight shots in bredth for a very great number of miles,
renders the passage excessively hot. Thro' such extreames we con-
tinu'd our journey, that goodly river the Rhone gliding by us in a
narrow and quiet channell almost in the middle of this Canton, ferti
lising the country for grasse and corne, which grow in aboundance.

    We ariv'd this night at Sion, a pretty towne and citty, a bishop's
-seate, and the head of Valesia. There is a Castle, and the Bishop who
resides in it has both civill and ecclesiastical jurisdiction. Our host,
as the costome of these Cantons is, was one of the chiefest of the
-towne, and had ben a Colonell in France ; he us'd us with extreame
-civility, and was so displeas'd at the usage we received at Mount
 Sampion that he would needes give us a letter to the Governor of the
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN. ,  1S9

Country who resided at St. Maurice, which was in our way to Geneva,
to revenge the affront. This was a true old blade, and had ben a very

curious virtuoso, as we found by an handsome collection of books,
medails, pictures, shells, and other antiquities. He shew'd two heads
and homes of the true capricornc, which animal he told us was fre
quently kill'd among the mountaines ; one branch of them was as
much as I could well lift and nccre as high as my head, not much un
like the greater sort of goates, save that they bent forwards, by help'
whereof they climb up and hang on inaccessible rocks, from whence the
inhabitants now and then shoote them ; they speak prodigious things
of their leaping from crag to crag, and of their sure footing notwith
standing their being cloven tooted, unapt one would think to take hold
and walke so steadily on those horrible ridges as they do. The Colonell
would have given me oneol these beames, but the want of a convenience

to carry it along with me caus'd me to refuse his courtesie. He told m«
that in the Castle there were some Roman and Christian antiquities,
and he had some inscriptions in his owne garden. He invited us to
his country-house, where he said he had better pictures and other
rarities ; but our time being short, I could not persuade my companions

to stay and visitc the places he would have had us seene, nor the offer

he made to shew us the hunting of the beare, wolfe, and other wild
beasts. The next morning, having presented his daughter, a pretty
well-fashioned young woman, with a small rubie ring, we parted some
what late from our generous host. Passing thro' the same pleasant
vally betweene the horrid mountaines on cither hand, like a gallery

many miles in length, we got to Martigni, where also we were well en-
tertain'd. The houses in this country are all built of firr boards planed
within, low, and seldom above one story. The people very clownish
and rustickly clad after a very odd fashion, for the most part in blew
doth, very whole and warme, with little variety or distinction 'twixt the
gentleman and common sort, by a law of their country being exceed
ingly frugal. Add to this their greate honestie and fidelity, tho' exact
ing enough for what they part with. I saw not one beggar. We paid
the value of 20 shill. English for a day's hire of one horse. Every man
gos with a sword by his side, the whole country well disciplin'd, and
indeed impregnable, which made the Romans have such ill successe
against them ; one lusty Swisse at their narrow passages is sufficient

to repell a legion. Tis a frequent thing here for a young tradesman or

fennor to leave his wife and children for 12 or 15 yeares, and seeke his
fortune in the warrs in Spaine, France, Italy, or Germanie, and then
returne againe to work. I look upon this country to be the safest spot
of all Europ, neither envyed nor e.ivying ; nor are any of them rich,
nor poore ; they live in greate simplicity and tranquillitie ; and tho' of
the 14 Cantons halfe be Roman Catholics, the rest Reformed, yet they
mutually agree, and are confederate with Geneva, and are its onely
190 ST. MAURICE J BECOME ILL OF SMALL POX ; LAKE OF GENEVA.

security against its potent neighbours, as they themselves are from
being attack'd by the greater Potentates, by the mutual jealousie of their
neighbours, as either of them would be overbalanc'd should the Swisse,
who are wholy mercenarie and auxiliaries, be subjected to the rule of
France or Spaine.

   We were now ariv'd at St. Maurice, a large handsome towne and resi
dence of the President, where justice is don ; to him we presented our
letter from Sion, and made known the ill usage we had received for
killing a wretched goate, which so incens'd him as he sware if we would
stay he would not onely help us to our money againe, but most severely
punish the whole rabble ; but our desire of revenge had by this time
subsided, and glad we were to be gotten so neere France, which we
reckon'd as good as home. He courteously invited us to dine with him,
but we excus'd ourselves, and returning to our inn, whilst we were
eating something before we tooke horse, the Governor had caus'd two
pages to bring us a present of two great vessells of coverM plate full of
excellent wine, in which we drank his health, and rewarded the youthes ;

they were two vast bowles supported by two Swisses, handsomly wrought
after the German manner. This civilitie and that of our host at Sion
perfectly reconcil'd us to the Highlanders ; and so proceeding on our
journey we pass'd this afternoonc thro' the gate which divides the
Valois from the Dutchy of Savoy, into which we were now entering,
and so thro' Montei we ariv'd that evening at Beveretta. Being ex-
treamly weary and complaining of my head, and finding little accom

modation in the house, I caus'd one of our hostesses daughters to be
removed out of her bed and went immediately into it whilst it was yet
warme, being so heavy with pain and drowsinesse that I would not stay
to have the sheetes changed ; but I shortly after payd dearly for my
impatience, falling sick of the small pox so soon as I came to Geneva,
for by the smell of frankincense and the tale the good woman told me
of her daughter having had an ague, I afterwards concluded she had
ben newly recovered of the smallpox. Notwithstanding this I went with

my company on the next day, hiring a bark to carry us over the Lake ;

and indeede sick as I was, the weather was so serene and bright, the

water so calme, and aire so temperate, that never had travellers a
sweeter passage. Thus we sail'd the whole length of the Lake, about
30 miles, the countries bordering on it (Savoy and Berne) affording
one of the most delightfull prospects in the world, the Alps covered with

snow, tho' at a greate distance yet shewing their aspiring tops. Thro'
this Lake the river Rhodanus passes with that velocity as not to mingle
with its exceeding deep waters, which are very cleare, and breed the
most celebrated troute for largenesse and goodness of any in Europe.

I have ordinarily seene one of three foote in length sold in the market

for a small price, and such we had in the lodging where we abode,

which was at the White Crosse. All this while I. held up tolerably, and
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                      191

the next morning having a letter for Signor   John   Diodati,  the famous
Italian Minister and translator of the Holy  Bible  into that
                                                               language, I

went to his house, and had a greate deal of discourse with that learned
person. He told me he had been in England, driven by tempest into
Deale, whilst sailing for Holland, that he had seene London, and was
exceedingly taken with the civilities he receiv'd. He so much approv'd
of our Church Government by Bishops, that he told me the French
Protestants would make no scruple to submitt to it and all its pomp,
had they a King of the Reform'd Religion as we had. He exceedingly
deplor'd the difference now betweene his Majesty and the Parliament.
After dinner came one Monsieur Saladine with his little pupil the Earle
of Carnarvon, to visit us, offering to carry us to the principal places of
the towne, but being now no more able to hold up my head, I was con-
strain'd to keepe my chamber, imagining that my very eyes would have

dropp'd out ; and this night I felt such a stinging all about me that I
could not sleepe. In the morning I was very ill, but sending for a
doctor he persuaded me to be let bloud. He was a very learned old
man, and as he said had ben physician to Gustavus the greate King of
Sweden, when he pass'd this way into Italy under the name of Monsieur
Garse, the initial letters of Gustavus Adolphus Rex Sueciae, and of our
famous Duke of Buckingham on his returning out of Italy. He after

wards acknowledged that he should not have bled me had he suspected
the small pox, which brake out a day after. He afterwards purg'd me
and applied leaches, and God knows what this would have produc'd if

the spots had not appear^, for he was thinking of blooding me againe.
They now kept me warme in bed for 16 daies, tended by a vigilant
Swisse matron, whose monstrous throat, when I sometimes awaktt out
of unquiet slumbers, would affright me. After the pimples were come

forth, which were not many, I had much ease as to paine, but infinitely
afflicted with the heat and noysomenesse. By God's mercy after five
weeks keeping my chamber I went abroad. Monsieur Saladine and
his lady sent me many refreshments. Monsieur Le Chat, my physi

cian, to excuse his letting me bloud told me it was so burnt and vicious

as it would have proVd the plague or spotted feaver had he proceeded

by any other method. On my recovering sufficiently to go abroad,

I dined at Monsieur Saladine's, and in the afternoone went crosse the

water on the side of the Lake, and tooke a lodging that stood exceed

ing pleasant about halfe a mile from the ·Cftty for the better ayring ;

but I stayM onely one night, having no company there save my pipe ;
so the next day I caus'd them to row me about the Lake as far as the

greate stone which they call Neptune's Rock, and on which they say

sacrifice was anciently offer"d to him. Thence I landed at certaine
cherry-gardens and pretty villas by the side of the Lake and ex

ceedingly pleasant. Returning I visited their conservatories of fish ;

in which were trouts of 6 and 7 foote long as they affirm'd.
192 THE CITY OF GENEVA ; INSCRIPTIONS ; CAMPUS MARTIUS.

The Rhone, which parts the Citty in the middst, dips into a cavern
                                         it,
underground about 6 miles from               and afterwards rises againe and
                                            I
runns its open course like our Mole or Swallow by Dorking in Surrey.
The next morning (being Thursday) heard Dr. Diodati preach in
Italian, many of that Country, especialy of Lucca his native place, being
inhabitants of Geneva and of the Reform'd Religion.
   The towne lying between Germanie, France, and Italy, those three

tongues are familiarly spoken by the inhabitants. Tis a strong well
fortifi'd Citty, part of built on a rising ground. The houses are not
   it

                                I
despicable, but the high pent-houses (for can hardly call them cloy-
sters, being all of wood) thro' which the people passe drie and in
the shade winter and summer, exceedingly deforme the fronts of the

buildings. Here are aboundance of bookescllers, but their bookes are
of ill impressions these, with
chrystal, and excellent screw'd         watches (of which store are made                         here),
a;                                      guns, arc the staple commodities.
     is                                                                                             All

provisions are good and cheape.
The Townehouse fairely built of stone the portico has foure black
                                   :
                                           ;

                                                                  ;

                                                              is

                                                                                              ;

                                                                                     '
marble columncs, and on a table of the same under the Citty arms, a

demie eagle and crosse between crosse-keys, a motto, Post Tene-
bras Lux,' and this inscription -- Quum anno 1535 profligata Romana
Anti-Christi Tyrannide, abrogatisq ejus superstitionibus, sacro-sancta

Christi Religio hie in suam puritatem, Ecclesia in mcliorem ordincm

singulari Dei beneficio repositi, et simul pulsis fugatisq hostibus urbs

ipsa in suam Libertatem, non sine insigni miraculo, restituta fuerit                             ;

Senatus Populusq Genevensis Monumentum hoc, perpetuae memoriae
;

causa, fieri atque hoc loco erigi curavit, quo suam erga Deum gratitudi-

nem ad posteros testatum fuerit:
The territories about the towne are not so large as many ordinary
gentlemen have about their country farmes, for which cause they are
in continual watch, especialy on the Savoy side but in case of any
:
                                                                          ;
siege the Swisse are at hand,  as  this  inscription in the same place shews,
                               M.  S.    Anno a vera Religione divinitus cum
towards the streete -- D. O.

veteri Libertate Geneva restituta, et quasi novo Jubileo ineunte, pluri-
mus vitatis domi et foris insidiis et superatis tempestatibus, et Helve-
tiorum Primari Tigurini aequo jure in societatem perpetuam nobiscum

venerint, et veteres fidissimi socii Bernenses prius vinculum novo ad-
strinxerint, S. P. Q. G. quod felix se velit D. O. M. tanti beneficii mo
numentum consecrarunt, anno temporis ultimi CID.ID.XXXIV.
In the Senat house were 14 ancient urnes, dug up as they were re
moving earth in the fortifications.
A little out of the towne
;                                       spacious field, which they call Campus

                 it
                              is

                                 is
                                     a
Martius and well may be so tearm'd with better reason than that of
Rome at present (which no more a field but all built into streetes),
for here on every Sonday after the evening devotions this precise people
permitt their youths to exercise armes, and shoote in gunns and in the
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                         193

  long and crosse bowes, in which they are exceedingly expert, reputed
  to be as dexterous as any people in the world. To encourage this, they

  yearely elect him who has won most prizes at the mark to be their
  king, as the king of the long-bow, gun, or crosse-bow. He then weares
  that weapon in his hat in gold, with a crowne over made fast to the
  hat like a broach. In this field a long house wherein their amies
  and furniture are kept in sevcrall places very neately. To this joynes

    hall where at certain times they meete and feast in the glass win
  dows are the armes and names of their kings [of arms]. At the side
  of the field a very noble Pall Mall, but turns with an elbow. There
is a
                   is

                                              is
                                                           is

                                                                 a
                                                                     it
                                                                                        ; it,
     also a bowling-place, a tavern, and true-table, and here they ride

  their managed horses. It also the usual place of publiq execution of

  those who suffer for any capital crime tho' committed in another coun
  try, by which law divers fugitives have been put to death who have fled
  hither to escape puishment in their own country. Amongst other severe

  punishments here, adultery death. Having seene this field and
  pla/d a game at Mall, supped with Mr. Saladine.

     On Sonday heard Dr. Diodati preach in French, and after the
  French mode, in a gowne with a cape and his hat on. The Church
    it is I
                I

                                is
  Government severely Presbyterian, after the discipline of Calvin and
  Beza who set up, but nothing so rigid as either our Scots or English
  Sectaries of that denomination. In the afternoone Monsieur Morice,

Ia  most learned young person and excellent poet, cheit Professor of the
  University, preach'd at St. Peter's, a spacious Gotick fabrick. This
  was heretofore a Cathedral and a reverend pile. It has turrets, on
                                                            ;
  one of which stands a continual sentinel on another cannons are     ;
  mounted. The Church very decent within nor have they at allI;
                    I                                    ;            4

                            is                                                              ;
  defaced the painted windows, which are full of pictures of Saints nor
  the stalls, which are all caiVd with the history of our B. Saviour.

    In the afternoone went to see the young towne's-men exercise in

  Mars Field, where prizes were pewter plates and dishes 'tis said that

  some have gain'd competent estates by what they have thus won. Here
    first saw huge balistae or crosse-bows shot in, being such as they for

merly us'd in wars before greate guns were known they were plac'd

in frames, and had greate screws to bend them, doing execution at an
incredible distance. They were most accurate at the long-bow and

musket, rarely missing the smallest mark.  was as buisywith the car

bine brought from Brescia as any of them. After every shot found
    I                                                                                              I

                 I
the marksmen go into the long house and cleanse their guns before they

charged againe.     was invited to a little garden without the workes
   On Monday

where were many rare tulips, anemonies, and other choice flowers.
The Rhone, running athwart the towne out of the Lake, makes halfe
the Citty a suburb, which in imitation of Paris they call St. German's
Fauxbourg, and it. has church of the same name. On two wooden
                    a

                                                                                               »3
19* COLLEGE OF GENEVA ; THE RHONE ; ROHAN ; ORLEANS.

bridges that crosse the river are several water mills, and shops of
trades especialy smiths and cuttlers ; between the bridges is an island
in the midst of which is a very ancient Tower said to have been
built by Julius Caesar. At the end of the other bridge is the Mint, and
also a faire Sun-dial.

   Passing againe by the Towne-house I saw a large crocodile hanging
in chaines ; and against the wall of one of the chambers seaven judges

were painted without hands, except one in the middle, who has but

one hand ; I know not the storie. The Arsenal is at the end of this

building, well furnisb'd and kept.
   After dinner Mr. Morice led us to the Colledge, a faire structure ;

in the lower part are the scholes, which consist of 9 classes ; and an
hall above, where the students assemble ; also a good library. They
show"d us a very antient Bible of about 300 yeares old in the vulgar
French, and a MS. in the old Monkish character: here have the Pro

fessors their lodgings. I also went to see the Hospital, which is very

commodious ; but the Bishop's Palace is now a prison.
   This towne is not much celebrated for beautifull women, for even at

this distance from the Alps the gentlewomen have something full
throates, but our Captain Wray (afterwards Sir Wm. eldest son of that
Sir Christopher who had both ben in armes against this Majesty for the
Parliament) fell so mightily in love with oneof Mons.Saladine's daughters
that with much persuasion he could not be prevail'd on to think on his
journey into France, the season now coming on extremely hot.

   My sicknesse and abode here cost me 45 pistoles of gold to my host,
and five to my honest doctor, who for six weekes attendance and the
apothecarie thought it so generous a reward, that at my taking leave
he presented me with his advice for the regimen of my health, written
with his own hand in Latine. This regimen I much obseiVd, and I
bless God pass'd the journey without inconvenience from sicknesse, but
it was an extraordinarily hot unpleasant season and journey by reason

of the craggie waies.

    5 July, 1646, we tooke or rather purchas'd a boat, for it could not
be brought back against the streame of the Rhone. We were two days
going to Lions, passing many admirable prospects of rocks and cliffs,
 and neere the towne down a very steepe declivitie of water for a full
mile. From Lions we proceeded the next morning, taking horse to
 Rohan, and lay that night at Farrara. At Rohan we indulged our
 selves with the best that all France affords, for here the provisions are
 choice and plentifull, so as the supper we had might have satisfied a
 prince. We lay that night in damask heds, and were treated like em-
 peroors. The towne is one of the neatest built in all France, on the
 brink of the Loire ; and here we agreed with an old fisher to row us
 as farr as Orleans. The first night we came as far as Nevers, early
 enough to see the towne, the Cathedral (St. Cyre), the Jesuits Col
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN" EVELYN.                                                                                       1 95

ledge, and the Castle, a Palace of the Duke's, with the bridge to                                                                    it,

which nobly built.
I is
The next day we pass'd by La Charite, a pretty towne somewhat
                it
distant from the rivar. Here lost my faithfull spaniel (Piccioli) who
                           I

had follow'd me from Rome  ;     seemes he had ben taken up by some

                             it

of the Governor's pages or footemen, without recovery, which was a

greate displeasure to me because the curr had many useful qualities.
   The next day we ariv*d at Orleans, taking our turns to row, of

which reckon my share came to little less than 20 leagues. Some

times we footed thro' pleasant fields and meadows sometimes we shot
                                                                                                      ;
                                                                                                                    ;
at fowls and other birds, nothing came amiss sometimes we play*d at

cards, whilst others sung or were composing verses, for we had the
greate Poet Mr. Waller in our companie, and some other ingenious

persons besides.

At Orleans we abode but one day the next, leaving our mad Cap-
It
        I
                    aI

                                                                                                   ;

                                                       II
taine behind us, ariv*d at Paris, rejoie'd that after so many disasters

and accidents in tedious peregrination was gotten so neere home,

and here resolv'd to rest myselfe before went farther.

was now October, and the onely time that in my whole life spent
                                                                                                                       ;
most idly, tempted from my more profitable recesses but scone re
                                                                                                                             1I
covered my better resolutions and fell to my study, learning the High
Dutch and Spanish tongues, and now and then refreshing my daunce-                                                                II
ing and such exercises as had long omitted and which are not in much
                        I
reputation amongst the sober Italians.
                              3,

                                  I
                                                             ;

                                                 I
   1647, Jan. 28, changM my lodging in the Place de Monsieur de
Metz neere the Abby of St. Germains and thence on the 2th Feb. to
4

         I
another in Rue Columbier, where had a very faire appartement which
cost me pistoles per moneth. The 18th frequented a course of
Chemistrie, the famous Mr. Le Febure operating upon most of the
nobler processes. March Monsieur Mercure began to teach me on
the lute, tho' to small perfection.
   In May fell sick and had very weak eyes, for which ailment was
I

foure times let blood.

  22 May. My valet (Hebert) robb'd me of cloths and plate to the
value of threescore pounds, but thro' the diligence of Sir Richard
Browne, his Majesty's Resident at the Court of France, and with whose
lady and family had contracted a greate friendship (and particularly
set my affections on a daughter) recovered most of them, obtaining of
   I
                          I

                                                                    I
the Judge with no small difficulty that the processe against the thiefe
should not concerne his life, being his first offence.
10 June. We concluded about my marriage, in order to which
went to St. Germans, where his Majesty, then Prince of Wales, had his
court, to desire of Dr. Earle, then one of his Chaplains (since Dean of
Westminster, Clerke of the Closet, and Bishop of Salisburie) that he
would accompany me to Paris, which he did, and on Thursday 27
   196 MY MARRIAGE. LEAVE PARIS FOR SAYES COURT AND LONDON.

   June, 1647, he married us in Sir Richd. Browne's Chapell betwixte the

   houres of 11 and 12, some few select freinds being present : and this

   being Corpus Christi feast was solemnly obseiVd in this country ; the
   streetes sumptuously hung with tapistry,  and strew'd with flowers.
"     10 Sept. Being call'd into England     to settle my affaires after  an

   absence of about 4 yeares, I tooke leave of the Prince and Queene,
   leaving my wife, yet very young, under the care of an excellent lady and

   prudent mother.

     4 Oct. I seal'd and declared my Will, and that morning went from
   Paris, taking my journey thro' Rouen, Dieppe, Ville-dieu, and St. Val-
   lcrie where I staied one day with Mr. Waller with whom I had some
   affaires, and for which cause I tooke this circle to Calais, where I ariv'd
   on the nth, and that night imbarking in the paquet-boate, was by one
   o'clock got safe to Dover, for which I heartily put up my thanks to God
   who had conducted me safe to my owne country, and ben mercifull to

   me thro' so many aberrations. Hence taking post I ariv'd at London
   the next day at evening, being the second of October N.S.
      5 Oct. I came to Wotton, the place  of my birth, to my brother, and

   on the 10th to Hampton Court, where    I had the honour to kisse his
   Majesty's hand, and give him an account of severall things I had in
   charge, he being now in the power of those execrable villians who not
   long after murder'd him. I lay at my cousin Serjeant Hatton's at
   Thames Ditton, whence on the 13th I went to London.

      14th. To Saves Court at Deptford in Kent, (since my house), where
   I found Mr. Pretyman my wife's uncle, who had charge of it and the

   estate about it during my father-in-law's residence in France. On the
15th I againe occupied my owne Chambers at the Middle Temple.
   9 Nov. My sister open'd to me her marriage with Mr. Glanvill.
   1 648." 14 Jan. From London I went to Wotton to see my young nephew;

and thence to Baynards [in Ewhurst] to visite my brother Richard.
   5 Feb. Saw a Tragie-comedy acted in the Cockpit, after there had

ben none of these diversions for many years during the warr.
  28. I went with my noble friend Sir Wm. Ducy (afterwards Lord

Downe) to Thistleworth, where we din'd with Sir Clepesby Crew, and
afterwards to see the rare miniatures of Peter Oliver and rounds of
plaster, and then the curious flowers of Mr. Bar-ill's garden, who has
some good medails and pictures. Sir Clepesby has fine Indian hang
ings and a very good chimney-piece of water colours by Breugel, which
I bought for him.

   26 April. There was a greate uprore in London that the Rebell
Armie quartering at Whitehall would plunder the Citty, on which there

was publish'd a Proclamation for all to stand on their guard.

   4 May. Came up the Essex Petitioners for an agreement 'twixt his
Majesty and the Rebells. The 16th the Surrey men address'd the
Parliament for the same ; of which some of them were slayne and
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  197

 murder'd by Cromwell's guards in the New Palace Yard. I now sold
 the Impropriation of South Mailing, neere Lewes in Sussex, to Mr.
 Kemp and Alcock for ^.3000.

    30 May. There was a rising now in Kent, my Lord of Nonvich
 teing at the head of them. Their first rendevous was in Broome field
 next to my house at Says-Court, whence they went to Maidstone, and

 so to Colchester, where was that memorable siege.

    27 June. I purchas'd the Manor of Hurcott in Worcestershire of
 my brother George for ,£.3300.

    1 July. I sate for my picture, in which there is a Death's head, to
 Mr. Walker, that excellent painter.

    10. Newes was brought me of my Lord Francis Villers being slaine

by the Rebells neere Kingston.

    16 Aug. I went to Woodcote (in Epsom) to the wedding of my
brother Richard, who married the daughter and coheire of Esquire
 Minn lately deceas'd, by which he had a greate estate both in land and
 monie on the death of a brother. The coach in which the bride and

 the bridegroome were, was overturn'd in coming home, but no harm

 was done them.

    28. To London from Says Court, and saw the celebrated follies of
 Bartholomew Fair.

    Sept. 16. Came my lately married brother Richard and his wife to
visite me, when I shewed them Greenewich and her Majesties Palace,
now possessed by the Rebells.

   28. I went to Albury to visite the Countess of Arundel, and return'd

 to Wotton.

   31 October. I went to see my Manor of Preston Beckhelvyn and

the Cliffhouse.

   29th Nov. My selfe with Mr. Tho. Offley and Lady Gerrard,
christned my niece Mary, eldest daughter of my brother George Eve
lyn by my Lady Cotton his second wife. I presented my niece a piece

of plate which cost me £.18, and caused this inscription to be set on it :

                                  ' In memoriam facti
Anno Cl3.Ix.xllIX. Cal. Decemb. vm. Virginum castiss : Xtianorum
innocentiss: Nept: suaviss: Maria;, Johaii: Evelynus Avunculus et
Susceptor Vasculum hoc cum Epigraphe L. M. Q. D.

                  Ave Maria, Gratia sis plena ; Dominus tecum.'

   2 December. This day I sold my Manor of Hurcott for ,£.3400
to one Mr. Bridges.

   1 3. The Parliament now sat up the whole night and endeavourtt to
have concluded the Isle of Wight Treaty, but were surprized by the
Rebell Army, the Members dispers'd, and greate confusion everywhere
in expectation of what would be next.

  17. I heard an Italian sermon in Mercers Chapel, one Dr. Mid-

dleton, an acquaintance of mine, preaching.
198 HEARD PETER PREACH ; MURDER OF OUR KING.

  18. I got privately into the council of the Rebell Army at White
hall, where I heard horrid villanies.
This was a most exceeding wet yeare, neither frost nor snow all the
Winter for more than six days in all. Cattle died every where of a

murrain.

  1649, 1 Jan. I had a lodging and some bookes at my father in law's
house, Saycs Court.
                     see  my old  friend          ,  fellow-traveller  Mr.  Hen-
   2 Jan. I went to
                                          and

shaw, who had 2 rare pieces of Stenwyck's perspective.

   17. To London. I heard the Rebell Peters incite the Rebell Powers

met in the Painted Chamber to destroy his Majesty, and saw that arch-

traytor Bradshaw, who not long after condemn'd him.

   19. I returned home, passing an extraordinary danger of being

drowned by our wherries falling foule in the night on another vesscll
then at anker, shooting the bridge at 3 quarters ebb, for which His

mercy God Almighty be prais'd.
21. Was publish'd my Translation of Liberty and Servitude, for
the Preface of which I was severely threatened.
  22. I went thro' a course of Chymistrie at Sayes Court. Now was

the Thames frozen over, and horrid tempests of wind.
The villanie of the Rebells proceeding now so far as to trie, condemne

and murder our excellent   King on  the   30th of this month, struck me
                          kept the  day   of his martyrdom a fast, and
with such horror that I

would not be present at that execrable wickednesse, receiving the sad
account of it from my brother George and Mr. Owen, who came to 

visite me this afternoone, and recounted all the circumstances.
1 Feb. Now were Duke Hamilton, the Earl of Norwich, Lord
Capell,&c. at  their tryall before the Rebells New Court
               to see the collection of one Trean, a rich  of Injustice.
  15. I went
                                                           merchant, who

had some good pictures, especialy a rare perspective of Stenwyck ; from
thence to other Virtuoso's. The paynter La Neve has an Andromeda,
but I think it a copy after Vandyke from Titian, for the original is in

France. Webb at the Exchange has some rare things in miniature of
Breugel's, also Putti (Boys' Heads) in 12 squares, that were plundered
from Sir James Palmer. At Du Bois we saw 2 tables of Putti, that

were gotten, I know not how, out of the Castle of St. Angelo by old

Petit, thought to be Titian's ; he had some good heads of Palma, and
one of Stenwyck. Bellcar shewM us an excellent copy of his Majesty's
Sleeping Venus and the Satyre with other figures, for now they had
plunder'd, sold, and dispers'd a world of rare paintings of the King's
and his loyall subjects. After all, Sir William Ducy shew'd me some

excellent things in miniature, and in oyle of Holbein's Sir Tho. Mare's
head, and an whole figure of Edward 6th, which were certainly his
Majesty's, also a picture of Queene Elizabeth, the Lady Isabella Thynn;
a rare painting of Rothenhamer, being a Susanna; and a Magdalen
         THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                     199

of Quint in the Blacksmith ; also an Hen. 8. of Holbein ; and Francis
the first, rare indeede, but of whose hand I know not.

   16. Paris being now strictly besieged by the Prince de Con.de", my

wife being shut up with her father and mother, I wrote a letter of con

solation to her; and on the 22d having recommended Obadiah Walker,1,
a learned and most ingenious person, to be tutor to and to travell with
Mr. Hillyard's two sonns, returned to Says Court.
25. Came to visite me Dr. Joyliffe, discoverer of the lymphatic
vessells, and an excellent
    26. Came to see me      anatomist.  Evelyn '          my  kinsman,  the  greate
                            Capt. Geo.

traveller, and one who believed himself a better architect than really he

was, witness the Portico in the garden at Wotton ; yet the greate roome

at Albury is somewhat better understood. He had a large mind, but

he overbuilt every thing.
   27. Came out of France my wife's unkle (Paris still besieged) being
rob'd at sea by the Dunkyrk pirates : I lost among other goods my
Wife's picture painted by Mons. Bourdon.
5 March. Now were the Lords murder'd in the Palace Yard.*
18. Mr. Owen, a sequester'd and learned minister, preach'd in my
parlour, and gave us the blessed Sacrament, now wholly out of use in the
Parish Churches, which the Presbyterians and Fanatics had usurp'd.
   21 Mar. I receiv'd letters from Paris from my wife, and from Sir
Richard [Browne] with whom I kept a political correspondence, with
no small danger of being discovert.

   25. I heard the Common Prayer (a rare thing in these days) in St

Peter's at Paul's Wharf, London ; and in the morning the Archbishop
of Armagh, that pious person and learned man, Usher, in Lincoln's Inn

ChapelL
April 2. To London, and inventoried my moveables that had hitherto
ben dispersed for feare of plundring : wrote into France touching my

suddaine resolutions of coming over to them. On the 8th againe heard

an excellent discourse from Archbp. Usher on Ephes : 4. v. 26-27.
   My Italian collection being now ariv'd, came Moulins the greate

Chirurgeon, too see and admire the Tables of Veins and Arteries which

I purchas'd and caus'd to be drawne out of several humane bodies at

Padua.

   1 1. Received newes out of France that peace was concluded : dined

with Sir Jo. Evelyn at Westminster ; and on the 13th I saw a private

dissection at Moulins' house.

   17. I fell dangerously ill of my head ; was blistered and let blood
behind the eares and forehead : on the 23rd began to have ease by using

   1 Mr. Evelyn has added in the margin against Walker's  name, ' Since an apostate.'  He
was master of University College. Oxford.

   1 Son of Sir John Evelyn of Godstone.
   > Duke Hamilton, the Earl of Holland, and Lord Capel.
20O UNKINGSHIP PROCLAIMED ; DORISLAUS, BURIAL OF.

the fumes of cammomile on embers applied to my eares after all the

physitians had don their best.
and29.muIchsahwigihnerLotnhadnonI                                        in
                                   an huge ox bred  in  Kent, 17  foote      length,
                                   could reach.
   12 May. I purchased the Manor of Warley Magna in Essex : in
the afternoone went to see Gildron's collections of payntings, where I
found Mr. Endymion Porter of his late Majesties Bedchamber.

   17. Went to Putney by water in barge with divers ladies, to see the
Schooles or Colledges of the young gentlewomen.1

 · 19. To see a rare cabinet of one Delabarr, who had some good
paintings, especialy a Monk at his beades.
   30 May. Un-kingship was proclaim'd, and his Majesty's statues
thrown down at St. Paule's Portico and the Exchange.
  7 June. I visited Sir Arthur Hopton (brother to Sir Ralph, Lord

Hopton, that noble hero), who having ben Ambassador Extraordinary

in Spaine, sojourn'd some time with my Father-in-law at Paris ; a

most excellent person. Also Signora Lucretia, a Greeke lady, whom I

knew in Italy, now come over with her husband, an English gentle
man. Also the Earle and Countesse of Arundel, taking leave of them
and other friends now ready to depart for France. This night was a

scuffle betweene some rebell souldiers and some gentlemen about

the Temple.
   10. Preach'd the Archbishop of Armagh in Lincoln's Inn from

Romans 5. verse 13. I received the Elessed Sacrament preparatory

to my journey.

  13. I din'd with my worthy friend Sir John Owen, newly freed from

sentence of death among the 'Lords that suffer'd. With him was one

Carew, who play'd incomparably on the Welsh Harp : afterwards I
treated divers Ladies of my relations, in Spring Garden.

This night was buried with great pomp -Dorislaus, slaine at the

Hague, the villain who manag'd the trial against bis sacred Majesty.
     I got a passe from the rebell Bradshaw, then in greate power.
17.
20.  I went to Putney and other places on the Thames to take pros

pects in crayon to carry with me into France, where I thought to

have them engrav'd.
2 July. I went from Wotton to Godstone (the residence of Sir John
Evelyn), where was also Sir John Evelyn of Wilts, when I took leave
of both Sir Johns and their ladys. Mem. the prodigious memory of
Sir John of Wilts daughter, since   married         to  Mr. W. Pierrepoint, and
mother of the present Earle of     Kingston.
                                                        I returned to Says Court

this night.

4. Visited Lady Hatton, her Lord sojourning at Paris with my
father-in-law.

   1 Kept probably by Mrs. Bathsua Makins, the mostlearned woman nf her time : she had been
tutor to the Princess Elizabeth. King Charles's daughter. There is a very rare portrait of her
oy Marshall.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  20S

    9. Din'd with Sir Walter Pye and my good friend Mr. Eaton, after
wards a Judge, who corresponded with me in France.

   11. Came to see me old Alexander Rosse, the Divine, Historian
and Poet ; Mr. Henshaw, Mr. Scudamore, and other friends, came to-
take leave of me.

   12. It was about 3 in the afternoone I tooke oares for Gravescnd,

accompanied by my cousin Stephens and sister Glanvill, who there
supp'd with- me and return'd ; whence I tooke post immediately to-

Dover, where I ariv'd by 9 in the morning, and about 11 that night

went on board a bark guarded by a pinnace of 8 guns ; this being the-
first time the pacquett-boate had obtained a convoy, having several!
times before ben pillag'd. We had a good passage, tho' chased for

some houres by a pyrate, but he durst not attaq our fregat, and we then-

chas'd him till he got under the protection of the Castle at Calais. It
was a small privateer belonging to the Prince of Wales. I carried over
with me my servant Ri. Hoare, an incomparable writer of several
hands, whom I afterwards preferred in the Prerogative Office, at the
return of his Majesty. Lady Catherine Scot, daughter of the Earle-
of Norwich, followed us in a shallop with Mr. Arthur Slingsby, who left
England incognito. At the entrance of the towne the Lieut. Governor
being on his horse with the Guards let us passe courteously. I visited
Sir Richard Lloyd, an English gent in the towne, and walked in the-

Church, where the ornament about the high altar of black marble is
very fine, and there is a good picture of the Assumption. The Citadelt

seemes to be impregnable, and the whole country about it to be laied
jnder water by sluices for many miles.

    16. We departed for Paris in company with that very pleasant lady,
and others. In all this journey we were greatly apprehensive of parties,

which caus'd us to alight often out of our coach and walke separately
on foot with our guns ready in all suspected places.

   1 Aug. At 3 in the afternoone we came to St. Denis, saw the rarities
of the Church and Treasury, and so to Paris that evening.

   The next day came to wellcome me at dinner the Lord High Trea
surer Cottington, Sir Edward Hide Chancellor, Sir Edward Nicholas
Secretary of State, Sir George Cartret Governor of Jersey, and Dr.
Earle, having ben absent from my Wife above a yeare and halfe.

   18. I went to St. Germain's to kisse his Majesty's hand; in the
coach, which was my Lord Wilmot's went Mrs. Barlow the King's-

mistresse and mother to the Duke of Monmouth, a brown z, beautitull,
bold, but insipid creature.

   19. I went to salute the French King and the Queene Dowager ;

and on the 21st returned in one of the Queenes coaches with my Lord
Germain, Duke of Buckingham, Lord Wentworth, & Mr. Croftes, since-

created Lord Croftes.

   7 Sept. Went with my Wife and deare Cosin to St. Germaines, and
302 PRESIDENT MAISON'S PALACE. DROGHEDA TAKEN.

kissed the Queene's-mother's hand ; din'd with my L. Keeper and Lord
Hatton. Divers of the greate men of France came to see the King ;
the next day came the Prince of Conde". Returning to Paris we went

to see the President Maison's Palace, built castlewise of a milk-white

fine freestone ; the house not vast, but well contriv'd, especialy the
staire-case and the ornaments of Putti about it. 'Tis inviron'd in a

dry moate, the offices under-ground, the gardens very excellent with

extraordinary long walkes set with elmes, and a noble prospect towards

the forest and on the Seine towards Paris. Take it altogether, the
meadows, walkes, river, forest, corne-ground, and vineyards, I hardly
saw any thing in Italy exceede it. The yron gates are very magnificent.

He has pulled downe a whole village to make roome for his pleasure

about it.
12. Dr. Crighton, a Scotchman and one of his Majesties Chap-
laines, a learned Grecian who set out the Council of Florence, preached.

    13.   The King invited the Prince of Conde" to supper at St. Cloud    ;
there    I kiss'd the Duke of York's hand in the Tennis Court, where
                                                                         I
saw a famous match 'twixt Monsieur Saumeurs and Col. Cooke, and

so returned to Paris. Twas noised about that I was knighted, a dig
nity which I often declin'd.
   1 Oct. Went with my cousin Tuke (afterwards Sir Samuel) to see
the fountaines of St. Cloud and Ruel, and after dinner to talke with

the poore ignorant and superstitious Anchorite at Mount Calvary, and
so on to Paris.
   2. Came Mr. William Coventrie (afterwards Sir William) & the
Duke's Secretary, &c. to visite me.
   5. Dined with Sir George Radcliffe the greate favourite of the late
Earle of Strafford, formerly Lord Deputy of Ireland, decapitated.

  7. To the Louvre to visite the Countesse of Morton, Governesse to
Madame.

15. Came news of Drogheda being taken by the Rebells and all put
to the sword, which made us very sad, fore-running the losse of all
Ireland.
21. I went to heare Dr. D'AVinson's lecture in the physical garden,
and see his laboratorie, he being Prefect of that excellent Garden and
Professor  Botanicus.
           was at the  funerall  of one  Mr.  Downes, a  sober  English
  30. I
gentleman. We accompanied his corpse to Charenton, where he was
interr'd in a cabbage-garden, yet with the office of our Church, which
was said before in our Chapell at Paris. Here I saw also where they
buried the greate Souldier Gassion, who had a tombe built over him
like a fountaine, the designe and materials meane enough. I returned
to Paris with Sir Phil : Musgrave, & Sir Marmaduk Langdale, since
Lord Langdale.-- Memorandum. This was a very sickly and mortal
Autumne.
                      THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                   - 203

  5 Nov. I receivM divers letters out of England, requiring me to

come over about settling some of my concerns.

7. Dr. George Morley (since Bishop of Winchester) preach'd in our
Chapell  on Matt: 4.  verse 3.
          went with   my Father-in-law  to his audience  at the French
  18. I

Court, where next the Pope's Nuncio he was introduced by the Master
of Ceremonies, and after delivery of his credentials, as from our King
since his Father's murder, he was most graciously receiv'd by the King
of France and his Mother, with whom he had a long audience. This

was in the Palais Cardinal.

  After this, being presented to his Majesty and the Queene Regent, I

went to see the house built by the late greate Cardinal de Richelieu.

The most observable thing is the gallerie painted with the portraits of

the most illustrious persons and signal actions in France, with innu

merable emblemes 'twixt every table. In the middle of the gallery is a

neate chapell rarely paved in worke and devices of severall sorts of
marble, besides the altar-piece and 2 statues of white marble, one of St.
John, the other of the Virgin Mary, by Bernini. The rest of the apart

ments are rarely gilded and carvM, with some good modern paintings.

In the presence hang 3 huge branches of chrystal. In the French
King's bed-chamber is an alcove like another chamber, set as it were
in a chamber like a moveable box, with a rich embroidred bed. The
fabric of the Palace is not magnificent, being but of 2 stories, but the

garden is so spacious as to containe a noble basin and fountaine con
tinually playing, and there is a Mall, with an elbow or turning to pro
tract it. So I left his Majesty on the terrace, buisie in seeing a bull
baiting, and rerurn'd home in Prince Edward's coach with Mr. Paule,

the Prince Elector's agent.
19; Visited Mr. Waller, where meeting Dr. Holden, an English

Sorbonne Divine, we fell into some discourse about Religion.

   28 Dec. Going to waite on Mr. Waller, I view'd St. Stephen's

Church ; the building tho' Gotic is full of carving ; within it is beauti-
full, especialy the quire and winding staires. The glasse is well painted,

and the tapissry hung up this day about the quire, representing the
conversion of Constantino, was exceeding rich.

   I went to that excellent engraver Du Bosse, for his instruction
about explanation of some difficulties in perspective which were
delivered in his booke.
  I concluded this                                 I gave solemn
                    yeare  in  health,  for which                 thanks to
Almighty God \
29. I christned Sir Hugh Rilies child with Sir Geo. Radcliffe in our
Chapell, the parents being so poore that they had provided no gossips,
so as severall of us drawing lotts it fell on me, the Deane of Peterborow

  1 This he does not fail to repeat at the end of every year, but it will not always be neces
sary to insert it in this book.
204 PALACE OF MADRID. CUTTING FOR THE STONE. ASSAULTED.

(Dr. Cosin) officiating: we named it Andrew, being on the eve of that
Apostle's day.

   1650. Jan. 1. I began this Jubilie with the publiq office in our
Chapell : din'd at my Lady Herbert's, wife of Sir Edward Herbert,
afterwards Lord Keeper.
18. This night was the Prince of Conde" and his Brother carried

prisoners to the Bois de Vincennes.
Feb. 6. In the evening came SignorAIlessandro, one of the Cardinal
Mazarine's musitians, and a person of greate name for his knowledge in
art, to visite my wife, and sung before divers persons of quality in

my chamber.
1 March. I went to see the masquerados which was very fantastic,
but nothing so quiet and solemn as I found it at Venice.

    13. Saw a triumph in Monsieur del Camp's Academie, where divers
of the French and English Noblesse, especialy my Lord of Ossorie,
and Richard, sonns to the Marquis of Ormond (afterwards Duke), did
their exercises on horseback in noble equipage, before a world of spec
tators and greate persons, men and ladies. It ended in a collation.
   April 25. I went            towne to see Madrid, a palace so call'd,
                      out of
built by Francis the  First.   Tis observable onely for its open manner
of architecture, being much of tarraces and galleries one over another

to the very roofe, and for the materials, which are most of earth painted
like Porcelain or China-ware, whose colours appeare very fresh, but is

very fragile. There are whole statues and relievos of this potterie,

chimney-pieces and columns both within and without. Under the
chapell is a chimny in the midst of a roome parted from the Salle des
Gardes. The house is fortified with a deepe ditch, and has an admi

rable vista towards the Bois de Boulogne and River.
30. I went to see the collection of the famous sculptor Steffano de
la Bella returning now into Italy, and bought some prints : and like

wise visited Perelle the Iandskip graver.     I saw the operation
  3 May. At                    of La Charitd                       of cutting
                the  Hospital  8 or 9 yeares  old underwent the
for the stone.       child of                                      operation
                 A

with most extraordinary patience, and expressing greate joy when he
saw the stone was drawn. The use I made of it was to give Almighty
God hearty thankes that I had not ben subject to this deplorable

infirmitie.
7. I went with Sir Rich. Browne's lady and my wife, together with
the Earle of Chesterfield, Lord Ossorie and his brother, to Vamber, a

place neere the Citty famous for butter ; when coming homewards,

being on foote, a quarrel arose between Lord Ossorie and a man in a
garden, who thrust Lord Ossorie from the gate with uncivil language,
on which our young gallants struck the fellow on the pate, and bid him
aske pardon, which he did with much submission, and so we parted ;
but we were not gon far before we heard a noise behind us, and saw
              THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.              20J

people coming with gunns, swords, staves, and forks, and who followed

flinging stones ; on which we turn'd and were forc'd to engage, and .
with our swords, stones, and the help of our servants (one of whom had
a pistol) made our retreate for neere a quarter of a mile, when we took

shelter in a house, where we were besiegM, and at length forc'd to
submit to be prisoners. Lord Hatton with some others were taken

prisoners in the flight, and his lordship was confin'd under 3 locks and
as many doores in this rude fellow's master's house, who pretended to
be steward to Monsieur St. Germain, one of the Presidents of the

Grand Chambre du Parliament and a Canon of Notre Dame. Severall

of us were much hurt. One of our lacquies escaping to Paris, caused
the bailiff of St. Germain to come with his guard and rescue us.

Immediately afterwards came Monsieur St. Germain himselfe in greate

wrath on hearing that his housekeeper was assaulted ; but when he saw

the King's Officers, the Gentlemen and Noblemen, with his Majesty's

Resident, and understood the occasion, he was ashamed of the accident,

requesting the fellow's pardon, and desiring the ladys to accept their

submission and a supper at his house. It was 10 o'clock at night ere

we got to Paris, guarded by Prince Griffith, (a Welch hero going under
that name, and well known in England for his extravagances,) together

with the scholars of two academies who came forth to assist and meete

us on horseback, and would faine have alarm'd the towne we receiv'd

the affront from, which with much ado wc prevented.

   12. Complaint being come to the Queene and Court of France
of the affront we had receiv'd, the President was ordered to aske pardon

of Sir R. Browne, his Majesty's Resident, and the fellow to make sub

mission and be dismiss'd. There came along with him President de
              of the greate Thuanus
Thou,   sonn  I have often heard that  [the historian,] and so all was com-
pos'd.   But                           gallant gentleman my Lord Ossorie

affirme solemnly that in all the conflicts he ever was in at sea or on

land, (in the most desperate of both which he had often ben) he believ'd
he was never in so much danger as when these people rose against us.
He us'd to call it the battaill de Vambre, and remember it with a greate
deale of mirth as an adventure en cavalier.
lir We were invited by the Noble Academies to a running at the
Ring, where were many brave horses, gallants and ladys, my Lord
Stanhope entertaining us with a collation.
   12 June. Being Trinity Sunday the Dean of Peterborough preach'd ;
after which there was an ordination of two Divines, Durell and Brevent

(the one was afterwards Deane of Windsor, the other of Durham, both
very learned persons). The Bishop of Galloway officiated with greate
gravity, after a pious and learned exhortation declaring the weight and
dignitie of their function, especialy now in a time of the poore Church

of England's affliction ; he magnified the sublimity of the calling, from
the object, viz. the salvation of men's soules, and the glory of God ;
206 A FUNNY PICTURE. THE MUSEUM AT PONT NEUF.

producing many humane instances of the transitorinesse and vatity of
all other dignities ; that of all the triumphs the Roman Conquerors
made, none was comparable to that of our Blessed Saviours when
he lead Captivitie captive, and gave gifts to men, namely that of the
Holy Spirit, by which his faithfull and painefull Ministers triumphed
over Satan as oft as they redue'd a sinner from the errour of his ways.
He then proceeded to the ordination. They were presented by the
Deane in their surplices before the altar, the Bishop sitting in a chaire
at one side ; and so were made both Deacons and Priests at the same
time, in reguard to the necessitie of the times, there being so few
Bishops left in England, and consequently danger of a failure of both
functions. Lastly they proceeded to the Communion. This was all
perform'd in Sir Rich. Browne's Chapell at Paris.

   13 June. I sate to the famous sculptor Nanteuil, who was after

wards made a knight by the French King for his art. He engrav'd
my picture in copper. At a future time he presented me with my own
picture, done all with a pen ; an extraordinary curiosity.

   2 1 June. I went to see the Samaritan or Pump at the end of the

Pont Neuf, which tho' to appearance promising no greate matter, is
besides the machine, furnish'd with innumerable rarities both of art and
nature ; especialy the costly Grotto, where are the fairest corals grow

ing out of the very rock, that I have seen ; also great pieces of chrystal,

amethysts, gold in the mine, and other mettals and marcasites, with
two greate conchas, which the owner told us cost him 200 crownes at
Amsterdam. He shewed us many landskips and prospects very rarely
painted in miniature, some with the pen and crayon ; divers antiquities
and relievos of Rome ; above all, that of the inside of the Amphitheater
of Titus incomparably drawn by Monsieur St. Clire himselfe; two boys
and three skeletons moulded by Fiamingo; abooke of statues with the

pen made for Hen. IV. rarely executed, and by which one may discover

many errors in the taille douce of Perrier, who has added divers con
ceits of his owne that are not in the originals. He has likewise an
infinite collection of taille douces richly bound in Morocco. He led us
into a stately chamber furnish'd to have entertain'd a prince, with pic
tures of the 'greatest masters, especialy a Venus of Perino del Vaga ;

the Putti carved in the chimney-piece by the Fleming ; the vasas of

porcelan, and many design'd by Raphael ; some paintings of Poussin
and Fioravanti ; antiques in brasse ; the looking-glasse and stands

rarely carved. In a word, all was greate, choice and magnificent, and
not to be pass'd by as I had often don, without the least suspicion that
there were such rare things to be seene in that place. At a future visit

he shewM a new grotto and bathing-place, hew^d thro' the battlements
of the arches of Pont Neuf, into a wide vault at the intercolumnia-
tion, so that the coaches and horses thunder'd over our heads.

   27 June. I made my Will, and taking leave of my wife and other
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  207

friends tooke horse for England, paying the Messenger 8 pistoles for me
and my servant to Calais, setting out with 17 in company well arm'd,
some Portugezes, Swisse, and French, whereof 6 were Captaines and
Officers. We came the first night to Beaumont ; next day to Beauvais.
and lay at Pois, and the next, without dining, reach'd Abbeville ; next
din'd at Montreuil, and proceeding met a company of foote (being now

within the inroades of the parties which dangerously infest this day's
journey from St. Omers and the Frontiers) which we drew very neere
to, ready and resolute to charge through, and accordingly were order'd
and led by a captaine of our traine ; but as we were on the speede, they
cal'd out, and proved to be Scotchmen newly rais'd and landed, and few
arm'd among them. This night we were well treated at Bollogne.
The next day we march'd in good order, the passage being now ex
ceeding dangerous, and got to Calais by a little after two. The sun
so scorch'd my face that it made the skin peel off.

   I din'd with Mr. Booth his Majesty's Agent, and about 3 in the
aftemoone imbark'd in the packet-boat ; hearing there was a pirate then
also setting saile, we had security from molestation, and so with a fair
S.W. wind, in seven hours we landed at Dover. The buisy watchman
would have us to the Major to be searched, but the gent, being in
bed we were dismiss'd.

    Next day, being Sonday, they would not permit us to ride post, so
that afternoone our trunks were visited.

   The next morning by 4 we sat out for Canterbury, where I met with

my Lady Catherine Scot, whom that very day twelve months before I

met at sea going for France ; she had been visiting Sir Tho. Peyton
not far off, and would needes carry me in her coach to Gravesend.
We din'd at Sittingboum, came late to Gravesend, and so to Deptford,
taking leave of my lady about 4 the next morning.

   5th July. I supped in the Citty with my Lady Catherine Scott

at one Mr. Dubois, where was a gentlewoman call'd Everard, that was
a very great Chymist.

   Sun. 7 July. In the afternoone having a mind to see what was
doing among the Rebells, then in full possession at' 'Whitehall, I went
thither and found one at exercise in the Chapell, after their way ;
thence to St. James's, where another was preaching in the Court

abroad.

   17. I went to London to obtain a passe, intending but a short stay

in England.

   25th. I went by Epsom to Wotton, saluting Sir Robert Cook and
my sister Glanvill ; the country was now much molested by souldiers,.

who tooke away gentlemen's horses for the service of the State as

then call'd.

   4 Aug. I heard a sermon at the Rolls ; and in the afternoone wan-
der'd to divers churches, the pulpits full of novices and novelties.
  208 LEAVE FOR FRANCE. MISERABLE STATE OF THE PEOPLE. PARIS.

    6th. To Mr. Walker's a good painter, who shewed me an excellent
 copie of Titian.

     12 July. Sat out for Paris, taking post at Gravesend, and so that
  night to Canterbury, where being surpriz'd by the souldiers, and

 having only an antiquated passe, with some fortunate dexterity I got

 cleare of them, tho' not without extraordinary hazard, having before
  counterfeited one with successe, it being so difficult to procure one
 of the Rebells without entering into oathes, which I never would do.
 At Dover money to the searchers and officers was as authentiq as the
 hand and seale of Bradshaw himselfe, where I had not so much as my
  trunk open'd.

     13. At 6 in the evening set saile for Calais, the wind not favourable
 I was very sea sick, coming to an anker about one o'clock ; about five

  in the morning we had a long boate to carry us to land tho' at a good
 distance ; this we willingly entered, because two vessells were chasing
 ·us, but being now almost at the harbour's mouth, thro' inadvertency
  there brake in upon us two such heavy seas as had almost sunk the

 boate, I being necre the middle up in water. Our steeresman it

 seemes apprehensive of the danger was preparing to leape into the
  sea and trust to swimming, but seeing the vessell emerge, he put her
  into the Pier, and so, God be thanked ! we got to Calais, tho' wetL

     Here I waited for company, the passage towards Paris being still
  infested with volunteers from the Spanish frontiers.

     16. The Regiment of Picardy, consisting of about 1400 horse and
 foote (amongst them was a Capt. whom I knew), being come to towne,
 I took horses for myselfe and servante, and march'd under their protec
 tion to Boulogne. Twas a miserable spectacle to see how these tatter'd
 souldiers pillag*d the poore people of their sheepe, poultry, corne,
 catell, and whatever came in their way ; but they had such ill pay that

 they were ready themselves to starve.

    As we pass'd St. Denis the people were in uproar, the guards
 doubl'd, and every body running with their moveables to Paris, on
 an alarme that the Enemy was within 5 leagues of them, so miserably
 exposed was even this part of France at this time.

    The 30th I got to Paris, after an absence of two moneths onely.
     1 Sept. My Lady Herbert invited me to dinner; Paris, and in-
 deede all France being full of loyall fugitives.
    Came Mr. Waller to see me, about a child of his which the Popish
 midwife had baptis'd.
    Oct. 15. Sir Tho. Osborn (afterwards Lord Treasurer) and Lord
' Stanhop shot for a wager of 5 Louis to be spent on a treat ; they shot
 so exact that it was a drawn match.
    Nov. 1. Took leave of my Lord Stanhop going on his journey
 towards Italy : also visited my Lady Hatton, Comptroller of his Ma
 jesties Household, the Countesse of Morton, Governesse to the
                  THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                     209

 Lady Henrietta, and Mrs. Gardner one of the Queen's Maids of
.Honour.

6. Sir Thomas Osborn supping with us, his groome was set upon
in the streete before our house and receiv'd two wounds, but gave
the assassin nine, who was carried off to the Charite" hospital. Sir
Thomas went for England on the eighth, and carried divers letters for

me to my friends.

   16. I went to Monsieur Visse's, the French King's Secretary, to

a concert of French music and voices, consisting of 24, two theorbo's

and but one bass viol, being a rehearsal of what was to be sung at
vespers at Saint Cecilia's, on her feast, she being patronesse of Mu-
sitians. News ariv*d of the death of the Prince of Orange of the

small pox.
14 Dec I wente to visite Mt. Ratcliffe, in whose lodging was an

impostor that had like to have impos'd upon us a pretended secret ot
multiplying gold ; 'tis certain he had livM some time in Paris in extra-
ordinarie splendor, but I found him to be an egregious cheate.

22. Came the learned Dr. Boet to visite me.
   31. I gave God thanks for his mercy and protection the past yeare,
and made up my accompts, which came this ycare to 7015 livers, neere

£.600 sterling.   I wrote to my brother at Wotton about his garden
   165 1. 1 Jan.  After evening Prayer Mr. Wainsford called on me :

and fountaines.

he had long ben Consul at Aleppo, and told me many strange things

of those countries, the Arabs especialy.
   27. I had letters of the death of Mrs. Newton, my grandmother-in-
law ; she had a most tender care of me during my childhood, and was
a woman of extraordinarie charity and piety.

   29. Dr. Duncan preached on 8 Matt. 34, shewing the mischiefe of
covetousnesse. My Lord Marq. of Ormond and Inchiqueen, come
newly out of Ireland, were this day at Chapell.

   9 Feb. Cardinal Mazarine was proscribed by Arret du Parlement,

ind great commotions began in Paris.
  23. I went to see the Bonnes Hommes, a Convent that has a tayr

cloister painted with the lives of the Eremites ; a glorious altar now

erecting in the chapell ; the garden on a rock with divers descents, with

a fine vineyard and a delicate prospect towards the Citty.
   24. I went to see a Dromedarie, a very monstrous beaste, much like
the Camel but larger. There was also dauncing on the rope ; but

above all surprising to those who were ignorant of the addresse, was the
water-spouter, who drinking only fountaine water, rendred out of his

mouth in severall glasses all sorts of wine and sweete waters, &c. For
a piece of money he discover'd the secret to me. I waited on Frier

Nicholas at the Convent at Challiot, who being an excellent chymist

sheVd me his Laboratorie and rare collection of Spagyrical remedies.

                                                            14
2IO FRIER NICHOLAS. ACTION OF THE TORTURE. A BALL.

He was both physitian and apothecarie of the Convent, and insteade of
the names of his drouges painted his boxes and potts with the figure of
the drug or simple contain'd in them. He shewed me as a raritie some
9 of antimonie' : he had curM Monsieur Senetan of a desperate sick-

nesse, for which there was building a monumental altar that was to

cost /1500.    I went to the Ch&telet or Prison, where a malefactor was
   1 1 March.

to have the question or torture given to him, he refusing to confess the
robbery with which he was charg'd, which was thus : they first bound

his wrist with a strong rope or small cable, and one end of it to an iron

ring made fast to the wall about 4 foote from the floore, and then his
feete with another cable, fastncd about 5 foote farther than his uttmost
length to another ring on the floore of the roome : thus suspended and
yet lying but aslant, they slid an horse of wood under the rope which

bound his feete, which so exceedingly stiffened as seve^d the fellow's
                                          it,
joynts in miserable sort, drawing him out at length in an extraordinaryit

manner, he having onely paire of linnen drawers on his naked bodya
               a                                                                    ;:
                                   a
then they questioned him of a robbery (the Lieutenant Criminal being
present, and clearke that wrote), which not confessing, they put an

higher horse under the rope, to increase the torture and extension. In

this agonie, confessing nothing, the Executioner with home (just

such as they drench horses with) stuck the end of into his mouth,
and poured the quantity of two bouketts of water downe his throat and

over him, which so prodigiously swelled him, as would have pittied and

affrighted any one to see for all this, he denied all that was charged
                         it

                            ;

                              I
to him. They then let him downe, and carried him before a warme

fire to bring him to himselfe, being now to all appearance dead with
paine. What became of him know not but the gent, whom he rob
                                       ;

bed constantly averr'd him to be the man, and the fellow's suspitious

pale lookes, before be knew he should be rack'd, betraied some guilt:
The Lieutenant was also of that opinion, and told us at first sight (for
he was a leane, dry, black young man) he would conquer the torture
and so seemes they could not hang him, but did use in such cases,
is it
where the evidence very presumptive, to send them to the gallies,
               I is
which as bad as death.

   There was another Malefactor to succeede, but the spectacle was so

uncomfortable, that was not able to stay the sight of another. It
represented yet to me, the intollerable sufferings which our Blessed

Saviour must needes undergo when his body was hanging with all its

weight upon the nailes on the crosse.

20. went this night with my wife to a Ball at the Marquiss de
1
Crevecceur's, where were divers Princes, Dukes, and greate persons, but
   I
^what appeared to me very meane was that began with a puppet-play.
                                       it
Qu. some preparation of
                                                                        it
                         it    since perfected by Dr. James, whose name now bears.

                            ;
                                               THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                          211

6 May. I attended the Ambassador to a Masque at Court, where
the French King in person daunced five enteries : but being ingagM in

discourse and better entertained with one of the Queene Regent's Secre
taries, I soon left the entertainment.

  II. To the Palais Cardinal, where the Master of Ceremonies placed

me to see the royal masque or opera. The first sceane represented a
chariot of singers compos'd of the rarest voices that could be procured,

representing Cornaro' and Temperance ; this was overthrowne by Bac
chus and his Revellers : the rest consisted of severall enteries and
pageants of excesse by all the Elements. A Masque representing Fire
was admirable ; then came a Venus out of the Clouds. The conclu

sion was an Heaven whither all ascended. But the glory of the Masque"

was the greate persons performing in the French King, his brother
the Duke of Anjou, with all the Grandees of the Court, the King perI
forming to the admiration of all. The music was twenty-nine violinsI

vested a Fantiq, but the habits of the Masquers were stupendiously;

rich and glorious.                                        it
                                                                     it,
23 May.  went to take leave of the Ambassadors for Spaine, which
I                                                                                         ;
     I                                                                                              ;
were my Lord Treasurer Cottington and Sir Edw. Hide and as
                                                                                       a               ;
                                                                                                          2

                                                                                                                     I
retum'd visited Mr. Morine's garden and his other rarities, especialy

coralls, minerals, stones and natural curiosities crabs of the Red Sea, the

body no bigger than a small bird's egg, but flatter, and the leggs or
claws a foote in length. He had aboundance of shells, at least 1000 sorts,

which furnish'd cabinet of greate price and had a very curious col
         a

lection of scarabees and insects, of which he was compiling a natural
historic He had also the pictures of his choice flowers and plants in
miniature. He told me there were 10,000 sorts of tulips onely. He

had taille douces out of number the head of the rynoceros bird, which

was very extravagant, and a butterflie resembling perfect bird.
   25. went to visit Mr. White, a learned priest and famous philoso
pher, author of the booke De Mundo, with whose worthy brother wasI

well acquainted at Rome.                       was shew'd a cabinet of Maroquin or                     I
                                                                                                               I
Turkey leather, so curiously inlaid with other leather, and guilding,

that the workman demanded for 800 livres.

   The Dean (of Peterboro') preach'd on the feast of Pentecost, per-
stringing those of Geneva for their irreverence of the Blessed Virgin.
     June. Trinity Sunday was absent from Church in the afternoone
on a charitable affaire for the Abbesse of Boucharvant, who but for me
5. 4

    I

                                            1
had been abus'd by that chymist Du Menie. Returning stept into

the grand Jesuites, who had this high day expos'd their Cibarium, made
all of solid gold and imagerie, a piece of infinite cost. Dr. Croydon,

who was coming out of Italy and from Padua, came to see me on his

return to England.

accompanied my L. Strafford and some other noble persons to

                                               The famous Venetian writer on Temperance.
212 DR. STEWARD. BATHING AT CONFLANS ; ESCAPES OF SIR L. DIVES.

heare Madame Lavaran sing, which she did both in French and Italian
excellently well, but her voice was not strong.

   7 June. Corpus Christi Day, there was a grand procession, all the
strcetes tapisstred, severall altars erected there, full of images and
other rich furniture, especialy that before the Court, of a rare designe
and architecture. There were aboundance of excellent pictures and
great vases of silver.

   13. I went to see the collection of one Monsieur Poignant, which

for variety of achates, chrystals, onyxes, porcelain, medails, statues, re
lievos, paintings, taille douces and antiquities, might compare with the
Italian virtuosos.

   21. I became acquainted with Sir William Curtius, a very learned

and judicious person of the Palatinate. He had ben scholar to Alste-
dius the Encyclopedist, was well advanc'd in yeares, and now Resident
for his Majestie at Frankfort.

    2 July. Came to see me the Earle of Strafford, Lord Ossory and his
Brother, Sir John Southcott, Sir Edw: Stawell, two of my Lord Spen
cer's Sonns, and Dr. Stewart Deane of St. Paules, a learned and pious

man, where we entertained the time upon severall subjects, especialy

the affaires of England and the lamentable condition of our Church.
The Ld. Gerrard called to see my collection of sieges and battles.

    21 July. An extraordinary fast was celebrated in our Chapell, Dr.
Steward Dean of St. Paul's preaching.

   2 Aug. I went with my wife to Conflans, where were aboundance of

ladys and others bathing in the river ; the ladys had their tents spread
on the water for privacy.

    29 Aug. Was kept as a solemne Fast for the calamities of our poore
 Church now trampled on by the Rebells. Mr. Waller being at St.
 Germains, desirM me to send him a coach from Paris to bring my wife's
god-daughter to Paris, to be buried by the Common Prayer.

   6 Sept. I went with my wife to St. Germains to condole with Mr.
Wallers lossc. I carried with me and treated at dinner that excellent

and pious person the Deane of St. Paul's Dr. Steward, and Sir Lewes
 Dives (half-brother to the Earle of Bristol) who entertain'd us with his
wonderful escape out of prison in White-hall the very evening before
he was to have ben put to death, leaping down out of a jakes two stories
high into the Thames at high water, in the coldest of winter and
at night ; so as by swimming he got to a boate that attended for him,
tho' he was guarded by six musqueteeres. After this he went about in
womens habite, and then in a small-coale-man's, travelling 200 miles
on foote, embark'd for Scotland with some men he had raised, who
coming on-shore were all surpriz'd and imprison'd on the Marq. of
Montrose's score, he not knowing any thing of their barbarous murder
of that hero. This he told us was his fifth escape, and none less mira
culous, with this note, that the chargeing thro' 1000 men arm'd, or
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  21 3

whatever danger could befall a man, he believ'd could not more confound
and distract a man's thoughts than the execution of a premeditated
escape, the passions of hope and feare being so strong. This knight
was indeede a valiant gentleman, but not a little given to romance when
he spake of himselfc. I returned to Paris the same evening.

   7 Sept. I went to visite Mr. Hobbs, the famous philosopher of
Malmsbury, with whom I had long acquaintance. From his window
we saw the whole equipage and glorious cavalcade of the young French

Monarch Lewis XIV. passing to Parliament when first he tookc the

kingly government on him, now being in his 14th yeare, out of his
minority and the Queene Regent's pupillage. First came the captaine
of the King's aydes at the head of 50 richly liveried ; next the Queene
Mothers light horse, an hundred, the lieutenant being all over cover'd
with embroiderie and ribbans, having before him 4 trumpets habited
in black velvet, full of lace and casques of the same ; then the King's

light horse, 200, richly habited, with 4 trumpets in blue velvet em-
brodred with gold, before whom rid the Count d'Olonne coronet

[cornet] whose belt was set with pearle ; next went the grand Prevost's
company on foote with the Prevost on horseback ; after them the

Swisse in black velvet toques led by 2 gallant cavalieres habited in

scarlet-colourd sattin after their country fashion, which is very fantas-
tick ; he had in his cap a pennach of heron with a band of diamonds,

;and about him 12 little Swisse boyes with halberds; then came the

Ayde des Ceremonies next the grandees of court, governors of places,
and lieutenants general of provinces, magnificently habited and mounted,
among whom I must not forget the Chevalier Paul, famous for many

sea-fights and signal exploits there, because 'tis said he had never been
an Academist, and yet govern'd a very unruly horse, and besides his rich
suite, his Malta Cross was esteem'd at 10,000 crownes; these were headed

by 2 trumpets, and the whole troup cover'd with gold, jewels, and rich

caparisons, were follow'd by 6. trumpets in blew velvet also, preceeding
as many heralds in blew velvet semee with fleurs de lys, caduces in

their hands and velvet caps on their heads ;' behind them came one
of the masters of the ceremonies ; then divers marishalls & many of

the nobility, exceeding splendid ; behind them Count d'Harcourt,

grand escuyer, alone, carrying the King's sword in a scarf, which he

held up in a blew sheath studded with fleurs de lys ; his horse had for
reines 2 scarfs of black taffata ; then came aboundance of footemen and
pages of the King, new liveried with white and red feathers ; next the
guard de corps and other officers ; and lastly appear'd the King him-
selfeon an Isabella Barb, on which a houssing semee with crosses of
the Order of the Holy Ghost, and fleurs de lys ; the King himself like a
young Apollo, was in a sute so cover'd with rich embrodry, that one
could perceive nothing of the stuff under it ; he went almost the whole
way with his hat in hand, saluting the ladys and acclamators who had
214 MAJORITY OF LOUIS XIV. AT COURT. BATTAIL OF WORCES1 ER.

fiU'd - the windows with their beauty, and the aire with Vive le Roy.
He seem'd a prince of a grave yet sweete countenance. After the King
follow'd divers greate persons of the Court exceeding splendid, also his
esquires, masters of horse on foote, then the company of Exempts des
Gards, and 6 guards of Scotch'; 'twixt their files were divers princes of
the blood, dukes, and lords ;. after all these, the Queene's guard of
S wisse, pages, and footemen ; then the Queene Mother herselfe in a rich
coach, with Monsieur the King's brother, the Duke of Orleans, and
some other lords and ladys of honour ; about the coach march'd her
Exempts des Gards, then the company of the King's Gens d'armes well
mounted, 150, with 4 trumpets and as many of the Queene's ; lastly, an
innumerable company of coaches full of ladys and gallants. In this
equipage pass'd the Monarch to the Parliament, henceforth exercising
his kingly government.

   15 Sept. I accompanied Sir Richard Browne, my father-in-law, to-
the French Court, where he had a favourable audience of the French
King and the Queene his Mother, congratulating the one on his coming
to the exercise of his royal charge, and the other's prudent and happy
administration during her late Regency, desiring both to preserve the
same amitie for his Master, our King, as they had hitherto don, which
they both'promis'd with many civil expressions and words of course
upon such occasions. We were accompanied both going and return
ing by the Introductor of Ambassador and Ayd of Cermonies. I also
saw the audience of Morosini the Ambassador of Venice, and divers
other Ministers of State from German Princes, Savoy, &c. Afterwards
I tooke a walke in the King's gardens, where I obseiVd that the Mall
gos the whole square thereof next the wall, and bends with an angle so
made as to glace [glance] the ball ; the angle is of stone. There's a
basin at the end of the garden fed by a noble fountaine and high jetto.
There were in it 2 or 3 boates in which the King now and then rowes
about. In another part is a compleate fort, made with bastions, graft,
halfe-moones, ravelins, and furnish'd with greate gunns cast on purpose-
to instruct the King in fortification.

   22. Ariv'd the news of the fatal battail at Worcester, which exceed
ingly mortified our expectations.

   28. I was shew'd a collection of books and of prints made for the
Duke of York.

   1 Oct. The Dean of Peterborough [Dr. Cosin] preach 'd on 13 Job

v. 15, encouraging our trust in God on all events and extremities, and
for establishing and comforting some ladys of greate qualitie, who were
then to be discharg'd from our Q. Mother's service, unlesse they would
go over to the Romish Masse.

   The Dean dining this day at our house, told me the occasion of pub
lishing those Offices which among the Puritans were wont to be call'd.
                          THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                     21 5

Cosins cousining Devotions* by way of derision. At the first coming

of the Queene into England, she and her French ladys were often up
braiding our religion, that had neither appointed nor set forth any

houres of prayer or breviaries, by which ladies and courtiers, who have
much spare time, might edify and be in devotion, as they had. Our

Protestant ladys, scandaliz'd it seemes at this, mov'd the matter to the

King, whereupon his Majesty presently call'd Bishop White to him,
and asked his thoughts of and whether there might not be found
                          it,
some formes of prayer proper on such occasions, collected out of some
                                3
already approv'd formes, that so the court ladys and others (who spend
much time in trifling) might at least appeare as devout, and be so too,Q.
as the new-come-over French ladys, who tooke occasion to reproch our

want of zeale and religion. On which the Bishop told his Majesty thatit
   might be don easily and was very necessary whereupon the King
                                                      it ;
commanded him to employ some person of the Cleargy to compile such
a work, and presently the Bishop naming Dr. Cosin, the King injoyn'd
                                                              immediately. This
him to charge the Dr. in his name to set about

the Dean told me he did, and monethes after bringing the book to
the King, he commanded the Bishop of London to reade over and
                                                              I
make his report this was so well lik'd that (contrary to former custome
of doing by a chaplain) he would needes give an imprimatur under   it)
                it                                    it, it            it

                      I;                                                       it
his owne hand. Upon this there were at first onely 200 copies printed                   ;

nor, said he, was there any thing in the whole book of my owne com

posure, nor did set any name as author to but those necessary
prefaces, &c. out of the Fathers, touching the times and seasons of
prayer, all the rest being intirely translated and collected out of an
Office, publisb'd by authority of Elizabeth, a° 1560, and our owne
Liturgie. This rather mention to justify that industrious and pious
Deane, who had exceedingly suffered by as he had don of hisI

                                                 it,  if

owne head to introduce Popery, from which no man was more averse,
and one who in this time of temptation and apostacy held and confirm'd

many to our Church".
   29 October. Came newes and letters to the Queene and Sir Rich
ard Browne (who was the first that had intelligence of of his Majes
ties miraculous escape after the fight at Worcester, which exceedingly

rejoiced us.                                                  had much dis-
     Nov. visited Sir Kenelm Digby, with whom
l7

            I
      So called by Mr. Prynne in his brief Surrey of this book. The Dean was sequestered
*from all his preferments by the Parliament, and went abroad to Paris 1643. He kept up the
             ;service of the Church of England in Sir Rich. Browne's chapel there. On the Restoration

lie was made Bishop of Durham, to which See, as well as to Peter House, at Cambridge, of

 which he had been Master, he was a most munificent benefactor. He died in 1671.
      The Clergy who attended the English Court at this time and are mentioned to have offici

 ated in Sir Richard Browne's Chapel were: The Bishop of Galloway Dr. Geo. Morley,
 afterwards Bishop of Winchester Dr. Cosin, Dean of Peterborough, afterwards Bishop of
 Durham Dr. Steward Dean of St. Paul's Dr. Earle Dr. Clare Dr. Wolley, no great
 Preacher; Mr. Crowder; Dr. Lloyd; Mr. Hamilton; Dr. Duncan.
                          ;                      j
                                              :                             ;

                                                                                     ;
2l6 DEATH OF DR. STEWARD. MARRIAGE OF MRS. GARDNER.

course of chymical matters. I sbew'd him a particular way of ex-
trading oyle of sulphur, and he gave me a certaine powder with which
he affirm'd that he had fixed S (mercury) before the late King ; he

advis'd me to try and digest a little better, and gave me a water which

he said was onely raine water of the autumnal equinox exceedingly
rectified, very volatile ; it had a taste of a strong vitrioliq, and smelt
like aqua fortis. He intended it for a dissolvent of calx of gold ; but
the truth Sir Kenelm was an errant mountebank. -- Came news of
      is,

                     I;
                                    it

                                         I
the gallant Earle of Derby's execution by the rebells.

   12. Dr. Clare preach'd on 28 Gen. v. 20, 21, 22, upon Jacob's vowe,
which he appositely applied, being the first Sonday his Majesty

came to Chapell after his escape.           went in the afternoone to visite

the Earle of Norwich he lay at the Lord of Aubignies.

'16. Visited Dean Steward, who had been sick about daies, when
                                                        2
goingup to his lodging found him dead, which affected me much, as be
                                                            :
sides his particular affection and love to me, he was of incomparable
parts and great learning, of exemplary life, and very greate losse to the
                                            a

whole Church. He was buried the next day with all our Church's

ceremonies, many noble persons accompanying the corps.

   17. went to congratulate the marriage of Mrs. Gardner, maid of
honor, lately married to that odd person Sir Henry Wood but riches
3. 1 I
       Ido many things.

           Iwent to see Monsieur Febur's course of Chymistrie,'whereIfound Sir

Kenelm Digby and divers curious persons of learning and quality. It

was his first opening the course and preliminarys in order to operations.

Dec.          now resolv'd to returne into England.
Sir Lewis Dives din'd with us, who relating some of his adven
tures, shewed me divers pieces of broad gold which, being in his pocket

in a fight, preserv'd his life by receiving a musket-bullet on them,

which deaden'd its violence so that went no further, but made such
                                   ; it
a stroake on the gold as fix'd the impressions upon one another, bat

tering and bending severall of them the bullet itselfe was flatted, and
retained on the colour of the gold. He assured us that of an hundred
      it
             it
of them, which seems he then had in his pocket, not one escap'd

without some blemish. He affirm'd that his' being protected by a

Neapolitan Prince who conniv'd at his bringing some horses into
France, contrary to the order of the Vice-roy, by assistance of some

banditti, was the occasion of a difference betweene those greate men,
and consequently of the late civil war in that kingdom, the Vice-roy

having kill'd the Prince standing on his defence at his owne castle.
He told me that the second time of the Scots coming into England, the
King was six times their number, and might easily have beaten them,

but was betraied, as were all other his designes and councils by some,
even of his bed-chamber, meaning M. Hamilton, who copied Mon

trose's letters from time to time when his Majesty was aslecpe.
                THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                  - 217

1 1. Came to visite me Mr. Obadiah Walker of University College,
with his two Pupils the sons of my worthy friend Hen. Hyldiard, Esq.
whom I recommended to his care.

21. Came to visite my wife Mrs. Lane, the lady who conveied the

King to the sea-side at his escape from Worcester. Mr. John Cosin,
son to the Dean, debauch'd by the priests, wrote a letter to me to me

diate for him with his father. I prepar'd for my last journey, being

now resolved to leave France altogether.
   25. The King and Duke receiv'd the Sacrament first by themselves,
Lords Biron and Wilmot holding the long towell all along the altar.

26. Came news of the death of that Rebell Ireton.

   31. Preach'd Dr. Wolley, after which was celebrated the Holy
Communion, which I received also, preparative of my journey, being

now resolved to leave France altogether, and to returne God Almighty

thanks for his gracious protection of me this past yeare.

1652, 2 Jan. News of my sister Glanville's death in childbed, which
exceedingly affected me.
I went to one Mark Antonio, an incomparable artist in enamailing.

He wrought by the lamp figures in bosse of a large size, even to the

life, so that nothing could be better moulded. He told us greate
stories of a Genoese Jeweller who had the greate Arcanum, and had
made projection before him severall times. He mett him at Cyprus

travelling into Egypt, in his returne from whence he died at sea, and

the secret with him, that else he had promised to have left it to him ;

that all his effects were seized on and dissipated by the Greekes in the

vessell to an immense value. He also affirm'd, that being in a Gold

smith's shop in Amsterdam, a person of very low stature came in and

desir'd the goldsmith to mealt him a pound of lead, which don he un-

screw'd the pummel of his sword, and taking out of a little box a
small quantity of powder, casting it into the crucible, pour'd an ingot
out, which when cold, he tooke up, saying, ' Sir, you will be paid for

your lead in the crucible,' and so went out immediately. When he

was gon the goldsmith found 4 ounces of good gold in but could
never set eye againeon the little man, tho' he sought all the Citty for
                                          a
                                                         it,

                                                              I
him. This Antonio asserted with greate obtestation, nor know what

to think of there are so many impostors and people who love to tell
         I it,
strange stories, as this artist did, who had been greate rover, and

spake ten different languages.
                tooke leave of Mr. Waller, who having ben proscrib'd by
13 Jan.
the Rcbells, had obtain'd of them permission to returne, and was going

to England.
   29. Aboundance of my French and English friends and some Ger
mans came to take leave of me, and set out in coach for Calais, in
                                I

                                       ;

                                                     a
an exceeding hard frost which had continued some time. We got that

night to Beaumont; 30. to Beauvais 31. we found the ways very
2l8 LEAVE FRANCE ; REACH SAYES COURT. FUNERAL OF IRETON.

deepe with snow, and it was exceeding cold; din'd at Pois ; lay at
Pernee, a miserable cottage of miserable people in a wood, wholly un-

furnish'd, but in a little time we had sorry beds and some provision,
which they told me they hid in the wood for feare of the frontier

enemy, the garrisons neere them continually plundering what they had.

They were often infested with wolves. I cannot remember that I ever

saw more miserable creatures.
    I Feb. I din'd at Abbeville ; 2. din'd at Montreuil, lay at Bologne ;
                                                  ; I thought to have embarqu'd
3.  came to Calais by 1 1 in the        morning   plying neere the coast, I durst
    the evening, but for fcare of        Pyrates
in

not trust our small vessell, and stayed till Monday following, when 2 or

3  lusty vessells were to  depart.      Mr.       Christopher  Wase,          sometime
                           from Paris
   I brought with me

before made to resigne his fellowship in King's Coll. Cambridge, be

cause he would not take the Covenant He had ben a souldier in

Flanders, and came miserable to Paris. From his excellent learning,

and some relation he had to Sir R. Browne, I bore his charges into
England, and clad and provided for him till he should find some
better condition ; and he was worthy of it.' There came with us
also Capt. Griffith, Mr. Tyrell, brother to Sir Timothy Tyrell of

ShAottovCearla(inseaIr  Oxford).    my  Lord Wentworth,  and met with Mr.
                        dined with

Heath, Sir Richard Lloyd, Capt. Paine, and divers of our banish'd
friends, of whom understanding that the Count de la Strade Governor

of Dynkirke was in the towne, who had bought my wife's picture, taken

by Pyrates at sea the year before (my wife having sent it for me in
England) as my Lord of Norwich had inform'd me at Paris, I made

my addresse to him, who frankly told me that he had such a picture in
his owne bed-chamber amongst other ladys, and bow he came by it ;
seeming well pleas'd that it was his fortune to preserve it for me, and

he generously promis'd to send it to any friend I had at Dover ; I

mentioned a French merchant there, and so tooke my leave.

  6 Feb. I embark'd early in the packet-boat, but put my goods in a
stouter vessell. 'Twas calm, so that we got not to Dover till 8 at
night. I tooke horse for Canterbury, and lay at Rochester ; next day
to Gravesend, tooke a pair of oares, and landed at Sayes Court, where
II stayed three days to refresh and look after my packet and goods, sent
by a stouter vessell.      went to visit my co: Richard Fanshawe, and

divers other friends.

    March 6. Saw the magnificent funeral of that Arch-rebell Ireton,

carried in pomp from Somerset House to Westminster, accompanied
with divers regiments of souldiers horse and foote ; then marched the

mourners, General Cromwell (his father-in-law), his mock-parliament-
men, officers, and 40 poore men in gownes, 3 led horses in housings of

                        1 Mr. Evelyn did afterwards procure him a situation.
                        THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                        219

black cloth, 2 led in black velvet, and his charging-horse all cover*d
over with embrodery and gold on crimson velvet ; then the guydons,
ensignes, 4 hcraulds carrying the armes of the State (as they cal'd it),
namely, the red crosse and Ireland, with the casq, wreath, sword,
spurrs, &c. ; next, a chariot canopied of black velvet and 6 horses, in
which was the corps ; the pall held up by the mourners on foote ; the
mace and sword, with other marks of his charge in Ireland (where he
died of the plague), carried before in black scarfs. Thus in a grave
pace, drums covertt with cloth, souldiers reversing their armes, they
proceeded through the streetes in a very solemn manner. This Ireton

was a stout rebell, and had ben very bloudy to the King's party,
witnesse his severity at Colchester, when in cold blood he put to death

Rthose gallant gentlemen, Sir Cha. Lucas and Sir George Lisle. My

co. Fanshawe came to visite me and informe me of many consider
      aCffhaeirrebsu.rie'sSirboHoeknr'yDeHeVrebreitartte.p'resented
able                                                                 me with his brother my
Lord
   9. I went to Deptford, where I made preparation for my settle

ment, no more intending to go out of England, but endeavour a settl'd
life, either in this or some other place, there being now so little appear
ance of any change for the better, all being entirely in the Rebells
hands, and this particular habitation and the estate contiguous to it

(belonging to my father-in-law actually in his Majesty's service), very
much suffering for want of some friend to rescue it out of the power of

the usurpers ; so as to preserve our interest, and take some care of my

other concernes, by the advice and endeavour of my friends I was ad-
vis'd to reside in and compound with the souldiers. This was be
                        I I it,                                      :I
sides authoriz'd by his Majesty to do, and encourag'd with a promiseaI
that what was in lease from the Crowne, ever pleas'd God to restore
                                 I
him, he would secure to us in fee-ferme.I I if                       had also addresses and

cyfers to correspond with his Majesty and Ministers abroad upon allaI

which inducements was persuaded to settle henceforth in England,it
                                                             a
having now run about the world, most part out of my owne country,

neere 10 yeares. therefore now likewise meditated sending over for

my wife, whom as yet had left at Paris.

   14 Mar. it         went to Leusham, where heard an honest sermon on

2  Corinth.   5, I      being the first Sonday had ben at church since my

                    7,
retume,      being now rare thing to find priest of the Church ot

England in a parish pulpit, most of which were fill'd with Independents

and Phanatics.

   15 Mar.   I        saw the Diamond and Ruby launch'd in the Dock at

Deptford, carrying 48 brasse cannon each. Cromwell and his Gran
dees present with greate acclamations.
   18. That worthy divine Mr. Owen of Eltham, sequestered person,

came to visite me.
   19. Invited by Lady Gerrard went to London, where we had a
220 PRIMATE OF IRELAND. ECLIPSE OF THE SUN.

greate supper ; all the vessells, which were innumerable, were of Porce-
lan, she having the most ample and richest collection of that curiositie

in England.

   22. I went with my brother Evelyn to Wotton to give him what
directions I was able about his garden, which he was now desirous to

put into some forme ; but for which he was to remove a mountaine

overgrowne with huge trees and thicket, with a moate within 10 yards

of the house. This my brother immediately attempted, and that with
out greate cost, for more than an hundred yards South, by digging

downe the mountaine and flinging it into a rapid streame, it not onely

carried away the sand, &c. but filled up the moate, and level'd that
noble area, where now the garden and fountaine is. The first occasion

of my brother making this alteration was my building the little retiring

place betweene the greate wood Eastward next the meadow, where
sometime after my father's death I made a triangular pond, or little

stew, with an artificial rock after my coming out of Flanders.

   29 Mar. I heard that excellent Prelate the Primate of Ireland (Jacob:
Usher) preach in Lincoln's Inn, on 4 Hebrews, v. 16, encouraging of

penitent sinners.
   5 April. My brother Geo. brought to Says Court Cromwell's Act of
Oblivion to all that would submit to the Government.

13. News was brought me that Lady Cotton, my brother George's
wife, was deliver'd of a son.
I was moved by a letter out of France to publish the letter which
sometime since I sent to Deane Cosin's proselyted son ; but I did not
          it convenient, for feare of displeasing her Majesty the Queene.
conceive  wrote to the Deane touching my buying his library, which was

   15. I
one of the choicest collections of any private person in England.
The Count de Strade most generously and handsomely sent me the
picture of my wife from Dynkirk in a large tin case, without any charge.
It is of Mr. Bourdon, and is that which has the dog in and to the
I

                                 it

                                      I

                                                                                     it,
                                                                                                is
                                                                                                  it
knees, but unfortunately has been something spoil'd by washing

jgnorantly with soap-suds.
   25. went to visit Aid. Kendrick, a Fanatic Lord Mayor, who had
married a relation of ours, where met with a Captain who had been

thirteen times to the East Indies.

   29. Was that celebrated eclipse of the sun so much threatened by
the astrologers, and which had so exceedingly alarm'd the whole Nation
that hardly any one would worke, nor stir out of their houses. So ridi

culously were they abus'd by knavish and ignorant star-gazers.
   We went this afternoone to see the Queene's House at Greenwich,
now given by the rebells to Bulstrode Whitlock, one of their unhappy
counsellors, and keeper of pretended liberties.

10 May. Passing by Smithfield saw a miserable creature burning
who had murder'd her husband.       II  went to see some workmanship of
                        THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  221

· that admirable artist Reeves, famous for perspective and the turning of

curiosities in ivorie.
  29. I went to take order about a coach to be made against my
wife's coming, being my first coach, the pattern whereof I had brought

out of Paris.
         I went
    30.          to  obtain   of my Lord   of Devonshire that my nephew
George   might   be  brought   up with my
                                           young Lord his son, to whom I
was recommending Mr. Wase. I also inspected the manner of cham-
bletting silk and grograms at one Monsieur La Dorees in Morefields,
and thence to Coll. Morley, one of their Councel of State, as then

call'd, who had ben my scholefellow, to request a passe for my wife's

safe landing, and the goods she was to bring with her out of France,
which he courteously granted, and did me many other kindnesses, that

was a greate matter in those daies.
   30. In the afternoone at Charlton Church, where I heard a Rabini-
cal sermon. Here is a faire monument in black marble of Sir Adam

Newton, who built that faire house neere it for Prince Henry, and

where my noble friend Sir Henry Newton succeeded him.
   3 June. I receiv'd a letter from Collonel Morley to the Magistrates

and Searchers at Rie, to assist my wife at her landing and to shew her

all civility.

  4. I set out to meet her now on her journey from Paris, after she

had obtain'd leave to come out of that Citty, which had now ben be

sieged some time by the Prince of Condi's armie in the time of the

rebellion, and after she had ben now neere twelve yeares from her owne

country, that is since five yeares of age, at which time she went over.

I went to Rie to meet her, where was an embargo on occasion of the
late conflict with the Holland fleete, the two Nations being now in

warr, and which made sailing very unsafe.
   On Whitsunday I went to the Church (which is a very faire one), and
heard one of their Canters, who dismiss'd the assembly rudely and with
out any blessing. Here I stay'd till the 10th with no small impatience,

when I walk'd over to survey the ruines of Winchelsea, that ancient
Cinq-port, which by the remaines and ruines of ancient streetes and
public structures discovers it to have ben formerly a considerable and
large Citty. There are to be seene vast caves and vaults, walls and
towers, ruines of monasteries and of a sumptuous church, in which are
some handsom monuments, especialy of the Templars, buried just in
the manner of those in the Temple at London. This place being now

all in rubbish, and a few despicable hovells and cottages onely stand

ing, hath yet a Mayor. The sea which formerly render'd it a rich and

commodious port has now forsaken it.

   11. About 4 in the afternoone being at bowles on the Greene, we dis
covered a vessell, which prov'd to be that in which my wife was, and

which got into the harbour about 8 that evening to my no small joy. They
222 ARRIVAL OF MY WIFE FROM FRANCE. ROBBED BY FOOTPADS.

had ben three days at sea, and escaped the Dutch fleete, thro' which
they pass'd, taken for fishers, which was great good fortune, there being
17 bailes of furniture and other rich plunder, which I blesse God came all
safe to land, together with my wife, and my Lady Browne her mother,
who accompanied her. My wife being discompos'd by having been so
long at sea, we set not forth towards home till the 14th, when hearing
the small-pox was very rife in and about London, and Lady Browne

having a desire to drink Tunbridge waters, I carried them thither and

staied in a very sweete place, private and refreshing, and tooke the
waters myself to the 23d, when I went to prepare for their reception,
leaving them for the present in their little cottage by the Wells. The
weather being hot, and having sent my man on before, I rod negli
gently under favour of the shade, till within three miles of Bromley, at.
a place call'd the Procession Oake, two cut-throates started out, and
striking with long staves at the horse and taking hold of the reines threw
me downe, took my sword, and haled me into a deepe thickett some
quarter of a mile from the highway, where they might securely rob
me, as they soone did. What they got of money was not considerable,
but they took two rings, the one an emerald with diamonds, the other an
onyx, and a pair of bouckles set with rubies and diamonds, which were of
value, and after all bound my hands behind me, and my feete, having
before pull'd off my bootes ; they then set me up against an oake, with

most bloudy threats to cutt my throat if I offer'd to crie out or make any
noise, for they should be within hearing, I not being the person they
looked for. I told them if they had not basely surpriz'd me they shouldnot

have had so easy a prize, and that it would teach me never to ride neere
an hedge, since had I ben in the mid-way they durst not have adventur'd
on me ; at which they cock'd their pistols, and told me they had long

guns too, and were 14 companions. I begged for my onyx, and told

them it being engraven with my armes would betray them, but nothing
prevail'd. My horse's bridle they slipt, and search'd the saddle, which
they pull'd off, but let the horse graze, and then turning againe bridl'd
him and tied him to a tree, yet so as he might graze, and thus left me
bound. My horse was perhaps not taken because he was mark'd and
cropt on both eares, and well known on that roade. Left in this manner

grievously was I tormented with flies, ants, and the sunn, nor was my
anxiety little how I should get loose in that solitary place, where I could

neither heare or see any creature but my poore horse and a few sheepe

stragling in the copse. After neere 2 houres attempting I got my

hands to turn palm to palm, having been tied back to back, and then it

was long before I could slip the cord over my wrists to my thumb,
which at last I did, and then soone unbound my feete, and saddling
my horse and roaming awhile about I at last perceiv'd dust to rise, and
soone after heard the rattling of a cart, towards which I made, and by
the help of two country men I got back into the high way. I rode to
                THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                             223

Coll. Blount's, a greate justiciarie of the times, who sent out hue and
cry immediately. The next morning, sore as my wrists and amies
were, I went to London and got 500 tickets printed and dispers'd by an
officer of Goldsmiths Hall, and within 2 daies had tidings of all I had
lost except my sword which had a silver hilt, and some trifles. * The

rogues had pawn'd one of my rings for a trifle to a goldsmith's servant

before the tickets had came to the shop, by which meanes they scap'd;

the other ring was bought by a victualler, who brought it to a gold
smith, but he having seen the ticket seiz'd the man. I afterwards dis-

charg'd him on his protestation of innocence. Thus did God deliver

me from these villains, and not onely so, but restorM what they tooke,

as twice before he bad graciously don, both at sea and land ; I meane
when I had ben rob'd by pyrates, and was in danger of a considerable
losse at Amsterdam ; for which, and many, many signal preservations,

I am extreamely oblig'd to give thanks to God my Saviour.
   25 May. After drowth of neare 4 monethes there fell so violent a
tempest of haile, raine, wind, thunder, and lightning, as no man had

seene the like in this age ; the haile being in some places four or five

inches about, brake all glasse about London, especialy at Deptford, and

more at Greenwich.

  29. I return'd to Tunbridge, and againe drank the water, till 10 July.
   We went to see the house of my Lord Clanrickard at Summer-hill

near Tunbridge  (now given to that villain                    Bradshaw     who    condemned
                 situated on an eminent                      hill, with a  park,  but has no
the King.) Tis

thing else extraordinary.

  4 July. I heard a sermon at Mr. Packer's1 Chapell at Grooms-
bridge,' a pretty melancholy seate, well wooded and watered. In this
house was one of the French Kings' kept prisoner. The Chapell was
built by Mr. Packer's father, in remembrance of K. Charles the First
his safe retume out of Spaine.'
   9. We went to see Penshurst, the Earl of Leicester's, famous once
for its gardens and excellent fruit, and for the noble conversation which
was wont to meete there, celebrated by that illustrious person Sir Philip
Sidney, who had there compos'd divers of his pieces. It stands in a
park, is finely watertl, and was now full of company on the marriage of
my old fellow collegiate Mr. Robert Smith, who married my Lady
Dorothy Sidney" widdow of the Earle of Sunderland.

  One of the men who robb'd me was taken ; I was accordingly sum
moned to appeare against him, and on the 12th was in Westminster

1 Clerk of the Privy Seal to King Charles I.
* In the parish of Speldhurst in Kent, four miles from Tunbridge.
* The Duke of Orleans taken at the battle of Agincourt 4 Hen. V. by Richard Waller, then
owner of   this place. Hasted's    Kent, vol.  I. p.
   * With   this inscription over   the door,  ' D.   431.   1625.  ob  felicissimi Caroli Principis  tx
           reducis Sacellum hoc    D. D. I.                             of the Prince of Wales.
Hispanii                                              O. M.
                                               P.' over it the device
* Mr. Waller's Sacharissa, daughter ef Philip Earl of Leicester.
 224 REDEEM SAYES COURT. DR. MASON. DEATH OF LADY BROWNE.

 Hall, but not being bound over nor willing to hang the fellow I did not
 appeare, coming onely to save a friend's baile, but the bill being found
he was turn'd over to the Old Bailey. In the meane time I received a
 petition from the prisoner, whose father I understood was an honest
 old farmer in Kent. He was charg'd with other crimes, and coi;-
 demn'd, but repriev'd. I heard afterwards that had it not been for his
 companion, a younger man, he would probably have kill'd me. He
 was afterwards charg'd with some other crime, but refusing to plead,

 was press'd to death.
    23. Came my-old friend Mr. Spencer to visite me.

   36 July. I took advice about purchasing Sir Richard's [Browne]
interest of those who had bought Sayes Court.

    1 Aug. Came old Jerome Lennier of Greenwich, a man skill'd in
painting and musiq, and another rare musitian call'd Mell. I went to
see his collection of pictures, especialy those of Julio Romano which
surely had ben the King's, and an Egyptian figure, &c. There were
also excellent things of Polydore, Guido, Raphael, Tintoret, &c.
Lennier had been a domestic of Qu. Elizabeth, and shew'd me her
head, an intaglia in a rare sardonyx, cut by a famous Italian, which
he assur'd me was exceeding like her.

   24. My first child, a sonn, was born precisely at one o'clock.
   Sept 2. Mr. Owen, the sequestered Divine of Eltham, christened
my sonn by the name of Richard.
   25. I went to see Dr. Mason's house, so famous for the prospect
(for the house is a wretched one) and the description of it in Barclay's
Icon Animarum.1

   22. I went to Woodcot, where Lady Browne was taken with a

scarlet fever and died. She was carried to Deptford, and interrM in
the Church neere Sir Richard's relations with all decent ceremonies,
and according to the Church Office, for which I obtained permission,
after it had not ben us'd in that Church of 7 yeares. Thus ended an
excellent and virtuous lady, universally lamented, having ben so obliging
on all occasions to those who continualy frequented her house in Paris,
which was not only an hospital, but an asylum to all our persecuted
and afflicted countrymen during eleven yeares residence there in that
honourable situation.

   S Nov. I went to London to visite some friends, but the in-
·olencies there were so greate in the streetes that I could not returne
till the next day.

1 The book here referred to is in the British Museum, intitled, "Joannis Barclaii Icon
XIII.Animarum," printed at London 16x4, small xamo. It is written in Latin, and is dedicated to
Lewis  of France, for what reason does not appear, the Author speaking of himself as a
subject of this Country. It mentions the necessity of forming the minds of youth, as a skilful
gardener forms his trees ; the different dispositions of men in different nations : English,
Scotch, and Irish, &c. Cap. a, contains a florid description of the beautiful scenery about
Greenwich, but does not mention Dr. Mason or his house.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  225

   Dr. Scarborough was instant with me to give the Tables of Veins
and Arteries to the Colledge of Physitians, pretending he would not

onely reade upon them, but celebrate my curiositie as being the first .
who caus'd them to be compleated in that manner, and with that cost ;
but I was not so willing yet to part with them, as to lend them to the
Colledge during their anatomical lectures, which I did accordingly.

  22. I went to London, where was propos'd to me the promoting that

greate work, (since accomplish'd by Dr. Walton, Bishop of Chester)
Biblia Polyglotta, by Mr. Pierson that most learned divine.

   25. Christmas day, no sermon any where, no Church being per
mitted to be open, so observ'd it at home. The next day we went to
Lewesham, where an honest divine prcach'd.

   31 Dec. I adjusted all accompts, and rendered thanks to Almighty
God for his mercys to me the yeare past.

   1 Jan. 1653. I set apart in preparation for the B. Sacrament which
the next day Mr. Owen administered to me and all my family in Sayes
Court, preaching on 6 John 32. 33. shewing the exceeding benefits of
our blessed Saviour taking our nature upon him. He had christened
my son and churched my wife in our own house, as before noticed.

   17 Jan. I began to set out the ovall garden at Sayes Court, which
was before a rude orchard and all the rest one intire field of 100 acres,

without any hedge, except the hither holly hedge joyning to the bank of
the mount walk. This was the beginning of all the succeeding gardens,
walks, groves, enclosures, and plantations there.

   21. I went to London and there seal'd some of the writings of my pur
chase of Sayes Court.

   30 Jan. At our own parish Church a stranger preach'd. There was
now and then an honest orthodox man got into the pulpit, and tho' the
present incumbent was somewhat of the Independent, yet he ordinarily
preach'd sound doctrine, and was a peaceable man, which was an ex
traordinary felicity in this age.

   I Feb. Old Alex. Rosse (author of 'Virgilius Evangelizans,' and
mHoanbybs'osth'eLrevliitattlehanbo.'okes) presented me with his book against Mr.

  19. I planted the Orchard at Sayes Court, new moone, wind W.

   22. Was perfected the sealing, livery and seizin of my purchase of
Sayes Court. My brother Geo. Glanvill, Mr. Scudamor, Mr. Offley,
Co. William Glanvill (son to Serjeant Glanvill, sometime Speaker of
the House of Commons), Co. Stephens, and severall of my friends dining
with me. I had bargain'd for ,£3200, but I paid .£3500.

   25 Mar. Came to see me that rare graver in taille douce Monsieur

IIRichett ; sent by Card. Mazarine to make a collection of pictures.

      April. I went to take the aire in Hide Park, where every coach

was made to pay a shilling, and horse 6d. by the sordid fellow who had
purchas'd it of the State as they were cal'd.

                                                                                     '5
2 26 CHARLTON. REV. MR. HICHAM. BIRTH OF MY SONN JOHN.

   17 May. My sen-ant Hoare, who wrote those exquisite several
hands, fell of a fit of an apoplexie, caus'd, as I suppose, by tampering
with 9 (mercury) about an experiment in gold.
   29. I went to London to take my last leave of my honest friend

Mr. Barton now dying : it was a grcate losse to me and to my affaires. "
On the sixth of June I attended his funeral.
   8 June. Came my brother George, Capt. Evelyn the greate traveller,
Mr. Muschamp, my Co. Tho. Keightly, and a virtuoso fantastical Sy-

mons1 who had the talent of embossing so to the life.

  .9 June. I went to visite my worthy neighbour Sir Hen. Newton [at

Charlton], and consider the prospect, which is doubtless for city, river,
ships, meadows, hill, woods, and all other amenities, one of the most

noble in the world ; so as had the house running water, it were a
princely seate. Mr. Henshaw and his brother-in-law came to visite
me, and he presented me with a seleniscope.

   19. This day I paid all my debts to a farthing, 6 blessed day !
   21. My Lady Gerrard and one Esquire Knight, a very rich Gent,
living in Northamptonshire, visited me.
23. Mr. Lombart, a famous graver, came to see my Collections.
27. Monsieur Roupel sent me a small phial of his aurnrn potabile,
with a letter shewing the way of administering and the stupendous
cures had don at Paris but ere came to me, by what accidenta
it                                                           it,       I

     I it

                                          ;
                                                  ;

                                                    it
know not, was all run out.

17 Aug.  went to visite Mr. Hyldiard at his house at Horsley (for
merly the great Sir Walter Raleigh's), where met me Mr. Oughtred the
famous mathematician he shewed me a box or golden case of divers
rich and aromatic balsams, which a chymist scholar of his had sent
him out of Germany.

   21. heard that good old man Mr. Higham the parson of the parish
of Wotton where was born, who had baptized me, preach after his
I
              I

                                     &

very plaine way on Luke, comparing this troublesome world to the sea,
the ministers to the fishermen, and the saints to the fish.
22. We all went to Guildford to rejoice at the famous Inn, the Red
Lion, and to see the Hospital, and the monument of Arch-Bish. Abbot

the founder, who lies buried in the chapell of his endowment.
28 Sept At Greenwich preach'd that holy martyr Dr. Hewer
on Psalm 90 v. 11. magnifying the grace of God to penitents, and
threatning the extinction of his Gospel light for the prodigious impiety "
of the age we live in.

       Oct. My sonn John Stansfield was borne, being my second child,
and christned by the name of my mother's father, that name now quite
extinct, being of Cheshire. Christen'd by Mr. Owen in my Library at
'
   1
       1

                                      a

                                                                    I
Sayes Court, where he afterwards churched my wife, always making

      Abraham Simons, strange character, but most excellent modeller after life, and engraver
of medals.
               THE DIARY OF. JOHN EVELYN."                          227

use of him on these occasions, because the Parish- Minister durst not
 have officiated according to the forme and usage of the Church of
 England, to which I always adhered.

     25. Mr. Owen preach'd in my Library at Sayes Court on 18 Luke,
  7. 8. an excellent discourse on the unjust judge, shewing why Almighty
  God would sometimes be compared by such similitudes. He afterwards
, administered to us all the Holy Sacrament.

    28. Went to London to visit my Lady Gerrard, where I saw that

cursed woman call'd the Lady Norton, of whom it was reported that
she spit in our King's face as he went to the scaffold. Indeede her

talke and discourse was like an impudent woman.

  21 Nov. I went to London to speak with Sir John Evelyn my kins
man about the purchase of an estate of Mr. Lambard's at Westram,
which afterwards Sir J. himself bought for his son-in-law Leech.
  4 Dec Going this day to our Church I was surpriz'd to see a

tradesman, a mechanic, step up ; I was resolv"d yet to stay and see
                                His text was from
what he would make of it.      also and slew a lion   2  Sam. ch.   23. v. 20.
' And Benaiah went downe                                 the midst  of a pit in
                                                     in
the time of snow ; ' the purport was, that no danger was to be thought

difficult when God call'd for shedding of blood, inferring that now the

Saints were call'd to destroy temporal governments ; with such feculent

stuff; so dangerous a crisis were things growne to.

  25. Christmas Day. No Churches or publiq assembly. I was faine

to passe the devotions of that blessed day with my family at home.

   1654. 20 Jan. Came to see me my old acquaintance and the most
incomparable player on the Irish harp, Mr. Clarke, after his travells.

He was an excellent musitian, a discreete gentleman, borne in Devon

shire (as I remember). Such musiq before or since did I never heare,

that instrument being neglected for its extraordinary difficulty ; but in

my judgment it is far superior to the Lute itselfe, or whatever speakes

with strings.

  25. Died my son J. Stansfield, of convulsion fits ; buried at Dept-

ford on the East comer of the Church, and near his mother's

great-grandfather, &c.

 "8 Feb. Ash Wednesday. In contradiction to all costome and de
cency, the Usurper Cromwell feasted at the Lord Major's, riding in

triumph thro' the Citty.

   14. I saw a tame lion play familiarly with a lamb ; he was a huge

beast, and I thrust my hand into his mouth and found his tongue rough

like a cat's ; a sheepe also with 6 leggs, which made use of 5 of them
to walke ; a goose that had 4 leggs, 2 crops, and as many vents.

   29 March. That excellent man Mr. Owen preached in my Library
on Matt 28. v. 6. a Resurrection Sermon, and after it we all received
the Holy Communion.
   6 April. Came my Lord Herbert, Sir Kenelme Digbie, Mr. Denham,

and other friends, to see me.
228 LADY BROOK'S GARDEN. WINDSOR. START FOR WILTSHIRE.

  I15. went to London to heare the famous Doctor Jeremy Taylor

Csince Bishop of Downe and Connor) at St. Gregg: on 6 Matt. 48.
concerning evangelical perfection.

   5 May. I bound my laquay Tho. Headly apprentice to a carpenter,

giving with him five pounds and new cloathing ; he thrived very well,
and became rich.

   8. I went to Hackney to see my Lady Brook's garden, which was

one of the neatest and most celebrated in England, the house well fur-
nish'd, but a despicable building. Returning, visited one Mr. Tombs's

garden ; it has large and noble walks, some modern statues, a vineyard,
planted in strawberry borders, staked at 10 foote distances ; the ban-

tquetting-house of cedar, where the couch and seates were carv'd a an

tique; some good pictures in the house, especialy one of Vandyke's,
being a Man in his shirt; also some of Stenwyck. I also call'd at Mr.
Ducic's who has indeede a rare collection of the best masters, and one
ef the largest stories of H. Holbein. ' I also saw Sir Tho. Fowler's

aviarie, which is a poore businesse.
   10. My Lady Gerrard treated us at Mulberry Garden, ' now the

onely place of refreshment about the towne for persons of the best
quality to be exceedingly cheated at ; Cromwell and his partisans hav

ing shut up and seiz'd on Spring Garden, which till now had ben the
usual rendezvous for the ladys and gallants at this season.

   11. I now observed how the women began to paint themselves, for

merly a most ignominious thing and us'd only by prostitutes.
    14. There being no such thing as Church Anniversaries in the Paro

chial Assemblies, I was forced to provide at home for Whitsonday.
   15. Came Sir Robt. Stapleton,the translator of Juvenal, to visiteme.
   8 June. My wife and 1 set out in a coach and 4 horses, in our way

to visite relations of hers in Wiltshire and other parts, where we re
solved to spend some moneths. We din'd at Windsor, and saw the
Castle and the Chapell of St. George, where they have laied our bless
ed Martyr King Charles in the vault just before the altar. The
Church and workmanship in stone is admirable. The Castle itselfe
large in circumference, but the roomes melancholy and of antient mag
nificence. The keepe, or mount, hath besides its incomparable pros

pect a very profound well ; and the terrace towards Eaton, with the
park, meandering Thames, and sweete meadows, yield one of the most
delightful prospects. That night we lay at Reading. Saw my Lord
Craven's house at Causam [Caversham] now in mines, his goodly
woods felling by the Rebells.

  I Buckingham         House (now        the Queen's Palace) was built on  the site  of these gardens  : see
Dr. King, HI.         73, ed. 1776:      Malcolm's Londintum Redivium,               ; but the latter  After
                                          piece of ground                  IV. 263
wards,                                   Earl of Arlington  called the Mulberry Garden was granted by
Charles  pI.I.33in7,   says    that the                     ; in that case it would be what is now called
                      1673 to   Henry

Arlington Street, unless it extended up to the Queen's Palace.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  229

   9. Din'd at Marlborough, which having ben lately fir'd was now new

built- At one end of this towne we saw my Lord Seymour's house,'

but nothing observable save the Mount, to which we ascended by
windings for neere halfea mile. It seems to have ben cast up by hand.
Wc pass'd by Coll. Popham's, a noble seate, park and river. Thence to

Newberry, a considerable towne, and Donnington Castle famous for
its battle, siege, and castle : that this last had been the possession of
old Geofrie Chaucer. Then to Aldermaston, a house of Sir Humphry
Forster's, built d la moderne. Also that exceedingly beautifull seate
of my Lord Pembroke, on the ascent of an hill, flank'd with wood, and
regarding the river ; and so at night to Cadcnham, the mansion of
Edward Hungerford, Esq. uncle to my wife, where we made some stay.
The rest of the weekc we did nothing but feast and make good cheere

to welcome my wife.
   27. We all went to see Bathe, where I bathed in the Crosse Bathe.

Amongst the rest of the idle diversions of the towne, one musitian
was famous for acting a changeling, which indeede he personated

strangely.
   The faciate of this Cathedrall is remarkable for its historical carving.

The King's Bath is estcem'd the fairest in Europe. The towne is in-
tircly built of stone, but the streetes narrow, uneven, and unpleasant.
Here we trifled and bathed, and intervisited with the company who
frequent the place for health, &c. till the 30th, and then went to BristolL,
a Citty emulating London, not for its large extent but manner of build
ing, shops, bridge, traffiq, exchange, market-place, &c. The Governor
shew'd us the Castle, of no greate concernment. The Citty wholly

mercantile, as standing neere the famous Severne, commodiously for
Ireland and the Western world. Here I first saw the manner of re
fining suggar and casting it into loaves, where we had a collation of
eggs fried in the suggar furnace1 together with excellent Spanish wine:
but what was most stupendious to me was the rock of St. Vincent, a

little distance from the towne, the precipice whereoff is equal to any
thing of that nature I have seene in the most confragose cataracts of
the Alpes, the river gliding betweene them at an extraordinary depth.
Here we went searching for diamonds, and to the Hot Wells at its
foote. There is also on the side of this horrid Alp a very romantic

seate : and so we return'd to Bathe in the evening, and on first July

to Cadenham.

   4 July. On a letter from my wife's uncle, Mr. Pretyman, I waited
back on her to London, passing by Hungerford, a towne famous for its
troutes, and the next day ariv'd at Deptford, which was sixty miles, in
the extremity of heate.

   1 Now the famous inn there.
  1 A kind of entertainment like that we now have of eating beef-steaks drest on the stoker's
shovel and drinking porter at the famous brewhouses in London.
230 VISIT OXFORD AND SEE THE ACTS, LIBRARY, AND MSS.

6. I went early to London, and the next day met my wife and com
pany at Oxford, the eve of the Act.
8. Was spent in hearing several exercises in the scholes, and after

dinner the Proctor opened the Act at St. Marie's (according to custome)
and the Prevaricators their drolery. Then the Doctors disputed. We

supp'd at Wadham College.
   9. Dr. French preach'd at St. Marie's on 12 Matt. 42. advising the
Students to search after true wisdome, not to be had in the bookes of
Philosophers, but in the Scriptures alone. In the afternoone the famous
Independent, Dr. Owen, perstringing Episcopacy. He was now Crom
well's Vice-Chancelor. We din'd with Dr. Ward, Mathematical Pro
                    Bp. of Sarum), and at night supp'd in Balliol Coll. Hall,
fessor  (Isihncaed  once ben Student and Fellow Commoner, and where they
where

made me extraordinarily welcome.
10. On Monday I went againe to the Scholes to heare the severall
Faculties, and in the afternoone tarried out the whole Act in St.

Marie's, the long speeches of the Proctors, the Vice- Chancellor, the
severall Professors, creation of Doctors by the cap, ring, kisse, &c

those antient ceremonies and institution being as yet not wholy abolish'd.
Dr. Kendal, now Inceptor amongst others, performing his Act incom

parably well, concluded it with an excellent oration, abating his Pres

byterian animosities, which he witheld not even against that learned
and pious divine Dr. Hammond. The Act was closed with the speech

of the  Vice-Chancellor, there being but 4 in   tTimheeos locgoines,id3eriend.MeIdicdiinne'd,
which   was thought a considerable matter, the

at one Monsieur Fiat's, a Student at Exeter College, and supp'd at a mag
nificent entertainment in Wadham Hall, invited by my deare and excel
lent friend Dr. Wilkins, then Warden (afterwards the Bishop of Chester.)

   1 1. Was the Latin sermon, which I could not be at, tho' invited,
being taken up at All Souls, where we had music, voices, and theorbos,
perform'd by some ingenious scholars. After dinner I visited that
miracle of a youth Mr. Christopher Wren, nephew of the Bishop of
Ely. Then Mr. Barlow (since Bishop of Lincoln) Bibliothecarius of
the Bodleian Library, my most learned friend. He shew'd us the
rarities of that most famous place, manuscripts, medails, and other
curiosities. Amongst the MSS. an old English Bible, wherein the
Eunuch mentioned to be baptized by Philip is called the Gelding: ' and
Philip and the Gelding went down into the water,' &c. The original
Acts of the Council of Basil 900 yeares since, with the bulla or leaden
affix, which has a silken cord passing thro' every parchment ; a MS. of

Venerable Bede of 800 yeares antiquity ; the old Ritual secundum usum
Sarum, exceeding voluminous ; then amongst the nicer curiosities, the
Proverbs of Solomon written in French by a lady,1 every chapter of a 

  1 Mrs. Esther Inglish, married to Bartholomew Kello, Rector of Willinghall Spain in Essex.
See an account of her curious penmanship in Massey's Origin and Progress of Letters.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  23 1

severall character or hand the most exquisite imaginable ; an hierogly-
phical table or carta folded up like a map, I. suppose it painted on
asses hide, extremely rare ; but what is most illustrious, there were no
 less than 1000 MSS. in 19 languages, especialy Oriental, furnishing
that new part of the Library built by Abp. Lawd from a designe of Sir

 Kenelme Digby and the Earle of Pembrook. In the closet of the
 Tower they shew some Indian weapons, urnes, lamps, &c but the rarest

 is the whole Alcoran written on one large sheet of calico, which is made
up in a priest's vesture or cope, after the Turkish and Arabic character,
 so exquisitely written as no printed letter comes neere it ; also a roll of

 magical charms, divers talismans, and some medails.
    Then I led my wife into the Convocation House, finely wainscoted ;

the Divinity Schole and Gotic carv'd roofe ; the Physick or Anatomie
 Schole, adorn'd with some rarities of natural things, but nothing
extraordinary save the skin of a jaccall, a rarely colour'd jacatoo or

 prodigious large parrot, 2 humming birds not much bigger than our

humble bee, which I had not seene before, that I remember.

    12. We went to St. John's, saw the Library and the 2 skeletons

 which are finely cleans'd and put together ; observable is here also tha
 store of mathematical instruments, cheifely given by the late Abp.

 Lawd, who built here an handsome quadrangle.

    Thence we went to New College, where the Chapel was in its ancient

garb, notwithstanding the scrupulositie of the times. Thence to Christ's
 Church, in whose library was shew'd us an Office of Hen. 8, the writing
miniatures, and gilding whereof is equal if not surpassing any curiosity
 I had seene of that kind; it was given by their founder, Cardinal

IWolsey. The glasse windows of the Cathedrall (famous in my time),

   found much abus'd. The ample Hall and columne that spreads its
capital to sustaine the roofe as one goes up the stayres is a very
 remarkable structure.

    Next we walked to Magdalen College, where we saw the Library and
 Chapell, which was likewise in pontifical order, the altar onely I think
turn'd table-wise, and there was still the double organ, which abomina
tions (as now esteem'd) were almost universaly demolish'd ; Mr. Gibbon,
that famous musitian, giving us a taste of his skill and talents on that

in" sHtreunmceenwt.e went to the Physick Garden, where the sensitive plant

was shew'd us for a greate wonder. There grew canes, olive-trees,

rhubarb, but no extraordinary curiosities, besides very good fruit,

which when the ladys had tasted, we returned in our coach to our

lodgings.
    13. We all din'd at that most obliging and universally-curious Dr.

·Wilkins's, at Wadham College. He was the first who shew'd me the
transparent apiaries, which he had built like castles and palaces, and

so orderM them one upon another as to take the hony without destroy-
232 BEEHIVE. CADENHAM. BROAD-H I NTON ; DRUNK SERVANTS.

ing the bees. These were adorn'd with a variety of dials, little statues,

vanes, &c. and he was so aboundantly civil, as finding me pleas'd with
them, to present me with one of the hives which he had empty, and

which I afterwards had in my garden at Sayes Court, where it continu'd

many years, and which his Majestie came on purpose to see and con
template with much satisfaction. He had also contriv'd an hollow

statue which gave a voice and utter'd words, by a long conceal'd pipe
that went to its mouth ', whilst one speaks through it at a good dis
tance. He had above in his lodgings and gallery variety of shadows,

dyals, perspectives, and many other artificial, mathematical, and magi

cal curiosities, a way-wiser, a thermometer, a monstrous magnet, conic
and other sections, a ballance on a demi-circle, most of them of his

owne and that prodigious young scholar Mr. Chr. Wren, who presented
me with a piece of white marble, which he had stain'd with a lively red
very deepe, as beautiful as if it had ben natural.
Thus satisfied with the civilities of Oxford, we left dining at Fa-
                                      it,

                                                             ;
                                                                    ;
ringdon, a towne which had ben newly fir'd during the warrs and
passing neere the seate of Sir Wal. Pie, we came to Cadenham.
   16. We went to another uncle and relative of my wife's, Sir John
Glanvill, famous lawyer, formerly Speaker of the House of Commons
         a
           is
his seate at Broad-Hinton, where he now liv'd, but in the Gate

house, his very faire dwelling house having ben burnt by his ownc
hands to prevent the rebclls making a garrison of it. Here my cousin
Will. Glanvill, his eldest sonn, shew'd me such a lock for a doore, that

for its filing and rare contrivances was a master-piece, yet made by
                                                                       ;

                                                                               a
country black-smith. But we have seene watches made by another
with as much curiositie as the best of that profession can brag of and

not many yeares after, there was nothing more frequent than all sorts
of Iron-work more exquisitely wrought and polish'd than in any part of
Europ, so as a dore-lock of a tolerable price was esteem'd a curiositie

even among forraine princes.
   Went back to Cadenham, and on the 19th to Sir Ed. Baynton's at
Spie Park, a place capable of being made a noble seate but the hu
mourous old Knight has built long single house of low stories onI it
                              a                   2
                                  is                     ;
the precipice of an incomparable prospect, and landing on a bowling ;
greene in the park. The house like a long bame, and has not. a

window on the prospect side. After dinner they went to bowles, and in

the meanetime our coach-men were made so exceedingly drunk, that m
returning home we escap'd greate dangers. This seems was by order
of the Knight, that all gentlemen's servants be so treated but the
               a barbarous one, and much unbecoming a Knight, still
custome
   a
          is
lesse Christian.

2a We proceeded to Salisbury the Cathedral take to be the com
                              ;

    This reminds us of the speaking figures so long exhibited in Spring Gardens, and in Lei1
cester Fields, some years ago.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  233,

pleatest piece of Gotic worke in Europe, taken in all its uniformitie.
The pillars, reputed to be cast, are of stone manifestly cut out of the
quarry ; most observable are those in the Chapter-house. There are
some remarkable monuments, particularly the antient Bishops founders
of the Church, Knights Templars, the Marques of Hartford's, the
cloysters of the palace and garden, and the greate mural dial.

   In the afternoone we went to Wilton, a fine house of the Earl of Pem
broke, in which the most observable are the dining-roome in the modern
built part towards the garden, richly gilded and painted with story by
De Creete ; also some other apartments, as that of hunting landskips
by Pierce ; some magnificent chimny-pieces after the best French

manner ; a paire of artificial winding-stayres of stone, and divers rare
pictures. The garden, heretofore esteem'd the noblest in England, is
a large handsom plaine, with a grotto and water-works, which might be

made much more pleasant were the river that passes through cleans'd
and rais'd, for all is effected by a meere force. It has a flower garden

not inelegant. But after all, that which renders the seate delightful

is its being so neere the downes and noble plaines about the country
contiguous to it. The stables arc well ordcr'd and yeild a gracefull
front, by reason of the walkes of lime-trees, with the court and fountaine
of the stables adorn'd with the Cassar's heads.

   We returned this evening by the plaine, and 14 mile race, where out
of my lord's hare-warren we were entertained with a long course of an
hare for neere 2 miles in sight. Neere this is a pergola or stand, built
to view the sports : and so we came to Salisbury, and viewed the most
considerable parts of the Citty. The merket place with most of thc-

streetes are watcr'd by a quick current and pure streame running thro*

the middle of them, but are negligently kept, when with small charge
they might be purgM and render'd infinitely agreeable, and made one
of the sweetest townes, but now the common buildings are despicable

and the streetes are dirty.

   22 July. We departed and din'd at a ferme of my uncle Hunger-
ford's, call'd Darneford Magna, situate in a vally under the plaine, most

sweetly water'd, abounding in trouts catch 'd by speare in the night
when they come attracted by a light set in the sterne of a boate.

   After dinner, continuing our returne, we passed over the goodly
plaine, or rather sea of carpet, which I think for evenness, extent, ver
dure, and innumerable flocks, to be one of the most delightful prospects
in nature, and reminded me of the pleasant lives of shepherds we rcade
of in Romances.

 . Now we were arived at Stone-henge, indeede a stupendious monu
ment, appearing at a distance like a castle ; how so many and huge
pillars of stone should have ben brought together, some erect, others
transverse on the tops of them, in a circular area as rudely represent
ing a cloyster or heathen and more natural temple, is wonderfulL The
234 STONEHENGE ; LEICESTERSHIRE ; GLOUCESTER.

stone is so exceeding hard, that all my strength with a hammer could

not breake a fragment, which hardnesse I impute to their so long ex
posure. To number them exactly is very difficult, they lie in such
variety of postures and confusion, tho' they seem'd not to exceed ioo ;
we counted onely 95. As to their being brought thither, there being
no navigable river neere, is by some adnuVd ; but for the stone there
seemes to be the same kind about 20 miles distant, some of which

appeare above ground. About the same hills are divers mounts rais'd,
conceiv'd to be ancient intrenchments, or places of burial after bloudy
fights. We now went by the Devizes, a reasonable large towne, and

Icame late to Cadenham.

   27. went to the hunting of a sorel deere, and had excellent chase
for 4   or S                             little worth.
        July.  houres, but  the venison  see my cousin  Stephens.  I also saw
    29                      Langford to
                 I went to
Dryfield, the house heretofore of Sir John Pretyman, grandfather to my
·wife, and sold by her uncle ; both the seate and house very honourable

and well built, much after the modem fashion.

   31. Taking leave of Cadenham, where we had ben long and nobly
entertain'd, we went a compass into Leicestershire, where dwelt another
relation of my wife's ; for I indeede made these excursions to shew her

the most considerable parts of her native country, who from her child

hood had liv'd altogether in France, as well as for my owne curiosity

and information.

About two miles before coming to Gloucester, we have a prospect

from woody hills into a most goodly vale and country. Gloucester is a
handsome Citty, considerable for the Church & monuments. The

Minster is indeede a noble fabric. The whispering gallery is rare,
being thro' a passage of
I suppose, either to shew   25 yards, in a many-angled      cloister, and was,
                            the skill of the architect, or  some invention of
a cunning priest, who standing unseene in a recesse in the middle of
the Chappell, might heare whatever was spoken at either end. This is
above the quire, in which lies buried K. Stephen under a monument of
Irish oake, not ill carved considering the age. The new Librarie is a
noble tho' a private designe. I was likewise pleased with the Seveme

;gliding so sweetely by it. The Duke's house, the Castle workes, are

now almost quite dismantl'd ; nor yet without sad thoughts did I see the

Towne, considering how fatal the siege had ben a few yeares before to
our good King.
1 August. We sat out towards Worcester by a way thick planted
with cider-fruit. We deviated to the Holy Wells, trickling out of a
-vally thro' a steepe declivity towards the foote of the greate Mauvern
Hills ; they are said to heale many infirmities, as king's evil, leaprosie,
sore eyes, &c. Ascending a great height above them to the Trench
dividing England from South Wales, we had the prospect of all Here

fordshire, Radnor, Brecknock, Monmouth, Worcester, Gloucester,
                            THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                        235

Shropshire, Warwick, Derby shires, and many more. We could dis
cern Tewxbery, KingVrode towards Bristol, &c. so as I esteeme it one
of the goodliest vista's in England.
2. This evening we arivM at Worcester, the Judges of Assize and
Sheriff just entering as we did. Viewing the Towne the next day, we
found the Cathedral much ruin'd by the late warrs, otherwise a noble
structure. The Towne is neately pav'd and very cleane, the goodly

river Severne running by and standing in most fertile country.
       We pass'd next thro' Warwick, and saw the Castle, the dwelling-

house of the Lord Brook, and the furniture noble. It built on an
it,                                                                                      is

    3.

           it
                                            it,
                                                                            a
eminent rock which gives prospect into a most goodly greene, a woody
and plentifully watred country; the river running so delightfully under
that may passe for one of the most surprising seates one should
meete with. The gardens are pretily disposed, but might be much
improv'd. Here they shew us Sir Guy's greate two-handed sword,

staff, horse-armes, pott, and other reliques of that famous knight-errant.
Warwick a faire old Towne, and hath one Church full of antient
I
        Imonuments. Having viewed these, went to visite my worthy friend
Sir H. Puckering at the Abby, and tho' melancholy old seate, yet in
                   is       a
                    is it
                                         I
                         &
                                                   a
a rich soile. Hence to Sir Guy's Grott, where they say he did his
penances and dyed. 'Tis squalid den made in the rock, crown'd yet
with venerable oakes and looking on a goodly streame, so as, were
                                                                                             it

improv'd as might be, 'twere capable of being made a most romantiq

and pleasant place. Neere this we were shewM his chapell and gigantic

statue hewn out of the solid rock, out of which there are likewise divers

other caves cut, some very capacious. The next place to Coventry.

The Crosse remarkable for Gotic worke and rich gilding, comparable

to any had ever seene except that of Cheapeside in London, now demo-
lish'd. This Citty has many handsome churches, a beautifull wall, a
                                                                                         the streetes full of greate shops,
faire free-schole and librarie to                                                it

                                                                                      ;

cleane and well pav'd. At going forth the Gate they shew us the bone
or rib of a wild boare said to have beene kill'd by Sir Guy, but which
take to be the chine of a whale

   4. Hence riding thro' a considerable part of Leicestershire, an
open, rich, but unpleasant country, we came late in the evening to
Horninghold, a seate of my wife's unkle [not nam'd].
   7. Went to Uppingham, the Shire-towne of Rutland, pretty and

well builte of stone, which a rarity in that part of England, where
most of the rural parishes are but of mud, and the people living as
9.

       ;

                                            is

                                                                              ;
wretchedly as in the most impoverish'd parts of France, which they
much resemble, being idle and sluttish. The country (especialy Lei
cestershire) much in common the gentry free drinkers.

        To the old and ragged Citty of Leicester, large and pleasantly
seated, but despicably built, the chimney flues like so many smiths
forges however, famous for the tombe of the Tyrant Richard the
236 LEICESTER; OAKHAM; NEWARK-ON-TRENT ; SHERWOOD FOREST.

Third, which is now converted to a cistern, at which (I think) cattel
drink. Also here in one of the Churches lies buried the magnificent
Cardinal Wolsey. John of Gaunt has here also built a large but poore
Hospital, neere which a wretch has made him an house out of the
ruines of a stately church. Saw the mines of an old Roman Temple,
                                                      fine collation of fruits,
thought  to be  of Janus. Entertain'd at  a very      North, especialy very
such as         not expect to meet with   so far
         I did

good melons. We return'd to my unkle's.
   14. I tooke a journey into the Northern parts, riding thro' Oakham,

a pretty towne in Rutlandshire, famous for the tenure of the Barons

(Ferrars), who hold it by taking off a shoe from every nobleman's

horse that passes with his Lord thro' the streete, unlesse redeem'd
with a certain piece of money. In token of this are severall gilded

shoes nail'd up on the Castle-gate, which seemes to have ben large
and faire. Hence we went by Brook, a very sweete seate and parke of

the old Lady Camdens. Next by Burleigh House, belonging to the

Duke of Buckingham,' and worthily reckon'd among the noblest seates
in England, situate on the brow of an hill, built a la moderne ncere a

park wall'd in, and a fine wood at the descent.
   Now we were come to Cottsmore, a pretty seate belonging to Mr.
Heath, sonn to the late Lord Cheif Justice of that name. Here, after
dinner, parting with the company that conducted us that far, I pass'd

that evening by Belvoir Castle, built on a round mount at the point of
a long ridge of hills, which affords a stately prospect, and is famous

for its strenuous resistance in the late civil warr.

Went by Newark on Trent, a brave towne and garison. Next by

Wharton House, belonging to the Lord Chaworth, an handsom seate ;

then by Home, a noble place belonging to the Marques of Dorchester,

and pass'd the famous river Trent, which divides the South from the
North of England, and so lay that night at Nottingham. This whole
Towne and County seemes to be but one entire rock as it were, an
exceeding pleasant shire, full of gentry. Here I observ'd divers to
Jive in the rocks and caves, much after the manner as about Tours in

France. The Church is well built on an eminence ; there is a faire
house of the Lord Clare's, another of Pierrepoints ; an ample merket-
place ; large streetes full of crosses ; the reliques of an ancient castle
hollow'd, beneath which are many caverns, especialy that of the Scots
King, and his work whilst there. This place is remarkable for being

the place where his Majesty first erected his standard at the beginning
of our late unhappy differences. The prospects from this citty towards

the river and meadows are most delightfull.

15. We pass'd next thro' Sherewood Forest, accounted the most

  1 Called Burleigh on the Hill, for distinction from the Earl of Exeter's near Stamford. The
Duke of Buckingham sold it to the family of Finch, now Earl of Winchelsea and Nottingham,

towhom it belongs.
            THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                 237

extensive in England. Then Paplewick, an incomparable vista with

the pretty castle neere it. Thence we saw Newstead Abby belonging
to the Lord Biron, situated much like Fontaine-blcau in France,
capable of being made a noble seate. accommodated as it is with brave ·
woods and streames ; it has yet remaining the front of a glorious Abby
Church. Next by Mansfield Towne ; then Wcllbeck, the house of the

Marques of Newcastle, seated in a botome in a park, and environ'd
with woods, a noble yet melancholy seate. The palace is a handsom
and stately building. Next to Worksop Abby, almost demolish'd; the
Church has a double flat towre intire, and a pretty gate. The Mannor

belongs to the Earle of Arundel, and has to it a faire house at the foote
of an hill in a park that afords a delicate prospect. Tickel, a Towne
and Castle, has a very noble aspect. All these in Nottinghamshire.
    16. We ariv*d at Doncaster, where we lay this night ; it is a large

faire towne, famous for greate wax-lights and good stockings.

   17. Pass'd thro' Pontefract ; the Castle, famous for many sieges
both of late and ancient times, and the death of that unhappy King

murdered in it (Richard II.) was now demolishing by the Rebells ; it

stands on a mount and makes a goodly shew at a distance. The

Oueene has an house here, and there are many faire seats neere                        I
especialy Mr. Pierrepoint's, built at the foote of an hill out of the Castle
ruines. We all alighted in the highway to drink at a cristal spring                                ; is
which they call Robin Hood's Well neere                                                                  it,
            is                                                                        stone chaire, and an
               a
                            a
                                 it

                                                         ;

                                                   it
                                                      is ;
                                                           is a

                                                                    it
                                                                        is
                                                                                   a
iron ladle to drink out of, chain'd to the seate. We rode to Tadcaster,
at the side of which we have prospect of the Archbishop's Palac (which

is  a noble seate), and in sight of divers other gentlemen's faire houses.

This tract  goodly, fertile, well-water'd and wooded country, abound

ing with pasture and plenty of provisions.
   17 August. To York, the second Citty of England, fairely wall'd,
of a circular forme, water'd by the brave river Ouse, bearing vessels of

considerable burthen on   over              stone bridge emulating that of

London, and built on, the middle arch larger than any have seene

in England, with wharfe of hewn stone, which makes the river

appeare very neate. But most remarkable and worthy seeing                             St.

Peter's Cathedrall, which of ail the greate churches in England had

ben best preserv'd from the furie of the sacrilegious,1 by composition

with the Rebells when they tooke the Citty, during the many incursions
of Scotch and others. It  most intire magnificent piece of Gotic
                         1

                            is
                               a
                                                    a
                                                              is
architecture. The skreene before the quire of. stone caiVd with
flowers, running work and statues of the old Kings. Many of the

monuments are very ancient. Here, as greate rarity in these dayes

and at this time, they shew'd me a Bible and Common Prayer Book
coveted with crimson velvet, and richly emboss'd with silver gilt also

a service for the altar of guilt wrought plate, flagons, basin, euer, chali-

                          By Sir Thomas Fairfax.
238 YORK ; BEVERLY ; HULL ; LINCOLN AND ITS CATHEDRAL.

ces, patins, &c. with a gorgeous covering for the altar and pulpit, care
fully preserved in the Vestrie, in the hollow wall whereof rises a

plentifull spring of excellent water. I got up to the Towrc, whence we
had a prospect towards Duresme, and could see Rippon, part of Lan

cashire, the famous and fatal Marston Moore, the Spaws of Knares-
brough, and all the environs of that admirable country, Sir
Ingoldsby has here a large house, gardens, and tennis court ; also the
King's house and Church neere the Castle, which was modernly forti

fied with a palizade and bastions. The streetes are narrow and ill

pav'd, the shops like London.
   1 8 Aug. We went to Beverly, a large towne with 2 stately churches,

St. John's and St. Marie's, not much inferior to the best of our Cathe
drals. Here a very old woman shew'd us the monuments, and being
above 100 yeares old, spake the language of Queen Marie's daies, in
whose time she was born ; she was widow of a Sexton who had belongM
to the church an hundred yeares.

   Hence we pass'd thro' a fenny but rich country to Hull, situate like
Calais, modernly and strongly fortified with three block-houses of brick
and earth. It has a good mercat-place and harbour for ships. Famous
also (or rather infamous) is this towne for Hotham's refusing enterance
to his Majesty. The Water-house is worth seeing. And here ends
the South of Yorkshire.

   19. We passe the Humber, an arme of the sea of about 2 leagues
breadth. The weather was bad, but we cross'd it in a good barg to
Barton, the first towne in that part of Lincolnshire. All marsh ground
tiil we came to Brigg, famous for the plantations of licorice, and then
had brave pleasant riding to Lincoln, much resembling Salisbury
Plaine. Lincoln is an old confus'd towne, very long, uneven, steepe,
and ragged ; formerly full of good houses, especialy churches and
abbies. The minster almost comparable to that of York itselfe,
abounding with marble pillars and having a faire front. Herein was
interr'd Q. Elianor, the loyal and loving wife who suck'd the poison
out of her husband's wound ; the Abbot founder, with rare carving in
the stone ; the greate Bell, or Tom, as they call it ; I went up the
steeple, from whence is a goodly prospect all over the country. The
souldiers had lately knocked off most of the brasses from the grave
stones, so as few inscriptions were left ; they told us that these men
went in with axes and hammers, and shut themselves in, till they had
rent and torne off some barge-loads of mettal, not sparing even the
monuments of the dead, so hellish an avarice possessed them ; besides
which they exceedingly ruin'd the Citty.

   Here I saw a tall woman six foote two inches high, comely, middle

ag"d and well proportion'd, who kept a very neate and cleane ale-house,
and got most by people's coming to see her on account of her height.

    20. From hence we had a most pleasant ride over a large heath
                 THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                        239

open like Salisbury Plaine, to Grantham, a pretty towne, so well situ

ated on the side of a bottome, which is large and at distance inviron'd

with ascending grounds, that for pleasure I consider it comparable to-
most inland places of England : famous is the Steeple for the exceed

ing height of the shaft, which is of stone.

About 18 miles we passe by a noble seate, and see Boston at a dis

tance. Here we came to a parish of which the parson has Tithe Ale.

I Thence thro' Rutland we brought night to Horninghold, from whence
   sat out on this excursion.
  22. I went a setting and hawking, where we had tolerable sport.
  25. I went to see Kirby, a very noble house of my Lord Hatton's in
Northamptonshire, built a la moderne; the garden and stables agree

able, but the avenue was ungraceful and the seate naked : returned

that evening.

   27. Mr. Allington preach'd an excellent discourse from Romans 6.
19. This was he who publish'd those bold sermons of the members
warring against the mind, or the Jewes crucifying Christ, applied to
the wicked regicides, for which he was ruin'd. We had no sermon in

the afternoone.

   3a Taking leave of my friends who had now feasted me more than
a moneth, I, with my wife, &c. set our faces towards home, and got

this evening to Peterborow, passing by a stately palace (Thorpe) of St.
John's (one deepe in the bloud of our good King), built out of the
mines of the Bishops Palace and Cloyster. The Church is exceeding

faire, full of monuments  of  greate  VanItIiIq.uiatyn.d   Here lies Queene Catha
rine, the unhappy wife    of   Hen.                       the no lesse unfortunate

Mary Q. of Scots. On the steeple we view'd the Fens of Lincolnshire,
now much inclos'd and drained with infinite expence, and by many

sluices, cutts, mounds, and ingenious mills, and the like inventions, at
which the Citty and country about consisting of a poore and very
                 is
                                                    it,

                                                                              it
lazy sort of people, were much displeas'd.

Peterborow an handsome towne, and hath in another well-

built Church.

   31. Thro' part of Huntingdon shire we passe that towne, faire and
ancient, river running by it. The country about so abounds in
    a                                                             it
                                                                       it
wheate, that when any King of England passes thro' they have a

costom to meet him with an hundred plows.
   This evening to Cambridge and went first to see St. John's Colledge,
well built of brick, and Librarie, which think the fairest of that
                 a                            I
                                                       it
                           a
                                     ;                        is
                                           '              all the ornaments of
University. One Mr. Benlowes has given
Pictrx Commessa', whereof table and one piece of perspective very
                                                                                  is

                                                                                               a
'1    Edward Benlowes, Esq. writer of Divine Poesy, of a good family in Essex, and of
good estate, but which he wasted by improvident liberality, and buying curiosities, as Wood
says. Wood's Fasti, 876.

     Marble inlaid of various colours, representing flowers, birds, &c
240 CAMBRIDGE; COLLEGES, LIBRARIES, AND SCHOOLS SEEN.

fine; other trifles there also be of no great value,, besides a vast old

song book or service, and some faire manuscripts. There hangs inthe
library the picture of John Williams Abp. of York sometime Lord
Keeper, my kinsman and their greate benefactor.
Trinity College is said by some to be the fairest quadrangle of any
University in Europ, but in truth is far inferior to that of Christ Church
in Oxford : the hall is ample and of stone, the fountaine in the quad
rangle is gracefull, the Chapell and Library faire. There they shew'd

us the prophetic manuscript of the famous Grebner, but the passage

and emblem which they would apply to our late King, is manifestly re

lating to the Swedish ; in truth it seemes to be a meere fantastic rhap

sody, however the title maybespeake strange revelations. There is an

Office  in  manuscript with  fRinicehmmoinnida,tumreost,haenrdosfomHeenortyheVr IaI.ntaiqnudititehse
given   by  the Countess of
before mention'd Abp. Williams when Bishop of Lincoln. The Library
is pretty well stor'd. The Greeke Professor had me into another large

quadrangle cloister'd and well built, and gave us a handsome collation

in his own chamber.
Thence to Caius, and afterwards to King's College, where I found the

Chapel altogether answer'd expectation, especialy the roofe all of stone,
which for the flatness of its laying and carving, may I conceive vie with
any in Christendome. The contignation of the roof (which I went upon)
weight and artificial joyneing of the stones is admirable. The lights
are also very faire. In one ile lies the famous Dr. Collins so celebrated
for his fluency in the Latin tongue. From this roofe we could descry
Ely, and the incampment of Sturbridge faire now beginning to set up
their tents and boothes ; also Royston, Newmarket, &c. houses belong
ing to the King. The Library is too narrow.
Clare Hall is of a new and noble designe, but not finish'd.
Peter House formerly under the government of my worthy friend Dr.
Jo. Cosin Deane of Peterborow ;' a pretty neate College having a deli
cate Chapell. Next to Sidney, a fine College.
Catharine Hall, tho' a meane structure, is yet famous for the learned

Bp. Andrews, once Master. Emanuel Colledge, that zealous house,
where to the hall they have a parler for the Fellows. The Chapell is re-
form'A, ab origine, built N. and S. meanely built, as is the Librarie.
Jesus College, one of the best built, but in a melancholy situation.
Next to Christ College, a noble erection, especialy the modern part, built
without the quadrangle towards the gardens, of exact architecture.
The Schooles are very despicable, and Public Librarie but meane, tho'

somewhat improv'd by the wainscotting and books lately added by the
Bp. Bancroft's Library and MSS. They shew'd us little of antiquity,
onely K. James's Works, being his owne gift and kept very reverently.
   The Mercat-place is very ample, and remarkable for old Hobson the

1 Ejected from all hU preferments in 1640 or 164s. Afterwards Bishop of Durham.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN. .  2^1

pleasant Carrier's beneficence of a fountaine. But the whole towne

is situate in a low dirty unpleasant place, the streetes ill paved,

the aire thicke and infected by the Fennes, nor are its churches (ot
which St. Marie's is the best) any thing considerable in compare
with those of Oxford.1

   From Cambridge we went to Audley End, and spent some time in
seeing that goodly palace built by Howard Earl of Suffolk, once Lord
Treasurer. It is a mixt fabric 'twixt antiq and modern, but observable
for its being compleatcly finish'd, and without comparison is one of the
stateliest palaces of the kingdom. It consists of two courts, the first
very large, wing*d with cloisters. The "front hath a double entrance;
the hall is faire, but somewhat too small for so august a pile. The
kitchen is very large, as are the cellars arch'd with stone, very neate
and well dispos'd ; these offices are joyn'd by a wing out of the way
very handsomely. The gallery is the most chccrfull, and I thinke one
of the best in England ; a faire dining-roome, and the rest of the
lodgings answerable, with a pretty chapell. The gardens are not in
order, tho' well inclos'd. It has also a bowling-ally, a noble well
wall'd, wooded, and water'd park, full of fine collines and ponds : the
river glides before the palace, to which is an avenue of lime trees, but
all this is much diminish'd by its being plac'd in an obscure bottome ;

for the rest, it is a perfectly uniform structure, and shewes without like
a diadem, by the decorations of the cupolas and other ornaments on
the pavilions j instead of railes and balusters, there is a bordure of
capital letters, as was lately also on Suffolk House neere Charing
Crosse, built by the same Lord Treasurer.

   This house stands in the parish of Saffron VValden, famous for the
aboundance of saffron there cultivated, and esteem'd the best of any
forraine country.

    3 Oct. Having din'd here we pass'd thro' Bishop's Stortford, a
pretty water'd towne, and so by London late home to Sayes Court,
after a journey of 700 miles, but for the variety an agreeable refresh
ment after my turmoil and building, &c. -

   10. To my brother at Wotton, who had ben sick.
   14. I went to visit my noble friend Mr. Hyldiard, where I met that
learned gentleman my Lord Aungier, and Dr. Stokes, one of his
Majesty's Chaplains.
   15. To Betchworth Castle to Sir Ambrose Browne, and other gentle
men of my sweete and native country.
   24. The good old parson Higham preach'd at Wotton Church : a
plaine preacher, but innocent and honest man.

  23 Oct. I went to London to visit my co. Fanshawe, and this day I

saw one of the rarest collections of achates, onyxes, and intaglios, that

I had ever seene either at home or abroad, collected by a conceited old

                          1 The reader must remember that an Oxford man is speaking.

                                                                                                             16
242 LONDON ; CHRISTMAS ; WOODCOT ; A RARE TABLE CLOCK.

hatt-maker in Black Friers, especialy one acbat vase, heretofore the

greate Earle of Leicester's.

28. Came Lady Langham, a kinswoman of mine, to visit us ; also
one Captain Cooke, esteem'd ye best singer after the Italian manner of

any in England ; he entertain'd us with his voice and theorba.
   31. My birth-day, being the 34th yeare of my age : blessing God for
bis providence I went to London to visite my brother.
   3 Dec Advent Sunday. There being no office at the church, but
extemporie prayers after the Presbyterian way, for now all formes were
prohibited, and most of the preachers were usurpers, I seldomewent to
Church upon solemn feasts, but either went to London, where some of

the orthodox sequestred Divines did privately use the Common Prayer,

administer sacraments, &c. or else I procur'd one to officiate in my

house ; wherefore, on the 10th, Dr. Richard Owen, the sequester'd

minister of Eltham, preach'd to my family in my library, and gave us

the holy communion.
   25. Christmas Day. No public offices in churches, but penalties on
observers, so as I was constrain'd to celebrate it at home.

   1655. Jan. 1. Having with my Family performed the publiq offices

of the day, and begged a blessing on the yeare I was now entering, I went
to keepe the rest of Christmas at my brother's, R. Evelyn at Woodcot.
19. My wife was brought to bed of another son, being my third,
Ibut second living.

  28. A stranger
 Christen'd on the 26th by the name of John.                    to
preached from 3 Coloss., 2, inciting our affections

the obtaining heavenly things.  understood afterwards that this man

had ben both Chaplaine and Lieutennent to Admiral Pen, using both

swords, whether ordained or not I cannot say ; into such times were

we fallen !

   Feb. 24. I was shew'd a table clock whose ballance was onely a

chrystall ball sliding on parallel wyers without being at all fixed, but
rolling from stage to stage till falling on a spring conceal'd from sight,
it was throwne up to the upmost channel againe, made with an imper
ceptible declivity, in this continual vicissitude of motion prettily enter

taining the eye every halfe minute, and the next halfe giving progress
to the hand that shew'd the houre, and giving notice by a small bell, so
as in 120 halfe minutes, or periods of the bullet's falling on the ejacula-
torie spring, the clock part struck. This very extraordinary piece
(richly adorn'd) had been presented by some German Prince to our
late King, and was in possession of the Usurper, valu'd at 200/.

   2 Mar. Mr. Simson, the King's jeweler, shew'd me a most rich
achat cup of an escalop shape and having a figure of Cleopatra at the
scroll, her body, haire, mantle, and vaile of the several natural colours.

It was supported by a halfe M. Antony, the colours rarely natural, and
the work truly antique, but I conceived they were of severall pieces ;

had they ben all of one stone it were invaluable.
              THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.          · 243

   18. Went to London on purpose to hcare that excellent preacher
Dr. Jeremy Taylor on 14 Matt. 17. shewing what were the conditions
of obtaining eternal life : also concerning abatements for unavoidable

Iinfirmities, how cast on the accompts of the Crosse. On the 31st

made a visit to Dr. Jer. Taylor to conferr with him about some spiritual
matters, using him thenceforward as my ghostly father. I beseech God
Almighty to make me ever mindful of, and thankful for, his heavenly
assistances.
  2 April This was the first
                              weeke that  my V.  Pret. [Uncle Pretyman]
being parted with his family              began  housekeeping, till now
                              from me, I
sojourning with him in my owne house.
9. I went to see the greate ship newly built by the Usurper Oliver,
carrying 96 brasse guns, and 1000 tons burthen. In the prow was
Oliver on horseback, trampling 6 Nations under foote, a Scott, Irish

man, Dutchman, Frenchman, Spaniard, and English, as was easily

made out by their several habits. A Fame held a laurel over his in

sulting head ; the word, Cod with us.

   15. I went to London with my family to celebrate the feast of Easter.
Dr. Wild preach'd at St. Gregorie's ; the Ruling Powers conniving at
the use of the Liturgy &c. in this church alone. In the afternoor.c
Mr. Pierson (since Bishop of Chester) preach'd at East Cheape, but
was disturb'd by an alarme ot fire, which about this time was very fre

quent in the Cittie.

   29 May. I sold Preston to Col. Morley.
   June 17. There was a collection lor the Persecuted Churches and

Christians in Savoy, remnants of the ancient Albigenses.

   3 July. I was shew'd a pretty Terrella, describ'd with all the circles,

and shewing all the magnetic deviations, &c.
   14. Came Mr. Pratt, my old acquaintance at Rome, also Sir Edward

Hales, Sir Jo. Tufton with Mr. Seamour.
   1 Aug. I went to Dorking to see Mr. Cha. Howard's amphitheater,

garden, or solitarie recess, being 15 acres inviron'd by a hill. He
shew'd us divers rare plants, caves, and an elaboratory.

   10. I went to Alburie to visit Mr. Howard, who had begun to build

and alter the gardens much. He shew'd me many rare pictures, par
ticularly the Moore on horseback; Erasmus as big as the life, by Hol

bein ; a Madona in miniature by Oliver ; but above all the Skull carv'd
in wood by Albert Durer, for which his father was offer'd 100/. ; also
Albert's head by himselfe ; with divers rare achates, intalias, and other

curiosities.
   21. 1 went to Rygate to visit Mrs. Carey at my Lady Peterboro's, in
an antient monastery well in repaire, but the parke much defac'd ; the
house is nobly, furnish'd. The chimney-piece in the greate chamber,
carv'd in wood, was of Hen. 8. and was taken from an house of his in

Blechinglee. At Rygate was now the Archbishop ot Armagh, the
244 ARCHBISHOP USHER. OUGHTRED. THE MATHEMATICIAN.

learned James Usher, whom I wente tovisite. He receiv'd me exceed
ing kindly. In discourse with him he told me how greate the losse of
time was to study much the Eastern languages : that excepting Hebrew
there was little fritite to be gatherM of exceeding labour ; that besides
some mathematical bookes, the Arabic itselfe had little considerable ;
that the best tcxte was the Hebrew Bible ; that the Septuagint was
finish'd in 70 daies, but full of errors, about which he was then writing ;
that St. Hierom's was to be valued next the Hebrew ; also that the 70
translated the Pentateuch onely, the rest was finish'd by others ; that
the Italians at present understood but little Greeke, and Kircher was a
mountebank ; that Mr. Selden's best book was his ' Titles of Honour ;'
that the Church would be destroyed by sectaries, who would in all
likelihood bring in Poperie. In conclusion he recommended to me
the study of Philologie above all human studies ; and so with his
blessing I tooke my leave of this excellent person, and returned to
Wotton.

   27. I went to Box-hill to see those rare natural bowers, cabinets, and

shady walkes in the box copses : hence we walk'd to Mickleham, and
saw Sir F. Stidolph's seate environ'd with elme-trees and walnuts
innumerable, and of which last he told us they receiv'd a considerable
revenue. Here are such goodly walkes and hills shaded with yew and
box as render the place extreamely agreeable, it seeming from these
ever-greens to be summer all the winter.

   28. Came that renown'd mathematician Mr. Oughtred to see me, I

 sending my coach to bring him to Wotton, being now very aged.
 Amongst other discourse he told me he thought water to be the
 philosopher's first matter, and that he was well perswaded of the possi
 bility of their elixir ; he believ'd the sunn to be a material fire, the
 moone a continent, as appears by the late Selenographers ; he had strong
 apprehensions of some extraordinary event to happen the following
 yeare, from the calculation of coincidence with the diluvian period ;
 and added that it might possibly be to convert the Jewes by our Saviour's
 visible appearance, or to judge the world ; and therefore his word was
 Parate in occursum; he said original sin was not met with in the
 Greeke Fathers, yet he believ'd the thing ; this was from some dis
 course on Dr. Taylor's late booke which I had lent him.

     16. Preach'd at St. Gregories one Darnel on 4 Psalm 4. concerning
 the benefit of selfe examination ; more learning in so short a time as
 an hour I have seldom heard.

    17 Sept. Receiv'd 2600/. of Mr. Hurt for the manor of Warlcy
 Magna in Essex, purchased by me some time since. The taxes were
 so intollerable that they eate up the rents &c. surcharged as that county
 had been above all others during our unnatural war.

    19. Came to see me Sir Edw. Hales, Mr. Ashmole, Mr. Harlakenton,

 and Mr. Thornhill ; and the next day I visited Sir Hen. Newton at
                              THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                      - 245

Charleton, where I met the Earl of Winchelsea and Lady Beauchamp,
daughter to the Lord Capel.
   On Sunday afternoone I frequently stay'd at home to catechise and

instruct my familie, those exercises universally ceasing in the parish
churches, so as people had no principles, and grew very ignorant of

even the common points of Christianity ; all devotion being now plac'd

in hearing sermons and discourses of speculative and notional things.

  26. I went to see Col. Blount's subterranean warren, and drank of

the wine of his vineyard, which was good for little.
   31. Sir Nich. Crisp came to treate with me about his vast designe
of a Mole to be made for ships in part of my grounds at Sayes Court.

  3 Nov. I had accidentally discourse with a Persian and a Greeke

concerning the sad devastation of Poland by the late incursion of

the Swedes.

        27. To London about Sir Nicholas Crisps designs.
        I went to see York House and gardens belonging to the former

greate Buckingham, but now much ruin'd thro' neglect.'
   Thence to visit honest and learned Mr. Hartlib,' a public spirited

and ingenious person, who had propagated many usefull things and
arts. He told me of the Castles which they set for ornament on their
stoves in Germany (he himselfe being a Lithuanian as I remember),
which are furnish'd with small ordinance of silver on the battlements,

out of which they discharge excellent perfumes about the roomes

charging them with a little powder to set them on fire and disperse the
smoke; and in truth no more than neede, for their stoves are sufficiently

        nasty. He told me of an inke that would give a dozen copies, moist

sheets of paper being press'd on and remaine perfect and a receipt
how to take off any print without the least injury to the original!. This
                              it,

                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                      ;
gentleman was master of innumerable curiosities, and very communi
                     returned home that evening by water, and was afflicted for
        cative.      II I

1 1 I itwith a cold that had almost kill'd me.
           27. This day came forth the Protectors Edict or Proclamation, pro
        hibiting all ministers of the Church of England from preaching or

        teaching any scholes, in which he imitated the Apostate Julian with
        the decimation of all the royal parties revenues throughout England.

           14 Dec visited Mr. Hobbs the famous philosopher of Malmesbury
        with whom had ben long acquainted in France.

        Now were the Jews admitted.
        25. There was no more notice taken of Christmas day in churches.

          went to London where Dr. Wild preach'd the funeral sermon of

        The Duke's names and titles are still preserved in the buildings erected on the site viz.
                              :'
                                             is

                                                                                  it

                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                   a

                                                                                                                     ;
        Ceorge Street, Villiers Street, Duke Street, Off Alley, Buckingham Street.
        Samuel Hartlib. Milton's Tractate of Education addressed to him. Mr. Todd in his
        Life of that Poet prefixed to the last Edition of his Poetical Works, observes that                              Life of
        Hartlib a desideratum in English Biography there are ample materials for in the publi
                 is

        cations of the time.
246 EDICT OF CROMWELL. DR. WILKINS. VISIT TO WHITEHALL. -

Preaching, this being the last day, after which Cromwell's proclama
tion was to take place, that none of the Church of England should
dare either to preach or administer Sacraments, teach schoole, &c. on
paine of imprisonment or exile. So this was the mournfullest day that in

my life I had seene, or the Church of England herselfe since the Re

formation ; to the greate rejoicing of both Papist and Presbyter'. So
pathetic was his discourse that it drew many teares from the auditory.
Myself, wife, and some of our family receiv'd the Communion ; God
make me thankfull, who hath hitherto provided for us the food of
our soules as well as bodies ! The Lord Jesus pity our distress'd Church,
and bring back the captivity of Sion !

   1656. 5 Jan. Came to visit me my Lord Lisle, sonn to the Earle
of Leicester, with Sir Charles Ouseley, two of the Usurper's Council ;
Mr. John Hervey, and John Denhamthe poet.

    18. Went to Eltham on foote, being a greate frost, but a mist fall

ing as I returned, gave me such a rheume as kept me within doores

neere a whole moneth after.
   5 Feb. Was shew'd me a pretty perspective and well represented in

a triangular box, the greate Church of Harlem in Holland, to be seene
thro' a small hole at one of the corners and contriv'd into an handsome

cabinet. It was so rarely don, that all the artists and painters in towne-

flock'd to see and admire it.

   10. I heard Dr. Wilkins1 preach before the Lord Mayor in St.
Pauls, shewing how obedience was preferable to sacrifice. He was a

most obliging person, who had married the Protector's sister, and tookc
greate pains to preserve the Universities from the ignorant sacrilegious
Commanders and Souldiers, who would faine have demolish'd all places
and persons that pretended to learning.

   1 1. I venturM to go to White-hall, where of many yeares I had not.

ben, and found it very glorious and well fumish'd as far as I could
safely go, and was glad to find they had not much defac'd that rare

piece of Hen. VII. &c. don on the walles of the King's privy chamber.
   14. I dined with Mr. Berkeley, son of Lord Berkeley of Berkeley

Castle, where I renewed my acquaintance with my Lord Bruce, my

fellow-traveller in Italy.
    19. Went with Dr. Wilkins to see Barlow, the famous painter of

fowls, beasts and birds.

   4 Mar. This night I was invited by Mr. Roger L'Estrange to hear
the incomparable Lubicer on the violin. His variety on a few notes-
and plaine ground with that wonderful dexterity was admirable. Tho'

a young man, yet so perfect and skilfull, that there was nothing, how

1 The text was a Cor. 13. 9. That, however persecution dealt with the Ministers of God's
word, they were still to pray for the flocke, and wish their perfection, as it was the flocke to.
J.pny for and assist their pastors, by the example of St. Paul.  E.
2 Afterwards Bishop of Chester.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  247

ever cross and perplext, brought to him by our Artist?, which he did
not play off at sight with ravishing sweetnesse and improvements, to
the astonishment of our best Masters. In sum he plaid on that single
instrument a full concert, so as the rest flung down their instruments,
acknowledging the victory. As to my own particular, I stand to this
hour amaz'd that God should give so greate perfection to so young a
person. There were at that time as excellent in their profession as any
were thought to be in Europ, Paul Wheeler, Mr. Mell and others, till

this prodigie appear'd. I can no longer question the effects we reade

of in David's harp to charme evil spirits, or what is said some particular
notes produe'd in the passions of Alexander, and on that King of
Denmark.

   12 April. Mr. Berkeley, and Mr. Robert Boyle (that excellent per
son and greate virtuoso), Dr. Taylor and Dr. Wilkins, din'd with me
at Sayes Court, when I presented Dr. Wilkins with my rare buming-
glasse. In the afternoone we all went to Colonel Blount's to see his

new-invented plows.

   22. Came- to see Mr. Henshaw and Sir William Paston's sonn,
since Earle of Yarmouth. Afterwards I went to see his Majesty's house
at Eltham, both Palace and Chapell in miserable ruines, the noble
woods and park destroyed by Rich the Rebell.

   6 May. I brought Monsieur le Franc, a young French Sorbonnist, a
proselyte, to converse with Dr. Taylor ; they fell to dispute on ori

ginal sinn, in Latine, upon a booke newly publish'd by the Doctor,
who was much satisfied with the young man. Thence I went to see

Mr. Dugdale, our learned Antiquarie and Herald. Returning, I was

shoVd the three vast volumes of Father Kircher's ' Obeliscus Pam-
philius' and ' .rEgyptiacus ;' in the second volume I found the Hiero
glyphic I first communicated and sent to him at Rome by the hands of
Mr. Henshaw, whom he mentions. I design'd it from the stone itselfe
brought me to Venice from Cairo by Cap. Powell.

   7. I visited Dr. Taylor and prevail'd on him to propose Mons. le
Franc to the Bishop that he might have orders, I having some time
before brought him to a full consent to the Church of England her
doctrine and discipline, in which he had till of late made some diffi

culty ; so he was this day ordain'd both Deacon and Priest, by the

Bishop of Meath. I paid the fees to his Lordship, who was very poore
and in greate want, to that necessity were our Clergy redue'd ! In
the afternoone I met Alderman Robinson, to treat with Mr. Papillion

about the marriage of my cousin Geo. Tuke with Mrs. Fontaine.
   8. I went to visit Dr. Wilkins at White-hall, when I first met with

Sir P. Neale, famous for his optic glasses. Greatorix the mathematical
instrument maker shew'd me his excellent invention to quench fire.

   12. Was publish'd my Essay on Lucretius,' with innumerable

  1 A Translation into English verse of the first Book only, the Frontispiece to which was
248 THE HOLLAND AMBASSADOR. DUKE OF ARGYLE. COLCHESTER,

errata by the negligence of Mr. Triplet who undertook the correction of
the press in my absence. Little of the Epicurean philosophy was then

known amongst us.

   28. I din'd with Nieuport the Holland Ambassador, who rcceiv'd
me with extraordinary courtesie. I found him a judicious, crafty and
wise man. He gave me excellent cautions as to the danger of the
times, and the circumstances our nation was in. I remember the ob
 servation he made upon the ill success of our former Parliaments, and

their private animosities, and little care of the public.
    Came to visit me the old Marques of Argyle (since executed), Lord

 Lothian, and some other Scotch noblemen, all strangers to me. Note,
the Marques tooke the turtle-doves in the aviary for owles.

    The Earl of Southampton (since Treasurer) and Mr. Spencer, bro
 ther to the Earle of Sunderland, came to see my garden.

   7 July. I began my journey to see some parts of the North East of
 England, but the weather was so excessive hot and dusty that I

 shortned my progressc. -

    8. To Colchester, a faire towne, but now wretchedly demolished

 by the late siege, especialy the suburbs, which were all burnt, but
were then repairing. The towne is built on a rising ground, having
 faire meadows on one side, and a river with a strong ancient castle,
 said to have ben built by K. Coilus, father of Helena mother of Cbn-

stantine the Great, of whom I find no memory save at the pinnacle of
 one of their wool-staple houses, where is a statue of Coilus in wood,
 wretchedly carved. The walles are exceeding strong, deeply trench'd
and fill'd with earth. It has 6 gates and some watch-towres, and some

handsome churches. But what was shewed us as a kind of miracle, at
 the outside of the Castle, the wall where Sir Cha. Lucas and Sir Geo.
 Lisle, those valiant and noble persons who so bravely behavM them
 selves in the last siege, were barbarously shot, murder'd by Ireton in
 cold blood after surrendering on articles ; having ben disappointed of
 relief from the Scotch army, which had ben defeated with the King at
 Worcester. The place was bare of grasse for a large space, all the rest
 of it abounding with herbage. For the rest, this is a ragged and fac
tious towne, now swarming with Sectaries. Their trading is in cloth
 with the Dutch, and baies and saies with Spaine ; it is the only place

in England where these stuffs are made unsophisticated. It is also

famous for oysters and eringo-root, growing here about and candied

for sale.

designed by Mr. Evelyn's   'LNaedvye. r   Prefixed  to the copy in the Library at Wolton  is this note
in his own hand-writing :                was book    so abominably misused by printer :   never copy

so negligently surveied by one who undertookc to looke over the proote-shcetes with all
exactnesse and care, namely Dr. Triplet, well knowne for his abilitie, and who pretended to

Ioblige me in my absence, and so readily offer' d himselfe. This good yet received by it,
that publishing it vainely, its ill successe at the printer's discourag'd me with troubling the

worlde with the rest.'
.THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  - 249

   Went to Dedhain, a pretty country towne, having a very faire church
finely situated, the valley well watred. Here I met with Dr. Stokes,
a young gentleman but an excellent mathematician. This is a clothing
towne, as most are in Essex, but lies in the unwholesome hundreds.

   Hence to Ipswich, doubtlesse one of the sweetest, most pleasant,
well built Townes in England. It has twelve faire churches, many noble
houses, especialy the Lord Devereux's ; a brave kay and commodious
harbour, being about 7 miles from the maine ; an ample mercat-place.
Here was born the Great Cardinal Wolsey, who began a palace here,
which was not finish'd.

   I had the curiosity to visite some Quakers here in prison ; a new

phanatic sect, of dangerous principles, who shew no respect to any
man, magistrate or other, and seeme a melancholy proud sort of
people, and exceedingly ignorant. One of these was said to have
fasted 20 daies, but another endeavouring to do the like, perish'd on

the 10th, when he would have eaten but could not.

   10. I return'd homeward, passing againe thro' Colchester ; and by
the way neere the antient towne of Chelmsford, saw New Hall, built

in a parke by Henry 7. and 8. and given by Queen Elizabeth to the
Earlc of Sussex, who sold it to the late greate Duke of Buckingham,

and since seiz'd on by O. Cromwell (pretended Protector). It is a

faire old house built with brick, low, being only of 2 stories, as the
manner then was ; the Gate-house better ; the Court large and pretty ;
the staire-case of extraordinary widnesse, with a piece representing

Sir F. Drake's action in the year 1580, an excellent sea-piece; the

galleries are trifling ; the hall is noble ; the garden a faire plot, and
the whole seate well accommodated with water ; but above all I
admir'd the faire avenue planted with stately lime-trees in 4 rowes, for

neere a mile in length. It has three descents, which is the only fault,

and may be reform'd. There is another faire walk of the same at the
mall and wildernesse, with a tennis-court, and pleasant terrace towards
the park, which was well stored with deere and ponds.

    11. Came home by Greenwich Ferry, where I saw Sir John Win
ter's new project of charring sea-coale, to burne out the sulphure and
render it sweetc. He did it by burning the coales in such earthen
pots as the glasse-men mealt their mettall, so firing them without
consuming them, using a barr of yron in each crucible or pot, which

barr has s hook at one end, that so the coales being mealted in a fur

nace with other crude sea-coales under them, may be drawn out of the
potts sticking to the yron, whence they are beaten off in greate halfe-
exhausted cinders, which being rekindl'd make a cleare pleasant cham
ber fire, depiiv'd of their sulphur and arsenic malignity. What successe
it may have, time will discover.'

   ' Some years ago Lord Dundonald revived the project, but with the projected improvement of
extracting and saving the Tar. Unfortunately his Lordship did not profit by it. The Gas-Light
Company sell the coal thus charred, by the name of Cokt, for fuel for many purposes (1S1S).
25° SIR H. VANE IMPRISONED. DR. WILD'S LODGINGS, LONDON.

   3 Aug. I went to London to receive the B. Sacrament, the first

time the Church of England was reduced to a chamber and conven
ticle, so sharp was the persecution. The Parish Churches were fill'd
with Sectaries of all sorts, blasphemous and ignorant mechanics
usurping the pulpets every where. Dr. Wild preach'd in a private
house in Fleete Streete, where we had a greate meeting of zealous
Christians, who were generaly much more devout and religious than in

our greatest prosperity. In the afternoone I went to the French Church
in the Savoy, where I heard Monsieur d'Espagne catechise, and so

return'd to my house.
   20. Was a confus'd election of Parliament cal'd by the Usurper.

  7 Sept. I went to take leave of my excellent neighbour and friend

Sir H. Newton & Lady, now going to dwell at Warwick ; and Mr.
Needham, my dear and learned friend, came to visite me.

   14. Now was old Sir Hen. Vane sent to Carisbrook Castle in Wight
for a foolish booke he published ; the pretended Protector fortifying
himselfe exceedingly, and sending many to prison.

   2 Oct. Came to visite me my co. Stephens, and Mr. Pierce (since
Head of Magdalen Coll. Oxford) a learned minister of Brington in
Northamptonshire, and Captain Cooke, both excellent musicians.

   2 Nov. There was now nothing practical preached or that pressed
reformation of life, but high and speculative points and straines that
few understood, which left people very ignorant and of no steady prin
ciples, the source of all our sects and divisions, for there was much envy
and uncharity in the world ; God of his mercy amend it ! Now

indeed that I went at all to church whilst these usurpers possess'd the
pulpets, was that I might not be suspected for a Papist, and that tho'
the Minister was Presbyterianly affected, he yet was as I understood

duly ordain'd, and preach'd sound doctrine after their way, and besides
was an humble, harmlesse and peaceable man.

   25 Dec. I went to London to receive the B. Communion this holy
festival at Dr. Wild's lodgings, where I rejoiced to find so full an
assembly of devout and sober Christians.

   26. 1 invited some of my neighbours and tenants according to cos-
tome, and to preserve hospitality and charity.

   28. A stranger preached on r8 Luke, 7, 8. on which he made a con

fused discourse, with a greate deale of Greeke and ostentation of '
learning to but little purpose.

   30. Dined with me Sir William Paston's sonn, Mr. Henshaw and
Mr. Clayton.

   31. I begged God's blessings & mercys for his goodnesse to me

the past yeere, and set my domestic affaires in order.
   1657. January I. Having praied with my family and celebrated

the Anniversarie, I spent some time in imploring God's blessing the
yeare I was entred into.
         THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                     . 251

   7 Jan. Came Mr. Matthew Wren (since Secretary to the Duke, slain
in the Dutch war) eldest son to the Bishop of Ely, now a prisoner in
the Tower ; a most worthy and learned gentleman.

10. Came Dr. Joylife, that famous physician and anatomist, first
detector of the lymphatic veins : also the old Marques of Argyle and

another Scotch Earle.

   5 Feb. Din'd at the Holland Ambassador's ; he told me the East
India Company of Holland had constantly a stock ot ,£400,000 in
India, and 48 men of war there : he spoke of their exact and just
keeping their books & correspondence, so as no adventurer's stock

could possibly be lost or defeated ; that it was a vulgar error that the
Hollanders furnished their enemies with powder and ammunition lor
their money, tho' engaged in a crucll warr, but that they us'd to mer

chandize indifferently, and were permitted to sell to the friends of their

enemies. He laugh 'd at our Committee of Trade, as compos'd of men

wholy ignorant of and how they were the ruine of commerce, by
         I

                        it,
                                                                                    a
gratifying some for private ends.
10 Feb.  went to visite the Governor of Havanna, brave, sober,

valiant Spanish gentleman, taken by Capt. Young of Deptiord, when

after 20 yeares being in the Indies, and amassing greate wealth, his

lady and whole family except two sonns were burnt, destroy'd and

taken within sight of Spaine, his eldest sonn, daughter and wife

perishing with immense treasure.' One sonn, of about 17 years

old, with his brother of one yeare old, were the onely ones savM.

The young gentleman about 17, was a well-complexion'd youth, not

olive-colour'd he spake Latine handsomely, was extreamely well-
         ;
                                               ;
bred, and born in the Caraccas, 1000 miles South of the Equinoxial,

neere the mountaines of Potosi he had never ben in Europe before.

The Governor was an ancient gentleman of greate courage, of the

order of St. Jago, sore wounded in his arme, and his ribs broken he
                                                                                       ;

lost for his owne share £100,000 sterling, which he seem'd to beare

with exceeding indifference, and nothing dejected. After some dis
course went with them to Arundel House, where they din'd. They
I
were now going back into Spaine, having obtain their liberty from5
                                                  !
      I                                                   ;

                                                          'd
Cromwell. An example of human vicissitude
   14. To London, where found Mrs. · Carey next day came Mr.

Mordaunt (since Viscount Mordaunt, younger sonn to the Countesse 01
Peterborow) to see his Mistress, bringing with him two of my Lord ot
Dover's daughters so after dinner they all departed.
         :

               a

                   I
Mar. Dr. Rand, learned physician, dedicated to me his Version
of Gassendus's Vita Peiriskii.
   25. Dr. Taylor shewed me his MSS. of Cases of Conscience,                              or

Ducto dubitantium, now fitted for the presse.

      This disastrous event particularly noticed in Waller's Poem on a War with Spain. Fightis
at Sea by General Montague 1656.
252 VISIT BEDLAM, AND CHRIST-CHURCH AND HOSPITAL.

   The Protector, Oliver, now affecting Kingship, is petition'd to take
the Title on him by all his new-made sycophant Lords, &c. but dares
not for feare of the Phanatics, not thoroughly purg'd out of his Rebell
Army.

   21 April. Came Sir Thomas Hanmer of Hanmer in Wales, to see

me. I then waited on my Lord Hatton, with whom I dined ; at my
returne I stept into Bedlame, where I* saw several poore miserable

creatures in chaines ; one of them was mad with making verses. I
also visited the Charter-house, formerly belonging to the Carthusians,

now an old neate fresh solitarie Colledge for decaied gentlemen. It

has a grove, bowling-greene, garden, chapell, and a halle where they

eate in common. I likewise saw Christ-church and Hospital, a very

goodly Gotic building ; the hall, school, and lodgings in greate order
for bringing up many hundreds of poore children of both sexes ; it is
an exemplary charity. There is a large picture at one end of the hall,
representing the Governors, Founders, and the Institution.

   25. I had a dangerous fall out of the coach in Covent Garden, going

to my brother's, but without harme : the Lord be praised.

   I May. Divers souldiers were quarter'd at my house, but I thank

God went away the next day towards Flanders.

   5. I went with my cousin George Tuke to see Baynards in Surrey,
an house of my brother Richard's, which he would have hir'd. This is

a very faire noble residence, built in a park, and having one of the
goodliest avenues of oakes up to it that ever I saw ; there is a pond of
60 acres nccre it ; the windows of the cheife roomes are of very fine
painted glasse. The situation is excessively dirty and melancholy.1

    15. Laurence, President of Oliver's Council, and some other of his
Court Lords, came in the afternoon to see my garden and plantations.

    7 June. My fourth sonn was born, christen'd George (after my
 Grandfather) : Dr. Jer. Taylor officiating in the drawing-room. -

   18. At Greenwich I saw a sort of Catt2 brought from the East

 Indies, shap'd and snouted much like the Egyptian racoon, in the body
like a monkey, and so footed ; the eares and taile like a catt, onely the
taile much longer, and the skin variously ringed with black and white ;
with the taile it wound up its body like a serpent, and so got up into
 trees, and with it would wrap its whole body round. Its haire was
 woolly like a lamb ; it was exceedingly nimble, gentle, and purr'd as

 dos the catt.

   July 16. On Dr. Jer. Taylor's recommendation I went to Eltham,

 to help one Moody, a young man, to that living, by my interest with
 the Patron.

    6 Aug. I went to see CoL Blount, who shewed me the application

   1 It is in the lower part of the parish of Ewhurst in Surrey, adjoining to Rudgwick in
 Sussex, in a deep clay soil. It was formerly the seat of Sir Edward Bray. It belonged to

 the late Earl of Onslow, who carried the painted glass to his seat at Clandon.
    S This was probably the animal called a Mocock, well known at present.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                 . 253

of the Way-rviserto a coach, exactly measuring the miles, and shewing
them by an index as we went on. It had 3 circles, one pointing to the
number of rods, another to the miles, by 10 to 1000, with all the sub

divisions of quarters ; very pretty and useful.
   10. Our Vicar, from John 18. v. 36, declaim'd against the folly of a

sort of enthusiasts and desperate zealots, call'd the Fifth-Monarchy-
Men, pretending to set up the kingdome of Christ with the sword. To
this passe was this age ariv'd when we had no King in Israel.
   31. Fell a most prodigious rain in London, and the yeare was very

sickly in the country.

   1 Sept. I visited Sir Edmund Bowyer at his melancholy seate at
Camerwell. He has a very pretty grove of oakes, and hedges of yew
in his garden, and a handsom row of tall elmes before his court.

   15. Going to London with some company, we stept in to see a
famous Rope-dauncer call'd The Turk. I saw even to astonishment

the agilitie with which he perform'd ; he walk'd barefooted taking hold

by his toes only of a rope almost perpendicular, and without so much as

touching it with his hands ; he daunc'd blindfold on the high rope and

with a boy of 12 yeares old tied to one of his fcetc about 20 foote be
neath him, dangling as he daunc'd, yet he mov'd as nimbly as if it had

ben but a feather. Lastly he stood on his head on the tope of a very

high mast, daunc'd on a small rope that was very slack, and finally flew

downe the perpendicular, on his breast, his head foremost, his legs and
arms extended, with divers other activities. -- I saw the hair)' woman,1

20 years old, whom I had before seen when a child. She was borne at
Augsburg in Germany. Her very eye-browes were comb'd upwards,

and all her forehead as thick and even as growes on any woman's head,

neatly dress'd ; a very long lock of haire out of each eare ; she had

also a most prolix beard, and mustachios, with long locks growing on
the middle of her nose, like an Iceland dog exactly, the colour of a

bright browne, fine as well-dress'd flax. She was now married, and
told me she had one child that was not hairy, nor were any of her

parents or relations. She was very well shap'd, and plaied well on the
harpsichord, &c.

  17. I went to see Sir Robert Needham at Lambeth, a relation of

mine ; and thence to John Tradescant's Musaeum, in which the cheifest
rarities were, in my opinion, the ancient Roman, Indian and other
nations armour, shields, and weapons ; some habits of curiously-colour'd
and wrought feathers, one from the phoenix wing as tradition goes.
Other innumerable things there were, printed in his catalogue by Mr.
Ashmole, to whom after the death of the widow they are bequeath'd,

and by him design'd as a gift to Oxford.*

1 Barbara Vanbeck. There are two portraits of her, one an engraving, the other in mezzo,
tinto, described by Mr. Granger in liis Biography. There is also another representation of
her in some German Book of Natural History.
   · Where they now are in the .Yinmolean Museum.  See under 15;3, July.
254 SUBSCRIBE TO EAST INDIA COMPANY. ARRESTED AT CHURCH.

22. To towne to visit the Holland Ambassador, with whom I had

now contracted much friendly correspondence, useful to the intelligence

I constantly gave his Majesty abroad.
   19 Sept. I went to see divers gardens about London: returning I

saw at Dr. Joyliffe's 2 Virginian rattle-snakes alive, exceeding a yard
in length, small heads, slender tailes, but in the middle nearly the size
of my leg ; when vexed, swiftly vibrating and shaking their tailes, as

loud as a child's rattle: this, by the collision of certaine grissly skinns

"curiously jointed, yet loose, and transparent as parchment, by which

they give warning: a providential caution for other creatures to avoid
them. The Doctor tried their biting on ratts and mice, which they im

mediately killed: but their vigour must needes be much exhausted here,
in another climate, and kept only in a barrell of bran.
, 26 Nov. I went to London to a Court of the East India Company
upon its new union, in Merchant Taylors' Hall, where was much diss-

order by reason of the Anabaptists, who would have the adventurers

oblig'd onely by an engagement, without swearing, that they still might

pursue their private trade ; but it was carried against them. Wednes

day was fix'd on for a General Court for election of officers, after a

sermon and prayers for good successe. The stock resolv'd on was

£00,000/.
   27. I tooke the oath at the E. India House, subscribing 500/.
   2. Dec. Dr. Raynolds (since Bishop of Norwich) preach'd before

the Company at St. Andrew Undershaft, on 13 Nehemiah, 31, shewing
by the example of Nehemiah all the perfections of a trusty person in

publique affaires, with many good precepts apposite to the occasion,

ending with a prayer for God's blessing on the Company and the un

dertaking.
   3. Mr. Gunning preached on 3 John, 3. against the Anabaptists,
shewing the effect and necessity of the Sacrament of Baptisme. This

sect was now wonderfully spread.
   25. I went to London with my wife, to celebrate Christmas-day,
Mr. Gunning preaching in Exeter Chapell, on 7 Michah 2. Sermon
ended, as he was giving us the Holy Sacrament, the chapell was sur

rounded with souldiers, and all the communicants and assembly sur-

priz'd and kept prisoners by them, some in the house, others carried
away. It fell to my share to be confin'd to a roome in the house, where
yet I was permitted to dine with the master of
I                                                                                the Countesse of
              I

                                          ;

                                                                            it,
Dorset, Lady Hatton, and some others of quality who invited me.- In

the afternoone came Col. Whaly, Goffe and others, from White-hall, to

examine us one.by one some they committed to the Marshall, some

to prison. When came before them they tooke my name and abode,

examin'd me why, contrarie to an ordinance made that none should any

longer observe the superstitious time of the Nativity (so esteem'd by
them), durst offend, and particularly be at Common Prayers, which
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  255

they told me was but the masse in English, and particularly pray for

Charles Steuart, for which we had no Scripture. I told them we did

not pray for Cha. Stewart, but for all Christian Kings, Princes, and
Governors. They replied, in so doing we praid for the K. of Spaine

too, who was their enemie and a papist, with other frivolous and in-
snaring questions and much threatning ; and finding no colour to de-
taine me, they dismiss'd me with much pitty of my ignorance. These

were men of high flight and above ordinances, and spake spiteful things

of our Lord's Nativity. As we went up to receive the Sacrament the
miscreants held their muskets against us as if they would have shot

us at the altar, but yet suffering us to finish the office of Communion,
as perhaps not having instructions what to do in case they found us in
that action. So I got home late the next day, blessed be God.

   1658. 27 Jan. After six fits of a quartan ague with which it pleased
God to visite him, died my deare son Richard, to our inexpressible griefe
and affliction, 5 yeares and 3 days old onely, but at that tender age a
prodigy for witt and understanding ; for beauty of body a very angel ;
for endowment of mind of incredible and rare hopes. To give onely a
little taste of some of them, and thereby glory to God, who out of the

mouths of babes and infants does sometimes perfect his praises : at 2
yeares and halfe old he could perfectly reade any of the English, Latine,

French, or Gottic letters, pronouncing the three first languages exactly.
He had before the 5th yeare, or in that yeare, not onely skill to reade
most written hands, but to decline all the nouns, conjugate the verbs
regular, and most of the irregular ; learn'd out Puerilis, got by heart
almost the entire vocabularie of Latine and French primitives and
words, could make congruous syntax, turne English into Latine, and
vice versa, construe and prove what he read, and did the government
and use of relatives, verbs, substantives, elipses, and many figures and
tropes, and made a considerable progress in Comenius's Janua ; began
himselfe to write legibly, and had a stronge passion for Greeke. The
number of verses he could recite was prodigious, and what he remem
bered of the parts of playes ; which he would also act ; and when seeing
a Plautus in one's hand, he ask"d what booke it was, and being told it
was comedy, and too difficult for him, he wept for sorrow. Strange was

his apt and ingenious application of fables and morals, for he had read
./Esop ; he had a wonderful disposition to mathematics, having by
heart divers propositions of Euclid that were read to him in play, and
he would make lines and demonstrate them. As to his piety, astonish
ing were his applications of Scripture upon occasion, and his sense of
God ; he had learn'd all his Catechisme early, and understood the his
torical part of the Bible and New Testament to a wonder, how Christ

came to redeeme mankind, and how, comprehending these necessarys
himselfe, his godfathers were discharg'd of their promise. These and

the like illuminations far exceeded his age and experience, considering
256 DEATH-BED EXPERIENCES OF MY YOUNG SON RICHARD. .

Che prettinesse of his addresse and behaviour, cannot but leave impres
sions in me at the memory of him. When one told him how many

dayes a Quaker had fasted, he replied that was no wonder, for Christ

had said man should not live by bread alone, but by the Word of
God. He would of himselfe select the most pathetic psalms, and chap
ters out of Job, to reade to his mayde during his sicknesse, telling her
when she pitied him that all God's children must suffer affliction. He
declaim'd against the vanities of the world before he had seene any.

Often he would desire those who came to see him to pray by him, and

a yeare before he fell sick, to kneel and pray with him alone in some

corner. How thankfully would he receive admonition, how soon be

reconciled ! how indifferent, yet continualy chereful ! He would give

grave advice  to his  brother  John, beare with  his  impertinencies,  and say
he was but a  child.           had heard of or   saw   any new thing,   he was
                        If he
unquiet till he was told how it was made ; he brought to us all such
difficulties as be found in books, to be expounded. He had learn'd by-

heart divers sentences in Latin and Gieeke, which on occasion he

would produce even to wonder. He was all life, all prettinesse, far

from morose, sullen, or childish in any thing he said or did. The last
time he had ben at church (which was at Greenwich), I ask'd him,
according to costome, what he remembered of the sermon ; two good

things, father, said he, bonitm gratia and bonum gloria, with a just
account of what the preacher said. The day before he died he cal'd to

me, and in a more serious manner than usual told me that for all I
loved him so dearly I should give my house, land, and all my fine things,
to his brother Jack, he should have none of them ; the next morning,
when he found himself ill, and that I persuaded him to keepe his hands

in bed, he demanded whether he might pray to God with his hands un-

joyn'd ; and a little after, whilst in greate agonie, whether he should not

offend God by using his holy name so often calling for ease. What shall

I say of his frequent pathetical ejaculations utter'd of himselfe ; Sweete

Jesus save me, deliver me, pardon my sinns, let thine angels receive
me! So early knowledge, so much piety and perfection! But thus
God having dress'd up a Saint fit for himselfe, would not longer permit
him with us, unworthy of the future fruites of this incomparable hope-
full blossome. Such a child I never saw: for such a child I blesse God
in whose bosome he is ! May I and mine become as this little child,
who now follows the child Jesus that Lamb of God in a white robe
whithersoever he goes ; Even so, Lord Jesus,yfrt/ voluntas tua ! Thou

gavest him to us, Thou hast taken him from us, blessed be the name of
the Lord 1 That I had any thing acceptable to Thee was from thy

grace alone, since from me he had nothing but sin, but that Thou hast
pardon'd ! blessed be my God for ever, amen !
                                                      ·

In my opinion he was suffocated by the women and maids that tended

him, and cover'd him too hot with blankets as he lay in a cradle, near
                       THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                       '

                                                                          257

 an excessive hot fire in a close roome. I suffered him to be open'd,it,
                a
 when they found that he was what is vulgarly call'd liver-growne.
 I caused his body to be coffin'd in lead and reposited on the 30th at !
 8 o'clock that night in the church of Deptford accompanied with divers
 of my relations and neighbours, among whom I distributed rings withI
 this motto, Dominus abstulitj intending, God willing, to have him
transported with my owne body to be interr'd in our dormitory in;
 Wotton church, in my dear native county Surrey, and to lay my bones
and mingle my dust with my fathers, if God be gracious to me and
make me as fit for Him as this blessed child was. The Lord Jesus
sanctify this and all other my afflictions, Amen ! '

   Here ends the joy of my life, and for which I go even mourning to

the grave.

    15 Feb. The afflicting hand of God being still upon us, it pleased
 Him also to take away from us this morning my youngest sonn, George,
now 7 weekes languishing at nurse, breeding teeth, and ending in a
dropsie. God's holy will be done ! He was buried in Deptford church

the 17th following.
   25. Came Dr. Jeremy Taylor & my Brothers with other friends to

visite and condole with us.
   March 7. To London to hear Dr. Taylor in a private house on

13 Luke 23, 24. After the sermon followed the blessed Communion,

of which I participated. In the afternoone Dr. Gunning at Excester

House expounding part of the Creede.
   This had ben the severest winter that any man alive had known in

England. The crowes feete were frozen to their prey. Islands of ice
inclos'd both fish and fowl frozen, and some persons in their boates.

    15 May was a public Fast to avert an epidemical sicknesse, very
mortal this spring.

   20. 1 went to see a coach-race in Hide Park, and collation'd in

Spring Garden.
   23. Dr. Manton, the famous Presbyterian, preach'd at Covent Gar

den, on 6 Matthew 10. shewing what the kingdome of God was, how

pray for &c.
   There was now collection for persecuted and sequesterM Ministers

of the Church of England, whereof divers are in prison. A sad day
The Church now in dens and caves of the earth.

   31. went to visite my Lady Peterborow, whose sonn, Mr. Mor-
daunt, prisoner in the Tower, was now on his trial, and acquitted but
by one voice but that holy martyr Dr. Hewer was condemn'd to die,
without law, jury, or justice, but by mock Council of State as they

call'd it A dangerous, treacherous time
                                                       a

                                                                    !

     In the Preface to his Translation of " The Golden Book of St. Chtysostom, concerning

the Education of Children," likewise given very interesting account of this amiable and
pre nisin^ child.

                                                                                                                            17
1                                                      a
                                                   is
2$B CAPTURE OF A WHALE. EXECUTION OF DR. HEWER.

   2 June. An extraordinary storm of haile and raine, the season as
cold as winter, the wind Northerly neere 6 moneths.
   3. A large whale was taken betwixt my land butting on the Thames

and Greenewich, which drew an infinite concourse to see by water,

horse, coach, and on foote, from London and all parts. It appear'd
                                                           it
                                                                it,
first below Greenewich at low water, for at high water would have

destroyed all the boatcs, but lying now in shallow water incompass'd

with boates, after a long conflict was kill'd with a harping yron, struck
                                2

                                       ;

                                      it
                                                       it
in the head, out of which spouted blood and water by two tunnells, and
after an horrid grone ran quite on shore and died. Its length was

5S foote, heighth 16 black skin'd like coach leather, very small eyes,
greate taile, onely small linns, a picked snout, and a mouth so wide

that divers men might have stood upright in                no teeth, but suck'd
                                                           it

                                                               ;

                                                                                                it ;
the slime onely as thro' a grate of that bone which we call whale-bone

the throate yet so narrow as would not have admitted the least of fishes.
The extreames of the cetaceous bones hang downewards from the upper
jaw, and was hairy towards the ends and bottom within side: all of

prodigious, but in nothing more wonderfull then that an animal of so

greate a bulk should be nourished onely by slime thro' those grates.
            went to see the Earl of Northumberland's pictures, whereof
that of the Venetian Senators was one of the best of Titian's, and
9.

   I

                                  '

another of Andrea del Sarto, viz. a Madona, Christ, St. John, and an
Old Woman, &c. a St. Catharine of Da Vinci, with divers portraits of
Van Dyke a Nativity of Georgioni the last of our blessed Kings
            ;                                              is
                                                               ;
                                                                             ;

                                                                                           it
(Charles I.) and the Duke of York, by Lely a rosarie by the famous
Jesuits of Bruxelles, and severall more. This was in Suffolk House:
the new front towards the gardens                          tollerable, were not drown'd
by too massie and clomsie pair of stayres of stone, without any neate
8. a
invention.

      That excellent preacher and holy man Dr. Hewer was martyr'd
for having intelligence with his Majesty,3 thro' the Lord Marques of

Ormond.

   10. . went to see the Medical Garden at Westminster, well storedI
with plants, under Morgan, a very skilfull botanist.

   26. To Eltham to visite honest Mr. Owen.
   July. To London, and din'd with Mr. Henshaw, Mr. Dorell, and
3

Mr. Ashmole, founder of the Oxford repository of rarities, with divers
doctors of physic and virtuosos.
   15. Came to see my Lord Kilmurrey Lady, Sir Robert Needham,
Mr. Offley, and two daughters of my Lord Willoughby of Parham.
                                                           &
                                                                                                is
      Aug. Went to Sir John Evelyn at Godstone. The place excel
lent, but might be improved by turning some offices of the house, and
s is 1 3
                           it,
 The Comaro Family, still one of the grand ornaments of Northumberland House.                       There
a fine Print of engraved by Baron,

  He was beheaded on Tower Hill. He was Minister of St. Gregory's, London.
                       THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                       259

removing the garden. The house being a noble fabric tho' not com

parable to what was first built by my uncle, who was master of all the

powder-mills.

   5. We went to Squirries Westerham to visit my cousin Leech,
daughter to Sir John Evelyn ; a pretty, finely wooded, and well watered
seate, the stables good, the house old, but convenient. 6. Returned to

Wotton.
10. I din'd at Mr. Carew Raleigh's, at Horsley, son to the famous
Sir Walter.

14. We went to Durdans [Epsom] to a challenged match at bowls

for 10/. which we wonn.

18. To Sir Ambrose Brown at Betchworth Castle, in that tempes

tuous wind which threw downe my greatest trees at Sayes Court, and

did so much mischeife all over England. It continued the whole night
and till 3 in the aftemoone of the next day, in the South West, and

destroyed all our winter fruit.

3 Sept. Died that arch rebell Oliver Cromwell, cal'd Protector.
16. Was publish'd my Translation of St. Chrysostome on Education
of Children, which I dedicated to both my Brothers, to comfort them

on the loss of their children.

21. My Lord Berkeley of Berkeley Castle invited me to dinner.
   26. Mr. King preach'd at Ashted on 1 5 Proverbs 24 ; a Quaker
would have disputed with him. In the afternoone we heard Dr. Hacket

(since Bishop of Lichfield) at Cheame, where the family of the Lumlies
lie buried.

   27. To Bedington, that ancient seate of the Carews, a fine old hall,,
but a scambling house, famous for the first Orange gardens in England,,
being now over-growne trees, planted in the ground, and secured in
winter with a wooden tabernacle and stoves. This seate is rarely
watred, lying low, & inviron'd with good pastures. The pomegranads-
beare here. To the house is also added a fine park. Thence to Cass-
halton, excellently watred, and capable of being made a most delicious,

seate, being on the sweete dowries, and a champion about it full planted
with walnut and cherry-trees, which afford a considerable rent.

Riding over these downes and discoursing with the shepherds, I
found that digging about the bottom neere Sir Christopher Buckle's,1

neere Bansted, divers medails have ben found, both copper and silver,

with foundations of houses, urns, &c. Here indeede anciently stood a.
        of the Romans.
Citty                     (Antonine's Itiner.)
         I return'd home  after 10 weekes absence.
   29.
Oct. 2. I went to London to receive the H. Sacrament. On the 3rd1
Dr. Wild preached in a private place on the 1 Isaiah 4. shewing the

  1 This house is not  far from the  course of the Roman road from Chichester through  Sussex,  '
                       Ockley and    Dorking church-yard. Considerable remains of a    Roman*
and passing through

building have been found on Walton Heath, South of this house ,
200 FUNERAL OF OLIVER CROMWELL. PUBLICATION OF MY BOOK.

parallel betwixt the sinns of Israel and those of England. In the after-
noone Mr. Hall (sonn to Joseph Bp. of Norwich) on I Cor. 6. 2. of the
dignitie of the Saints, a most excellent discourse.
   4. I din'd   with the Holland Ambassador at Derby House: returning
I               see a very while raven, bred in Cumberland ; also a por
   diverted Fo

cupine, of that kind that shoots its quills, (see Claudian) : it was headed
like a rat, the fore feete like a badger, the hind feete like a beare.
   19. I was summoned to London by the Commissioners for new
buildings ; afterwards to the Commission of Sewers ; but because there

was an oath to be taken of fidelity to the Government as now constituted
without a King, I got to be excus'd and return'd home.

   22. Saw the superb funerall of the Protector. He was carried from
Somerset House in a velvet bed of state drawn by six horses, houss'd
with the same ; the pall held up by his new Lords ; Oliver lying in

effigie in royal robes, and crown'd with a crown, sceptre, and globe, like
a king ; the pendants and guidons were carried by the officers of the

army ; and the imperial banners, acheivements, &c. by the heraulds in

their coates ; a rich caparison'd horse, embroider'd all over with gold ; a
knight of honour arm'd cap-a-pie, and after all, his guards, souldicrs,
and innumerable mourners. In this equipage they proceeded to West
minster: but it was the joyfullest funerall I ever saw, for there were

none that cried but dogs, which the soldiers hooted away with a bar

barous noise, drinking and taking tobacco in the streetes as they went.

I returned not home till the 17th Nov.
   I was summon'd againe to London by the Commissioners for new

foundations to be erected within such a distance of London.
   6 Dec. Now was publish'd my ' French Gardener,' the first and

best of that kind that introduced the use of the Olitorie garden to any

purpose.
   ·23. I went with my wife to keep Christmas at my co. Geo. Tuke's,
at Cressing Temple in Essex. Lay that night at Brentwood.
   25. Here was no publiq service, but what we privately us'd.            I
blessed God for his mercies the yeare past, and 1 January begged a
continuance of them. Thus for three Sundays, by reason of the in

cumbent's death, here was neither praying nor preaching, tho' there was

a Chapell in the house.
   1659. 17 Jan. Our old Vicar preach'd, taking leave of the parish

in a pathetical speech, to go to a living in the Citty.
   24 Mar. I went to London to speake to the patron Alderman Cuttler

about presenting a fit pastor for our destitute parish church.
   5 April. Came the Earle of Northampton and the famous painter

Mr. Wright1 to visite me.

  1 Mr, Michael Wright, who painted the twelve judges in Guildhall after the great fire..
There is a long account of him in ' Walpole's Anecdotes of Fainting.' See more of him under
1663, Oct.
                                         THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                 261

   10 April. One Mr. Littler being now presented to t'ne living of our
parish, prcach'd on 6 John 55, a sermon preparatory to the Holy

Sacrament. 

   25. A wonderfull and suddaine change in the face of the publiq ;

the new Protector Richard slighted ; several pretenders and parties
strive for the government : all anarchy and confusion ; Lord have mercy
on us !

   5 May. I went to visite my brother in London, and next day to see

a new Opera,1 after the Italian way, in recitative music and sccanes,

much inferior to the Italian composure and magnificence ; but it was
prodigious that in a time of such publiq consternation such a vanity
should be kept up or permitted. I being engag"d with company could

not decently resist the going to see tho' my heart smote me for it.
         Came the Ambassador of Holland and his Lady to visite me, and
     7.                                  ;

         I                                                  it,
staid the whole afternoone.

   13. return'd the visite, discoursing much of the revolutions, &c.

   19 May. Came to dine with me my Lord Galloway and his son, a
Scotch Lord and learned also my Brother and his Lady, Lord Berkeley
and his Lady, Mrs. Shirley, and the famous singer Mrs. Knight,3 and

other friendes.

   23. went to Rookwood,3 and din'd with Sir William Hicks, where
was great feast and much company. 'Tis a melancholy old house,
     a

        I

inviron'd with trees and rooks.
   26. Came to see me my Lord Geo. Berkeley, Sir Will. Ducy, and
Sir George Pott's sonn of Norfolk.
   29. The Nation was now in extreame confusion and unsettl'd, be
tween the Armies and the Sectaries, the poor Church of England
breathing as were her last, so sad a face of things overspread us.
   17

             I

                   it
      June. To London, to take leave of my brother, and see the founda
tions now laying for a long streete and buildings in Hatton Garden,

design'd for a little towne, lately an ample garden.
                     communicated to Mr. Robert Boyle, son to the Earle of
     Sept.
Corke, my proposal for erecting a philosophic mathematic College.
   15. Came to see me Mr. Brereton, a very learned gentleman, son
to my Lord Brereton, with his and divers other ladies. Also Henry
Howard of Norfolk, since Duke of Norfolk.

     Probably Sir William Davenant's Opera, in which the cruelty of the Spaniards in Peru
   *2 1                                                                  and by art of perspective in scenes,
was                                  itethxepr"esBsieodgrbayphiniastrDurmaemnattailcaa."ndvocalmusic,          4to, 1658.
See
     Afterwards one of Charles the Second's mistresses.
     This was a house in Layton in Essex, better known by the name of Rockholt, or Ruck-
holt, built by Mr. Parvish, a former owner of the estate but new house was afterwards
                                                                         is
                                                                                   a
                                                                                                ';
                                                                                                        a
erected near the site of the former by the family of Hicks, of whom William was created a

baronet in 1619. King Charles II. was entertained here one day when he was hunting, and

knighted William the son of the Baronet- Morant, in his History of Essex,' vol. p. 24,
                                                                                                               I.

printed 1768, speaks of the new house as having been beautiful one, pulled down some years

ago. Previous to this had been a place of public entertainment in a morning, at which

visitors were regaled with tea and music, which not mentioned bv Morant.
262 NO GOVERNMENT IN THE NATION. MY ' APOLOGIE ' FOR THE KING.

jo. I went to visite Sir William Ducie and Col. Blount, where I met
Sir Henry Blount the famous traveller and water-drinker.

10. I came with my wife and family to London: tooke lodgings at

the 3 Feathers in Russell Street, Covent Garden, for all the winter, my
sonn being very unwell.

   1 1 Oct. Came to visite me Mr. William Coventry (since Secretary
to the Duke) son to the Lord Keeper, a wise and witty gentleman.

   The Armie now turn'd out the Parliament. We had now no Govern

ment in the Nation ; all in confusion ; no Magistrate either own'd or
pretended but the Souldiers, and they not agreed. God Almighty have '

mercy on and settle us !

   17. I visited Mr. Howard at Arundel house, who gave me a faire

onyx set in gold, and shew'd me his designe of a Palace there.

   21. A private Fast was kept by the Church of England Protestants
in towne, to beg of God the removal of His judgments, with devout
prayers for His mercy to our calamitous Church.
            Was publish'd my bold Apologie for the King
   7 Nov.   when it was capital to speake or write in favour     in this time
of danger,
                                                                 of him. It

was twice printed, so universaly it took.
9. We observed our solemn Fast for the calamity of our Church.
12. I went to see the severall drougs for the confection of Treacle,

Dioscordium, and other Electuaries, which an ingenious Apothecarie

had not onely prepared and rang'd on a large and very long table, but
coverM every ingredient with a sheete of paper, on which was very lively
painted the thing in miniature, well to the life, were it plant, flowre,

animal, or other exotic droug.

   15 Nov. Din'd with the Dutch Ambassador. He did in a manner
acknowledge that his Nation mind only their own profit, do nothing out
of gratitude, but collateraly as it relates to their gaine or security ; and

therefore the English were to look for nothing of assistance to the
banish'd King. This was to me no very grateful discourse, tho' an

ingenuous confession.

18. Mr. Gunning celebrated the wonted Fast, and preached on 2
Phil. 12, 13.-- Nov. 24. Sir John Evelyn [of Godstone] invited us to
the 41st wedding-day feast, where was much company of friends.

   26. I was introduced into the acquaintance of divers learned and
worthy persons, Sir J. Marsham, Mr. Dugdale, Mr. Stanley, and others.
  9 Dec. I  supp'd with Mr. Gunning,       it being our Fast-day, Dr.
Feame, Mr.  Thrisco, Mr. Chamberlain,      Dr. Henchman, Dr. Wild'

and other devout and learned Divines, firm Confessors and excellent

persons. Note: Most of them since made Bishops.

1 He was of St. John's College, Oxford, Chaplain to Abp. Laud, Vicar of St. Giles, Read
ing. Adhering to the King he preach' d before the Parliament at Oxford. After the Restora
tion he was made Up. of Londonderry in Ireland. He had kept up a religious meeting for
II.the Royalists in Fleet Street. Wood's Athenac, vol.
                                                        p. 351.
                THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                            .263

10. I treated privately with Col. Morley, then Lieutenant of the

Tower, and in greate trust and power, concerning delivering it to the

King, and the bringing of him in, to the greate hazard of my life, but
the Coll. had ben my scholefellow, and I knew would not betray me.
   12. I spent in publiq concerns for his Majesty, pursuing the point

to bring over Colonel Morley, and his brother-in-law Fayne, Governor
of Portsmouth.

18. Preached that famous divine Dr. Sanderson (since Bp. of Line.)
now 80 yeares old, on 30 Jer.  13. concerning the evil  of forsaking                                 God.
   29, Came my Lord Count      Arundel of Wardour to                                                 went
                                                        visite me. I

also to see my Lord Viscount Montague.

31. Settling my domestic affaires in order, blessed God for his
infinite mercies and preservations the past yeare.

  ANNUS Mirabilis 1660. Jan. 1. Begging God's blessings for the

following yeare, I went to Excester Chapell, when Mr. Gunning began

the yeare on 4 Galatians v. 3 to 7, shewing the love of Christ in shed
ding his blood so early for us.

12. Wrote to Col. Morley againe to declare for his Majesty.

22. I went this aftcrnoone to visit Coll. Morley. After dinner I dis-
cours'd with him, but he was very jealous, and would not believe Monk
came in to do the King any service ; I told him he might do it without
him, and have all the honour. He was still doubtfull, and would re

solve on nothing yet, so I took leave.
   3 Feb. Kept the Fast. Generall Monk came now to London out
of Scotland, but no man knew what he would do, or declare, yet he

was met on all his way by the Gentlemen of all the Counties which he
pass'd, with petitions that he would recall the old long interrupted Par
liament and settle the nation in some order, being at this time in most

prodigious confusion and under no government, every body expecting
what would be next and what he would do.

10. Now were the Gates of the Citty broken down by General Monke,

which exceedingly exasperated the Citty, the souldiers marching up and

down as triumphing over and all the old army of the phanatics put
                ',
                  it,

                                                                                                  ;
·»ut of their posts, and sent out of towne.

   11. A signal day. Monk, perceiving how infamous and wretched

a pack of knaves would have still usurped the supreame power, and
having intelligence that they intended to take away his commission,
repenting of what he had don to the Citty, and where he and his forces
quartered, marches to White-hall, dissipates that nest of robbers, and
convenes the old Parliament, the Rump Parliament (so call'd as retain
ing some few rotten members of the other) being dissolv'd and for joy
whereoff were many thousand of rumps roasted publiqly in the streetes
at the bonfires this night with ringing of bells, and universal jubilee.

This was the first good omen.

Pamphlets with cuts representing this were printed at the lime. .
       264 MY PAMPHLET. THE RESTORATION OP CHARLES II.

          From 1 7 Feb. to 5 April I was detain'd in bed with a kind of double

       tertian, the cruell effects of the spleene and other distempers, in that

       extremity that my physicians, Drs. Wetherborn, Needham, and Claude,

       were in great doubt of my recovery, but it pleas'd God to deliver me
       out of this affliction, for which I render him hearty thanks : going to
       Church the 8th and receiving the blessed Eucharist.
       . During this sicknesse came divers of my relations and friends to

       visite me, and it retarded my going into the country longer than 1 in
       tended ; however I writ and printed a letter in defence of his Majesty ',

       against a wicked forg'd paper, pretended to be sent from Bruxells tc
. defame his Majesties person and vertues, and render him odious, now
       when every body was in hope and expectation of the General and Par

       liament recalling him, and establishing the Government on its antient

       and right basis. The doing this towards the decline of my sicknesse,

       and setting up long in my bed, had caus'd a small relapse, out of which

       it yet pleas'd God also to free me, so as by the 14th I was able to go

       into the country, which I did to my sweete and native aire at Wotton.

          3 May. Came the most happy tidings of his Majesty's gracious de
       claration and applications to the Parliament, General!, and People, and
       their dutiful acceptance and acknowledgment, after a most bloudy and
       unreasonable rebellion of neere 20 yeares. Praised be for ever the Lord
       of Heaven, who onely dt»eth wondrous things, because His mercy en-
       dureth for ever !

         8. This day was his Majestie proclaim'd in London, &c.
          9 May. I was desir'd, and design'd to accompany my Lord Berkeley
       with the public Addresse of the Parliament, Generall, &c. to the King,
       and invite him to come over and assume his Kingly Government, he
       being now at Breda ; but I was yet so weake I could not make that
       journey by sea, which was not a little to my detriment, so I went to

       London to excuse myselfe, returning the 10th, having yefreceiv'd a

       gracious message from his Majestie by Major Scot and Coll. Tuke.

          24. Came to me Col. Morley, about procuring his pardon, now too

       late seeing his error and neglect of the counsel I gave him, by which if
       he had taken it he had certainly done the great work with the same
       ease that Monk did who was then in Scotland, and Morley in post
                          it,                                                                                    Ia

                                   I
       to have done what he pleas'd, but his jealousie and feare kept him from

       that blessing and honor.       address'd him Lord Mordaunt, then in

       greate favour, for his pardon, which he obtain'd at the cost of 1000/. as
                  the sottish omission of this gentleman what did not
I      heard.  O                                                                                   !
                                                                                                        !
      1undergo of danger in this negotiation to have brought him over to his

       Majesty's interest, when was intirely in his handsit

         29. This day his Majestie Charles II. came to London after a sad

     The title cf is,      The late News or Message                    'AfroCmolleBcrtuiossnelsof  unmask'd.      This  and the
pamphlet which gave       occasion for are printed in                                              interesting  Tracts  selected
               it                                                                                             '

                         *

                                            it

                                                                    x
from the Sommers Collection of Tracts,' vol. 410. 1705.
                     THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                                 265

and Jong exile and calamitous suffering both of the King and Church,
being 17 yeares. This was also his birth-day, and with a triumph ol

above 20,000 horse and foote, brandishing their swords and shouting
with inexpressible joy ; the wayes strew'd with flowers, the bells ringing,

the streetes hung with tapistry, fountaines running with wine j the
Maior, Aldermen, and all the Companies in their liveries, chaines of

gold, and banners ; Lords and Nobles clad in cloth of silver, gold, and

velvet ; the windowes and balconies well set with ladies ; trumpets,

music, and myriads of people flocking, even so far as from Rochester,

so as they were seven houres in passing the Citty, even from 2 in the
             till 9
afternoone  in the   at night.           and bless'd God. And all this
                     Strand and
   I stood
4                                beheld
     it

          I
                                                    ;
                                         it
                                                           it,

                                                          I
                                                                                                                                        ;
was don without one drop of blond shed, and by that very army which
rebell'd against him but was the Lord's doing, for such a Restaura-

tion was never mention'd in any history antient or modern, since the

returne of the Jews from the Babylonish captivity nor so joyiull a day
and so bright ever seene in this Nation, this hapning when to expect or
effect was past all human policy.
      June. receiv'd letters of Sir Richard Browne's landing at Dover,
and also letters from the Oueene, which was to deliver at White-hall,

not as yet presenting myselfe to his Majesty by reason of the infinite

concourse of people. The eagerness of men, women, and children to

see his Majesty and kisse his hands was so greate, that he had scarce
leisure to eate for some dayes, coming as they did from all parts of the
Nation and the King being as willing to give them that satisfaction,
;

                 I
                                    I
would have none kept out, but gave accesse to all sorts of people.

Addressing myselfe to the Duke, was carried to his Majestie when

very few noblemen were with him, and kiss'd his hands, being very
' graciously receiv'd. then return'd home to meete Sir Richard Browne,
who came not till the 8th, after a 19 yeares exile, during all which time
he kept up in his chapell the Liturgie and Offices of the Church of

England, to his no small honour, and in a time when was so low, and
                                                                                                                                           it

as many thought utterly lost, that in various controversies both with

Papists and Sectaries our Divines us'd to argue for the visibility of the

Church, from his chapell and congregation.

was all this week to and fro at Court about buisinesse.
1I
16. The French, Italian, and Dutch Ministers came to make theirI

address to his Majesty, one Monsieur Stoope pronouncing the harangue

with greate eloquence.
18. propos'd the Ambassy of Constantinople for Mr. Henshaw,

but my Lord Winchelsea struck in.1

Goods that had ben pillag'd from White-hall during the Rebellion. .

    It was on his return from this embassy that his Lordship visiting Sicily was an eye-wit

ness of the dreadful eruption of Mount jEtna in 1669, a short account ot which was afterwards
published in a small pamphlet, with a cut by Hollar of the Mountain, &c
266 TOUCHING FOR THE KING'S EVIL. CITY OF COLOGNE.

were now daily brought in and restor'd upon proclamation ; as plate,

hangings, pictures, &c.
   21. The Warwickshire gentlemen (as did all the shires and cheif

townes in all the three Nations) presented their congratulatory Addresse.

It was carried by my Lord Northampton.
   30. The Sussex gentlemen presented their Addresse, to which was

my hand. I went with it and kiss'd his Majesties hand, who was pleas'd
to own me more particularly by calling me his old acquaintance and

speaking very graciously to me.

   3 July. I went to Hide-park, where was his Majestie and abound-
ance of gallantrie.

   4. I heard Sir Sam. Tuke harangue to the House of Lords in

"behalfe of the Roman Catholics, and his account of the transaction at

Colchester in murdering Lord Capel, and the rest of those brave men

that suffer'd in cold bloud, after articles of rendition.

   5. I saw his Majestie go with as much pompe and splendour as any

·earthly prince could do to the greate Citty feast, the first they had
invited him to since his returne, but the exceeding raine which fell all

that day much eclips'd its lustres. This was at Guild-hall, and there
was also all the Parliament men, both Lords and Commons. The

streetes were adorn'd with pageants at immense cost.

   6. His Majestie began first to touch for the evil, according to cos-

tome, thus-: his Majestie sitting under his State in the Banquetting House,
the Chirurgeons cause the sick to be brought or led up to the throne,
where they kneeling, the King strokes their faces or cheekes with both

his hands at once,   at which instant a Chaplaine in his  formalities says,
'' He put his hands  upon them and he healed them.'
                                                          This is sayd to

every one in particular. When they have ben all touch'd they come

up againe in the same order, and the other Chaplaine kneeling, and

having Angel gold1 strung on white ribbon on his arme, delivers them

one by one to his Majestie, who puts them about the necks of the touched
.as they passe, whilst the first Chaplaine repeats, ' That is the true light
who came into the world.' Then followes an Epistle (as at first a
 Gospell) with the Liturgy, prayers for the sick, with some alteration,

lastly the blessing ; and the Lo. Chamberlaine and Comptroller of the

Household bring a basin, ewer and towell, for his Majestie to wash.
   The King receivM a congratulatory addresse from the Citty of Co

logne in Germany, where he had ben some time in his exile ; his Majesty

saying they were the best people in the world, the most kind and worthy

to him that he ever met with.

   I recommended Mons. Messeroy to be Judge Advocate in Jersey, by

the Vice-Chamberlain's mediation with the Earle of St. Albans ; and

-saluted my excellent and worthy noble friend my Lord Ossory, sonn to

'the Marquess of Ormond, after many yeares absence returned home.

1 Pieces of money so called from having the figure of an angel on them.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                    267

   8. Mr. Henchman preached on 5 Ephes. 5, concerning Christian
circumspection. From henceforth was the Liturgie publiquely used in
our Churches, whence it had ben for so many yeares banished.
   15. Came Sir Geo. Carterett and Lady to visite us : he was now
Treasurer of the Navy.

   28. I heard his Majesties Speech in the Lords House, on passing the
Bills of Tonnage and Poundage ; restauration of my Lord Ormond to
his estate in Ireland ; concerning the Commission of Sewers, and con
tinuance of the Excise.-- In the afternoone I saluted my old friend the
Archbishop of Armagh, formerly of Londonderry (Dr. Bramhall).
He presented several Irish Divines to be promoted as Bishops in that
kingdom, most of the Bishops in the three kingdoms being now
almost worne out, and the Sees vacant.

   31. I went to visite Sir Philip Warwick, now Secretary to the Lord

Treasurer, at his house in North Cray.
   Aug. 19. Our Vicar read the 39 Articles to the Congregation, the

National Assemblies beginning to settle, and wanting instruction.

   23. Came Duke Hamilton, Lord Lothian, and several Scottish
Lords, to see my garden.

   25. Coll. Spencer, Collonel of a Regiment of Horse in our County
of Kent, sent to me and intreated that I would take a Commission for
a Troope of Horse, and that I woulde nominate my Lieutenant and
Ensigns ; I thank'd him the honour intended me, but would by no

means undertake the trouble.
   4 Sept. I was invited to an Ordination by the Bishop of Bangor in
Henry the Sevenths Chapell, Westminster, and afterwards saw the .
audience of an Envoye"e from the Duke of Anjou, sent to compliment

his Majesties return.
   5. Came to visit and dine with me the Envoyee of the King of Po
land and Resident of the King of Denmark, &c.

  7. I went to Chelsey, to visite Mr. Boyle, and see his pneumatic

engine performe divers experiments. Thence to Kensington, to visite

M. Henshaw, returning home that evening.
   13. I saw in Southwark at St. Margaret's Faire, menkies and apes

dance and do other feates of activity on the high rope ; they were gal
lantly clad a la mode, went upright, saluted the company, bowing and
pulling off their hatts ; they saluted one another with as good a grace

as if instructed by a dauncing-master ; they turn'd heels over head with

a basket having eggs in without breaking any also with lighted
                                             it,

                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                   I
candles in their hands and on their heads without extinguishing them,
and with vessells of water without spilling a drop.                                                          also saw an

aItdamliairnatiwoennc;haldlatuhneceCoaunrdt  performe all the  tricks on  the "high rope to
                                             went to see her.  Likewise   here was a man

who tooke up a piece of iron cannon of about 400 lb. weight with the
haire of his head onely.
268 POLL TAX PAID. EXECUTION OF REGICIDES.

   17 Sept. I went to London to see the splendid entry of the Prince .

de Ligne, Ambassador extraordinary from Spaine ; he was Generall of
the Spanish King's horse in Flanders, and was accompanied with divers
greate persons from thence, and an innumerable retinue. His train
                         with 6 horses of   his                      a gre?te
consisted of 17 coaches    Greater bravery  had  owne, besides        He was
number of English, &c.
                                                 I never seene.

receivM in the Danquetting House in exceeding state, all the greate
Officers of Court attending.
   13. In the midst of all this joy and jubilee the Duke of Glocester

died of the small pox in the prime of his youth, and a prince of

extraordinary hopes.
   27. The King received the Merchants Addresses in his closet,

giving them assurance of his persisting to kcepe Jamaica, choosing Sir
Edw. Massy Governor. In the afternoone the Danish Ambassadors
condolencies were presented, on the death of the D. of Gloucester. This
evening I saw the Princesse Royal, mother to the Pr. of Orange, now
come out of Holland in a fatal period.

   6 Oct I paid the greate Tax of Poll Money levied for disbanding
the Army, till now kept up. I paid as an Esquire .£.10, and one

shilling for every servant in my house.
   7 Oct. There din'd with me a French Count, with Sir George Tuke,

who came to take leave of me, being sent over to the Queene Mother to
breake the marriage of the Duke with the daughter of Chancellor Hide.

The Queene would fain have undon
1                                           but seemes matters were
   1
             !reconcil'd on greate offers of the Chancellor's to befriend the Queene,
                    ;

                                        I

                                                                it,

                                                         I it
who was much in debt, and was now to have the settlement of her

affaires go through his hands.
       Oct. The Regicides who sat on the life of our late King, were

brought to tryal in the Old Bailey, before a Commission of Oyer and-

Terminer.

. 14. Axtall, Carew, Clements, Hacker, Hewson, and Peters, were

executed.

   17. Scot, Scroope, Cook, and Jones, suffered for reward of their
iniquities at Charing Crosse, in sight of the place where they put to
death their natural Prince, and in the presence of the King his sonn

whom they also sought to kill.  saw not their execution, but met

their quarters mangl'd and cutt and reeking as they were brought from

the gallows in baskets on the hurdle. Oh the miraculous providence

of God

   28. His Majesty went to meet the Queene Mother.
   29." Going to London, my Lord Maior's shew stopp'd me. in
Cheapside one of the pageants represented a greate Wood, with the

Royal Oake and historie of his Majesty's miraculous escape at Boscobel.
   Oct. 31. Arived now to my Fortieth year, rendered to Almighty

God my due and hearty thanks.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  .  269

   Nov. 1. I went with some of my relations to Court, to shew them

his Majesties cabinet and closset of rarities ; the rare miniatures of
 Peter Oliver after Raphael, Titian, and other masters, which I infinitely
cstceme ; also that large piece of the Dutchesse of Lennox don in ena-
inaile by Petitot, and a vast number of achates, onyxes and intaglios,
especially a medalion of Caesar, as broad as my hand ; likewise rare
cabinets of Pietra Commessa ; a landscape of needlework, formerly
presented by the Dutch to King Cha. I. Here I saw a vast book of
mapps in a volume neere 4 yards large ; a curious ship modell ; and
amongst the clocks, one that shew'd the rising and setting of the Sun
in the Zodiaq, the Sunn represented by a face and raies of gold, upon
an azure skie, observing the diurnal and annual motion, rising and
setting behind a landscape of hills, the work of our famous Fromantel ;
and severall other rarities.

    3. Ariv'd the Queene Mother in England, whence she had ben
banish'd almost 20 yeares ; together with her illustrious daughter the
 Princesse Henrietta, divers Princes and Noblemen accompanying them.

   15. I kiss'd the Queene Mother's hand.
   20. I din'd at the Clerk Comptroler's of the Greene Clothe, being

the first day of the re-establishment of the Court Diet and settling of

his Majesty's Household.
    23. Being this day in the Bedchamber of the Princess Henrietta,

where were many greate beauties and noblemen, I saluted divers of my

old friends and acquaintances abroad ; his Majesty carrying my wife to
salute the Queene and Princesse, and then led her into his closet, and
with his owne hands shew'd her divers curiosities.

    25. Dr. Rainbow preach'd before the King, on 2 Luke 14. of the
glory to be given God for all his mercies, especialy for restoring the
Church and government ; now the service was perform'd with musiq,
voices, &c as formerly.

    27. Came downe the Cleark Comptroler [of the Greene Cloth] by
the Lord Steward's appointment, to survey the land at Says Court, on

which I had pretence, and to make his report.1
   Dec. 6. I waited on my brother and sister Evelyn to Court. Now

were presented to his Majestie those two rare pieces of Drolery, or
rather a Dutch Kitchin, painted by Dowe so finely as hardly to be

distinguish'd from enamail. I was also shew'd divers rich Jewells and
chrystal vases ; the rare head of yo, Belino, Titian's master ; Christ in

the Garden, by Hannibal Caracci ; two incomparable heads by Hol
bein ; the Queene Mother in a miniature,' almost as big as the life ; an
exquisite piece of carving, 2 unicorns' homes, &c. This in the Closset.

   1 The King's Household used to be supplied with com and cattle from the different Counties ;
and oxen being sent up, pasture grounds of the King near town were allotted for them :
amongst these were lands at Deptford and Tottenham Court, which were under the direction
of the Lord Steward and Board of Greene Cloth. Sir Rich. Browne had the keeping of tho
lands at Deptford.
270.  DEATH OF THE PRINCESS OF ORANGE.

   13. I presented my son John to the Queene Mother, who kissed

 him, talked with and made extraordinary much of him.

    14. I visited my Lord Chancellor, the Marchionesse of Ormond, and.

 Countesse of Guildford, all of whom we had knowne abroad in exile.
    18. I carried Mr. Spellman, a most ingenious gentleman, grandchild

 to the learned Sir Henry, to my Lord Mordaunt, to whom I had re

 commended him as Secretary.
    22. The marriage of the Chancellor's daughter being now newly

 owned, I went to see her, she being Sir Richard Browne's intimate-

 acquaintance when she waited on the Princesse of Orange ; she was
 now at her father's at Worcester House in the Strand. We all kiss'd
 her hand, as did also my Lord Chamberlain (Manchester) and Coun
 tesse of Northumberland. . This was a strange change -- can it succeed
 well !-- I spent the evening at St. James's, whither the Princesse Hen
 rietta was retir'd during the fatal sicknesse of her sister the Princesse
 of Orange, now come over to salute the King her brother. The Prin
 cesse gave my wife an extraordinary compliment and gracious accept
 ance, for the 'Character' she had presented her the day before, and

 which was afterwards printed.
    21. This day died the Princesse of Orange, of the small pox, which

 wholly alterd the face and gallantry of the whole Court.

    25. Preached at the Abbey Dr. Earle, Cleark of his Majesties Closet
 and my deare friend, now Deane of Westminster, on 2 Luke 13. 14.
 condoling the breache made in the publiq joy by the lamented death of

Ithe3aPrinIcedsisne'd. at Court with Mr. Crane, Cleark of the Greene Cloth.
     31. gave God thankes for his many signal mercies to my selfe,
. Church and Nation, this wonderfull yeare.

    1661..2 Jan. The Queene Mother, with the Princesse Henrietta,
 began her journey to Portsmouth, in order to her returne into France.

    5. I visited my Lord Chancellor Clarendon, with whom I had ben

 well acquainted abroad

  ....6. Dr. Allestree preachd at the Abby, after which 4 Bishops were

 consecrated, Hereford, Norwich
    This night was suppress'd a bloudy insurrection of some Fifth-Mo

 narchy enthusiasts. Some of them were examin'd at the Council the
 next day, but could say nothing to extenuate their madnesse and un

 warrantable zeale.

    I was now chosen (and nominated by his Majestie for one of the

 Council) by suffrage of the rest of the Members, a Fellow of the Philo
 sophic Society now meeting at Gressham College, where was an as
 sembly of divers learned gentlemen. This being the first meeting since
 the King's return ; but it had ben begun some yeares before at Oxford,
 and was continued with interruption here in London during the Rebellion.

     There was another rising of the Phanatics, in which some were slaine.
               - THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                  27 1

   16. I went to the Philosophic Club, where was examin'd the Torri

cellian experiment. I presented my Circle of Mechanical Trades, and
had recommended to me the publishing of what I had written upon

Chalcography.                   since I had seen             I went to see

'    25.   After divers yeares  new Theater in    any play,  Inn Fields.    acted
          Scornful Lady,' at a                    Lincoln's
   The
   30. Was the first solemn fast and day of humiliation to deplore the
sinns which so long had provok'd God against this afflicted church and

people, order'd by Parliament to be annually celebrated to expiate the

guilt of the execrable murder of the late King.
   This day (O the stupendous and inscrutable judgments of God !)

were the carcasses of those arch rebells Cromwell, Bradshaw the Judge

who condemned his Majestie, and Ireton, sonn-in-law to the Usurper,

dragg'd out of their superb tombs in Westminster among the Kings,
to Tyburne, and hang'd on the gallows there from 9 in the morning till
6 at night, and then buried under that fatal and ignominious monument
in a deepe pitt ; thousands of people who had seene them in all their
pride being spectators. Looke back at Nov. 22, 1658, [Oliver's
funeral,] and be astonish'd ! and feare God and honor the King ; but

meddle not with them who are given to change !

   6 Feb. To London to our Society, where I gave notice of the visit

of the Danish Ambassador Extraordinary, and was ordered to return
him their acceptance of that honour, and to invite him the next

meeting day.

   10. Dr. Baldero preach'd at Ely House, on 6 Matt. v. 33. of seeking

early the kingdome of God ; after sermon the Bishop (Dr. Wren) gave
us the blessing very pontifically.

  73 Feb. I conducted the Danish Ambassador to our meeting at

Gressham College, where were shew'd him divers experiments in vacuo,

and other curiosities.

   I21. Prince Rupert first shewed me how to grave in Mezzo Tinto.

   26. went to Lord Mordaunt's at Parson's Green.
   27. Ash Wed. Preached before the King the Bishop of London
(Dr. Sheldon) on 18     Matt. 25. concerning charity and forgivenesse.
   8 March. I went      to my Lord Chancellor's, and delivered to him       the

state of my concernement at Sayes Court.
   9. I went with that excellent person and philosopher Sir Robert

Murray, to visit Mr. Boyle at Chelsey, and saw divers effects of the

Eolipile for weighing aire.

   13. I went to Lambeth with Sir R. Browne's pretence to the War-

denship of Merton Coll. Oxford, to which, as having ben about 40
years before a student of that house, he was elected by the votes of
every Fellow except one ; but the Statutes of the house being so that

unlesse every Fellow agree, the election devolves to the Visitor, who is

the Archbishop of Canterbury (Dr. Juxon), his Grace gave his nomina-
272 MY HISTORY OF CHALCOGRAPHY. DECLINE BEING KNIGHTED.

tion to Sir T. Clayton, resident there and the Physick Professor ; for
which I was not at all displeas'd, because, tho' Sir Richard miss'd it by

much ingratitude and wrong of the Archbishop (Clayton being no
Fellow), yet it would have hindered Sir Richard from attending at

Court to settle his greater concernes, and so have prejudic'd me, tho'
he was much inclin'd to have pass'd his time in a collegiate life, very

unfit for him at that time, for many reasons. -So I tooke leave of his
Grace, who was formerly Lord Treasurer in the reigne of Chs. I.

   This afternoone Prince Rupert shew'd me with his owne hands the

new way of graving called Mezzo Tinto, which afterwards by his per

mission I publish'd in my History of Chalcography ; this set so many

artistes on worke, that they soone ariv*d to that perfection it is since

come, emulating the tenderest miniatures.
   Our Society now gave in my relation of the Pic of Teneriffe in the

Great Canaries, to be added to more queries concerning divers natural

things reported of that Island.

   I return'd home with my Cousin Tuke, now going for France, as
sent by his Majesty, to condole the death of that greate minister and

politician Cardinal Mazarine.
                Heylin (author of the Geography)
5  29.    Dr.   concerning Friendship & Charitie  preach'd at  the Abby, on
                                                               think, at this
   Cant.   25.                                    ; he was, I

time quite darke, and so had ben for some yeares.
   31. This night his Majestie promis'd to make my wife Lady of the
Jewels (a very honourable charge) to the future Queene (but which he
never perform'd.)

   1 April. I din'd with that great mathematician and virtuoso Mon

sieur Zulichem, inventor of the pendule clock, and discoverer of the

phenomenon of Saturn's annulus ; he was elected into our Society.
   19. To London, and saw the bathing and rest of the ceremonies of
the Knights of the Bath, preparatory to the Coronation ; it was in the

Painted Chamber, Westminster. I might have received this honour,
but declined it. The rest of the Ceremonie was in the Chapell at
White-hall, when their swords being laid on the altar, the Bishop de-

liver'd them.
   22. Was the splendid cavalcade of his Majestie from the Tower of

London to White-hall, when I saw him in the Banquetting House

create 6 Earls, and as many Barons, viz.
   Edward Lord Hide,' Lord Chancellor, Earle of Clarendon ; sup

   1 In 1656 or 1657, attempts were made to remove the Chancellor (Hyde), by accusing him
of betraying his Majesty's Counsels, and holding correspondence. with Cromwell ; but these

allegations were so trivial and frivolous, that they manifestly appeared to be nothing but the
effects of malice against him, and therefore produced the contrary effects to those which some
desired, and strengthened the King's kindness to him ; as giving him just occasion to believe
that these suggestions against him proceeded all from one and the same cause, namely, from
the ambition which some people had to enter in his room into the first trust of his Majesty's

affairs, if once they could remove him from his station. Life of King Ja-nes II. from his own

papers, 1.S16, vol. I. p. 274.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  273

ported by the Earles of Northumberland and Sussex ; the Earle of
Bedford carried the cap and coronet, the Earle of Warwick the sword,
the Earle of Newport the mantle.

   Next, was Capel, created Earle of Essex ; Brudenell, Cardigan ;
Valentia, Anglesea ; Greenvill, Bath ; and Howard, Earle of Carlisle.

   The Barons were : Denzill Holies ; Cornwallis ; Booth ; Townsend ;
Cooper ; Crew ; who were all led up by severall Peers, with Garter and
Officers of Armes before them ; when, after obedience on their severall
approches to the Throne, their patents were presented by Garter King
at Armes, which being receiv'd by the Lord Chamberlaine and deliver'd
to his Majesty, and by him to the Secretary of State, were read and then
againe deliver'd to his Majestie, and by him to the severall Lords
created ; they were then rob'd, their coronets and collers put on by his
Majestie, and they were plac'd in rank on both sides the State and
Throne, but the Barons put off their caps and circles and held them in

their hands, the Earles keeping on their coronets as cousins to the King.

   I spent the rest of the evening in seeing the severall arch-trium-

phals built in the streetes at severall eminent places thro' which his
Majesty was nextdayto passe,some of which, tho'tcmporary,and to stand
but one yeare, were of good invention and architecture, with inscriptions.

   23. Was the Coronation of his Majesty Charles II. in the Abby
Church of Westminster ; at all which ceremonie I was present. The
King and all his Nobility went to the Tower, I accompanying my

Lord Viscount Mordaunt part of the way ; this was on Sun. the 22d,
but indeede his Majestie went not til early this morning, and proceeded
from thence to Westminster in this order :,

   First went the Duke of York's Horse Guards. Messengers of the
Chamber. 136 Esquires to the Knights of the Bath, each of whom
had two, most richly habited. The Knight Harbinger. Serjeant
Porter. Sewers of the Chamber. Quarter Waiters. Six Clearks ot
Chancery. Clearke of the Signet. Clearke of the Privy Seale. Clearks
of the Council, of the Parliament, and of the Crowne. Chaplaines in or
dinary having dignitaries 10. Kings Advocats and Remembrancer.
Council at Law. Members of the Chancery. Puisne Serjeants. Kings
Attorney and Solicitor. Kings eldest Serjeant. Secretaries of the
French and Latine tongue. Gent. Ushers, Daily Waiters, Sewers, Car
vers, and Cupbearers in ordinary. Esquires of the Body 4. Masters
of standing offices being no Councellors, viz. of the Tents, Revels,
Ceremonies, Armorie, Wardrobe, Ordnance, Requests. Chamberlaine
of the Exchequer. Barons of the Exchequer. Judges. Lord Chiete
Baron. Lord C. Justice of the Common Pleas. Master of the Rolls.
Lord C. Justice of England. Trumpets. Gentlemen of the Privy
Chamber. Knights of the Bath, 68, in crimson robes exceeding rich

   1 There is a full account of this Ceremony with fine Sculptures, in a folio volume, published
by John Ogilhy, i6fa.

                                                                                                             18
274 THE CORONATION OF CHARLES THE SECOND. '                                   J

and the noblest  shew of the whole cavalcade,  his Majestie excepted.         -
Knt. Marshall.    Treasurer of the Chamber.    Master of the Jewells.

Lords of the Privy Council. Comptroller of the Household. Treasurer
of the Household. Trumpets. Serjeant Trumpet. Two Pursuivants at
Armes. Barons. Two Pursuivants at Armes. Viscounts. Two Heraulds.
Earles. Lord Chamberlaine of the Household. Two Heraulds.
Marquisses. Dukes. Heralds Clarencieux and Norroy. Lord Chan
cellor. Lord High Steward of England. Two persons repre
senting the Dukes of Normandy and Aquitain, viz. Sir Richard
Fanshawe and Sir Herbert Price, in fantastiq habits of the time.
Gentlemen Ushers. Garter. Lord Maior of London. The Duke of
York alone (the rest by two's). Lord High Constable of England.
Lord Great Chamberlaine of England. The Sword borne by the Earle

Marshal of England. The KING in royal robes and equipage. After
wards- followM Equerries, Footemen, Gent. Pensioners. Master of the

Horse leading a horse richly caprison'd. Vice Chamberlaine. Captain
of the Pensioners. Captain of the Guard. The Guard. The HorseGuard.

The Troope of Volunteers with many other Officers and Gentlemen.
This magnificent traine on horseback, as rich as embroidery, velvet,
cloth of gold and silver, and Jewells, could make them and their

pransing horses, proceeded thro' the street es strew'd with flowers,
houses hung with rich tapessry, windoes and balconies full of ladies ;
the London Militia lining the ways, and the severall Companies with

their banners and loud musiq rank'd in their orders ; the fountaines

running wine, bells ringing, with speeches made at the severall trium
phal arches ; at that of the Temple Barr (neere which I stood) the ·
Lord Maior was received by the Bayliff of Westminster, who in a scar

let robe made a speech. Thence with joyful acclamations his Majestie

passed to Whitehall. Bonfires at night.
The next day, being St. George's, he went by water to Westminster

Abby. When his Majestie was enter'd, the Deane and Prebendaries

brought all the regalia, and deliver'd them to severall Noblemen to beare
before the King, who met them at the west doore of the Church singing

an anthem, to the Quire. Then came the Peers in their robes, and coro
nets in their hands, til his Majestie was plac'd in a throne elevated before
the altar. Then the Bishop of London (the Archbishop of Canterbury
being sick) went to every side of the throne to present the King to the
People, asking if they would have him for their King and do him
homage ; at this they shouted 4 times God save King Charles the
Second/ Then an anthem was sung. Then his Majestie attended by
3 Bishops went up to the altar, and he offer' d a pall and a pound of
gold. Afterwards he sate downe in another chaire during the sermon,

which was preach'd by Dr. Morley then Bishop of Worcester. After
sermon the King tooke his oath before the altar to maintain the Reli- .
gion, Magna Charta, and Laws of the Land. The hymn Veni S. Sp.
                         THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                           275

  follow'd, and then the Litany by-2 Bishops. Then the Archbishop of

  jCanterbury, present but much indispos'd and weake, said Lift up your

  hearts at which the King rose up and put off his robes and uppei
  garments, and was in a waistcoate so opened in divers places that tha
  Archb'p might commodiously anoint him, first in the palmes of his

  hands, when an anthem was sung and a prayer read ; then his breast

  and twixt the shoulders, bending of both armes, and lastly on ths

  crowne of the head, with apposite hymns and prayers at each anoynt-
  ing ; this don, the Deane clos'd and button'd up the wastcoate. Then

  was a coyfe put on, and the cobbium, syndon, or dalmatic, and over

  this a supertunic of cloth of gold, with buskins and sandals of the same,

  spurrs, and the sword, a prayer being first said over it by the Arch
  bishop on the altar before t'was girt on by the Lord Chamberlaine.

  Then the armill, mantle, &c. Then the Archbishop plac'd the crowne
  imperial on the altar pray'd over and set on his Majesties head, at
  which all the Peers put on their coronets. Anthems and rare musiq,a
                                         it,
  with lutes, viols, trumpets, organs, and voices, were then heard, andit
  the Archbishop put a ring on his Majesties finger. The King next
  offer'd his sword on the altar, which being redeemed was drawn and a
                                                                                                          ;
  borne before him. Then the Archbishop deliver'd him the sceptre withI

  the dove in one hand, and in the other the sceptre with the globe.
  Then the King kneeling, the Archbishop pronoune'd the blessing.
  The King then ascending againe his Royal Throne, whilst Te Deum

  was singing, all the Peeres did their homage, by every one touching his

  crowne. The Archbishop and rest of the Bishops first kissing the
  King who receiv'd the holy sacrament, and so disrob'd, yet with the
  crowne imperial on his head, and accompanied with all the Nobility in;

  the former order, he went on (bote upon blew cloth, which was spreadI

  and reach'd from the West dore of the Abby to Westminster stayres,

  when he tooke water in triumphal barge to Whitehall, where was ex

  traordinary feasting.
      24. presented his Majestie with his Panegyric' in the Privy Cham
  ber, which he was pleas'd to accept most graciously gave copies to
  the Lord Chancellor and most of the Noblemen who came to me for it.
    din'd at the Marques of Ormonds, where was magnificent feaste
1I
  and many greate persons.
        May. went to Hide Park to take the aire, where was his Majesty
    1         I

  and an innumerable appearance of gallants and rich coaches, being
  now a time of universal festivitie and joy.
    2. had audience of my Lord Chancellor about my title to Says Court.
        I II        to see the wonderfull engine for weaving silk stockings,
      3.  to  went  ben the invention of an Oxford scholler 40 years since                                   ;
              have
  said
  and return'd by Fromantil's the famous clock-maker to see some pen-
  dules, Monsieur Zulichem being with us.
    Yix. a Poem upon his Majesty's Coronation, the aj of April 1661, being St. George's Day.
276 OPENING OF PARLIAMENT. THE SCOTCH COVENANT BURNT.

  This evening I was with my Lord Brouncker, Sir Robert Murray,

Sir Pa. Neill, Monsieur Zulichem, and Mr. Bull (all of them of our-
Society and excellent mathematicians), to shew his Majestie, who was
present, Saturn's annulus as some thought, but as Zulichem affirm'd

with his Balleus (as that learned gentleman had publish'd), very neere
eclips'd by the Moon, neere the Mons Porphyrins ; also Jupiter and

Satelites, thro' his Majesty's great telescope, drawing 35 foote ; on
which were divers discourses.
8 May. His Majestie rod in state, with his imperial crowne on, and

all the Peeres in their robes, in great pomp to the Parliament now

newly chosen (the old one being dissolv'd) ; and that evening declar'd
in Council his intention to marry the Infanta of Portugal.

   9. At Sir Rob. Murray's, where I met Dr. Wallis, Professor of Geo

metry in Oxon, where was discourse of several! mathematicall subjects.

   11. -My wife presented to his Majesty the Madona she had copied

in miniature from P. Oliver's painting after Raphael, which she wrought
with extraordinary pains and judgment. The King was infinitely

pleas'd with and caus'd to be plac'd in his cabinet amongst his
I

            it,
                                    it
best paintings.

   13. heard and saw such exercises at the election of Scholars at
Westminster School to be sent to the University, in Latin, Greek,

Hebrew, and Arabic, in themes and extemporary verses, as wonderfully

astonish'd me in such youths, with such readiness and witt, some of

them not above 12 or 13 years of age. Pity              that what they attaine
                                                        it
                                                            is

                                                                                  ;
here so ripely, they either not retain or do not improve more consider

ably when they come to be men, tho' many of them do and no lesse

to be blamed their odd pronouncing of Latine, so that out of England
is

                                                  ;
none were able to understand or endure it. The Examinants or Posers
were, Dr. Duport, Greek Professor at Cambridge Dr. Fell, Deane of
                                                        ;

Christ Church Oxon Dr. Pierson, Dr. Alestree Deane of Westmin

ster, and any that would.

-14 May. His Majesty was pleas'd to discourse with me con

cerning several particulars relating to our Society, and the planet

Saturn, &c. as he sat at supper in the withdrawing room to his bed

chamber.

16. din'd with Mr. Garmus, the Resident from Hamburgh, who
I

                                   9
continu'd his feast neere whole hours, according to the custome of his
country, tho' there was no greate excesse of drinking, no man being

oblig'd to take.more than he lik'd.

22. The Scotch Covenant was burnt by the common hangman in

divers places in London. Oh prodigious change           !
   29. This was the first Anniversarie appointed by Act of Parliament1
to be observed as a day of General Thanksgiving for the miraculous
Restauration of his Majesty: our Vicar preaching on 18 Psalm 24. re
quiring us to be thankful rejoice, as indeede we had cause.
                                                     &
                  THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                       277

   4 June. Came Sir Cha. Harbord, his Majesties surveyor, to take an
account of what grounds I challeng'd at Says Court.

   27. I saw the Portugal Ambassador at dinner with his Majestie in

state, where was excellent musiq.
2 July. I went to see the New Spring Garden at Lambeth, a pretty

contriv'd plantation.

   19. We tried our Diving Bell ox engine in the water-dock at Dept-

ford, in which our Curator continu'd half an hour under water ; it was

made of cast lead, let down with a strong cable.
 -August 3. Came my Lord Hatton, Comptroller of his Majesties
household, to visite me.

   9. I tried several experiments on the sensitive plant and humilis,

which contracted with the least touch of the sun thro' a burning glasse,

tho' it rises and opens onely when it shines on it.

  I first saw the famous Queen Piney brought from Barbados and pre

sented to his Majestie ; but the first that were ever seen in England

were those sent to Cromwell foure years since.

   I din'd at Mr. Palmer's in Gray's Inn, whose curiosity excell'd in

clocks and pendules, especialy one that had innumerable motions, and

plaied 9 or 10 tunes on the bells very finely, some of them set in parts,
which was very harmonious. It was wound up but once in a quarter.
He had also good telescopes and mathematical instruments, choice

pictures, and other curiosities. Thence we went to that famous moun
tebank Jo. Punteus.
   Sir Kenelme Digby presented every one of us his Discourse of the
Vegetation of Plants; and Mr. Henshaw, his History of Salt Petre and
Gunpowder. I assisted him to procure his place of French Secretary
to the King, which he purchas'd of Sir Hen. De Vic.

  I went to that famous physitian Sir Fr. Prujean, who shew'd me his
laboratorie, his work-house for turning, and other mechanics ; also many

excellent pictures, especialy the Magdalen of Caracci ; and some in

comparable paisages done in distemper ; he plaied to me likewise on the
polythore, an instrument having something of the harp, lute, theorbo,

&C. It was a sweete instrument, by none known in England, or describ'd
by any author, nor us'd but by this skilfull and learned Doctor.
          I went                                                for the benefit
    15.           to Tunbridge Wells,    my wife being there    admired at the
         health.   Walking about the
of her                                   solitudes, I greately

extravagant turnings, insinuations, and growth of certaine birch trees
                                                                  -*
among the rocks.
        Sept. I presented my Fumifugium,' dedicated
    13  was pleas'd I should publish it by his special    to his Majesty,
                                                        commands, being
who

much gratified with it.

  1 At Kensington Palace is a curious picture of King Charles receiving a pine apple from his
gardener Mr. Rose, who is presenting it on his knees. See 1668, August.

   2 This pamphlet having become extremely scarce, was handsomely reprinted for Messrs.

White in Fleet Street, in 4to. in 1772.
278 BOAT RACING. DISPUTE OF THE AMBASSADORS.

   18. This day was read our Petition to his Majesty for his Royal
Grant authorizing our Society to meet as a Corporation, with several
privileges.

   An exceedingly sickly, wet autumn.
   1 Oct. I sail'd this morning with his Majesty in one of his yachts
(or pleasure-boats), vessells not known among us til the Dutch E. India
Company presented that curious piece to the King, being very excellent
sailing vessells. It was on a wager betweene his other new pleasure
boate, built frigate like, and one of the Duke of York's ; the wager
100/. ; the race from Greenwich to Gravesend and back. The King
lost it going, the wind being contrary, but sav'd stakes in returning.
There were divers noble persons and lords on board, his Majesty some
times steering himselfe. His barge and kitchen boate attended. I
brake fast this mbrning with the King at return in his smaller vessell,
he being pleas'd to take me and onely foure more, who were noblemen,
with him ; but din'd in his yatcht, where we all eate together with his
Majesty. In this passage he was pleas'd to discourse to me about my
book inveighing against the nuisance of the smoke of London and pro
posing expedients how by removing those particulars I mention'd, it
might be reform'd ; commanding me to prepare a Bill against the next
Session of Parliament, being as he said resolv*d to have something don in
it. Thenhediscours'd tome ofthe improvement of gardens and buildings,
now very rare in England comparatively to other countries. He then
commanded me to draw up the matter of fact happening at the bloudy
encounter which then had newly happen'd betweene the French and
Spanish Ambassadors neere the Tower, contending forprecedency, at the
reception of the Sweeds Ambassador ; giving me order toconsult Sir Wm.
Compton, Master of the Ordnance, to informe me what he knew of and
with his favourite Sir Cha. Berkley,' captaine of the Duke's life guard,
then present with his troope and foote companies with some other re
flections and instructions, to be prepar'd with a declaration to take off
the reports which went about of his Majestys partiality in the affaire, and
of his officers and spectators rudenesse whilst the conflict lasted. So
came home that night, and went next morning to London, where from the
Officers of the Tower, Sir Wm. Compton, Sir Cha. Berkeley, and others
who were attending at this meeting of the Ambassadors dayes before,
having collected what could, drew up narrative in vindication ol
his Majesty and the carriage of his Officers and standers by. On Thurs
day his Majesty sent one of the pages of the Back Stayres for me to wake
on him with my papers in his cabinet, where was present only
Sir Henry Bennett' (Privy Purse), when beginning to read to his
Majesty what had drawn up, by the time had read halfe page, came

      Afterwards Earl of Falmouth, who was killed by the side of the Duke of York, in the first
Dutch war.

     After Tjds Secretary of State, Earl of Arlington, and Lord Chamberlain.
I

        I
                         3

                                  a

                                                                    ;
                                                                          3

                                                                         it,

                                                         I

31

               I
                                                   I

                                                                                                a
   i THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                      279

in Mr. Secretary Morice with a large paper, desiring to speake with
his Majesty, who told him he was now very buisy, and therefore order'd

him to come againe some other time ; the Secretary replied that what he
had in his hand was of extraordinary importance, so the King rose up,

and commanding me to stay, went aside to a corner of the roome with

the Secretary ; after a while the Secretary being dispatch'd, his Majesty

returning to me at the table, a letter was brought him from Madame

out of France ; this he read and then bid me proceede from where I
left off. This I did til I had ended all the narrative, to his Majestys
greate satisfaction ; and after I had inserted one or two more clauses, in

which his Majesty instructed me, commanded that it should that night
be sent to the Post-house directed to the Lord Ambassador at Paris (the

Earle of St Alban's) and then at leasure to prepare him a copy
which he would publish. This I did, and immediately sent my papers
to the Secretary of State, with his Majesty's expresse command of dis
patching them that night for France. Before I went out of his Majestys
closet, he cal'd me back to shew me some ivorie statues, and other
curiosities that I had not scene before.

   3. Next evening, being in the withdrawing roome adjoining the bed
chamber, his Majesty espying me came to me from a greate crowde of

noblemen standing neere the fire, and ask'd me if I had don ; and told

me he fear'd it might be a little too sharp, on second thoughts, for he

had that morning spoken with the French Ambassador, who it seemes

had palliated the matter and was very tame, and therefore directed me
where I should soften a period or two before it was publish'd (as after
wards it was           This night also he spake to me to give him a sight of
            it it ').
what was sent, andto bring to him in his bedchamber which did,
                               it                   ;
                                       it
                                                             I
                                            is                     I
and receiv'd againe from him at dinner next day. By Saturday hav
ing finish'd with all his Majestys notes, the King being gon abroad,
sent the papers to Sir Hen. Bennett (Privy Purse and a great favourite),

and slip'd home, being myselfe much indispos'd and harrass'd with

going about, and sitting up to write.
   19. Oct. went to London to visitemy Lord of Bristol!, having first
ben with Sir John Denham (his Majesties surveyor) to consult withI
him about the placing of his palace at Greenewich, which would have
                                                ;I
                                                                I
had built between the river and the Queenes house, so as a large
square cutt should have let in the Thames like a bay but Sir John
was for setting            on piles at the very brink of the water, which
                       it

did not assent to, and so came away, knowing Sir John to be a
better poet than architect, tho' he had Mr. Webb (Inigo Jones's man)
to assist him.

   Notwithstanding this positive assertion,     very extraordinary that has never been in
x                                               it

serted in any Library or Auction Catalogue that a gentleman of the greatest research (Mr.
Bindley) ever saw. Perhaps was recalled.
                           it
280 THE ROYAL SOCIETY. AT THE PLAY. MY TRANSLATIONS.

  I29. saw the Lord Maior' passe in his water triumph to Westmin

ster, being the first solemnity of this nature after 20 yeares.
   2 Nov. Came Sir Hen. Bennet, since Lord Arlington, to visite me,

and to acquaint me that his Majesty would do me the honor to come

and see my garden, but it then being late 'twas deferrM.
   3. One Mr. Breton* preach'd his probation Sermon at our Parish

Church, and indeede made a most excellent discourse on I John 29 of
God's free grace to penitents, so that I could not but recommend him

to the patron.

   10. In the afternoone preach'd at the Abby Dr. Basire, that greate

travailler, or rather French Apostle, who had been planting the Church
of England in divers parts of the Levant and Asia. He shew'd that

the Church of England was for purity of doctrine, substance, decency,

and beauty, the most perfect under Heaven ; that England was the
very land of Goshen.

   11. I was so idle as to go see a play call'd 'Love and Honour,'. --
Din'd at Arundel House; and that evening discours'd with his Majestic
about shipping, in which he was exceeding skilfull.
   15. I din'd with the Duke of Ormond, who told me there were no

moles in Ireland, nor any rats till of late, and that but in one county ;

but it was a mistake that spiders would not live there, only they were

not poysonous. Also that they frequently took salmon with dogs.

   16. I presented my Translation of ' Naudseus concerning Libraries'
to my Lord Chancellor, but it was miserably false printed.

    17. Dr. Creighton, a Scot, author of the ' Florentine Council,' and a
most eloquent man and admirable Grecian, preached on 6 Cant 13.
"celebrating the retume and restauration of the Church and King.

    20. At the Royall Society Sir William Petty propos'd divers things
for the improvement of shipping, a versatile keele that should be on

hinges, and concerning sheathing ships with thin lead.
   24. This night his Majesty fell into discourse with me concerning

bees, &c.

26. I saw Hamlet Prince of Denmark played, but now the old plays

began to disgust this refined age, since his Majesties being so long

abroad.

  28. I din'd at Chiffinch's house-warming in St James's Park ; he

was his Majesty's closet keeper, and had his new house full of good

pictures, &c. There din'd with us Russell, Popish Bishop of Cape
Verde, who was sent out to negotiate his Majesties match with the In

fanta ot Portugal after the Ambassador was return'd.

  29. I din'd at the Countesse of Peterborows, and went that evening

< Sir John Frederick. The pageant for this day was called ' London's Triumph,' at the
Charges of the Grocers Company.    By John Tatham.                                                ;
   S He obtained the Living.     Darenant ; the performance  appear* to hare                   *
  s A Tragi-Comedy by William
                                                                                                  [
                                                                              been in the
                          THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                 281

 to Parson Greene's House with my Lord Mordaunt, with whom I staid

  that night.

    1 December. I went to take leave of my Lo. Peterborow going

 now to Tangier, which was to be delivered to the English on the
 match with Portugal.

    3. By universal suffrage of our philosophic assembly an order was
 made and register'd that I should receive their public thanks for the
 honourable mention I made of them by the name of Royal Society in
 my Epistle dedicatory to the Lord Chancellor before my Traduction of
 Naudeus. Too great an honor for a trifle.

    4. I had much discourse with the Duke of York concerning strange

 cures, he affirmed of a woman who swallow'd a whole ear of barley,

 which work'd out at her side. I told him of the knife swallow'd ' and

 the pins.

   I took leave of the Bishop of Cape Verde now going in the Fleet to

Ibring over our new Queene.

    7. din'd at Arundel House, the day when the greate contest in
 Parliament was concerning the restoring the Duke of Norfolk ; however
 'twas carried for him. I also presented my little trifle of Sumptuary
 Laws, intitl'd ' Tyrannus' [or ' The Mode.']

    14. I saw otter hunting with the King, and killed one.

   16. I saw a French Comedy acted at White-hall.

    20. The Bishop of Glocestcr * preached at the Abby at the funeral
of the Bishop of Hereford, brother to the Duke of Albemarle. It was
a decent solemnity. There was a silver mitre with episcopal robes,
born by the Herauld before the herse, which was followed by the Duke
his brother, and all the Bishops with divers noblemen.

   23. I heard an Italian play and sing to the guittar with extraordi
nary skill before the Duke.

    1662, 1 Jan. I went to London, invited to the solemn foolerie of the
Prince de la Grange at Lincoln's Inn, where came the King, Duke, &c.

It began with a grand masque, and a formal pleading before the mock

Princes, Grandees, Nobles, and Knights of the Sunn. He had his
Lord Chancellor, Chamberlain, Treasurer, and other Royal Officers,
gloriously clad and attended. It ended in a magnificent banquet.
One Mr. Lort was the young spark who maintain'd the pageantry.

   6 Jan. This evening, according to costome, his Majesty open'd the
revells of that night by throwing the dice himselfe in the privy cham
ber, where was a table set on purpose, and lost his 100/. (The yeare
before he won 1500/.) The ladies also plaied very deepe. I came away
when the Duke of Ormond had won about 1000/. and left them still at

  "1 This refers to the Dutchman, and to an extraordinary case, contained in a miraculous

cure of the Prussian Swallow Knife, &c. by Dan. I. akin. P.C." quarto, London, 164a, with a
wood cut representing the object himself and the size of the knife  --·>

» Dr. William Nicholson.
282 GAMBLING AT COURT. LONDON SMOKE. SOLEMN FAST.

passage, cards, Sec. At other tables, both there and at the Groom-
porter's, observing the wicked folly and monstrous excesse of passion
amongst some loosers ; sorry I am that such a wretched costome as
play to that excesse should be countenane'd in a Court which ought to
be an example of virtue to the rest of the kingdome.

   9. I saw acted ' The 3rd Part of the Siege of Rhodes.' In this acted

the faire and famous comedian call'd Roxalana from the part she per-

form'd ; and I think it was the last, she being taken to be the Earle ot
Oxford's Misse (as at this time they began to call lewd women.) It was

in recitativa musiq.
    10. Being call'd into his Majesty's closet when Mr. Cooper, the rare

limner, was crayoning of the King's face and head, to make the stamps
by for the new mill'd money now contriving, I had the honour to hold
the candle whilst it was doing, he choosing the night and candle-light
for the better finding out the shadows. During this his Majesty dis-
cours'd with me on several things relating to painting and graving.

   1 1 Jan. I din'd at Arundel House, where I heard excellent musiq

perform'd by the ablest masters both French and English, on theorbos,
viols, organs, and voices, as an exercise against the coming of the
Queene, purposely compos'd for her chapel!. Afterwards my Lord
Aubignie (her Majesty's Almoner to be) shew'd us his elegant lodging
and his wheele-chaire for ease and motion, with divers other curiosities;
especialy a kind of artificial glasse or purcelan adorn'd with relievos of
paste, hard and beautifulL Lord Aubignie (brother to the Duke of
Lennox) was a person of good sense, but was wholly abandon'd to ease
and effeminacy.

   I receiv'd of Sir Peter Ball, the Queene's Attorney, a draught of an

Act against the nuisance of the smoke of London, to be reform'd by
removing severall trades which are the cause of and indanger the
health of the King and his people. It was to have ben offer'd to the
Parliament as his Majestie commanded.

   12. At St. James's Chapell preach'd, or rather harangu'd, the famous
orator Monsieur Moras,1 in French. There was present the King,
Duke, French Ambassador, Lo. Aubignie, Earle of Bristol, and a world
of Roman Catholics, drawne thither to hear this eloquent Protestant.

   15 Jan. There was general fast thro' the whole nation, and now
celebrated at London, to avert God's heavy judgments on this land.
There had fallen greate raine without any frost or seasonable cold, not
only in England, but in Sweden, and the most Northern parts, being
here neere as warme as at midsommer in some yeares.

   This solemn fast was held for the House of Commons at St. Margarets.
Dr. Reeves, Dean of Windsor, preach'd on Joshua 12. shewing how
the neglect of exacting justice on offenders (by which he insinuated

      Probably the famous Alexander Mortis (the antagonist of Milton) who was here in the
year x66a. He was very eloquent and much- admired preacher.
1
                                  a

                                     a

                                                                                            7

                                                                                   it,
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.        283

such of the old King's murderers as were yet reprieved and in the
Tower) was a maine cause of God's punishing a land. He brought in
that of the Gibeonites as well as Achan and others, concluding with an

eulogie of the Parliament for their loyaltie in restoring the Bishops and

Cleargie and vindicating the Church from sacrilege.

16. ^Having notice of the Duke of York's intention to visit my poore
habitation and garden this day, I return'd, when he was pleas'd to do

roe that honor of his owne accord, and to stay some time viewing such

things as I had to entertaine his curiosity. Afterwards he caus'd me

to dine with him at the Treasurer of the Navy's house, and to sit with

him cover'd at the same table. There were with his Highness the
Duke of Ormond and several lords. Then they view'd some of my

grounds about a project for a receptacle for ships to be moored in, which

was laied aside as a fancy of Sir Nicholas Crisp. After this I accom

panied the Duke to an East India vessell that lay at Blackwall, where

we had entertainment of several curiosities. Amongst other spirituous

drinks, as punch, &c. they gave us Canarie that had ben carried to and

brought from the Indies, which was indeede incomparably good. I
return'd to London with his highnesse. This night was acted before
his Majesty ' The Widow,' a lewd play.

  18. I came home to be private a little, not at all affecting the life

and the hurry of Court.
   24. His Majesty entertain'd me with his intentions of building his

IPalace of Greenewich, and quite demolishing the old one ; on which
declar'd my thoughts.
25. I dined with the Trinity Company at their house, that Corpo
ration being by charter fixed at Deptford.
                     I went to Chelsey to see Sir Arthur George's house.
311F. ebIruasaryw.
                    a comedy acted before the Dutchesse of York at the

ICockpit. The King was not at it.

    17. went with my Lord of Bristoll to see his house at Wimbledon,'
newly bought of the Queene Mother, to help contrive the garden after

the moderne. It is a delicious place for prospect and the thicketts, but

the soile cold and weeping clay. Returned to London that evening with
Sir Henry Bennet.
   This night was buried in Westminster Abby the Queene of Bohemia,*
after all her sorrows and afflictions being come to die in the arms of
her nephew the King : also this night and the next day fell such a storm
of hail, thunder and lightning, as never was seene the like in any man's

memorie, especialy the tempest of wind, being South West, which sub

litverted besides huge trees, many houses, innumerable chimnies (amongst
           came afterwards to Sarah Duchess of Marlborough, who built a new house there, burnt
down a few years since. Now belonging to Earl Spencer, who has built a smaller house.
There are two scarce and curious views of the old house, engraved by Winstanley.

   3 Elizabeth Electress Palatine, daughter of James I. a woman of excellent understanding
and most amiable disposition.
284 LAMENTABLE FIRES. MARQUIS OF ARGYLE.

others that of my parlour at Sayes Court), and made such havoc at land

and sea that severall perish'd on both. Divers lamentable fires were

also kindl'd at this time, so exceedingly was God's hand against this

ungrateful and vicious Nation and Court.

  20. I return 'd home to repaire my house, miserably shattered by the

late tempest.

   March 24. I returned home with my whole family, which had ben

most part of the winter since October at London in lodgings neere the
Abby of Westminster.

6 April. Being of the Vestry, in the afternoone we ordered that the
Communion Table should be set as usual altar-wise, with a decent raile

7before as before the Rebellion.

      it it,17 April. The young Marquis of Argyle, whose turbulent father was
executed in Scotland, came to see my garden. He seem'd to be a
           I
man of parts.

May.             waited on Prince Rupert to our Assembly, where were
tried severall experiments in Mr. Boyle's vacuum. A man thrusting in

his arme upon exhaustion of the aire had his flesh immediately swelled

so as the bloud was neare bursting the veines: he drawing oute we
                                                                                        it

found all speckled.
   14. To London, being chosen one of the Commissioners for reform
ing the buildings, wayes, streetes, and incumbrances, and regulating the

hackney coaches in the Citty of London, taking my oath before my
Lord Chancellor, and then went to his Majesty's Surveyor's office in
Scotland Yard about naming and establishing officers, adjourning till

the 16th, when went to view how St. Martin's Lane might be made
       I
                   I
more passable into the Strand. There were divers Gentlemen of quality
in this Commission.

   25. went this evening to London, in order to our journey to
Hampton Court to see the new Queene, who having landed at Ports

mouth had ben married to the King a weeke before by the Bishop of
London.

   30. The Queene ariv'd with a traine of Portuguese ladies in their
monstrous fardingals or guard-infantas, their complexions olivader'
and sufficiently unagreeable. Her Majesty in the same habit, her fore-
top long and turn'd aside very strangely. She was yet of the hand

somest countenance of all the rest, and tho' low of stature pretily shaped,

languishing and excellent eyes, her teeth wronging her mouth by stick

ing a little too far out for the rest lovely enough.
1

      I
                                                 ;

                                       It
                                                                                     ;
. 31.    saw the Queene at dinner the Judges came to compliment
her arival, and after them the Duke of Ormond brought me to kisse

her hand.

Of a dark olive complexion.  has been noticed in other accounts that the Queen's
Portuguese Ladies of Honour who came over with her were uncommonly ill-favoured and

disagreeable in their appearance. See Fairthom's curious print of her Majesty in the costume

here described.
                         THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN. .                                                        285

   2 June. The Lord Mayor and       Aldermen made their  addresses to the
                                                         her Portuguese
Queene, presenting her ^.1000      in gold. Now saw I
ladies, and the Guarda-damas or Mother of her maids,1 and the old
Knight, a lock of whose haire quite covered the rest of his bald pate,
bound on by a thred, very oddly. I saw the-rich gondola sent to his

Majesty from the State of Venice ; but it was not comparable for swift-

nesse to our common wherries, tho' manag'd by Venetians.

4. Went to visite the Earle of Bristoll at Wimbledon.
    JunIeh. earId        her Majesty at supper privately in her bed-chamber.
8                  saw   Queene's Portugal musiq, consisting of pipes, harps,
9.                  the
and very ill voices.

Hampton Court is as noble and uniforme a pile, and as capacious as
any Gotiq architecture can have made it. There is incomparable furni
    it,

                                                           'd

                                                                                                         ;

                                                                     is

                                                                                I
ture in especially hangings design by Raphael, very rich with gold;
also many rare pictures, especially the Cczsarian Triumphs of Andr.

Mantegna, formerly the Duke of Mantua's of the tapessrys believe
the world can shew nothing nobler of the kind than the storys of

Abraham and Tobit. The gallery of homes very particular for the
vast beames of staggs, elks, antelopes, &c. The Queene's bed was an
embrodery of silver on crimson velvet, and cost ,£.Sooo, being a pre

sent made by the States of Holland when his Majesty returned, and
had formerly ben given by them to our King's sister the Princessc of

Orange, and being bought of her againe was now presented to the
King. The greate looking-glasse and toilet of beaten and massive gold
was given by the Queene Mother. The Queene brought over with her
from Portugal such Indian cabinets as had never before ben seene here.
The greate hall a most magnificent roome. The chapell-roof excel
                   is
                                was also curious to visite the wardrobe and
                             I
lently fretted and gilt.

tents and other furniture of state. The park formerly a flat naked piece
of ground, now planted with sweete rows of lime trees and the canall
                                                         ;

                                                          is
                                                                               is
for water now neere perfected also the hare park. In the garden a
                                ;

rich and noble fountaine, with syrens, statues, &c. cast in copper by
Fanelli, but no plenty of water. The cradle-walk of home beame in

the garden is, for the perplexed twining of the trees, very observable.

There a parterre which they call Paradise, in which a pretty ban-

quetting-house set over a cave or cellar. All these gardens might be
exceedingly improved, as being too narrow for such a palace.I is
           I
  la returned to London, and presented my History of Chalco-
graphie (dedicated to Mr. Boyle) to our Society.
                   went to Albury, to visite Mr. Hen. Howard soone after
19 June.
he had procured the dukedom to be restorM This gentleman had now
compounded a debt of ,£.200,000, contracted by his grandfather.
                                                                                                            I

was 'much oblig'd to that greate virtuoso, and to this young gentleman,
with whom staied fortnight
          I

                    1

                         a
                   III.A lady had this title in the reign of King George
286 THE QUEENE MOTHER. INCORPORATION OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY.

   2 July. We hunted and kill'd a buck in the park, Mr. Howard in
viting most oi the gentlemen of the country neere him.

   3. My wife met me at Woodcott whither Mr. Howard accompanied
me to see my son John, who had ben much brought up amongst Mr.
Howard's children at Arundel House, 'til for feare of their perverting
him in the Catholic religion, I was forced to take him home.

   8. To London, to take leave of the Duke and Dutchesse of Onnond,

going then into Ireland with extraordinary retinue.
   1 3. Spent some time with the Lord Chancellor, where I had discourse

with my Lord Willoughby, Governor of Barbados, concerning divers

particulars of that colonie.
   28. His Majesty going to sea to meet the Queene Mother, now

coming againe for England, met with such ill weather as greately en
dangered him. I went to Greenewich, to wait on the Queene now landed.

   30. To London, where was a meeting about Charitable Uses, and
particularly to enquire how the Citty had dispos'd of the revenues of
Gressham College, and why the salaries of the professors there were no
better improv'd. I was on this commission, with divers Bishops and

Lords of the Council, but little was the progresse we could make.

  31. I sate with the Commissioners about reforming the buildings

and streetes of London, and we ordered the paving of the way from
St. James's North, which was a quagmire, and also of the Hay-market
about Piqudillo [Piccadilly], and agreed upon instructions to be printed
and published for the better keeping the streetes cleane.

   1 Aug. Mr. H. Howard, his brothers Charles, Edward, Bernard,

Philip1 now the Queens Almoner, (all brothers of the Duke of Norfolk
still in Italy) came with a greate traine and din'd with me ; Mr. H.

Howard leaving with me his eldest and youngest sons Henry and
Thomas for three or four days, my son John having ben sometime
bred up in their father's house.

   4. Came to see me the old Countesse of Devonshire,' with that
excellent arid worthy person, my Lord, her sonn, from Rowhampton.

   5. To London, and next day to Hampton Court about my purchase,
and took leave of Sir R. Fanshawenow Ambassador to Portugal,

   13. Our Charter being now passed under the broad scale, constitu
ting us a Corporation under the name of The Royal Society for the
improvement of naturall knowledge by experiment, was this day read,

and was all that was done this afternoone, being very large.

   14. I sat on the commission for Charitable Uses, the Lord Maior

and others of the Mercers Company being summon'd to answer some

t Since Cardinal at Rome.
1 Christian Countess of Devonshire. She was of considerable celebrity for her devotion,
hospitality, her great care in the management of her son's affairs, and as a patroness of the
II.wits ol the age who frequently met at her house : also for her loyalty and correspondence to
promote the Restoration. King Charles  frequently visited her at this place with the
Queen Mother and the Royal Family. There is a life of this lady written by Mr. Pomfret.
                       THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.   287

complaints of the professors grounded on a clause in the will of Sir

Thomas Gressham the founder.

   This afternoone the Queene Mother with the Earle of St. Alban's
and many greate ladies and persons, was pleas'd to honor my poore villa

with her presence, and to accept of a collation. She was exceedingly

pleas'd and stay'd till very late in the evening.

   15. Came my Lord Chancellor (the Earle of Clarendon) and his lady,
his purse and mace borne before him, to visit me. They were likewise

collation'd with us, and were very merry. They had all ben our old

acquaintance in exile, and indeed this greate person had ever ben my
friend. His sonn Lord Cornebery was here too.

17 Aug. Being the Sonday when the Common Prayer Booke re

formed and ordered to be used for the future, was appointed to be read,

and the solemn League and Covenant to be abjured by all the incum
bents of England under penalty of looseing their livings ; our Vicar

read it this morning.

   20. There were strong guards in the City this day, apprehending

some tumults, many of the Presbyterian Ministers not conforming. I

dined with the Vice Chamberlaine, and then went to see the Queene
Mother, who was pleas'd to give me many thanks for the entertainment

she receiv'd at my house, when she recounted to me many observable
stories of the sagacity of some dogs she formerly had.
  31. I was admitted and then sworne one of the Council of the Royal

Society, being nominated in his Majesty's original grant to be of this

Council for the regulation of the Society, and making laws and statutes

conducible to its establishment and progresse, for which we now set
apart every Wednesday morning till they were all finished. Lord
Visct. Brouncker (that excellent mathematician) was also by his Majesty
our Founder nominated our first President. The King gave us the

armes of England to be borne in a canton in our armes, and sent us a
mace of silver gilt of the same fashion and bigness as those carried

before his Majesty, to be borne before our President on meeting daies.
It was           by Sir G. Talbot, Master of his Majestys Jewel-house.
        brought  with my Lord Brouncker and Sir Robt. Morray, and
   22.
        I din'd

then went to consult about a new-model'd ship at Lambeth, the

intention being to reduce that art to as certaine a method as any other

part of architecture.
            I was spectator  of the most magnificent triumph that ever
   23 Aug.                '  considering the innumerable boates and
floated on  the  Thames
                         ;

vessells, dress'd and adorn'd with all imaginable pomp, but above all

the thrones, arches, pageants, and other representations, stately barges

   1 An account of this solemnity was published in ' Aqua Triumphalis * ; being a true relation
of the honourable City of London entertaining their sacred Majesties upon the River of

Thames, and welcoming them from Hampton Court to White-hall. &c Engraved by John

Tatham,' folio, 1662.
288 AQUATIC TRIUMPH. COUNCIL OF ROYAL SOCIETY AT COURT.

of the Lord Maior and Companies, with various inventions, musiq and

peales of ordnance both from the vessels and the shore, going to meete
and conduct the new Queene from Hampton Court to White-hall, at

the first time of her coming to towne. In my opinion it far exceeded all
the Venetian Bucentoras, &c. on the Ascension, when they go to espouse
the Adriatic. His Majestie and the Queene came in anantiq-shap'd open
vessell, cover'd with a state or canopy of cloth of gold, made in form
Iof a cupola, supported with high Corinthian pillars, wreath'd with
flowers, festoons, and garlands.  was in our new-built vessell, sailing

amongst them.
   29. The Council and Fellows of the Royal Society went in a body
to White-hall to acknowledge his Majestys royal grace in granting our

charter, and vouchsafing to be himselfe our Founder ; when the Presi

dent made an eloquent speech, to whichhis Majesty gave a gracious reply,

and we all kiss'd his hand. Next day we went in like manner with our

addresse to my Lo. Chancellor, who had much promoted our Patent ;

he receiv'd us with extraordinary favour. In the evening I went to the

Queene Mother's Court, and had much discourse with her.

   1 Sept. Being invited by Lo. Berkley, I went to Durdans, Epsom,

where din'd his Majestic, the Queene, Duke, Dutchesse, Prince Rupert,

Prince Edward, and aboundance of Noblemen. I went after dinner to

visit my brother of Woodcot, my sister having ben delivered of a son a

little before, but who had now ben two days dead.
' 4 Sept. Commission for charitable uses, my Lord Maior and Alder
men being againe summon'd, and the improvements of Sir Tho.
Gressham's estate examin'd. There were present the Bp. of London,

the Lord Chief Justice, and the King's Attorney.

6. Dined with me Sir Edward Walker, Garter King at Armes, Mr.
Slingsby, Master of the Mint, and severall others.
   17. We now resolved that the armes of the Society should be, a
field Argent, with a canton of the armes of England ; the supporters two

talbots Argent ; Crest, an eagle Or holding a shield with the like armei
of England, viz. 3 lions. The words Nullius in verba. It was pre
sented to his Majesty for his approbation, and orders given to Garter
King at Armes, to passe the diploma of their office for it.
  20. I presented a petition to his Majesty about my own concerns,

and afterwards accompanied him to Mons. Febure, his chymist, (and
who had formerly ben my master in Paris) to see his accurate prepara
tion for the composing Sir Walter Raleigh's rare cordial ; he made a

learned discourse before his Majesty in French on each ingredient.
   27. Came to visit me Sir Geo. Savell,1 grandson to the learned Sir
Hen. Savell, who published St. Chrysostome. Sir Geo. was a witty
gentleman, if not a little too prompt and daring.

  3 Oct. I was invited to the Colledge of Physitians, where Dr.

               1 Afterwards the celebrated Marquis of Halifax.
    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                            289

Meret, a learned man and Library Keeper, shewtt me the Library,
Theater for Anatomie, and divers natural curiosities ; the statue and

epigraph under it of that renowned physitian Dr. Harvey, discoverer

of the circulation of the blood. There I saw Dr. Gilbert, Sir Wm.

Paddy's, and other pictures of men famous in their faculty.

    Visited Mr. Wright, a Scotsman, who had liv'd long at Rome and
was esteem'd a good painter. The pictures of the Judges at Guild-hall
are of his hand, and so are some pieces in White-hall, as the roofe in

his Majestys old bed-chamber, being Astrea, the St. Catherine, and a

chimney-piece in the Queen's privy-chamber ; but his best, in my
opinion, is Lacy the famous Roscius or comedian, whom he has painted

in three dresses, as a gallant, a Presbyterian minister, and a Scotch
highlandcr in his plaid. It is in his Majestys dining-room at Windsor ;
He had at his house an excellent collection, especialy that small piece
of Corregio, Scolus of de la Marca, a designe of Paulo, and above all
those mines of Polydore, with some good achates and medailles, espe

cialy a Scipio, and a Caesar's head of gold.

   15. I this day delivered my Discourse concerning Forest Trees to the

Society, upon occasion of certain queries sent to us by the Commissioners
of his Majesty's Navy, being the first booke that was printed by order
of the Society, and by their Printer, since it was a Corporation.

   16. I saw ' Volpone ' acted at Court before their Majesties.
  31. To the Queene Mother's Court, where her Majesty related to

us divers passages of her escapes during the Rebellion and the Warrs

in England.

   28 Oct To Court in the evening, where the Queene Mother, the

Queene Consort, and his Majesty, beingadvertis'dof some disturbance,
forbore to go to the Lord Maior's shew and feast appointed next day,

the new Queene not having yet seen that triumph.
   29. Was my Lo. Maior's '                         with a    number of
pageants, speeches, and verses.              shew,  standing   in an house               sumptuous
                                                                                         in Cheape-
                                             I was

side against the place prepar'd for their Majesties. The Prince and

heire of Denmark was there, but not our King. There were also the
maids of honor. I went to court this evening, and had much discourse

with Dr. Basiers,* one of his Majesty's chaplain's, the greate traveller,
who shew'd me the syngraphs and original subscriptions of divers

Eastern Patriarchs and Asian Churches to our Confession.
   4 Nov. I was invited to the wedding of the daughter of Sir Geo.
Carterat (the Treasurer of the Navy and King's Vice-Chamberlain),
married to Sir N. Slaning, Kt. of the Bath ; by the Bishop of London

in the Savoy Chapell ; after which was an extraordinary feast.
    5. The Council of the R. Society met to amend the Statutes, and

I' 1 Sir John Robinson. Knt. and Bart.  Clothworker. The pageant                     on this occasion was called
  London's Triumph, at the Charge of                                                  By John Tattuua.'
                                        the  WColootdh'ws o"rkAetrh* enCso.m" pany.
      Isaac Basire. See account of him  in

                                                                                     19
990 PUBLICATION OF MY SILVA. FEASTED AT WESTMINSTER.

dined together : afterwards meeting at Gressham College, where was a
discourse suggested by me concerning planting his Majestys Forest of
Deane with oake, now so much exhausted of the choicest ship-timber

in the world.
   20. Dined with the Comptroller Sir Hugh Pollard ; afterwards saw
· The Young Admiral ' ' acted before the King.
31. Spent the evening at Court, Sir Kenelm Digby giving me greate
thanks for my Sylva.
27. Went to London to see the entrance of the Russian Ambassador,
whom his Majesty ordered to be received with much state, the Emperor

not only having ben kind to his Majesty in his distress, but banishing

all commerce with our Nation during the Rebellion.
First the Citty Companies and Train'd Bands were all in their sta
tions: his Majesty's Army and Guards in greate order. His Excellency

came in a very rich coach, with some of his chiefe attendants ; many
of the rest on horseback, clad in their vests after the Eastern manner,

rich furrs, caps, and carrying the presents, some carrying hawkes, furrs,

teeth, bows, &c. It was a very magnificent shew.
  I din'd with the Master of the Mint, where was old Sir Ralph Free

man*   ;  passing my evening at the Queene   Mother's      Court, at  night            saw
acted     The Committee,' a ridiculous play  of Sir R.     Howard,    where            the
       '

mimic Lacy acted the Irish Footeman to admiration.
   30. St Andrews day. Invited by the Deane of Westminster* to
his consecration dinner and ceremony, on his being made Bishop of
Worcester. Dr. Bolton preach'd in the Abby Church ; then folloVd
the consecration by the Bishops of London, Chichester, Winchester,
Salisbury, &c. After this was one of the most plentifull and magnifi

cent dinners that in my life I ever saw ; it cost neere £.(xx> as I was

inform'd. Here were the Judges, Nobility, Clergy, and Gentlemen in

numerable, this Bishop being universally belov'd for his sweete and
gentle disposition. He was author of those Characters which go under
the name of Blount4. He translated his late Majesty's Icon into
Latine, was Clearke of his Closet, Chaplaine, Deane of Westminster,

*uid yet a most humble, meeke, but cheerfull man, an excellent scholar,

and rare preacher. I had the honour to be loved by him. He married
me at Paris, during his Majesties and the Churches exile. When I
tooke leave of him he brought me to the Cloysters in his episcopal

habit I then went to the evening prayers at White-hall, where I pass'd

that evening.

   1 Dec. Having seen the strange and wonderful dexterity of the
sliders on the new Canal in St. James's Park, perform'd before their
Majesties by divers gentlemen and others with Scheets after the man

1  A Tragi -Comedy  by James Shirley.       to Salisbury.  a Of Betchworth in Surrey.
   Dr. John Earle.   Translated afterwards
J

« These Characters were several times printed, and axe still read with some interest.
                          THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                            29 J

ner of the Hollanders, with what swiftnesse they passe, how suddainly

they stop in full carriere upon the ice, I went home by water, but not
without exceeding difficultie, the Thames being frozen, greate flakes

Iof ice incompassing our boate.

   17. saw acted before the King 'The Law against Lovers.'1
   21. One of his Majesty's Chaplains preach'd, after which, in
stead of the ancient, grave, and solemn wind musiq accompanying the

organ, was introduced a concert of 24 violins between e every pause,
after the French fantastical light way, better suiting a tavern or play
house than a church. This was the first time of change, and now we

no more heard the cornet which gave life to the organ, that instrument
quite left off in which the English were so skillfull. I din'd at Mr.
Povey's, where I talk'd with Cromer, a greate musician.
         I went with Sir George  Tuke to hear the Comedians con and
    23.                          Adventures of 5 Hours,' a play whose
repeate   his new comedy, ' The

plot was taken out of the famous Spanish poet Calderon.
   27. I visited Sir Theophilus Biddulph.
   29. Saw the audience of the Muscovy Ambassador which was with
extraordinary state, his retinue being numerous, all clad in vests of
severall colours, with buskins after the Eastern manner ; their caps of

furr ; tunicks richly embrodred with gold and pearls made a glorious
shew. The King being seated under a canopie in the Banquetting

house, the Secretary of the Embassy went before the Ambassador in a

grave march, holding up his master's letters of credence in a crimson

taffeta scarfe before his forehead. The Ambassador then delivered it

with a profound reverence to the King, who gave it to our Secretary of
State ; it was written in a long and lofty style. Then came in the

present, borne by 165 of his retinue, consisting of mantles and other
large pieces lined with sable, black fox and ermine ; Persian carpets,

the ground cloth of gold and velvet ; hawks, such as they sayd never

came the like ; horses said to be Persian ; bowes and arrows, &c. These

borne by so long a traine rendered it very extraordinary. Wind musiq
play*d all the while in the galleries above. This finish'd, the Ambassa
dor was convey'd by the Master of the Ceremonies to York House,

where he was treated with a banquet which cost .£200 as I was assur'd.*

'   ' A Trap-Comedy by     Sir  William Davenant, taken almost entirely from   Shakespeare 'a
                          and   ' Much Ado about Nothing;,' blended together.
   Measure for Measure,'
   tThe Cxar of Muscovy sent an Embassador to compliment K. Cha. II. on his Restoration.
The K. sent the Earl of Carlisle as his Embassador to Moscow, to desire the re-establishment
of the antient privileges of the English Merchants at Archangel, which had ben taken away
by the Czar, who abhorring the murder of the K's. father accused them as favorers of it.
But by the means of the Czar's ministers, his lordship was very ill received, and met with what
he deemed affronts, and had no success as to his demands, so that at coming away he refused
the presents sent him by the Czar- The Czar sent an Ambassador to England to complain of
Lord Carlisle's conduct, but his lordship vindicated himself so well, that the King told the
Embassador he saw no reason to condemn his lordship's conduct.' Relation of this Embassie
by G. It. authenticated by Lord Carlisle, printed 1609.
292 BALLS AT COURT. THE KING DAUNCES. GREAT MASQ.

   1663. 7 Jan. At night I saw the Ball, in which his Majesty daunc'd

with several great ladys.

   8. I went to see my kinsman Sir Geo. Tuke's comedy acted at the
Duke's Theater, which took so universally that it was acted for some

weekes every day, and 'twas believM it would be worth to the Come
dians 4 or .£.500. The plot was incomparable, but the language was
stiffe and formal.

   10. I saw a Ball againe at Court, daunc'd by the King, the Duke,

and Ladies in great pompe.
   21. Dined at Mr. Treasurer's of the Household, Sir Charles Berke

ley's, where were the Earle of Oxford, Lord Bellassis, Lord Gerard, Sir
Andrew Scroope, Sir William Coventry, Dr. Fraser, Mr. Windham,

Iand others.          saw ' The Wild Gallant,' a comedy ' ; and was at the
5 Feb.
greate Ball at Court, where his Majesty, the Queene, &c. daunc'd.
6. Dined at my Lord Maior's, Sir jo. Robinson, Lieutenant of the

Tower.

   15. This night some villains brake into my house and study below,
and robbed me to the value of £.60 in plate, money, and goods. This
being the third time I have ben thus plundered.

   26 Mar. I sat at the Commission of Sewers, where was a greate case

pleaded by his Majesty's Counsel ; he having built a wall over a water
course, denied the jurisdiction of the Court. The verdict went for the
Plaintiff e. against the King].
I  30 April. Came his Majesty to honor my poore villa with his pre
sence, viewing the gardens and even every roome of the house, and was
      [».pleas'd to take a small refreshment. There were with him the Duke of
Richmond, Earl of St. Albans, Lord Lauderdale, and several other

persons of quality.
   14 May. Dined with my Lord Mordaunt, and thence went to Barnes,

to visite my excellent and ingenious friend Abraham Cowley.

   17. saluted the old Bishop of Durham, Dr. Cosin, to whom had  I
ben kind and assisted in his exile, but which he little remember'd in

his greatnesse.
   20. Dr. Creighton preach'd his extravagant Sermon at St. Marga

ret's, before the House of Commons.
   30. This morning was pass'd my Lease of Sayes Court from the

Crown, for the finishing of which had ben oblig'd to make frequent
                            I

journies to London.   it I  return'd this evening, having seenethe Russian

Ambassador take leave of their Majesties with greate solemnity.

July.                 saw the greate masq at Court, and lay that night at
12

    T
                  .1
Arundel-house.

4. saw his Majesty's guards, being of horse and foote 4000, led by

     By Mr. Drydcn. It did not succeed on its first representation, but was considerably

altered to the form in. which now appears.
. THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  293

the General the Duke of Albemarle in extraordinary equipage and gal
 lantry, consisting of gentlemen of quality and veteran souldiers, excel
lently clad, mounted and ordered, drawn up in battalia before their
 Majesties in Hide Park, where the old Earle of Cleveland trail'd a pike
 and led the right-hand file in a foote company commanded by the Lord
 Wentworth his son, a worthy spectacle and example, being both of
 them old and valiant souldiers. This was to shew the French Am
 bassador, Monsieur Comminges ; there being a greate assembly of
 coaches, &c. in the park.

    7. Dined at the Comptroller's ; after dinner we met at the Commis
 sion about the streetes, and to regulate hackney coaches, also to make
 up our accompts to passe the Exchequer.

   16. A most extraordinary wet and cold season.

    Sir George Carteret, Treasurer of the Navy, had now married his
daughter Caroline to Sir Thomas Scot, of Scottshall, in Kent. This
gent: was thought to be the sonn of Prince Rupert.

    2 Aug. This evening I accompanied Mr. Treasurer and Vice Cham
berlain Carteret to his lately-married son-in-law's Sir Tho. Scot, to
 ScottshalL We tooke barge as far as Gravesend, thence by post to
Rochester, whence in coaches and 6 horses to Scottshall ; a right noble
seate, uniformely built, with a handsome gallery. It stands in a park
well stor'd, the land fat and good. We were exceedingly feasted by
the young knight, and in his pretty chapell heard an excellent sermon
by his chaplaine. In the afternoone preach'd the learned Sir Norton
 Knatchbull (who has a noble seate hard by, and a plantation of stately
fir-trees). In the church-yard of the parish church I measur'd an over
grown yew-tree that was 18 of my paces in compasse, out of some
branches of which, tome off by the winds, were saw'd goodly planks.

    10. We return'd by Sir Norton's, whose house is likewise in a park.
This gentleman is a worthy person, and learned critic, especialy in
Greek and Hebrew. Passing by Chatham we saw his Majesties Royal
Navy, and din'd at Commissioner Pett's, master-builder there, who
shewed me his study and models, with other curiosities belonging to
his art. He is esteem'd for the most skilfull ship-builder in the world
He hath a pretty garden and banquetting-house, pots, statues, cypresses,
resembling some villas about Rome. After a greate feaste we rod post
to Graves-end, and sending the coach to London, came by barge to
Sayes Court that night

   18. To London to see my Lo. Chancellor, where I had discourse
with my Lo. Archbishop of Canterbury and the Bishop of Winchester,
who injoyned me to write to Dr. Pierce, President of Magd. Coll. Oxon.

about a letter sent him by Dr. Goff, a Romish Oratorian, concerning
an answer to Dean Cressy's late book.'

   1 Of Dr. Pirrce, who was also Dean of Salisbury, Wood gives a very unfavourable account
in his * Fasti.' He appears to have been engaged in disputes both in his College and at Salis
294 TABLES AT COURT. THE MINT. SHELDON, ABP. OF CANTERBURY.

   20. I din'd at the Comptroller's [of the Household] with the Earle

of Oxford and Mr. Ashburnham ; it was said it should be the last of
the public diets or tables at Court, it being determined to put down the
old hospitality, at which was great murmuring, considering his Ma
jesties vast revenue and the plenty of the Nation. Hence I went to sit
in a Committee to consider about the regulation of the Mint at the
Tower, in which some small progresse was made.

   27 Aug. Din'd at Sir Ph. Warwick's, Secretary to my Lo. Trea
surer, who shew'd me the accompts and other private matters relating
to the revenue. Thence to the Commissioners of the Mint, particularly
about coynage, and bringing his Majestys rate from 15 to 10 shillings
for every pound weight of gold.

   31. I was invited to the Translation of Dr. Sheldon, Bishop of

London, from that see to Canterbury, the ceremonie performed at
Lambeth. First went his grace's mace-bearer, steward, treasurer,
comptroller, all in their gownes and with white staves ; next the Bishops
in their habites, eight in number ; Dr. Sweate, Deane of the Arches,
Dr. Exton Judge of the Admiralty, Sir William Merick, Judge of the
Prerogative Court, with divers Advocates in scarlet. After divine ser
vice in the chapel, perform'd with musiq extraordinary, Dr. French and
Dr. Stradling (his grace's chaplaines) saied prayers. The Archbishop
in a private roome looking into the Chapel, the Bishops who were
Commissioners went up to a table plac'd before the altar, and sat round
it in chaires. Then Dr. Chaworth presented the commission under
the broad seale to the Bishop of Winchester, and it was read by Dr.
Sweate. After which the Vicar-general went to the vestry, and brought
his Grace into the Chapell, his other officers marching before. He
being presented to the Commissioners was seated in a greate arm chaire
at one end of the table, when the definitive sentence was read by the
Bishop of Winchester, and subscribed by all the Bishops, and procla
mation was three times made at the Chapell dore, which was then set

open for any to enter and give their exceptions, if any they had. This

don, we all went to dinner in the greate hall to a mighty feast. There
were present all the nobility in towne, the Lord Maior of London, She
riffs, Duke of Albemarle, &c. My Lo. Archbishop did in particular
most civily welcome me. So going to visite my Lady Needham who

liv'd at Lambeth, I went over to London.
   10 Sept. I din'd with Mr. Treasurer of the Navy, where sitting by

Mr. Secretary Morice, we had much discourse about bookes and

authors, he being- a learned man, and had a good collection.

   24 Oct. Mr. Edward Phillips came to be my sonns preceptor : this

bury. Dean Cressy was bred in the Church of England, and was appointed Canon of Windsor
and Dean of Leighlin in Ireland, in the time of King Charles I. but, from the troubles of that
time, had no benefit from   either ; he  afterwards became a Papist, The
is ' Exomologctis,' or the  motives of   his conversion. Wood's Fasti.    book here  referred  to
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  ; - 295

gentleman was nephew to Milton, who wrote against Salmasius's
' Defensio,' but was not at all infected with his principles, tho' he was
brought up by him.

   5 Nov. Dr. South, my Lord Chancellor's Chaplain, preached at
Westminster Abby an excellent discourse concerning obedience to

Magistrates, against the Pontificians and Sectaries. I afterwards dined

at Sir Ph. Warwick's, where was much company.
   6. To Court, to get Sir John Evelyn of Godstone off from being

Sheriff of Surrey, in which he succeeded.
   30. Was the first anniversary of our Society for the choice of new

officers, according to the tenor of our Patent and Institution. It being

St. Andrew's day, who was our patron, each fellow wore a St. Andrew's
Crosse of ribbon on the crowne of his hatt. After the election we
din'd together, his Majesty sending us venison.

   16 Dec To our Society where Mr. P. Balle, our treasurer at the

late election, presented the Society with an iron chest, with 3 locks,
and in it £100. as a gift.

   18. Dined with the gentlemen of his Majestys bedchamber at White
hall.

   1664, 2 Jan. To Barne Elmes, to see Abraham Cowley after his
sicknesse ; and returned that evening to London.

  4 Feb. Dined at Sir Philip Warwick's ; thence to Court, where I

had discourse with the King about an invention of Glasse Granados,
and severall other subjects.

   5. I saw ' The Indian Queene M acted, a tragedie well written, so

beautified with rich scenes as the like had never ben seene here, or

haply (except rarely) elsewhere on a mercenary theater.
   16. I presented my ' Sylva ' to the Society ; and next day to his

Majestie, to whom it was dedicated ; also to the Lord Treasurer, and
the Lord Chancellor.

   24. My Lord Geo. Berkeley of Durdens, and Sir Samuel Tuke, came
to visite me. We went on board Sir William Petty's double bottom'd
vessell, and so to London.

   26. Dined with my Lord Chancellor ; and thence to Court, where

I had greate thanks for my 'Sylva,' and long discourse with the King

of divers particulars.
   2 March. Went to London, to distribute some of my books amongst

my friends.
   4. Came to dine with me the Earle of Lauderdale, his Majestie's

greate favorite, and Secretary of Scotland ; the Earl of Tividale ;
my Lord Viscount Brouncker, President of the R. Society ; Dr.
Wilkins, Deane of Rippon, Sir Robert Murray, and Mr. Hooke,

Curator to the Royal Society.

   This Spring I planted the Home-field and West-field about Sayes

                            1 Written by Sir Robert Howard and Mr. Dryden.
296 PLANTING AT SAYES COURT. TREASURES OF THE JESUITS.

Court with elmes, being the same yeare that the elmes were planted

by his Majesty in Greenewich Park.

  9. I went to the Tower, to sit in Commission about regulating the

Mint ; and now it was that the fine new mill'd coin both of white money

and guineas was establish'd.

  26. It pleas'd God to take away my sonn Richard, being now a
moneth old, yet without any sicknesse of danger perceivably, being to
all appearance a most likely child ; we suspected much the nurse had

overlayne him ; to our extreame sorrow, being now againe reduced to

one ; but God's will be done !                                                  the rest of his
                                                                                a Tub ; ' and
bro2t9h. ersA--ftemr yevveenryingdeparraeyeCrhsildwraesn.my child buried neere
   27 April. Saw a facetious Comedy called ' Love in
supped at Mr. Secretary Bennet's.
   3 May. Came the Earle of Kent my kindsman, and his Lady, to
visite us.

   5. Went with some company a journey of pleasure on the water in
barge with musick, and at Mortlack had a greate banquet, returning

late. The occasion was, Sir Rob. Carr now courting Mrs. Bennet,

sister to the Secretary of State.
6. Went to see Mr. Wrighte the painter's collection of rare shells, &c.

   8 June. Went to our Society, to which his Majestie had sent that
wonderfull home of the fish which struck a dangerous hole in the keel
of a Ship in the India Sea, which being broke off with the violence of

the fish and left in the timber, preserved it from foundering.
   9. Sir Samuel Tuke ' being this morning married to a lady, kins

woman to my Lord Arundel of Wardour, by the Queenes Lord Almoner
L. Aubignie in St. James's Chapell, solemniz'd his wedding-night at my
house with much companie.

   22. One Tomson a Jesuite shew'd me such a collection of rarities,
sent from the Jesuites of Japan and China to their Order at Paris, as a
present to be reserv'd in their repository, but brought to London by the

East India ships for them, as in my life I had not seene. The cheife

things were, large rhinoceros's horns ; glorious vests wrought and em-
brodered on cloth of gold, but with such lively colours, that for splendour

and vividness we have nothing in Europe that approches it ; a girdle
studded with achats and rubies of greate value and size ; knives of so
keene an edge as one could not touch them, nor was the mettal of our

colour, but more pale and livid ; farms like those our ladies use, but

much larger, and with long handles curiously carved and filled with

Chinese characters ; a sort of paper very broad, thin and fine like
abortive parchment and exquisitely polished, of an amber yellow, ex

ceeding glorious and pretty to looke on, and seeming to be like that
which my Lo. Verulame describes in his 'Nova Atlantis;' several

1 A Roman Catholic
                   THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                    297

other sorts of paper, some written, others printed ; prints of landskips,
their idols, saints, pagods, of most ugly serpentine monstrous and
hideous shapes, to which they paid devotion ; pictures of men and
countries rarely painted on a sort of gum'd calico transparent as
glasse ; flowers, trees, beasts, birds, &c. excellently wrought in a kind
of sieve silk very naturall ; divers drougs that our drouggists and

physitians could make nothing of, especialy one which the Jesuite
call'd Lac Tygridis, it look'd like a fungus, but was weighty like metall, 

yet was a concretion or coagulation of some other matter ; several
booke MSS. ; a grammar of the language writen in Spanish ; with in

numerable other rarities.

1 July. Went to see Mr. PoveyV elegant house in Lincoln's-inn-

fields, where the perspective in his court, painted by Streeter, is indeede
excellent, with the vasas in imitation of porphyrie, and fountains ; the
inlaying of his closet ; above all, his pretty cellar and the ranging of

his wine bottles.

   7. To Court, where I subscribed to Sir Arthur Slingsby's lottery a
desperate debt owing me long since in Paris.

   14. I went to take leave of the two Mr. Howards, now going for

Paris, and brought them as far as Bromley ; thence to Eltham, to see

Sir John Shaw's new house now building ; the place is pleasant if not
too wett, but the house not well contriv'd, especialy the roofe and roomes

too low pitch'd, and the kitchen where the cellars should be ; the
orangerie and aviarie handsome, & a very large plantation about it.
   19. To London to see the event of the lottery which his Majesty had
permitted Sir Arthur Slingsby to set up for one day in the Banqueting
House at White-hall. I gaining only a trifle, as well as did the King,

Queene-consort and Queene-mother for neere 30 lotts ; which was
thought to be contrived very unhandsomely by the master of who
                                           I
was, in truth, a meer shark.
                                                 a

                                                                         a it,
31. din'd with my L. Treasurer at Southampton House, where his
      I

Lordship used me with singular humanitie.  went in the afternoone

to Chelsey to waite on the Duke of Ormond, and returned to London.

28. Came to see me old Monsieur Zulichem, Secretary to the Prince

of Orange, an excellent Latin poet, now neere 80 yeares of age, rare
Latinist, with Monsieur Oudart
     Aug. To London a concert of excellent musitians, especialy one
3Mr. Berkenshaw, that rare artist who invented mathematical way of
                      ;
composure very extraordinary, true as to the exact rules of art, but:

without much harmonie.                 a
      Came the sad and unexpected newes of the death of Lady Cot
1
ton, wife to my brother George, most excellent lady.
  8.
    A Mr. Povey lived at Bcllsize House in Hampstead in 1718, who was coal merchant,a

though not trained to the business he wrote many books, some discovering indirect practices

in the coal trade, in government offices, &c
298 DEATH OF MV SISTER-IN-LAW. LORD CLARENDON.

9. Went with my brother Richard to Wotton, to visite & comforte
my disconsolate brother ; and on the 13th saw my friend Mr. Charles
·Howard at Dipden neere Dorking.
                                                    house   ,  Charleton,  which        ,
   16. I went to see Sir William Ducie's                   at
                                                                                  he

purchas'd of my excellent friend Sir Henry Newton, now nobly

furnish'd.
22. I went from London to Wotton to assist at the funeral of my

sister-in-law, the Lady Cotton, buried in our dormitorie there, she
being put up in lead. Dr. Owen made a profitable and pathetic dis

course, concluding with an eulogie of that virtuous, pious, and deserving
lady. It was a very solemn funerall, with about 50 mourners. I came
back next day with my wife to London.
   2 September. Came Sir Constantine                Hugens, Dr.  Zulichem, ' Sir

Robert Morris, Mr. Oudart, Mr. Carew, and other friends, to spend

the day with us.

   5 Oct. To our Society. There was brought a new invented instru
ment of musiq, being a harpsichord with gut strings, sounding like a
concert of viols with an organ, made vocal by a wheele, and a zone of

parchment that rubb'd horizontaly against the strings.

   6. I heard the anniversary oration in praise of Dr. Harvey, in the
Anatomie Theater in the Coll. of Physitians, after which I was invited

by Dr. Alston the President to a magnificent feast.

  7. I din'd at Sir Nicholas Strood's, one of the Masters of Chancery,

in greate St. Bartholomews ; passing the evening at White-hall with
the Queene, &c.
   8. Sir William Curtius, his Majesty's Resident in Germany, came

to visite me ; he was a wise and learned gentleman, and, as he told me,

scholar to Henry Alstedius the Encyclopaedist,
   15. Din'd at the Lo. Chancellors, where was the Duke of Ormond,
Earle of Cork, & Bp. of Winchester. After dinner my Lord Chan

cellor and his lady carried me in their coach to see their palace' (for he
now livM at Worcester House in the Strand) building at the upper end

of St James's Streete, and to project the garden. In the evening I
presented him with my booke of Architecture, as before I had don to
his Majesty and the Queene Mother. His Lordship caus'd me to stay
with him in his bed-chamber, discoursing of severall matters very late,
even til he was going into his bed.

  17. I went with my Lord Visct. Corneburyto Cornebury in Oxford

shire, to assist him in the planting of the park, and beare him company,
with Mr. Belin and Mr. May, in a coach with 6 horses ; din'd at

Uxbridge, lay at Wicckam (Wycombe).

  18. At Oxford. Went thro' Woodstock, where we beheld the de

   1 There is a Urge View of it engraved. The Chancellor in the Continuation of his Life
laments the having built on account of the great cost, and the unpopularity which its mag
nificence created. He had little enjoyment of as will be seen hereafter.
            it,
                                               it,
                                  THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  299

struction of that royal seate and park by the late rebels, and ariv'd that

evening at Cornebury, an house lately built by the Earle of Denbigh
in the middle of a sweete park, wall'd with a dry wall. The house is
of excellent freestone abounding in that part, a stone that is fine, but
never sweats or casts any damp ; 'tis of ample dimensions, has goodly
cellars, the paving of the hall admirable for its close laying. We
design 'd an handsome chapell that was yet wanting : as Mr. May had

the stables, which indeede are very faire, having set out the walkes in

the park and gardens. The lodge is a prety solitude, and the ponds

very convenient ; the parke well storM.

20. Hence we went to see the famous wells, natural and artificial

grotts and fountaines, call'd Bushells Wells at Enstone.1 This Bushell
had ben secretary to my Lo. Verulam. It is an extraordinary solitude.

There he had two mummies ; a grott where he lay in a hammock like

an Indian. Hence we went to Dichley, an ancient seate of the Lees, now
Sir Hen. Lee's ; it is a low ancient timber-house, with a pretty bowling
greene. My Lady gave us an extraordinary dinner. This gentleman's
mother was Countesse ot Rochester, who was also there, and Sir

Walter Saint John. There were some pictures of their ancestors not
ill painted ; the great grand-father had been Knight of the Garter :

there was the picture of a Pope and our Saviour's head. So we return'd

to Combury.
   24. We din'd at Sir Tim. Tyrill's at Shotover. This gentleman
married the daughter and heyre of Dr. James Usher, Abp. of Armagh,
that learned Prelate. There is here in the grove a fountaine of the
coldest water I ever felt, and very cleere. His plantation of oakes, &c.
is very commendable. We went in the evening to Oxford, lay at Dr.
Hide's, Principal of Magdalen Hall (related to the Lo. Chancellor)
brother to the Lord Ch. Justice, and that Sir Hen. Hide who lost his
head for his loyalty. We were handsomly entertain'd two dayes. The
Vice Chancellor, who with Dr. Fell, Deane of Christ Church, the

teamed Dr. Barlow, Warden ofQueenes, and severall heads of houses,
Icame to visite Lord Cornebury (his father being now Chancellor of the
University), and next day invited us all to dinner.          went to visite

Mr. Boyle (now here), whom I found with Dr. Wallis, and Dr. Chris
topher Wren in the Tower of the Scholes, with an inverted tube or
telescope, observing the discus of the Sunn for the passing of Mercury
that day before but the latitude was so great that nothing appeared
hi                                                                   ;
   1

                           a it,
so we went to see the rarities in the Library, where the keepers shewed
me my name among the benefactors. They have cabinet of some
medails, and pictures of the muscular parts of man's body. Thence
                                         a
                                                a

to the new Theater, now building at an exceeding and royal expence
by the Lo. Abp. of Canterbury [Sheldon], to keepe the Acts in for the

  Bushell published pamphlet respecting his contrivances here and in Plott's Oxfordshire;
an engraving of the rock, the fountains, &C. -belonging to it.
300 THE KING. APPOINTED COMMISSIONER TO LOOK TO CAPTIVES.

future, till now being in St Mary's church. The foundation had ben
newly laied and the whole design'd by that incomparable genius my

worthy friend Dr. Christopher Wren, who shewed me the model, not

disdaining my advice in some particulars. Thence to see the picture

on the wall over the Altar at All Soules, being the largest piece of

fresco painting (or rather in imitation of for         in oil of turpentine)
                                                       it,
                                                                it
                                                                    is

                                                                                         ;

                                                                                  I
                                                                                                  it
in England, not ill design'd by the hand of one Fuller yet feare
will not hold long. It seems too full of nakeds for a chapelL
Thence to New College, and the painting of Magdalen Chapel,

which on blew cloth in chiaro oscuro, by one Greenborow, being
        is

a Carta Domini, and a Last Judgment on the wall by Fuller, as theis

other, but somewhat varied.

Next to Wadham, and the Physick Garden, where were two large

locust trees, and as many platana, and some rare plants under the
culture of old Bobart.'

   26. We came back to Beaconsfield next day to London, where we
din'd at fhe Lord Chancellor's with my Lord Bellasis.
                                     '

                                                    ;
   27. Being casually in the privy gallery at White-hall, his Majesty
gave me thanks before divers lords and noblemen for my book of Ar

chitecture, and againe for my Sylva,' saying they were the best

design'd and usefull for the matter and subject, the best printed and

design'd (meaning the taille donees of the Parallel of Architecture) that
he had seene. He then caus'd me to follow him alone to one of the

windows, and ask'd me                had any paper about me unwritten, and
        ;

         I
                              if
                                   I

                                                                                       it
                                                                                                                   a
crayon        presented him with both, and then laying on the window-

stool, he with his own hands design'd to me the plot for the future

building of White-hall, together with the roomes of state, and other
particulars. After this he talk'd with me of severall matters, and
asking my advice of many particulars, in which find his Majesty had
                             a
                                              a

                                                           I

                                                                                                         is
                                                                                                                                  a
an extraordinary talent becoming a magnificent prince.
   The same day at Council, there being Commissioners to be made to
take care of such Sick and Wounded and Prisoners of war as might be
expected upon occasion of succeeding war and action at sea, war

being already declared against the Hollanders, his Majesty was pleas'd

to nominate me to be one, with three other gentlemen, Parliament men,
viz. Sir Wm. Doily Knt. and Bart. Sir Tho. Clifford,* and Bullein

Rheymes Esq. with a salary ^.1200 year amongst us, besides extra
                 a;
   Jacob Bobart, German, was appointed the first keeper of the Physic Garden at Oxford.
1             a fine print of him after Loggan by Burghers, dated 1675. Also a small whole
          is
There
length in the frontispiece of Vertumnus, a poem on that garden. In this he dressed in
long vest, with beard. One of this family was bred up at College in Oxford, but quitted his
              a

studies for the profession of the whip, driving one of the Oxford coaches (his own property)
for many years with great credit. In 1813 he broke his leg by an accident: and in 1814,
from the respect he had acquired by his good conduct, be was appointed by the University
to the place of one of the Esquire Beadles.
   Since Lord Treasurer of England.
*
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                  301

ordinaries for our care and attention in time of station, each of us being

appointed to a particular district, mine falling out to be Kent and

Sussex, with power to constitute officers, physitians, chirurgeons, pro
                                 of
vost marshals, and  to dispose  his  halfe of the hospitals  thro' England.
After the Council   we kiss'd        Majesty's hand. At
                                                             this Council I
heard Mr. Solicitor Finch ' plead most elegantly for the Merchants

trading to the Canaries, praying for a new Charter.
   29. Was the most magnificent triumph by water and land of the
Lord Maior '. I din'd at Guild-hall at the upper table, plac'd next to
Sir H. Bennett, Secretary of State, opposite to my Lo. Chancellor and

the Duke of Buckingham who sate betweene Monsieur Comminges

the French Ambassador, Lord Treasurer, the Dukes of Ormond and
Albemarle, Earl of Manchester Lord Chamberlaine, and the rest of the
great Officers of State. My Lord Maior came twice up to us, first

drinking in the golden goblett his Majesty's health, then the French

King's as a compliment to the Ambassador ; then we return'd my Lo.
Major's health, the trumpets and drums sounding. The cheere was
not to be imagined for the plenty and raritie, with an infinite number
of persons at the rest of the tables in that ample hall. The feast was

said to cost £. 1000. I slipt away in the crowd, and came home late.
  31. I was this day 44 yeares of age, for which I returned thanks to

Almighty God, begging his mercyfull protection for the yeare to come.
   2 November. Her Majesty the Queene Mother came crosse the

gallerie in White-hall to give me thanks for my book of Architecture

which I had presented to her, with a compliment that I did by no

means deserve.

   16. We chose our Treasurer, Clearks, and Messengers, and ap
pointed our seal which I order'd should be the good Samaritan, with
this motto, Fac similiter. Painters Hall was lent us to meete in. In

the greate roome were divers pictures, some reasonably good, that had
ben given to the Company by several of the Wardens and Masters of

the Company.

   23. Our Statutes now finished, were read before a full assembly of
the Royall Society.
   24. His Majesty was pleas'd to tell me what the conference was
with the Holland Ambassador, which, as after I found, was the heads
of the speech he made at the re-convention of the Parliament, which

now began to meet.
2 Dec. We deliver'd the Privy Council's letters to the Governors of
St. Thomas's Hospital in Southwark, that a moiety of the house should

be reseiVd for such sick and wounded as should from time to time be
sent from the Fleete during the war. This being deliver'd at their

  1 Afterwards Earl of Nottingham, and Lord Chancellor.                        prepared
  J Sir John Lawrence. The pageant for the day was called ' London's Triumph,
at the cost of the Haberdashers Company, and written by John Tatham, Gent.'
302 LAUNCH OF THE EXPERIMENT. THE MYSTERIES OF JESUITISM.

Court, the President and several Aldermen, Governors of that Hospital,
invited us to a greate feaste in Fishmongers Hall.
   20. To London our last sitting, taking order for our personal visiting

our severall districts. I dined at Capt. Cock's (our Treasurer), which

that most ingenious gent Matthew Wren, sonn to the Bp. of Ely, and
Mr. Joseph Williamson, since Secretary of State.
   22. I went to the launching of a new ship of two bottomes, invented

by Sir Wm. Petty, on which were various opinions ; his Majesty being
present gave her the name of The Experiment ; so I returned home,
where I found Sir Humphry Winch, who spent the day with me.

  This yeare I planted the lower grove next the pond at Sayes Court.
It was now exceeding cold and a hard long frosty season, and the Comet

was very visible.
28. Some of my poore neighbours dined with me, and others of my

tennants, according to my annual costome.

   31. Set my affaires in order, gave God praise for his mercys the
past yeare, and prepared for the reception of the Holy Sacrament,

which I partook of the next day after hearing our Minister on the 4th
Galatians 4. 5. of the Mysterie of Our Blessed                                        Incarnation.
   1665. 2 Jan. This day was published by                             Saviours
                                                                      me that         part of 'The

I1 In a letter to Lord Cornbury 3 Jan. 1664, Mr. Evelyn says, ' came to present your
Lordship   with your   oawnndepbuobolikshe'd[inbythemme'aJ r:giIn  is written, * The  other part  of the Mystery of
Jesuitism  translated                                              left it with my    Lord your
                                                                                                  Ifather, because
would not suffer it to be publiq till he had first scene
                                  9                                   who, on your Lordship's score, has so
                                                          '

                                                                 it,
just a title to it. The particulars which you will find added after the 4th letter are extracted
out of severall curious papers and passages lying by me, which for being very apposite to th*
controversy, thought fit to annex, in danger otherwise to have never ben produced.' -- It
;

     :I
                               '
another letter to Lord Cornbury, Feb. 1664, Mr. Evelyn says he undertook the Translation
by command of his Lordship and of his father the Lord Chancellor.
  The Authors of the Biographia Britannica speak, of *' The Mystery                   of Jesuitisme " as one

volume but in the library at Wot ton there are three, in duodecimo, with the following titles
and contents the second in order is* that translated by Mr. Evelyn.
1. Les Provinciates, or, The Mystery of Jesuitisme, discovered in certain Letters written
upon occasion of the present difference at Sorbonne between the Jansenists and the Motinists,
displaying the pernicious Maxims of the late Casuists. The second edition corrected, with
large additional. Sictit Strpcntts. London Printed for Richard Royston, and are to be sold
                                  :

by Robert Clavell at the Stag's Head near St. Gregorie's Church in St. Paul's Churchyard,

1658. -- pp. 360. Additionals, pp. 147. At the end are the names of some of the most eminent
Casuists.
   a. MviqpiM Tfjr 'AvoMi'ar. That is. Another Part of the Mystery of Jesuitism or the new
Heresie of the Jesuites, publickly maintained at Paris, in the College of Clermont, the xii of    a
                                                                                                     ;
December MDCLXI. declared to all the Bishops of France. According to the copy printed
at Paris. Together with the Imaginary Heresie, in three Letters, with divers ether particu

lars relating to the abominable Mysterie. Never before published in English. London:
Printed by James Flesher, for Richard Royston, bookseller to his most sacred Majesty, 1664.
--3 letters, pp. =06.  Copy of a Letter from the reverend Father Valerian, Capuchin,                    u
Pope Alexander 7th,    pp. 307 -- 239. The sense of the French Church, pp. 340--354.
3. The Moral Practice of the Jesuits demonstrated by many remarkable histories of their
actions in all parts of the world. Collected either from books of the greatest authority, or
most certain and unquestionable records and memorials. By the Doctors of the Sorbonne.
Faithfully translated into English (by Dr. Tongue see 1678, Oct. 1.) London: Printed for
Simon Miller at the Star at the West end of St. Paul's, 167a       ;
                              THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.               303

M'ysterie of Jesuitism ' translated and collected by me, tho' without my
name, containing the Imaginarie Heresy, with 4 letters and other pieces.

  4. I went in a coach, it being excessive sharp frost and snow,
towards Dover and other parts of Kent, to settle physitians, chirurgeons,

agents, marshals and other officers in all the Sea Ports, to take care of

such as should be set on shore, wounded, sick, or prisoners, in pur
suance of our Commission reaching from the North Foreland in Kent

to Portsmouth in Hampshire. The rest of the Ports in England were
allotted to the other Commissioners. That evening I came to Ro

chester, where I delivered the Privy Council's letter to the Maior to

receive orders from me.

  5. I ariv'd at Canterbury, and went to the Cathedral, exceedingly

well repair'd since his Majesty's returne.
   6. To Dover, where Col. Stroode Lieutenant of the Castle, having

receiv'd the letter I brought him from the Duke of Albemarle, made

me lodge in and was splendidly treated, assisting me from place toI it,
place. Here settled my first Deputy. The Maior and Officers of theI

Costomes were very civil to me. -- To Deal. -- 10. To Sandwich, a9.
pretty towne, about miles from the sea. The Maior and Officers of
                              2

the Costomes were very diligent to serve me. visited the Forts in the
                                                I

way, and return'd that night to Canterbury.
   11. To Rochester, when tooke order to settle officers at Chatham.
-- 13. To Gravesend, and return'd home. A cold, busy, but not anI

unpleasant journey.
   25. This night being at White-hall, his Majesty came to me standing

in the withdrawing roome, and gave me thanks for publishing The
                                                                      '
                                                                                 ;
Mysterie of Jesuitism,' which he said he had carried two days in his

pocket, read and encourag'd me at which did not a little wonder
  suppose Sir Robert Murray had given to him.
I                                           ;   it

                         it,                          I

                                                                   6
   27. Dined at the Lord Chancellor's, who caus'd me after dinner to
sit or houres alone with him in his bed-chamber.
22
            3

          I
Feb. saw a masq pcrform'd at Court by gentlemen and                    6

ladys, surprizing his Majesty, being Candlemas-day.
8. Ash-Wednesday.                I
                                        it
                                 visited our prisoners at Chelsey Colledge,

and to examine how the Martial and Suttlers behav'd. These were

prisoners taken in the warr they only complain'd that their bread was;
too fine. dined at Sir Henry Herbert's, Master of the Revells.

        Din'd at my Lo. Treasurers the Earle of Southampton, in Blomes-
9.

        I

bury, where he was building a noble Square or Piazza,1 a little Towne
                                                :

                                                                            '.

                                                                     I
                                                                                                                          ;
his owne house stands too low, some noble roomes, a pretty cedar

chapell, a naked garden to the North, but good aire                   had much

     The Italians do not mean what we do by Piazza they only mean a Square.
     Afterwards was called Bedford House, being the town residence for many years of the
Russell family, but was pulled down in 1800, and on the site and the adjoining fields were
erected many handsome houses, now called Russell Square, Bedford Place, Russell Place, Sec,
31

                      it
3^4 ST. JAMES'S PARKE. DR. FELL. THE HOUSE OF LORDS.

discourse with his Lordship, whom I found to be a person of extra

Iordinary parts, but valetudinarie. -- I went to St. James's Parke, where

   saw various animals, and examined the throate of the Onocratylus
or Pelican, a fowle betweene a Stork and a Swan ; a melancholy water

fowl brought from Astracan by the Russian Ambassador, it was divert

ing to see how he would toss up and turn a flat fish, plaice or flounder,
to get it right into its gullet at its lower beak, which being filmy,
stretches to a prodigious wideness when it devours a great fish. Here

was also a small water-fowl not bigger than a more-hen, that went

almost quite erect like the penguin of America ; it would eate as much
fish as its whole body weigh'd, I never saw so unsatiable a devourer,
yet the body did not appear to sweil the bigger. The Solan geese here
also are greate devourers, and are said soon to exhaust all the fish in a

pond. Here was a curious sort of poultry not much exceeding the size
of a tame pidgeon, with legs so short as their crops seem'd to touch the

earth ; a milk-white raven ; a stork which was a rarity at this season,

seeing he was loose and could flie loftily ; two Balerian cranes, one of
which having had one of his leggs broken and cut off above the knee,

had a wooden or boxen leg and thigh, with a joynt so accurately made

that the creature could walke and use it as well as if it had ben natural ;

it was made by a souldier. The Parke was at this time stored with

numerous flocks of severall sorts of ordinary and extraordinary wild

fowle, breeding about the Decoy, which for being neere so greate a

Citty, and among such a concourse of souldiers and people, is a singular

and diverting thing. There were also deere of severall countries,
white; spotted like leopards; antelopes; an elk; red deere; roebucks;

staggs ; Guinea goates ; Arabian sheepe, &c. There were withy-potts

or nests for the wild fowle to lay their eggs in, a little above the surface

of the water.

  23 Feb. I was invited to a greate feast at Mr. Rich's (a relation of

my wife's, now Reader at Lincoln's Inn ; where was the Duke of

Monmouth, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Bishops of London and
Winchester, the Speaker of the House of Commons, divers of the

Judges, and severall other greate men. .
24. Dr. Fell, Canon of Christ Church, preach'd before the King on
     Romans  2, a very formal  discourse, and   in blank verse, according to
15   manner  ; however he is   a good man. --  Mr. Philips, preceptor to my

his

sonn, went to be with the E. of Pembroke's sonn, my Lo. Herbert.
   2 March. I went with his Majesty into the lobbie behind the House
of Lords, where I saw the King and rest of the Lords robe them

selves, and got into the Lords House in a corner neere the woolsack on
which the Lord Chancellor sits next below the Throne ; the King sate

in all the regalia, the crown imperial on his head, the scepter and
globe, &c. The D. of Albemarle bare the sword, the D. of Ormond
the cap of dignity. The rest of the Lords robed and in their places :--a
                      DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN'.                                                305

most splendid and august convention. Then came the Speaker and the
House of Commons, and at the barr made a speech, and afterwards

presented severall bills, a nod onely passing them, the Cleark saying

Le Roy U veitlt, as to public bills ; as to private, Soitfaite comme it

est desiri. Then his Majesty made a handsome but short speech,
                my Lord Privy Seale to
  commanding   Chancellor being ill and           prorogue  the Parliament, which
" he did, the                                     absent.
                                                            I had not before secne

this ceremony.

  9. 1 went to receive the poore creatures that were saved out of the
London fregat, blowne up by accident with above 200 men.
   29 Mar. Went to Goring House1, now Mr. Secretary Bennett's, ill
built, but the place capable of being made a pretty villa. His Majestie

was now finishing the Decoy in the Parke.
2 April. Took order about some prisoners sent from Capt. Allen's
ship, taken in the Solomon, viz. the brave men who had defended her

so gallantly.

. 5. Was a day of public humiliation and for successe of this terrible
warr, begun doubtlesse at secret instigation of the French to weaken the

States & Protestant interest. Prodigious preparations on both sides.

  6. In the afternoonc I saw acted ' Mustapha,' a tragedy written by

the Earle of Orrery.
11. To London, being now left the onely Commissioner to take all

necessary orders how to exchange, remove, and keepe prisoners, dispose

of hospitalls, &c. the rest of the Commissioners being gone to their
severall districts, in expectation of a suddaine engagement.

   19. Invited to a greate dinner at the Trinity House, where I had

businesse with the Commissioners of the Navy, and to receive the second

^5,000 imprest for the service of the sick and wounded prisoners.
   20. To White-hall to the King, who called me into his bed chamber

as he was dressing, to whom I shew'd the letter written to me from the

Duke of York from the fleete, giving me notice of Young Evertson, and

some other considerable commanders newly taken in fight with the

Dartmouth and Diamond frigats3, whom he had sent me as prisoners

1 On the site whereof Arlington Street is now built. There is a small print of this house.
  s In the  publication of the Life of  King   JaflmeeetsinII.166fr5o, mhehsisayos,wn'
            the engagement with the     Dutch                                           papers (printed 1816), after
describing                                                                              Soon after this three Dutch
men of war, which had been seen for some time to the windward of us, and were looking out
for their own fleet, bore down in order to join it. One of them was a great ship of above 80
guns, which for want of some repairs had been left by Cornelius Evertson to his son, with

orders to follow ; the other two were not of the same force. These being to windward, endea
voured to join the head of their fleet, and young Evertson being a mettled man, and having a
mind to distinguish himself, resolved to run on board the Plimouth, hoping to bear her down ;
but Sir Tho. Allen, perceiving by Evertson's working what his design was, brought his ship to
at once, so that Evertson miss'd his aim, tho' he came so near it that the yard-arms of both
ships touch'd, and they gave each other a severe broadside in passing ; after which Evertson
and the other two made a shift to join their own  fleet, and Sir Tho Allen              continued leading as
before, till finding himself extreamly disabled,  he was fore'd to ly by.'              P. 410. -- 'After this

engagement was over, and the Dutch had retired to their own ports, the Duke of York had

                                                                                        20
306 YlGHT AT SEA. CAPTURE OF SHIPS. RELEASE OF THE CAPTAINS.

at war ; I went to know of his Majestie how he would have me treate
them, when he commanded me to bring the young Captain to Turn, and

to take the word of the Dutch Ambassador (who    yet remained         here)                      for
the other, that he should render himself to me                       called                      on
                                                 whenever I
him, and not stir without leave. Upon which I desird more guards,
the prison being Chelsey House. I went also to Lord Arlington (the
Secretary Bennett lately made a Lord) about other businesse. Dined-
at my Lord Chancellors, none with him but Sir Sackville Crowe, for

merly the Ambassador at Constantinople ; we were very chearfull

and merry.

   24. I presented young Capt. Evertson (eldest son of Cornelius, Vice
Admiral of Zealand, and nephew of John, now Admiral, a most valiant
person) to his Majestie in his bed chamber ; the King gave him his

hand to kisse, and restored him his liberty ; ask'd many questions con

cerning the fight being the first bloud drawnc), his Majestie remem
I

                     (it
bering the many civilities he had formerly receiv'd from his relations

abroad, who had now so much interest in that considerable Province.

Then was commanded to go with him to the Holland Ambassador,

where he was to stay for his passport, and was to give him 50 pieces
in broad gold. Next day had the Ambassador's parole for the other
                                              1  aI
                                                               I
Captain, taken in Capt. Allen's fight before Cales.               gave the King an
account of what had don, and afterwards ask'd the same favour for
           I
                I
another Captain, which his Majesty gave me.
28 April.
                 went to Tunbridge, to see solemn exercise at the free

schoole there'.

Having taken orders with my martial about my prisoners, and with
the doctor and chirurgeon to attend the wounded, enemies and of our

owne men, went to London again and visited my charge, scverall
           I

                                           ;
with legs and arms off miserable objects God knows                !

   16 May. To London to consider of the poore orphans and widows

brought back the English fleet to the Nore, he took care to have his Scouts abroad, two of
which, the Diamond, Capt. Golding, and the Yarmouth, Capt Ayliffe, being sent to observe the
motions of the Dutch, they happened to meet with two of the Direction ships (as the Dutch call
them) of 40 od guns each the biggest was commanded by one Masters, the other by young
Cornelius Evertson, who, tho' ours were of somewhat better force, did not avoid engaging. At
                   ;
                                        ;
the first broadside Golding was slain but his Lieut. Davis managed the fight so weil, as did
the Opt. of the Yarmouth, that after some hours dispute, both the Dutch ships were taken,
tho' bravely defended, for they lost many men and were very much disabled before they
struck The Duke gave young Evertson his liberty1, in consideration of his father Cornelius,
Rwho had performed severall services for the K. before his Restoration and his  H. freed
                                                                  ;
                                                                                              V
also the other Captain for having defended himself so well, and made Lieut. Davis Captain
of those prizes.' P. 419.
      There an annual visitation by the Skinners Company of London, who are the patrons,
11
   i.

                 is
                                       it
at which verses, themes, Ac. are spoken before them by the senior scholars. The Rev. icesi-
snus Knox (D.D.), author of many works, some of have gone through many editions, was
master from about 1779 to 181a, when he resigned in favour of his son the Rev. Thomas Knox.

e. he recommended                          to the King to do so, for we see he was sent to London and pre
sented to the King by Mr. Evelyn.
         THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                              307

made by this bloudy beginning, and whose husbands and relations

perished in the London fregat, of which there were 50 widows, and 45
of them with child.

26. To treat with the Holland Ambassador at Chelsey for release of

divers prisoners of warr in Holland on exchange here. After dinner
being call'd into the Council Chamber at White-hall, I gave his Majesty
an account of what I had don, informing him of the vast charge upon

us, now   amounting   to no less than .£.1000 weekely.     in  Kent, to make
    29.               my little boy to visite my district
         I went with

up accompts with my officers. Visited the Governor at Dover Castle,

where were some of my prisoners.
   3 June. In my return went to Graves-end ; the Fleets being just
now engaged, gave special orders for my officers to be ready to receive

the wounded and prisoners.

   5. To London, to speak with his Majesty and the Duke of Albemarle
for horse and foote guards for the prisoners at warr, committed more

particularly to my charge by a Commission apart.

   8. I went againc to his Grace, thence to the Council, and mov'd for
another privy scale for ,£.20,000, and that I might have the disposal
of the Savoy Hospital for the sick and wounded, all which was granted.

Hence to the Royal Society to refreshe among the Philosophers.

Came newes of his Highness's victory, which indeede might have

ben a compleate one, and at once ended the warr, had it ben pursued,
but the cowardice of some, or treachery, or both, frustrated that. We

had however bonfires, bells and rejoicing in the Citty. Next day the

9th I had instant orders to repaire to the Downes, so as I got to

Rochester this evening. Next day I lay at Deale, where I found all in
readinesse ; but the Fleete being hindred by contrary winds I come away
on the 1 2th and went to Dover, and returned to Deale ; and on the
13th hearing the Fleete was at Solebay, I went homeward, and lay at
Chatham, and the 14th I got home. On the 15th came the eldest son
of the present Secretary of State to the French King, with much other
companie, to dine with me. After dinner I went with him to London,
to speake to my Lord Gen. for more guards, and gave his Majesty an
account of my journey to the Coasts under my inspection. I also waited
on his Royal Highnesse, now come triumphant from the Fleete,
gotten in to repaire. See the whole history of this conflict in my
History of the Dutch Warr.
   20. To London, and represented the state of the sick and wounded

to his Majesty in Council, for want of mony ; he ordered I should apply
to my Lo. Treassurer and Chancellor of the Exchequer, upon what
funds to raise the mony promised. We also presented to his Majesty,
divers expedients for retrenchment of the charge.
   This evening making my court to the Duke, I spake to Mons. Co-
mirjges the French Ambassador, and his Highness granted me six
308 VISIT THE FLEETE IN COMPANY WITH THE KING.

prisoners, Emdeners, who were desirous to go to the Barbados with a

merchant.

   22. We waited on the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and got an
order of Council for our mony to be paid to the Treasurer of the Navy

for our Receivers.
23. I din'd with Sir Robert Paston since Earle of Yarmouth, and
saw the Duke of Verncuille base brother to the Q. Mother, a handsom
old man, a greate hunter.
   The  Duke of Yorke told us that when they       were in fight, his dog
        out absolutely the very securest place in  all the vesselL -- In the
sought
afternoone I saw the pompous reception and audience of El Conde de
Molino, the Spanish Ambassador, in the Banquetting-house, both their
Majesties sitting together under the canopy of state.

   30. To Chatham ; and 1 July, to the Fleete with Lord Sandwich,
now Admiral, with whom I went in a pinnace to the Buoy of the Nore,

where the whole Fleete rod at anker ; went on board the Prince of 90
brasse ordnance, happly the best ship in the world both for building

and sailing ; she had 700 men. They made a greate huzza or shout at
our approch 3 times. Here we dined with many noblemen, gentlemen
and volunteers, served in plate and excellent meate of all sorts. After
dinner came his Majcstie, the Duke, and Prince Rupert. Here I saw
the King knight Capt. Custance for behaving so bravely in the late
fight. It was surprizing to behold the good order, decency, and plenty
of all things in a vessell so full of men. The ship received an hundred
cannon shot in her body. Then I went on board the Charles, to which,

after a gun was shot off, came all the Flag-officers to his Majesty, who

Rthere held a Generall Council, which determin'd that his Highnesse

should adventure himselfe no more this Summer. I came away late,
having seene the most glorious Fleete that ever spread sailes. We
returned in his Majesty's yacht with my Lo. Sandwich and Mr. Vice-

Chamberlaine, landing at Chatham on Sunday morning.

   5 July. I tooke order for 150 men who had ben recovered of their

wounds, to be carried on board the Clove Tree, Carolus Quintus, and

Zeland, ships that had ben taken by us in the fight ; and so re-
turn'd home.

   7. To London, to Sir Wm. Coventrie ; and so to Sion, where his

Majesty sat at Council during the contagion ; when buisines was over,

I viewed that seate belonging to the Earle of Northumberland, built

out of an old Nunnerie, of stone, and faire enough, but more celebrated

for the garden than it deserves ; yet there is excellent wall-fruit, and a

pretty fountaine ; nothing else extraordinarie.

   9. I went to Hampton Court, where now the whole Court was,

to solicite for mony ; to carry intercepted letters ; confer again with
Sir Wm. Coventrie, the Duke's secretary ; and so home, having din'd
with Mr. Secretary Morice.
                 THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                309

   16 July. There died of the plague in London this weeke 1100,
and in the weeke following above 2000. Two houses were shut up

in our parish.

  2 Aug. A solemn fast thro' England to deprecate God's displeasure

against the land by pestilence and war ; our Dr. preaching on 26 Levit:

41, 42. that the meanes to obtaine remission of punishment was not to

repine at but humbly submit to it.
         Came his Grace the Duke of Albemarle, L. Generall of all his
3.

            it,

Majesties Forces, to visite me, and carried me to dine with him.

   4. went to Wotton to carry my sonn and his tutor Mr. Bohun,I
Fellow of New Coll. (recommended to me by Dr. Wilkins and the
Pres. of New Coll. Oxford), for fearc of the pestilence, still increasing in

London and its environs. On my returne call'd at Durdans, where           I               I
found Dr. Wilkins, Sir \Vm. Petty, and Mr. Hooke, contriving chariots,

new rigging for ships,                                                 whecle for one to run races in, and other
I
       8.
        I
                                                                    ;
                                                 a
mechanical inventions perhaps three such persons together were not

to be found elsewhere in Europe, for parts and ingenuity.

   waited on the D. of Albemarle, who was resolved to stay at

the Cock-pit in St. James's Parke. Died this week in London 4000.
   15. There perished this week 5000.
   28. The contagion still increasing and growing now all about us,

   sent my wife and whole family (two or three necessary servants
excepted) to my brother's at Wotton, being resolved to stay at my

house myselfe and to looke after my charge, trusting in the providence

and goodnesse of God.
     Sept. To Chatham to inspect my charge, with 900/. in my coach.
   7. Came home, there perishing neere 10,000 poore creatures weekly
however went all along the Citty and suburbs from Kent Streete to
5                                                                                         I;

        I

St. James's, a dismal passage, and dangerous to see so many coffines
expos'd in the streetes, now thin of people the shops shut up, and all
                                                                          :
in mourneful silence, as not knowing whose turn might be next.
                                                                             a
went to the Duke of Albemarle for a pest-ship, to wait on our infected
                                                                                  I;
men, who were not few.
                 a

   14. went to Wotton and on 16 Sept. to visite old Secretary
Nicholas, being now at his new purchase of West Horsley, once mort
II                                                                     ;

gaged to me by Lord Visct. MontaguI                                       pretty drie seate on the Downe.
        I
Retum'd to Wotton.
17. Receiving a letter from Lord Sandwich of a defeate given to the
Dutch, was fore'd to travell all Sunday.                                              was exceedingly perplex'd

to find that neere 3000 prisoners were sent to me to dispose of, being
more than had places fit to receive and guard.
   25. My Lord Admiral being come from the fleete to Greenewich,
went thence with him to the Cock-pit to consult with the Duke of                          I

Albemarle.       was peremptory that unlcsse we had 10,000/. imme
                                                                                          should be
diately, the prisoners would starve, and 'twas proposed                               it
3IO CAPTURE OF DUTCH EAST INDIAMEN. THE PLAGUE IN LONDON.

rais'd out of the E. India prizes now taken by Lord Sandwich. They
being but two of the Commission, and so not impower'd to determine,

sent an expresse to his Majesty and Council to know what they should

do. In the meane time I had 5 vessells with competent guards to keepe
the prisoners in for the present, to be placed as I should think best.
After dinner (which was at the Generals) I went over to visite his

Grace the A. Bishop of Canterbury at Lambeth.

   28. To the Generall againe,' to acquaint him of the deplorable state
of our men for want of provisions ; return'd with orders.
   29. To Erith to quicken the sale of the prizes lying there, with order

to the Commissioner who lay on board till they should be dispos'd of,
5000/. being proportion'd for my quarter. Then I deliver'd the Dutch
Vice Admiral, who was my prisoner, to Mr. Lowman, of the Marshal-
eea, he giving me bond in 500/. to produce him at my call. I exceed
ingly pittied this brave unhappy person, who had lost with these prizes

40,000/. after 20 yeares negotiation [trading] in the East Indies. I din'd

in one of these vessells, of 1200 tonns, full of riches.
1 October. This afternoone, whilst at evening prayers, tidings were
brought me of the birth of a daughter at Wotton, after six sonns, in the

same chamber I had first tooke breath in, and at the first day of that
             I was on the                    before. -- 4.
moneth, as  London, and    last,  45 yeares  whole Citty,   The monthly fast.
                           went   thro' the                 having occasion to
   ir. To

alight out of the coach in severall places about buisinesse of mony,

when I was environ'd with multitudes of poore pestiferous creatures
begging almes ; the shops universaly shut up> a dreadful prospect ! I
din'd with my Lord General ; was to receive 10,000/. and had guards

to convey both myselfe and        and so returned home, thro' God's
I
         II Iinfinite mercy.

                                      I

                                                       it,
                                                                   is

                                                                                             I
17. went to Gravesend, next day to Chatham, thence to Maidstone,
in order to the march of 500 prisoners to Leeds Castle, which had
hired of Lord Culpeper.    was earnestly desir'd by the learned Sir

Roger Twisden and Deputy Lieutenants to spare Maidstone from
quartering any of my sick flock. Here Sir Edw. Brett sent me some
horse to bring up the reare. This country from Rochester to Maid

stone by the Med way and the Downs very agreeable for the prospect.
   21. came from Gravesend, where Sir Jo. Griffith, the Governor of
the Fort, entertain'd me very handsomely.

31. was this day 45 yeares of age, wonderfully preserved, for which
blessed God for his infinite goodness towards me.

23 November. Went home, the contagion having now decreas'd
considerably.
   27. The Duke of Albemarle was going to Oxford, where both Court
and Parliament had ben most part of the summer. There was no small
suspicion of my Lord Sandwich having permitted divers commanders
who were at the taking of the East India prizes, to break bulk and take
               THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                          311

to themselves jewels, silkes, &c. : tho' I believe some whom I could

name fill'd their pockets, my Lo. Sandwich himselfe had the least

share. However he underwent the blame, and it created him enemies,
and prepossess'd the Lord Generall, for he spake to me of it with
much zeale and concerne, and I believe laid load enough on Lord

Sandwich at Oxford.

   8 Dec. To my Lo. of Albemarle (now return'd from Oxon), who was
declared Generall at Sea, to the no small mortification of that excellent

person the Earle of Sandwich, whom the Duke of Albemarle not oncly

suspected faulty about the prizes, but less valiant ; himselfe imagining

how easie a thing it were to confound the Hollanders, as well now as

heretofore he fought against them upon a more disloyal interest.

   25. Kept Christmas with my hospitable brother at Wotton.
   30. To Woodcott, when I supp'd at my Lady Mordaunt's at Ashted,
where was a roome hung with Pintado, full of figures grcate and small,

prettily representing sundry trades and occupations of the Indians,

with their habits ; here supp'd also Dr. Duke, a learned and facetious

gentleman.

   31. Now blessed be God for his extraordinary mercies and preser
vation of me this yeare, when thousands and ten thousands perish'd

and were swept away on each side of me, there dying in our parish this

yeare 406 of the pestilence !
   1666. 3 Jan. I supp'd in None-such House,1 whither the office of

the Exchequer was transferr'd during the plague, at my good friend's
Mr. Packer's, and tooke an exact view of the plaster statues and bass

relievos inserted 'twixt the timbers and punchions of the outside walles
of the Court ; which must needs have ben the work of some celebrated

VIII.Italian. I much admir*d how it had lasted so well and intire since the
time of Hen.   expos'd as they are to the aire ; and pitty it is they

are not taken out and preserv'd in some drie place ; a gallerie would

become them. There are some mezzo-relievos as big as the life, the
storie is of the Heathen Gods, emblems, compartments, &c. The
Palace consists of two courts, of which the first is of stone, castle-like,
               Lbuumtlitehsese(owf walhlsominc'otwmapsapruarbclhyasb'de)a,utitfhieed.othIerobosfetrivm'dbetrh, aat
by the Lo.
Gotic fabric,

the appearing timber punchions, entrelices, &c. were all so covered with
scales of slate, that it seem'd carv'd in the wood and painted, the slate
fastened on the timber in pretty figures, that has, like a coate of armour,

preserv'd it from rotting. There stand in the garden two handsome
stone pyramids, and the avenue planted with rows of faire elmes, but
the rest of these goodly trees, both of this and of Worcester Park ad-

joyning, were fell'd by those destructive and avaricious rebells in the
late warr, which defae'd one of the stateliest seates his Majesty had.
   1 There is a small print of it in Speed's Map of Surrey, but a larger one by Hoefnagle in a
Collection of Views, some in England, but chiefly abroad. Mr. Lysons has copied this in his
'Environs of Lundan,' edit. 1796, vol. I. p. 153.
312 PESTILENCE ABATED, AND PRESERVED, THOUGH MUCH EXPOSED.

    12. After much, and indeede extraordinary mirth and cheere, all my
brothers, our wives and children being together, and after much sorrow
and trouble during this Contagion, which seperated our families as well
as others, I returned to my house, but my wife went back to Wotton,
I not as yet willing to adventure her, the Contagion, tho' exceedingly
abated, not as yet wholy extinguished amongst us.

   29. I went to waite on his Majesty, now return'd from Oxford to
Hampton Court, where the Duke of Albemarle presented me to him ;
he ran towards mc, and in a most gracious manner gave me his hand
to kisse, with many thanks for my care and faith fullnesse in his service
in a time of such greate danger, when every body fled their employ
ments ; he told me he was much oblig'd to me, and said he was severall
times concern'd for me, and the peril I underwent, and did receive my

service most acceptably (tho' in truth I did but my duty, and O that I

had performed it as I ought !) After this his Majesty was pleas'd to
talke with me alone, neere an houre, of severall particulars of my em
ployment, and order'd me to attend him againe on the Thursday
following at Whitehall. Then the Duke came towards me, and em-
brae'd me with much kindnessc, telling me if he had thought my danger
would have ben so greate, he would not have suffcr'd his Majesty to
employ me in that station. Then came to salute me my Lo. of St. Al
bans, Lord Arlington, Sir William Coventrie, and severall greate per
sons ; after which I got home, not being very well in health.

   The Court was now in deepe mourning for the French Queene Mother.
   2 Feb. To London, his Majesty now come to White-hall, where I
heard and saw my Lo. Maior (and breathren) make his speech of well-
come, and the two Sheriffs were knighted.
   6. My wife and family return'd to me from the country, where they
had ben since August, by reason of the contagion, now almost univer
sally ceasing. Blessed be God for his infinite mercy in preserving us !
I having gone thro' so much danger, and lost so many of my poore
officers, escaping still myselfe, that I might live to recount and magnifie

his goodnesse to me.

   8. I had another gracious reception by his Majesty who call'd me
into his bed-chamber, to lay before and describe to him my project of
an Infirmarie, which I read to him, who with greate approbation, re

commended it to his R. Highnesse.

   20 Feb. To the Commissioners of the Navy, who having seene the
project of the Infirmary, encourag'd the work, and were very earnest it
should be set about immediately ; but I saw no mony, tho' a very

moderate expense would have saved thousands to his Majesty, and ben
much more commodious for the cure and quartering our sick and
wounded, than the dispersing them into private houses, where many
more chirurgeons and attendants were necessary, and the people temp
ted to debaucherie.
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                   313

21. Went to my Lo. Treasurers for an assignment of ,£40,000 upon

the two last quarters for support of the next yeares charge. Next day

to Duke of Albemarle and Secretary of State, to desire them to propose

it to the Council.

   1 Mar. To London, and presented his Majesty my book intituled
'The pernicious Consequences of the new Heresy of the Jesuits against
Kings and States.'

   7. Dr. Sandcroft, since Abp. of Canterbury, preached before the
King about the identity and immutability of God, on the 102 Psalm 27.

   13. To Chatham, to view a place design'd for an Infirmarie.
   15. My charge now amounted to neere £.7000 [weekly.]
   22. The Royal Society re-assembled after the dispersion from the

contagion.

24. Sent £.2000 to Chatham.
1 Aprill. To London, to consult about ordering the natural rarities

belonging to the repositorie of the Royall Society ; was referred to a

Committee.

   10. Visited Sir William D'Oylie, surprized with a fit of apoplexie,

and in extrcame danger.

  'I11. Dr. Bathurst preached before the King, from say unto you
'-all, watch a seasonable and most excellent discourse. When his

Majesty came from Chapell, lie call'd to me in the Lobby, and told me

he must now have me sworn for a Justice of Peace (having long since
made me of the Commission), which I declin'd as inconsistent with the

other service I was engag*d in, and humbly desired to be excused.

After dinner, waiting on him, I gave him the first notice of the Spa
niards referring the umpirage of the Peace 'twixt them and Portugal to
the French King, which came to me in a letter from France before the

Secretaries of State had any newes of it. After this his Majestie againe

asked me if I had found out any able person about our parts that might

supply my place of Justice of Peace (the office in the world I had most
industriously avoided, in reguard of the perpetual trouble thereoff in
these numerous parishes), on which I nominated one, whom the King

commanded me to give immediate notice of to my Lord Chancellor,
and I should be  excus'd ; for which I
-- From thence   I went to the Royal    rendered  his Majestie  many thanks.
                                        Society,  where I was   chosen by 27

voices to be one of their Council for the ensuing yeare ; but upon my

earnest suite, in respect of my other affaires, I got to be excused ;--and

so went home.

   15. Our parish was now more infected with the plague than ever,
and so was all the countrie about, tho' almost quite ceas'd at London.

   24. To London about our Mint Commission, and sat in the inner

Court of Wards.

  8 May. To Quecnboro', where finding the Richmond Fregate, I

sail'd to the Buoy of the Nore to my Lo. General and Prince Rupert,
314 ACTION AT SEA. A VICTORY, BUT WITH GREAT LOSS TO US.

where was the rendezvous of the most glorious Fleet in the world, now
preparing to meete the Hollander. --Went to visite my Co. Hales at a
sweetly-waterM place at Chilston neere Bockton. The next morning
to Leedes Castle, once a famous hold, now hired by me of my Lord
Culpeper for a prison. Here I flowed the drie moate, made a new
drawbridge, brought spring water into the court of the castle to an old

fountaine, and tooke order for the repaires.
22. Waited on my Lo. Chancellor at his new palace ; and Lord

Berkeley's built next to it.
24. Dined with Lord Cornbury, now made L. Chamberlaine to the
Queene ; who kept a very honorable table.
   1 June. Being in my garden  at 6 o'clock in the evening, and     hear
ing the greate gunns go thick                                       night
                               off, I tooke horse, and rod that

to Rochester ; thence next day towards the Downes and sea-coast, but
meeting the Lieutenant of the Hampshire Fregat, who told me what
pass'd, or rather what had not pass'd, I return'dto London, there being
no noise or appearance at Deale, or on that coast, of any engagement.
Recounting this to his Majesty, whom I found at St. James's Park, im
patiently expecting, and knowing that Prince Rupert was loose about
3 at St. Helen's Point at N. of the Isle of Wight, it greatcly rejoie'd
him ; but he was astonish'd when I assur'd him they heard nothing of

the guns in the Downs, nor did the Lieutenant, who landed there by 5
that morning.

   3 June. Whitsunday. After sermon came newes that the Duke of
Albemarle was still in fight, and had ben all Saturday, and that Capt.

Harman's ship (the Henrie) was like to be burnt. Then a letter from
Mr. Bertie that Pr. Rupert was come up with his squadron (according
to my former advice of his being loose and in the way), and put new
courage into our Fleete, now in a manner yielding ground, so that now

we were chasing the chasers ; that the Duke of Albemarle was slightly

wounded, and the rest still in greate danger. So having ben much wearied
with my journey, I slipp'd home, the gunns still roaring fiercely.
   5. I went this morning to London, where came severall particulars
of the fight.
6. Came Sir Dan. Harvey from the Generall, and related the dread-

full encounter, on which his Majesty commanded me to dispatch an

extraordinary physitian and more chirurgeons. 'Twas on the solemn

fast day when the newes came ; his Majesty being in the Chapell, made

a suddaine stop to heare the relation, which being with much advantage
on our side, his Majesty commanded that publiq thanks should im
mediately be given as for a victory. The Deane of the Chapell going
down to give notice of it to the other Deane officiating ; and notice was
likewise sent to St. Paul's and Westminster Abby. But this was no
sooner over, than newes came that our losse was very greate both in
ships and men ; that the Prince fregat was burnt, and as noble a vessell
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  315

of 90 brass guns lost, and the taking of Sir Geo. Ayscue, and exceed
ing shattering of both Fleetes, so as both being obstinate, both parted
rather for want of ammunition and tackle than courage, our Generall
retreating like a lyon ; which exceedingly abated of our former joy.
There was however order given for bonfires and bells ; but God knows
it was rather a deliverance than a triumph. So much it pleased God to
humble our late over-confidence that nothing could withstand the Duke
of Albemarle, who in good truth made too forward a reckoning of his
successe now, because he had once beaten the Dutch in another quarrell,
and being ambitious to outdo the Earle of Sandwich, whom he had
prejudicated as deficient in courage.

  7. I sent more chirurgeons, linnen, medicaments, &c. to the severall

ports in my district.
   8. Dined with me Sir Alexander Fraser, prime physitian to his

Majestie ; afterwards went on board his Majesty's pleasure-boate, when

I saw the London Frigate launch'd, a most stately ship, built by the
Citty to supply that which was burnt by accident some time since. The
King, Lord Maior and Sheriffs, being there with a greate banquet.

   11. Trinity Monday, after a sermon, applied to the re-meeting of
the Corporation of the Trinity House after the late raging and wasting
pestilence: I dined with them in their new roome in Deptford, the first

time since it was rebuilt.

   15. I went to Chatham. -- 16. In the Jemmy Yactht (an incom
parable sailer) to sea, ariv'd by noone at the Fleete at the Buoy of the

Nore, din'd with Prince Rupert and the Generall.
   17. Came his Majesty, the Duke, and many Noblemen. After

Council we went to prayers. My business being dispatch'd, I return'd

to Chatham, having layne but one night in the Royal Charles ; we had'

a tempestuous sea. I went on shore at Sheerness, where they were

building an arsenal for the Fleete, and designing a royal fort with a
receptacle for greate ships to ride at anker ; but here I beheld the sad
spectacle, more than halfe that gallant bulwark of the kingdom miser
ably shatter^, hardly a vessell intire, but appearing rather so many
wrecks and hulls, so cruely had the Dutch mangl'd us. The losse of
the Prince, that gallant vessell, had ben a loss to be universally deplor'd
none knowing for what reason we first engagM in this ungrateful warr ;
we lost besides 9 or 10 more, and neere 600 men slaine and 1100
wounded, 2000 prisoners ; to ballance which perhaps we might destroy
18 or 20 of the enemies ships, and 7 or 800 poore men.

   18. Weary of this sad sight I return'd home.
   2 July. Came Sir Jo. Duncomb' and Mr. Thomas Chichley, both

   1 ' Duncomb was a judicious man, but very haughty, and apt to raise enemies against him
self. He was an able Parliament man, but could not go into all the designs of the Court, for
he had a sense of religion, and a zeal for the liberty of his country.' Bp. Burnet's Hist, of his

Own Times, foL, vol. I. p. 36s.
316 SOLEMN FAST DAY. THE DUTCH FLEET AGAIN BEATEN.

Privy Councillors and Commissioners of his Majesty's Ordnance, to
visite me and let me know that his Majesty had in Council nominated
me to be one of the Commissioners lor regulating the farming and
making of Saltpetre thro' the whole kingdom, and that we were to sit
in. the Tower the next day. When they were gone, came to see me
Sir John Cotton, heir to the famous Antiquary Sir Robe:t Cotton: who
was a pretended greate Grecian, but had by no meanes the parts or
genius of his grandfather.

   3. I went to sit with the Commissioners at the Tower, where our

Commission being read, we made some progresse in businesse, our Sec
retary being Sir Geo. Wharton, that famous mathematician who writ
the yearly Almanac during his Majesty's troubles. Thence to Painters
Hall, to our other Commission, and dined at my Lord Maior"s.

   4. The solemn Fast Day. Doctor Megot preach "d an excellent dis
course before the King on the terrors of God's judgements. After ser
mon I waited on my Lord Abp. of Canterbury and Bp. of Winchester,
where the Deane of Westminster spake to me about putting into my
hands the disposal of £.$o which the charitable people at Oxford had
sent to be distributed among the sick and wounded seamen since the
battaile. Hence I went to the Lord Chancellor's, to joy him of his
Royal Highnessess second sonne now born at St. James's, and to de
sire the use of the Star Chamber for our Commissioners to meete in,
Painters Hall not being so convenient.

    12. We sat the first time in the Star Chamber. There was now

....added to our Commission Sir Geo. Downing (one that had ben a great
          against his Majesty but now insinuated into his favour, and from
a pedagogue and frantic preacher not worth a groate had become exces

sive rich) to inspect the hospitals and treate about prisons.

   13. Sat at the Tower with Sir J. Duncomb and Lo. Berkeley to signe

deputations for undertakers to furnish their proportions of saltpetre.

   17. To London to prepare for the next engagement of the Fleetes,

now gotten to sea againe.
    22. Our parish still infected with the contagion.

   25. The Fleetes engag'd. I dined at Lord Berkeley's at St James's,
where din'd my Lady Harrietta Hyde, Lord Arlington, and Sir John

Duncomb.

   29. The pestilence now afresh increasing in our parish, I forbore

going to church. In the afternoone came tidings of our victorie over
the Dutch, sinking some and driving others aground and into their ports.

   1 Aug. I went to Dr. Keltler, who married the daughter of the
famous chymist Drebbell, inventor of the boedied scarlet I went to

see his yron ovens, made portable (formerly) for the Pr. of Orange's
army: supp'd at the Rhenish Wine House with divers Scots gentlemen.

    6. Dined with Mr. Povey, and then went, with him to see a coun
try-house he had bought ncere Brainford : returning by Kensington,
   THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                              317

which house stands to a very graceful avenue of trees, but 'tis an ordiit,
nary building,'especialy one part.     it
                                                      it
   8. Dined at Sir Stephen Fox's with severall friends, and on the 10th
>with Mr. Odart, Secretary of the Latine tongue.

   17. Din'd with the Lo. Chancellor, whom I entreated to visite che

Hospital of the Savoy, and reduce it (after the greate abuse that had
ben continu'd) to its original institution for the benefit of the poore,
which he promis'd to do.

   25. Waited on Sir William D'Oylie, now recovered as it were mi
raculously. In the aftcrnoone visited the Savoy Hospital ; where I
staied to see the miserably dismemberid and wounded men dressed,

and gave some necessary orders. Then to my Lo. Chancellor, who
had, with the Bishop of London and others in the Commission, chosen
me one of the three Surveyors of the repaires of Paules, and to con

sider of a model for the new building, or, if it might be, repairing of the

steeple, which was most decay'd.
   26 The Contagion still continuing, we had the Church service at

home.

   27. I went to St. Paule's Church, where with Dr. Wren, Mr. Prat,
Mr. May, Mr. Thos. Chichley, Mr. Slingsby, the Bishop of London,

the Deane ' of St. Paule's and several expert workmen, we went about
to survey the generall decays of that ancient and venerable church, and
to set downe in writing the particulars of what was fit to be don, with
the charge thereof, giving our opinion from article to article. Finding
the maine building to recede outwards, it was the opinion of Mr. Chich
ley and Mr. Prat that it had ben so built aborigine for an effect in per
spective, in regard of the height ; but I was, with Dr. Wren, quite of
another judgment, and so we entered it ; we plumb'd the uprights in
severall places. When we came to the steeple, it was deliberated
whether it were not well enough to repaire it onely on its old foundation,
with reservation to the 4 pillars ; this Mr. Chichley and Mr. Prat were
also for, but we totaly rejected and persisted that requir'd a new
foundation, not onely in reguard of the necessitie, but for that the shape
of what stood was very meane, and we had a mind to build with a
noble cupola, a forme of church-building not as yet known in England,
but of wonderfull grace: for this purpose we offer'd to bring in a plan
and estimate, which, after much contest, was at last assented to, and
that we should nominate a Committee of able workemen to examine the
present foundation. This concluded, we drew all up in writing, and so
went with my Lord Bishop to the Deanes.

   28. Sate at the Star Chamber. Next day to the Royal Society,
where one Mercator, an excellent mathematician, produced his rare
clock and new motion to performe the equations, and Mr. Rooke his

new pendulum.

                          Dr Sancroft, afterwards Archbishop of Canterbury.
31 8 THE ORIGIN, PROGRESS, AND EFFECTS OF THE GREAT FIRE.

2 Sept. This fatal night about ten, began that deplorable fire neere
Fish Strecte in London.
  3. I had public prayers at home. The fire continuing, after dinner
I took coach with my wife and sonn and went to the Bank side in

Southwark, where we beheld the dismal spectacle, the whole Citty in

dreadfull flames neare the water side ; all the houses from the Bridge,

all Thames Street, and upwards towards Cheapeside, downe to the

Three Cranes, were now consum'd : and so returned exceedinge aston

ished what would become of the rest.
   The fire having continu'd all this night (if I may call that night

which was light as day for ten miles round about, after a dreadfull
manner) when conspiring with a fierce Eastern wind in a very drie

season ; I went on foote to the same place, and saw the whole South

part of the Citty burning from Cheapeside to the Thames, and all along
Cornehill (for it likewise kindl'd back against the wind as well as for
ward), Tower Streete, Fen-church Streete, Gracious Streetc, and so

along to Bainard's Castle, and was now taking hold of St. Paule's
Church, to which the scaffolds contributed exceedingly. The confla

gration was so universal, and the people so astonish'd, that from the be
ginning, I know not by what despondency or fate, they hardly stirrM

           so that there was nothing heard or scene but crying out
to quench  it,
                          it

                                                                               ;
                                                                                                                     ;
and lamentation, running about like distracted creatures, without at all

attempting to save even their goods such a strange consternation there
was upon them, so as burned both in breadth and length, the Churches,
Public Halls, Exchange, Hospitals, Monuments, and ornaments, leap
ing after a prodigious manner from house to house and streete to

streete, at greate distances one from the other for the heate with a

long set of faire and warme weather had even ignited the aire and pre-
par'd the materials to conceive the fire, which devoured after an in

credible manner houses, furniture, and every thing. Here we saw the

Thames covered with goods floating, all the barges and boates laden

with what some had time and courage to save, as, on the other, the

carts, &c. carrying out to the fields, which for many miles were strewM
with moveables of all sorts, and tents erecting to shelter both people

and what goods they could get away. Oh the miserable and calamit

ous spectacle such as happly the world had not seene the like since

the foundation of nor be outdon till the universal conflagration of it
All the skie was of fiery aspect, like the top of a burning oven, and
           !

                   it,
                     a

the light seene above 40 miles round about for many nights. God grant
mine eyas may never behold the like, who now saw above 10,000 houses

all in one flame the noise and cracking and thunder of the impetuous
                ;

flames, the shreiking of women and children, the hurry of people, the

fall of Towers, Houses and Churches, was like an hideous storme, and

the aire all about so hot and inflam'd that at the last one was not able

to approch so that they were fore'd to stand still and let the flamesit,
               THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.   319

burn on, which they did for neere two miles in length and one in bredth.
The clowds also of smoke were dismall and reach'd upon computation
                           Thus I
neer 56 miles  in length.            left  it this afternoone burning, a re
semblance of   Sodom, or   the last  day.
                                             It forcibly call'd to my mind

that passage-- non enim hie habemus stabiUm civitatem : the mines
resembling the picture of Troy. London was, but is no more ! Thus

I returned home.

    Sept. 4. The burning still rages, and it was now gotten as far as the
 Inner Temple ; all Fleet Strcete, the Old Bailey, Ludgate Hill, War-
'wick Lane, Newgate, Paules Chaine, Watling Streete, now naming,

and most of it redue'd to ashes ; the stones of Paules flew like granados,
the mealting lead running downe the streetes in a streame, and the very

pavements glowing with fiery rednesse, so as no horse nor man was
able to tread on them, and the demolition had stopp'd all the passages,

so that no help could be applied. The Eastern wind still more impe

tuously driving the flames forward. Nothing but the Almighty power
of God was able to stop them, for vaine was the help of man.

   5. It crossed towards Whitehall ; but oh, the confusion there was
then at that Court ! It pleas'd his Majesty to command me among the
rest to looke after the quenching of Fetter Lane end, to preserve if

possible that part of Holborn whilst the rest of the gentlemen tooke

their several posts, some at one part, some at another (for now they
began to bestir themselves, and not till now, who hitherto had stood as

men intoxicated, with their hands acrosse) and began to consider that
nothing was likely to put a stop but the blowing up of so many houses

as might make a wider gap than any had yet ben made by the ordinary

method of pulling them downe with engines ; this some stout seamen pro-

pos'd early enough to have sav'd nearly the whole Citty, but this some
tenacious and avaritious men, aldermen, &c would not permitt, because

their houses must have ben of the first. It was therefore now com

manded to be practie'd, and my concerne being particularly for the
Hospital of St. Bartholomew neere Smithfield, where I had my wounded

and sick men, made me the more diligent to promote it ; nor was my
care for the Savoy lesse. It now pleas'd God by abating the wind, and
by the industrie of the people, when almost all was lost, infusing a new

spirit into them, that the furie of it began sensibly to abate about noone,

so as it came no farther than the Temple Westward, nor than the

entrance of Smithfield North : but continu'd all this day and night so

impetuous toward Cripple-gate and the Tower as made us all despaire ;
it also brake out againe in the Temple, but the courage of the multi

tude persisting, and many houses being blown up, such gaps and

desolations were soone made, as with the- former three days consump

tion, the back fire did not so vehemently urge upon the rest as formerly.

There was yet no standing neere the burning and glowing ruines by

neere a furlongs space.
320 STATE OF LONDON AFTER THE FIRE. ST. PAUL'S A RUIN.

  The coale and wood wharfes and magazines of oyle, rosin, ic. did

infinite mischeife, so as the invective which a little before I had dedi

cated to his Majesty and publish'd,1 giving warning what might probably
be the issue of suffering those shops to be in the Citty, was look'd on
as a prophecy.

   The poore inhabitants were dispers'd about St. George's Fields, and
Moorefields, as far as Highgate, and severall miles in circle, some under
tents, some under miserable hutts and hovells, many without a rag or

any necessary utensills, bed or board, who from dclicatenesse, riches,

and easy accomodations in stately and well furnish'd houses, were now

reduced to extreamest misery and poverty.
In this calamitous condition I return'dwith a sad heart to my house,

blessing and adoring the distinguishing mercy of God to me and mine,
who in the midst of all this mine was like Lot, in my little Zoar, were

safe and sound.         I represented to his Majesty the case of the
   Sept. 6, Thursday.

French prisoners at war in my custodie, and besought him that there
might be still the same care of watching at all places contiguous to
unseised houses. It is not indeede imaginable how extraordinary the

vigilance and activity of the King and the Duke was, even labouring

in person, and being present to command, order, reward, or encourage
workmen, by which he shewed his affection to his people and gained
theirs. Having then dispos'd of some under cure at the Savoy, I re-

turn'd to White-hall, where I din'd at Mr. Offley's,5 the groome porter,

who was my relation.

  7. I went this morning on foote from White-hall as far as London

Bridge, thro' the late Fleete Street, Ludgate Hill, by St. Paules,

Cheapeside, Exchange, Bishopsgate, Aldersgate, and out to Moorefields,
thence thro' Cornehill, &c. with extraordinary difficulty, clambering
over heaps of yet smoking rubbish, and frequently mistaking where I
was. The ground under my feete so hot, that it even burnt the soles
of my shoes. In the mean time his Majesty got to the Tower by
water, to demolish the houses about the graff, which being built intirely
about had they taken fire and attack'd the White Tower where the

magazine of powder lay, would undoubtedly not only have beaten
downe and destroyed all the bridge, but sunke and torne the vessells in

the river, and render'd the demolition beyond all expression for several
*1

         it,

                    aI
miles about the countrey.

   At my returne was infinitely concem'd to find that goodly Church

St. Paules now sad ruine, and that beautifull portico (for structure
comparable to any in Europe, as not long before repaired by the late
King) now rent in pieces, flakes of vast stone split asunder, and nothing

    The Fumifugium.
     Dr. Offley was rector of Abinger, and donor of forms to Okewood Chapel in the puruh
of Wotton, in the patronage of the Evelyn family.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN. .  321

remaining intire but the inscription in the architrave, shewing by whom

it was built, which had not one letter of it defac'd. It was astonishing

to see what immense stones the heate had in a manner calcin'd, so
that all the ornaments, columnes, freezes, capitals, and projectures of
massie Portland stone flew off, even to the very roofe, where a sheet of

lead covering a great space (no lesse than 6 akers by measure) was
totally mealted ; the mines of the vaulted roofe falling broke into St.
Faith's, which being fill'd with the magazines of bookes belonging to
the Stationers, and carried thither for safety, they were all consum'd,

burning for a weeke following. It is also observable that the lead over

the altar at the East end was untouch'd, and among the divers monu
ments, the body of one Bishop remain'd intire. Thus lay in ashes that

most venerable Church, one of the most antient pieces of early piety in
the Christian world, besides neere ioo more. The lead, yron worke,

bells, plate, &c. mealted ; the exquisitely wrought Mercers Chapell, the
sumptuous Exchange, the august fabriq of Christ Church, all the rest
of the Companies Halls, splendid buildings, arches, enteries, all in

dust ; the fountaines dried up and ruin'd, whilst the very waters remain'd

boiling ; the voragos of subterranean cellars, wells, and dungeons, for-
merely warehouses, still burning in stench and dark clouds of smoke,
so that in five or six miles traversing about, I did not see one loade of

timber unconsum'd, nor many stones but what were calcin'd white as
snow. The people who nowwalk'd about the ruines appear'd like men
in some dismal desart, or rather in some greate Citty laid waste by a
cruel enemy ; to which was added the stench that came from some
poore creatures bodies, beds, and other combustible goods. Sir Tho.
Gressham's statue, tho' fallen from its nich in the Royal Exchange,
remain'd intire, when all those of the Kings since the Conquest were
broken to pieces ; also the standard in Cornehill, and Q. Elizabeth's
effigies, with some armes on Ludgate, continued with but little detri
ment, whilst the vast yron chaines of the Citty streetes, hinges, barrs

and gates of prisons were many of them mealted and reduced to cinders
by the vehement heate. Nor was I yet able to passe through any of the
narrower streetes, but kept the widest ; the ground and aire, smoake

and fiery vapour, continu'd so intense that my haire was almost sing'd,
and my feete unsufferably surbated. The bie lanes and narrower streetes
were quite fill'd up with rubbish, nor could one have possibly knowne
where he was, but by the ruines of some Church or Hall, that had some

remarkable tower or pinnacle remaining. I then went towards Isling
ton and Highgate, where one might have seene 200,000 people of all
ranks and degrees dispers'd and lying along by their heapes of what

they could save from the fire, deploring their losse, and tho' ready to
perish for hunger and destitution, yet not asking one pennie for reliefe,

which to me appear'd a stranger sight than any I had yet beheld. His

Majesty and Council indeede tooke all imaginable care for their reliefe

                                                                                                             21
322 ALARM IN THE RUINED CITY. LETTER TO SIR S. TUKE.

by proclamation          for the country to come in   and            refresh them with pro
visions. In the          mi 1st of all this calamity  and
                                                                     confusion, there was, I

know not how, an al.arme begun that the French and Dutch, with whom
we were now in hostility, were not onely landed, but even entering the
Citty. There was in truth some days before greate suspicion of those
two nations joyning ; and now, that they had ben the occasion of
firing the towne. This report did so terrifie, that on a suddaine there
was such an uproare and tumult that they ran from their goods, and

taking what weapons they could come at, they could not be stopp'd
from falling on some of those nations whom they casually met, without
sense or reason. The clamor and peril grew so excessive that it made
the whole Court amaz'd, and they did with infinite paines and greate
difficulty reduce and appease the people, sending troops of soldiers and
guards to cause them to retire into the fields againe, where they were

watch'd all this night. I left them pretty quiet, and came home suffi
ciently weary and broken. Their spirits thus a little calmed, and the
affright abated, they now began to repaire into the suburbs about the
. Citty, where such as had friends or opportunity got shelter for the pre
 sent, to which his Majesty's Proclamation also invited them.
Still the plague continuing in our parish, I could not without danger

adventure to our church.

   10. I went againe to the mines, for it was now no longer a Citty.
   13 Sept. I presented his Majesty with a survey of the mines, and a
plot for a new Citty,1 with a discourse on it ; whereupon after dinner
                               [To Sir Samuel Tuke, Knt. &
It  >Sir(   some  foure                                              Bart.]             Citty  of Lon
    was                  drives before the most fatal Conflagration  of the (quondam)
don yet I addressed a few lines to you ; little thinking I should so soone have had two such
dissolutions to deplore : The burning of the best Towne in the World : and the discease of the
best (friend in the World, your excellent Lady. Sir, you know they are but small afflictions
that are loquacious-- greate ones are silent : & if ever greate ones there were, mine eyes have
beheld, ,& mine cares heard them, with an heart so possess'd with sorrow, that it is not easily
expressed ; because the instances have ben altogether stupendous & unparallet'd. But it were
in vaine to entertaine you « ith those formal topics, which are wont to be apply'd to persons of
lesse fortitude & Christian resignation, though 1 cannot but exhort you to what, I know, you
do --looke upon all things in this World as transitory & perishing ; sent us upon condition of
quitting them cherefully, when God pleases to take them from us, This consideration alone,
(with the rest of those Graces which God has furnish 'd you wit hall) will be able
passion, & and to preserve you from succumbing under the pressures, which           to  aleviateyour
                                                                                        confesse are
                                                                                    I
weighty : but not insupportable : Live therefore, I conjure you, & helpe to restore your deare

Country, & to consulate your fTriends : There is none alive wishes you more sincere happinesse

than my poore family.

  I suppose I should have heard ere this from you of all the concernments ; but impute your
            some possible miscarriage of your                   the usual place of
silence to  redue'd to ashes & made an heape   Letters ; since  would give you a    addresse is with
the reste                                                                           more particular
                                                of mines. I
relation of this calamitous accident ; but I should oppresse you with sad stories, and I question

not but they are come too soone amongst you at Paris with all minutenesse A (were it possible)

hyperbolies : There is this yet of lesse deplorable in it: That, as it pleas'd God to order
little effects of any greate consequence have been lost, besides the houses :-- That our Mer-
if

               is
                                                      ; it
                                                                                                                                                                      it,
chands at the same instant in which was permitted that the tidings should flie over Seas, had
so settled all their affaires, as they complying with their forraine Correspondence as punctualy
as no disaster at all had happen'd nor do we heare of so much as one that has fail'd. The
Exchange now at Gressham Colledge. The rest of the Citty (which may consist of neere a
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                                    323

Jiis Majesty sent for me into the Queen's bed-chamber, her Majestyand
the Duke onely being present ; they examined each particular, and dis

coursed on them for neere an houre, seeming to be extreamely pleas'd

with what I had so early thought on. The Queene was now in her

cavalier riding habite, hat and feather, and horseman's coate, going
out to take the aire.

   16. I went to Greenewich Church, where Mr. Plume preached very

well from this text : ' Seeing therefore all these things must be dis
solved,' Sec. taking occasion from the late unparalelld conflagration
to remind us how we ought to walke more holyly in all manner of
conversation.

   27. Dined at Sir Win. D'Oylie's, with that worthy gent Sir John
Holland of Suftblke.

   10 Oct This day was ordered a generall fast thro' the Nation, to

7th pnrt) it suburbs peopl'd with new shoppt, the same noyse, buisinesse & com'erce, not to
say vanity. Oncly the poore Bookc- sellers have ben indede ill treated by Vulcan ; so many
noble impressions consum'd, by their trusting them to the Churches, as thelosse is estimated

neerc two hundred thousand pounds : which will be an extraordinary detriment to the whole
Republiq of Learning. In the meanc time, the King & Parliament are infinitely zealous for
the rebuilding of our mines; $1 I believe it will universally be the employment of the next
Spring: They are now busied with adjusting the claimes of each proprietor, that so they may

dispose things for the building after the noblest model: Every body brings in his idea,
amongst the rest I presented his
                                   Majestic my ov.ne conceptions, with a       Discourse annex 'd.
It was the second that was seene,  within 2 dayes after the Conflagration :    Cut Dr. Wren had
got the start of me.1 Both of us did coincide so frequently, that his Majestic was not dis-

pleas'd with it, & it caus'd divers alterations ; and truly there was never a more glorious Phce-
nix upon Earth, if it do at last emerge out of these cinders, & and as the designe is layd, with
the present fervour of the undertakers. But these things are as yet im'ature; & I pray God

we may enjoy peace to encourage those faire dispositions : The miracle is, I have never m

my life observ'd a more universal resignation, lesse repining among sufferers ; which makes
me hope that God has yet thoughts of mercy towards us : Judgments do not al waves end
where they begin ; & therefore let none exult over our calamities :--We know not whose turn
it may be next. But Sir, I forbear to entertaine you longer on these sad reflections ; but per
sist to beg of you not to suffer any transportations unbecoming a man of virtue ; resolve to
preserve your sclfe, if it be possible, for better times, the good & restauration of your Country,
· u, the comfort of your Friends & Relations, and amongst them of, Sir,
     Sayes Court, 27th September 1666.                                   Yours, &c, J. E.
Above is Letter of Mr. Evelyn to Sir S. Tuke on the subject of the Fire, and his plan for re
building the City. Part of this plan   was to lessen  the declivities, and to  employ the rubbish
in filling up the shore of the Thames  to low water   mark, so as to keep the  Basin always full. --

In a letter to Mr. Oldenburg, Secretary to the Royal Society, 22 Dec. 1666, he says, after
mentioning the presenting his reflections on re-building the City to his Majesty, that 'the
want of a more exact plot, wherein I might have marked what the Fire had spared, and
accommodated my designe to the remaining parts, made me take it as a rasa tal/ula, and to
lfhooaordmkiensogmcuirnupedoenidlyeaasdtothhnee, rmtehooosftuagcahccocfruodrrianttgheelyhmi:tohsIetrhtpaovaeretxstIinacsnetti,lllihgpahestrescidsatuuispn'domn myMefro.rsmoHmeorelltadhriis'nscgoulatrtoseea,Pltlaaennrd,wwwhhaicitchheI
II heare send you as compleate as an imperfect copy will give me leave, and the suppliment of

an HI memory, for since that tyme hardly euer look'd on and wasfinish'd within two or
1
                                                                                                                 ;

                                                                                                          it,
                                                                                                        it
                                                                                                                         is
three dayes after the Incendium.'

     These Plans were afterwards printed by the Society of Antiquaries, and have been re
peatedly engraved for the various histories of London that by Mr. Evelyn erroneously in
scribed Sir John Evelyn.
324 CALAMITIES WHICH AFFLICT THE NATION. COURT MORALITY.

humble us on the late dreadfull conflagration, added to the plague and

warr, the most dismall judgments that could be inflicted, but which

indeede we highly deserv'd for our prodigious ingratitude, burning

lusts, dissolute Court, profane and abominable lives, under such dispen
sations of God's continu'd favour in restoring Church, Prince, and

People from our late intestine calamities, of which we were altogether
unmindfull, even to astonishment. This made me resolve to go to our

parish assemblie, where our Doctor preached on the 19 Luke 41, piously
applying it to the occasion. After which was a collection for the dis-

tress'd loosers in the late fire.

   18. To Court. It being the first time his Majesty put himself
solemnly into the Eastern fashion of vest, changcing doublet, stiff

collar, bands and cloake, into a comely vest, after the Persian mode,

with girdle or straps, and shoe strings and garters into bouckles, of
which some were set with precious stones,1 resolving never to alter
                                                                              I
and to leave the French mode, which had hitherto obtain'd to our
                                                                                          it,
greate expence and reproch. Upon which divers courtiers and gentle

men gave his Majesty gold by way of wager that he would not persist in
this resolution.
                  IIhad sometime before presented an invective against
that unconstancy, and our so much affecting the French fashion, to his
Majesty, in which tooke occasion to describe the comlinesse and use-
fulnesse of the Persian clothing, in the very same manner his Majesty
now clad himselfe. This pamphlet intitl'd Tyrannus, or the Mode,'
and gave to his Majesty to reade.       I
the change which soon happen'd, but       it I
not but take notice of.
                                                               '
   it                                        do not impute to this discourse
                                               was an identity that could

This night was acted my Lord Broghill's' tragedy call'd 'Mus-
tapha before their Majesties at Court, at which was present, very
'

                                                                  I

seldom going to the publiq theaters for many reasons, now asthey were
abused to an atheistical liberty, fowle
never till now) permitted to appeare         and       undecent           women now (and
                                             and       act, who           inflaming severall .

young noblemen and gallantsrbecame their misses, and to some their
wives witness the Earle of Oxford, Sir R. Howard, P. Rupert, the
»a 1

  It

     ;'
                            I

                                                                                              ja

                                                                  I
Earle of Dorset, and another greater person than any of them, who
fell into their snares, to the reproch of their noble families, and ruine of
both body and soule. - was invited by my Lord Chamberlaine to
see this tragedy, exceedingly well written, thogh in my mind did
not approve of any such pastime in a season of such judgments
and calamities.
21. This season, after so long and extraordinarie drowth in August

         would bo curious to see a portrait of the King in this costume,  which was however shortly
after abandoned and laid aside.
     Richard Lord Broghill, created shortly after this Earl of Orrery
plays besides that here noticed.                                          he wrote several other

     Mrs. Margaret Hughes, Nell Gwynn,  who  left the  Earl for his Majesty,  to whom             were
added Mrs. Davis and Mrs. Knight.
                     THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                        325

and September, as if preparatory for the dreadfull fire, was so very wett

and rainy as many feared an ensuing famine.
28. The pestilence, thro' God's mercy, began now to abate consider

ably in our towne.
  30. To London to our office, and now had I on the vest and sur-

coat or tunic as 'twas call'd, after his Majesty had brought the whole
Court to it. It was a comely and manly habit, too good to hold, it being

impossible for us in good earnest to leave the Monsieurs vanities long.

  31. I heard the signal cause of my Lord Cleaveland pleaded before
the House of Lords, and was this day 46 ycares of age, wonderfully pro
tected by the mercies of God, for which I render him immortal thanks.

   14 Nov. I went    my winter circle thro' my district, Rochester    & other
places, where I had  men quart.er'd and in custody. -- 1 5. To Leeds
                     the prisoners being about 600 Dutch and           Castle.
   16. I muster'd                                                     French,

ordered their proportion of bread to be augmented, and provided cloaths
and fuelL Monsieur Colbert, Ambassador at the Court of England,

this day sent mony from his master the French King to every prisoner
of that nation under my guard.
   17. I return'd to Chatham. My chariott overturning on the steepe
of Bexley Hill, wounded me in two places on the head ; my sonn Jack
being with me was like to have ben worse cutt by the glasse ; but

I thanke God we both escaped without much hurt, tho' not without ex
ceeding danger. -- 18. At Rochester. -- 19. Return'd home.

  23. At London I heard an extraordinary case before a Committee
of the whole House of Commons, in the Commons House of Parlia

ment, between one Capt. Taylor and my Lo. Viscount Mordaunt, where

after the lawyers had pleaded, and the witnesses ben examin'd, such

foul and dishonourable things were produe'd against his Lordship, of

tyranny during his government of Windsor Castle, of which he was
Constable, incontinence, and suborning witnesses (of which last one Sir
Richard Breames was most concerned), that I was exceedingly inte

rested for his Lordship, who was my special friend, and husband of the
most virtuous lady in the world. We sate till neere 10 at night, and

yet but halfe the Council had don on behalfe of the Plaintiffe. The

question then was put for bringing in of lights to sit longer ; this lasted

so long before it was determin'd, and rais'd such a confus'd noise among
the Members, that a stranger would have ben astonish'd at it. I admire

that there is not a rationale to regulate such trifling accidents, which

consume a world of time, and is a reproch to the gravity of so greate an

assembly of sober men.
   27. Sir Hugh Pollard, Comptroller of the Household, died at
White-hall, and his Majesty conferr'd the white staffe on my brother
Commissioner for sick and wounded, Sir Tho. Clifford,1 a bold young
gentleman, of a small fortune in Devon, but advane'd by Lo. Arlington,

                        1 Afterwards Lord Treasurer.
326 CLARENDON HOUSE. MY SONN ENTERED AT OXFORD.

Secretary of State, to the greate astonishment of all the Court. This

gentleman was somewhat related to me by the marriage of his mother
to my neerest kinsman Gregory Coale,' and was ever my noble friend,
a valiant and daring person, but by no means fit for a supple and
flattering courtier.

28. Went to see Clarendon House,' now almost finish'd, a goodly
pile to see to, but had many defects as to the architecture, yet plac'd

most gracefully. After this I waited on the Lord Chancellor, who was
now at Berkshire House," since the burning of London.
   2 Dec Din'd with me Monsieur Kiviet, a Dutch gentleman pen

sioner of Roterdam, who came over for protection, being of the Prince
of Orange's party, now not wellcome in Holland. The King knighted

him for some merit in the Prince's behalf. He should, if caught, have
ben beheaded with Monsieur Buat, and was brother-in-law to Van
Tromp, the Sea Generall. With him came Mr. Gabriel Sylvius, and
Mr. Williamson Secretarie to Lord Arlington ; Sir Kiviet came to exa

mine whether the soile about the river of Thames would be proper to

make clinker-bricks, and to treate with me about some accomodation

in order to making such.

   1667. 9 Jan. To the Royal Society, which since the sad conflagra

tion were invited by Mr. Howard to sit at Arundel House in the Strand,

who at my instigation likewise bestow'd on the Society that noble
library which his grandfather especialy, and his ancestors had collected.
This gentleman had so little inclination tobookes, that it was the pre
servation of them from imbezzlement.

   24. Visited my Lo. Chancellor, and presented my son John to him,
now preparing to go to Oxford, of which his Lordship was Chancellor.
This evening I heard rare Italian voices, two eunuchs and one woman,
in his Majesty's greene chamber next his cabinet.
   29 Jan. To London in order to my son's Oxford journey, who
being very early enter'd both in Latin and Greek, and prompt to learn
beyond most of his age, I was persuaded to trust him under the tutor
age of Mr. Bohun, fellow of New College, who had ben his preceptor
in my house some years before ; but at Oxford under the inspection of
\Dr. Bathurst, President of Trinity Coll., where I plac'd him, not as yet

13 years old. He was newly out of long coates
1 Of this gentleman and his family, seated at Petersham in Surrey, see Hist, of that County.
1 Since quite demolished. It was situated where Albemarle Street now is. After Lord
Clarendon's exile, the Duke of Albemarle occupied this noble mansion, of which there are two

engraved views at least, one a small one by John Dunstoll, and another upon a very large scale

by J. Spilbergh.
9 Berkshire or Cleaveland House belonged to the Howards Earls of Berkshire, and stood
II.very near the royal residence.
It was afterwards purchased and presented by Charles                  to
Barbara Dutchess of Cleveland. It was then of great extent ; she however afterwards sold

port, which was built into various houses.
* At the Swan Inn at Letherhead in Surrey is a picture of four children, dates of birth be
tween 1640 and 1650 ; one of them is a boy about this age, in a coat or vest, reaching almost
to his ancles.
                      THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                  327

   1 5 Feb. My little booke in answer to Sir Geo. Mackenzie on Soli
tude, was now published, intitled, ' Public Employment and an active
Life with its Appanages preferred to Solitude.' '

  19. I saw a comedy acted at Court. In the afternoone I saw a

wrestling-match for ,£.1000 in St. James's Park, before his Majesty, a
world of lords and other spectators, 'twixt the Western and Northern
men, Mr. Secretary Morice and Lo. Gerard being the judges. The
Western men won. Many greate sums were betted.

   18. I saw a magnificent ball or masque in the Theater at Court,

where their Majesties and all the greate Lords and Ladies daunced,

it was infinitely gallant, the men in their richly cmbrodred most

becoming vests.

  6 March. I proposed to my Lo. Chancellor Monsieur Kiviet's under

taking to warfe the whole river of Thames, or Key, from the Temple to

the Tower, as far as the fire destroicd, with brick, without piles, both
lasting and ornamental. -- Great frosts, snow and winds, prodigious at

the vernal equinox ; indeede it had ben a yeare of prodigies in this

nation, plague, warr, fire, rains, tempest, and comet.

   14. Saw ' The Virgin Queenc,' a play written by Mr. Dryden.
   22. Din'd at Mr. Sec. Morice's, who shew'd me his library, which
was a well-chosen collection. This afternoone I had audience of his
Majesty concerning the proposal I had made of building the Key.
   26. Sir John Kiviet din'd with me. We went to search for brick
earth in order to a greate undertaking.
   4 April. The cold so intense that there was hardly a leaf on a tree.
   18. I went to make court to the Duke and Duchess of Newcastle
at their house at Clerkenwell ', being newly come out of the North.
They receiv'd me with great kindnesse, and I was much pleas'd with
the extraordinary fanciful habit, garb, and discourse of the Dutchess.

   22. Saw the sumptuous supper in the Banquetting-house at White
hall on the eve of St. George's day, where were all the Companions of

the Order of the Garter.

   23. In the morning his Majesty went to Chapell with the Knights
of the Garter all in their habits and robes, usher'd by the Heraulds ;

after the first service they went in procession, the youngest first, the
Sovereigne last, with the Prelate of the Order and Dean, who had about
his neck the booke of the Statutes of the Order, and then the Chan
cellor of the Order (old Sir Hen. de Vic) who wore the purse about his
neck ; then the Heraulds and Garter King at Arms, Clarencieux,

Black Rod. But before the Prelate and Deane of Windsor went the

1 In a letter to Mr. Cowley 13 Max. 1666 he apologizes for having written against that life,
which he had joined with Mr. Cowley in so much admiring, assuring him he neither was, nor

could be, serious.              fortune in the  service of Charles  I. and  II.  He wrote on
   * The Duke spent a princely
Horsemanship a curious and splendid volume. Part of the old house is still standing in Clerk

enwell Close 11816).
3^3 INSTALLATION OF KNIGHTS OF THE GARTER.

Gentlemen of the Chapell, and Choristers- singing as they marched;
behind them two Doctors of Musick in damask robes ; this procession
was about the Courts of White-hall. Then returning to their stalls
and seates in the Chapell, plac'd under each Knights coate armour and
titles, the second service began : then the King offered at the altar, an
anthem was sung, then the rest of the Knights offcr'd, and lastly pro
ceeded to the Banquetting-house to a greate feast The King sat on
an elevated throne at the upper end at a table alone, the Knights at a
table on the right hand, reaching all the length of the roome ; over
against them a cupboard of rich gilded plate ; at the lower end the
musick ; on the balusters above, wind musick, trumpets and kettle
drums. The King was serv'd by the Lords and Pensioners, who brought
up the dishes. About the middle of the dinner the Knights drank the
King's health, then the King theirs, when the trumpets and musick
plaied and sounded, the guns going off at the Tower. At the banquet
came in the Queene and stood by the King's left hand, but did not sit.
Then was the banquetting stuff flung about the roome profusely. In
truth the croud was so greate, that tho' I staied all the supper the day

before, I now staied no longer than this sport began for feare of dis

order. The checre was extraordinary, each Knight having forty
dishes to his messe, piled up five or six high. The roome hung with
the richest tapessry.

   25. Visited again the Duke of Newcastle, with whom I had ben ac
quainted long before in France, where the Dutchess had obligation to
my wives mother, for her marriage there ; she was sister to Lord Lucas
and maid of honor then to the Queene Mother ; married in our Chapel
at Paris. My wife being with me, the Duke and Dutchess both would
needs bring her to the very Court.

   26. My Lo. Chancellor shewed me all his newly-finished and furnish
ed palace and librarie ; then went to take the aire in Hide Park.

   27. I had a greate deale of discourse with bis Majestie at dinner.
In the afternoone I went againe with my wife to the Dutchess of New

castle, who receiv'd her in a kind of transport, suitable to her extrava
gant humour and dresse, which was very singular.

   May 8. Made up accounts with our Receiver, which amounted to
,£.33,936. is. 4d. Dined at Lord Cornbury's with Hon Francisco de
Melos, Portugal Amdassador and kindred to the Queene : of the party
were Mr. Henry Jermaine, and Sir Hen. Mapell. Afterwards I went to
Arundel House to salute Mr. Howard's sons, who were newly return'd
out of France.

   11. To London, dined with the Duke of Newcastle, and sate dis

coursing with her Grace in her bed-chamber after dinner, untill my
Lord Marquiss of Dorchester with other company came in, when

I went away.
  30. To London to wait on the Dutchess of Newcastle (who was a
                            THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                    329

 mighty pretender to learning, poetrie, and philosophic, and had in both
 publish'd divers bookes) to the Royal Society ', whither she came in
greate pomp, and being receiv"d by our Lord President at the dore of
 our meeting roome, the mace, &c. carried before him, had several

experiments shewed to her. I conducted her Grace to her coach, and

retum'd home.
    1 June. I went to Greenewich, where his Majesty was trying divers

granado's shot out of cannon at the Castle-hill, from the house in the
 Park ; they brake not till they hit the mark, the forged ones brake not
at all, but the cast ones very well. The inventor was a German, there
present. At the same time a ring was shewed to his Majesty, pretended
to be a projection of mercury, and malleable, and say'd by the gentle
men to be fix'd by the juice of a plant.

    10. To London, alarm'd by the Dutch, who were fallen on our

fleete at Chatham, by a most audacious enterprise entering the very
river with part of their fleete, doing us not only disgrace, but incredible
mischiefe in burning severall of our best men of warr lying at anker
and moor'd there, and all this thro' our unaccountable negligence in not
setting out our fleete in due time. This alarme caus'd me, fearing the
enemie might venture up the Thames even to London, (which they
might have don with ease, and fir'd all the vessells in the river too,) to

send away my best goods, plate, &c. from my house to another place.
The alarme was so greate that it put both Country- and Citty into a

paniq feare and consternation, such as I hope as I shall never see

more ; every body was flying, none knew why or whither. Now there
were land forces dispatch'd with the Duke of Albemarle, Lord Middle-
ton, Prince Rupert, and the Duke, to hinder the Dutch coming to
Chatham, fortifying Upnor Castle, and laying chaines and booms ; but

the resolute enemy brake thro' all, and set fire on our ships, and retreated

in spight, stopping up the Thames, the rest of their fleet lying before
the mouth of it.

   14 June. I went to see the work at Woolwich, a battery to prevent
them from coming up to London, which Pr. Rupert commanded, and
sunk some ships in the river.

   17. This night about 2 o'clock some chipps and combustible matter
prepared for some fire-ships taking flame in Deptford Yard made such
a blaze, and caus'd such an uproar in the Tower, it being given out

that the Dutch fleete was come up and had landed their men and fir'd

the Tower, as had like to have don more mischeife before people would

be persuaded to the contrary and believe the accident. Every body
went to their armes. These were sad and troublesome times !

1 This reminds us of the visit of another gTeater lady, Queen Christina, to the French Aca
demy,  aQt uoeneenofCatrhoeliinr es, ittwinifges,ofreKcoinrdgedGeboyrgMeonIIs.ieaulrsoPaeflfleiscsteodn  in his History of that teamed
body.                                                                                                    the company of deep Divines,

Scholars, and Philsophers.
330 THE DUTCH BLOCK UP THE THAMES. MY NEW FUEL.

   24. The Dutch fleet still continuing to stop up the river, so as
nothing could stir out or come in, I was before the Council, and com
manded by his Majesty to go with some others and search about the
environs of the Citty, now exceedingly distress'd for want of fuell,
whether there could be any peate or turfe found fit for use. The next

day I went and discovert enough, and made my report that there

might be found a great deale ; but nothing further was don in it.

   28. I went to Chatham, and thence to view not onely what mischeife

the Dutch had don, but how triumphantly their whole fleete lay
within the very mouth of the Thames, all from the North fore-land,
Margate, even to the buoy of the Nore -- a dreadfull spectacle as ever
Englishmen saw, and a dishonour never to be wiped off ! Those who

advised his Majesty to prepare no fleete this spring deserv'd -- I know

what-- but.'
   Here in the river off Chatham, just before the towne, lay the carkass

of the London (now the third time burnt), the Royal Oake, the James,
&c. yet smoking ; and now, when the mischeife was don, we were
making trifling forts on the brink of the river. Here were yet forces
both of horse and foote, with Gen. Midleton continually expecting the

motions of the enemy's fleete. I had much discourse with him, who
was an experiene'd commander. I told him I wonder'd the King did

not fortifie Sheernesse,* and the Ferry ; both abandoned.
   2 July. Call'd upon my Lo. Arlington as from his Majesty about

the new fuell. The occasion why I was mention'd was from what I

had said in my Sylva three yeares before, about a sort of fuelL for a
neede, which obstructed a patent of Lord Carlingford, who had ben
seeking for it himselfe ; he was endeavouring to bring me into the

project, and proffered me a share. I met my Lord ; and on the 9th by

an order of council went to my Lord Maior to be assisting. In the
mean time they had made an experiment of my receipt of houllies,
which I mention in my booke to be made at Maestricht with a mixture
of charcoal dust and loame, and which was tried with successe at
Gresham Colledge (then being the exchange for meeting of the mer
chants since the Fire) for every body to see. This done, I went to the
Treasury for ,£12,000 for the sick and wounded yet on my hands.

   Next day we met againe about the fuell at Sir James Armorer's in
 the Mewes.

   8. My Lord Brereton and others din'd at my house, where I shewed

them proofe of my new fuell, which was very glowing and without
smoke or ill smelL

1 The Parliament giving but weak supplies for the war, the King to save charges is per
suaded by the Chancellor, the Lord Treasurer Southampton, the Duke of Albemarle, and
the other Ministers, to lay up the first and second rate ships, and make only a defensive war
                         The  Duke  of York                 this, but was
ILin the next campaign.                      o*ppSoinsecde  done.          over-ruled.  Life of James

     vol I. p. 435.
                      THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                     33I

I10. went to see Sir Sam. Morland's' inventions and machines,
arithmetical wheeles, quench-fires, and new harp.
   17. The Master of the Mint and his Lady, Mr. Williamson, Sir

Nicholas Armorer, Sir Edw. Bowyer, Sir Anthony Auger, and other

friends, dined with me.

   29 July. I went to Gravesend, the Dutch fleete still at anker before
the river, where I saw 5 of his Majesty's men of war encounter above
20 of the Dutch, in the bottome of the Hope, chaceing them with many
broadsides given and return'd towards the buoy of the Nore, where the
body of their fleete lay, which lasted till about midnight. One ot their

ships was fiVd, suppos'd by themselves, she being run on ground.

Having scene this bold action, and their braving us so far up the river,

I went home the next day, not without indignation at our negligence,
and the Nation's reproch. 'Tis well known who of the Commissioners

of the Treasury gave advice that the charge of setting forth a fleete this
yeare might be spar'd, Sir YV. C. (Will. Coventrie) by name.

   1 August. I receiv'd the sad news of Abraham Cowley's death,

that incomparable poet and virtuous man, my very deare friend, and

was greately deplored.

   3. Went to Mr. Cowley's funerall, whose corps lay at Wallingford
House, and was thence convey'd to Westminster Abby in a hearse with

6 horses and all funeral decency, neere an hundred coaches of noblemen

and persons of qualitie following ; among these all the witts of the
towne, divers bishops and cleargymen. He was interr'd next Geoffry

Chaucer and neere to Spenser. A goodly monument has been since

erected to his memorie.

Now did his Majestie againe dine in the Presence, in ancient State,

with musiq and all the Court ceremonies, which had ben interrupted

since the late warr.

8. Visited Mr. Oldenburg, now close prisoner in the Tower, being
suspected of writing intelligence. I had an order from Lord Arling
ton, Secretary of State, which caus'd me to be admitted. This gentle

man was Secretary to our Society, and I am confident will prove an

innocent person.

 IS.    Finish'd    my account, amounting to ^.25,000.                 great Court  at Wind
                    : " Under the Equestrian Statue of Cha. 3. in the
1 Mr.  Aubrey says
sor is an engine for raising water, contrived by Sir Sam. Morland, alias Morley. He was son
of Sir Sam. Morland, of Sulhampsted, Barrister, Berks, created Bart, by Cha a. in consider
ation of services performed during his exile. The son was a great mechanic, & was pre
sented with a gold medal & made Magistcr MecJutrticorum by the King in 1681. He invented
the drum capstands for weighing heavy anchors : the speaking trumpet, & other usefull engines.
He died & was buried at Hammersmith, Middlesex, 1696. There is a monument for the a
wives of Sir Sam. Morland in Westminster Abbey. There is a print of the son by Lombart
after Lcly- This Sir Sam. the son, buitt a large room in his garden at Vauxhall, which was
much admired at that time. On the top was a punchinello holding a dial." Aubrey's Surrey,
III.vol. I. p IS. See more ot him in Manning and Bray's History of Surrey, vol      480, 400,

45-1, and Appendix, p. cv.-- He is also noticed again several times in this Diary ; see particu
larly under the year l63i. Sept.
332 FUNERAL OF MR. FARRINGDON. PROCLAMATION OF PEACE.

   17. To the funcrall of Mr. Farringdon, a relation of my wife's.
   There was now a very gallant horse to be baited to death with doggs ;
but he fought them all, so as the fiercest of them could not fasten on
him, till they run him through with their swords. This wicked and
barbarous sport deserVd to have ben punish'd in the cruel contrivers to
get mony, under pretence that the horse had kill'd a man, which was
false. I would not be persuaded to be a spectator.
   21. Saw the famous Italian puppet play, for 'twas no other.

  24. I was appointed with the rest of my brother. Commissioners to

put in execution an order of Council for freeing the prisoners at war in
my custody at Leedes Castle, and taking off his Majestys extraordinary
charge, having call'd before us the French and Dutch agents. The
peace was now proclaimed in the usual forme by the beraulds.

   25. After evening service I went to visit Mr. Vaughan ', who lay at
Greenwich, a very wise and learned person, he was one of Mr. Selden's
executors and intimate friends.

   27. Visited the Lo. Chancellor, to whom his Majesty had sent for
the scales a few days before ; I found him in his bed-chamber very
sad. The Parliament had accus'd him, and he had enemies at Court,
especialy the buffoones and ladys of pleasure, because he thwarted
some of them and stood in their way ; I could name some of the cheife.
The truth is, he made few friends during his grandeur among the royal
sufferers, but advane'd the old rebells. He was, however, tho' no con
siderable lawyer, one who kept up the forme and substance of things
in the Nation with more solemnity than some would have had. He
was my particular kind friend on all occasions. The Cabal, however,
prevail'd, and that party in Parliament. Greate division at Court con
cerning him, and divers greate persons interceding for him.

   28. I din'd with my late Lord Chancellor, where also din'd Mr.
Ashbumham, and Mr. Will. Legg of the Bed-chamber ; his Lordship
pretty well in heart, tho' now many of his friends aud sycophants

abandon'd him.

   In the afternoone I went to the Lords Commissioners for mony, and

thence to the audience of a Russian Envoy in the Queene's presence-
chamber, introdue'd with much state, the souldiers, pensioners, and
guards in their order. His letters of credence brought by his secretary
in a scarfe of sarsenett, their vests sumptuous, much embroider'd with
pearls. He deliver'd his speech in the Russe language aloud, but with
out the least action or motion of his body, which was immediately in
terpreted aloud by a German that spake good English ; half of it con
sisted in repetition of the Zarr's titles, which were very haughty and
oriental, the substance of the rest was that he was only sent to see the
King and Queene, and know how they did, with much compliment and

                                            1 Afterwards Lord Chief Justice.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  333

frothy language. Then they kiss'd their Majesties hands, and went as
they came ; but their real errand was to get money.

   29. We met at the Star Chamber about the exchange and release
of prisoners.

   7 September. Came Sir John Kiviet to article with me about his
brick-work speculation.

   13. 'Twixt the houres of twelve & one was borne my second
daughter, who was afterwards christned Elizabeth.

   19. To London with Mr. Hen. Howard of Norfolk, of whom I

obtain'd the gift of his Arundclian Marbles, those celebrated and famous

inscriptions Greeke and Latine, gathcrM with so much cost and industrie
from Greece, by his illustrious grandfather the magnificent Earle of
Arundel, my noble friend whilst he liv'd. When I saw these precious

monuments miserably neglected and scatter'd up and downe about the

garden, and other parts of Arundel House, and how exceedingly the
corrosive aire of London impair'd them, I procur'd him to bestow them
on the University of Oxford. This he was pleas*d to grant me, and
now gave me the key of the gallery, with leave to mark all those stones,

urns, altars, &c. and whatever I found had inscriptions on them, that
were not statues. This I did, and getting them rcmov'd and pil'd
together, with those which were incrusted in the garden-walls, I sent

immediately letters to the Vice-Chancellor of what I had procur'd, and
that if they esteem'd it a service to the University (of which I had ben
a member) they should take order for their transportation.

   This don, 21st I accompanied Mr. Howard to his villa at Albury,
where I design'd for him the plot for his canall and garden, with a
crypt thro' the hilL

   24 Sept. Returned to London, where I had orders to deliver the

possession of Chelsey Colledge (us'd as my prison during the warr
with Holland for such as were sent from the Fleete to London) to our
Society, as a gift of his Majesty our founder.

   8 Oct. Came to dine with me Dr. Bathurst, Deane of Wells, Presi
dent of Trinity Coll. sent by the Vice-Chancelor of Oxford, in the
name both of him and the whole University, to thank me for procuring
the Inscriptions, and to receive my directions what was to be don to

shew their gratitude to Mr. Howard.
   11. I went to see Lord Clarendon, late Lord Chancellor and

greatest officer in England, in continual apprehension what the Par
liament would determine concerning him.

   17. Came Dr. Barlow, Provost of Queen's Colledge and Proto-
bibliothecus of the Bodleian Library, to take order about the trans
portation of the Arundel Marbles.

   25. There were deliver'd to me two letters from the Vice-Chan
celor of Oxford with the Decree of the Convocation attested by the
Publick Notary, ordering four Doctors of Divinity and Law to acknow
            334 PRESENTATION OF THE ARUNDEL MARBLES TO OXFORD.

I           ledge the obligation the University had to me for procuring the Mar?a             ;
            mora Arundeliana, which was solemnly don by Dr. Barlow, Dr.ijs
    '       Jenkins,' Judge of the Admiralty, Dr. Lloyd, and Obadiah Walker' of                              if
            University Coll. who having made me a large compliment from theI' is ;
          *1                                                                                                                                      ;:
            University, delivered me the Decree fairly written:
                                                    I                                         :
               Gesta venerabili domo Convocationis Universitatis Oxon ; . . 17.
            1667. Quo die retulit ad Senatum Academicum Dominus Vicecancel-                     I
            larius, quantum Universitas deberet singulari benevolentias Johannis
            Evelini Armigeri, qui pro ea. pietnte qua Almam Matrem prosequitur                     I
            non solum Suasu et Concilio apud inclytum Heroem Henricum How
            ard, Ducis Norfolcia: hasredem, intcrcessit ut Universitati pretiosissi-
            mum cruditoe antiquitatis thesaurum Marmora Arundeliana largiretur ;
            sed egregius insuper in colligcndis asservandisq navavit operam
            Quapropter unanimi suffragio Venerabilis Domus decrctum est ut eidem
            publicae gratiae per delegatos ad Honoratissimum Dominum Henricum

            Howard propediem mittendos, solemnit&r reddantur.

                   Concordat superscripta cum originali collatione facta per me Ben.

                       Cooper Notarium Publicum et Regnarium Universitat. Oxon.

                  'SIR,
                We intend also noble inscription, in which also honorable mention

            shall be made of yourselfe but Mr. Vice Chancellor commands me to
            tell you that that was not sufficient for your merits, but that your
            occasions would permit you to come down at the Act (when we intend
            a dedication of our new Theater), some other testimonie should be
            given both of your owne worth and affection to this your old Mother
            for we are all very sensible of this greate addition of learning and

            reputation to the University due as well to your industrious care for
            the Universitie, and interest with my Lord Howard, as to his greate
            noblenesse and generositie of spirit.

                                                            am, Sir, your most humble servant,

                                                        'Obadiah Walker, Univ. Coll.'

               The Vice-Chancellor's letter to the same effect were too vaine glo

            rious to insert, with divers copies of verses that were also sent me.
            Their mentioning me in the inscription totally declin'd when di
            rected the titles of Mr. Howard, now made Lord upon his ambassage

            to Morocco.

               These fower Doctors having made me this compliment, desir'd me
            to carry and introduce them to Mr Howard at Arundel House which

               did, Dr. Barlow (Provost of Queenes) after a short speech, delivering
            a larger letter of the University's thankes, which was written in La-
            tine, expressing the greate sense they had of the honour don them.
            After this compliment handsomely perform'd, and as nobly receiv'd,
            Mr. Howard accompanied the Doctors to their coach. That evening
            supp'd with them.

              Bishop of Lincoln.  j  Afterwards Sir Leonline Jenkins, Secretary of State

              Subsequently head of that College.
                                                THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                  335

   26. My late Lord Giancellor was accused by Mr. Seamour in the
House of Commons ; and in the evening I returned home.

  31 Oct. My birth-day --blessed be God for all his mercies ! I made

the Royal Society a present of the Table of Veines, Arteries and

Nerves, which great curiositie I had caus'd to be made in Italy, out of
the natural human bodies by a learned physitian, and the help of Vest-
lingius (professor at Padua), from whence I brought them in 1646. For
this I receiv'd the public thanks of the Society; and they are hanging

up in their Repository with an inscription.

  9 Dec. To visit the late Lord Chancellor. I found him in his gar

den at his new-built palace, sitting in his gowt wheele-chayre, and
seeing the gates setting up towards the North and the fields. He
look'd and spake very disconsolately. After some while deploring his-
condition to me, I tooke my leave. Next morning I heard he was gon ;

tho' I am persuaded that had he gon sooner, tho' but to Cornbury, and
there lain quiet, it would have satisfied the Parliament. That which

exasperated them was his presuming to stay and contest the accusation
as long as 'twas possible ; and they were on the point of sending him

to the Tower.

   10. I went to the funerall of Mrs. Heath, wife to my worthy friend

and schoolfellow.
   21. I saw one Carr piloried at Charing-Crosse for a libel, which

was burnt before him by the hangman.
   1668. 8 January. I saw deepe and prodigious gaming at the

Groome-Porters, vast heapes of gold squandered away in a vaine and

profuse manner. This I looked on as a horrid vice and unsuitable in

a Christian Court.

   9. Went to see the Revells at the Middle Temple, which is also
an old but riotous costome, and has relation neither to virtue nor policy.

   10. To visite Mr. Povey, where were divers greate Lords to see
his well-contrived cellar and other elegancies.

   24. We went to stake out ground for building a Colledge for the
Royal Society at Arundel House, but did not finish which we shall
                                                '
soon repent of.                                                  '

                                                                                      it,
      Feb. saw the tragedy of Horace (written by the virtuous Mrs.
Phillips) acted before their Majesties. Twixt each act a masq and
....antiq daunce. The excessive gallantry of the ladies was infinite, those1I
                                                Castlemaine esteem'd at ^.40,000 and more,
     34

           I
              I

                                             ;
especialy on that

far outshining the Queene.
   15. saw the audience of the Swedish Ambassador Count Donna,

in greate state in the Banquetting-house.

Mar. Was launch'd at Deptford that goodly vessel! the Charles.

was neere his Majesty. She longer than the Soveraine, and carries
                                                is
                                                                       a
10 brasse canon she was built by old Shish, plaine honest carpenter,

master builder of this dock, but one who can give very little account
336 GIFT TO THE ROYAL SOCIETY. CAPTAIN COX. LICENTIOUS PLAYS.

of his art by discourse, and is hardly capable of reading, yet of greate
abilitie in his calling. The family have been ship carpenters in this
yard above ioo yeares.

   12. Went to visit Sir John Cotton, who had me into his library,
full of good MSS. Greek and Latine, but most famous for those of the
Saxon and English Antiquities,.collected by his grandfather.

   2 April. To the Royall Societie, where I subscrib'd 50,000 bricks
towards building a Colledge. Amongst other libertine libels there was

one now printed and thrown about, a bold petition of the poore whores
to Lady Castlemaine.

   9. To London about finishing my grand account of the sick and

Iwounded and prisoners at war, amounting to above .£.34,000.

     heard Sir R. Howard impeach Sir \Vm. Pen in the House of Lords,
for breaking bulk and taking away rich goods out of the E. India
prizes formerly taken by Lord Sandwich.

   28. To London, about the purchase of Ravensbourn Mills and
land around in Upper Deptford, of one Mr. Beecher.
             it,

               I

                                                   it
                                                                it,

                                                                    it
                                                                           it
30. We seal'd the deedes in Sir Edward Thurland's chambers in the
Inner Temple.          pray God bless to me, being a deare penny
worth, but the passion Sir R. Browne had for and that was contiguous
to our other grounds, engag'd me.

   13 May. Invitedbythat expert Commander Capt. Cox, master of the
lately-built Charles the Second, now the best vessell of the Fleete, design'd
for the Duke of York, went to Erith, where we had a greate dinner.

   16. Sir Richard Edgecome of Mount Edgccome by Plymouth, my
                       a

                             I

                                                    ;
                                                                                                      ;

                                                                         it
                                                                                                      '
relation, came to visite me a very virtuous and worthy Gent.
19 Juue. To new play with several of my relations, The Even
ing Lover," a foolish plot, and very profane  afflicted me to see how

the stage was degenerated and polluted by the licentious times.

  July 2. Sir Sam.Tuke Bart, and the lady he had married this day came

and bedded at night at my house, many friends accompanying the bride.
   23. At the Royall Society were presented divers glossa petrcts and

other natural curiosities found in digging to build the Fort at Sheere-

nesse they were just the same as they bring from Malta, pretending
them to be vipers teeth, whereas in truth they are of a shark, as we
3

        ;
found by comparing them with one in our Repository.
      Aug. Mr. Bramstone (son to Judge B.) my old fellow-traveller,
now Reader at the Middle Temple, invited me to his feast, which was

so very extravagant and greate as the like had not ben seene at any
time. There were the Duke of Ormond Privy Seal, Bedford, Belasys,
Halifax, and world more of Earles and Lords.
   14. His Majesty was pleas'd to grant me a lease of slip of ground
1                                                    a

              is

                    a
There no play extant with this name  :     may perhaps be a second title to one Mr.
                                                                                                         ;
                                       it

Evelyn frequently mentions only one name of a play that has two. Or may be Dryden's
                                                     is
                                                       it
Comedy of 'An Evening's Love, or The Mock Astrologer/ which indeed sufficiently
licentious.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  337

out of Brick Close to enlarge my fore court, for which I now gave him
thanks ; then entering into other discourse, he talk'd to me of a new '

vernish for ships instead of pitch, and of the gilding with which his

new yacht was beautified. I shew'd his Majesty the perpetual motion

sent to me by Dr. Stokes from Collen (Cologne) ; and then came in
Mons. Colbert, the French Ambassador.

   19. I saw the magnificent entrie of the French Ambassador Col
bert, receiv'd in the Banqueting House. I had never scene a richer

coach than that which he came in to White-hall. Standing by his
Majesty at dinner in the Presence, there was of that rare fruit call'd the
King-pine, growing in Barbados and the West Indies, the first of them

I had ever seene. His Majesty having cut it up, was pleas'd to give

me a piece off his owne plate to taste of, but in my opinion it falls short
of those ravishing varieties of deliciousness describ'd in Capt. Ligon's
History, and others ; but possibly it might, or certainly was, much im

paired in coming so far. It has yet a grateiull acidity, but tasts more

like the quince and melon than of any other fruite he mentions.
   28 August. Publish'd my book of ' The perfection of Painting,' de

dicated to Mr. Howard.
   17 Sept. I entertain'd Signor Muccinigo the Venetian Ambassador,

of one of the noblest families of the State, this being the day of making
his publick entrie, setting forth from my house with severall gentlemen
of Venice and others in a very glorious traine. He staied with me till
the Earle of Anglesea and Sir Cha. Cotterell (Master of the Ceremo
nies) came with the King's barge to carry him to the Tower, where the
gunns were fiVd at his landing ; he then enter'd his Majesty's coach

follow'd by many others of the nobility. I accompanied him to his

house, where there was a most noble supper to all the companie of
course. After the extraordinarie compliments to me and my wife for
the civilities he receiv'd at my house, I took leave and return 'd. He
is a very accomplish'd person. He is since Ambassador at Rome.

   29. I had much discourse with Signor Pietro Cisij, a Persian gent,
about the affaires of Turkey, to my greate satisfaction. I went to see
Sir Elias Leighton's project of a cart with iron axle-trees.

    Nov. 8. Being at dinner, my sister Evelyn sent for me to come up
to London to my continuing sick brother.

   14. To London, invited to the consecration of that excellent person
the Deane of Ripon, Dr. Wilkins, now made Bishop of Chester ; it
was at Ely House, the Archbp. of Canterbury, Dr. Cos'in, Bishop of
Durham, the Bishops of Ely, Salisbury, Rochester, and others officia
ting. Dr. Tillotson preach'd. Then we went to a sumptuous dinner
in the Hall, where were the Duke of Buckingham, Judges, Secretaries
of State, Lord Keeper, Council, Noblemen, and innumerable other

company, who were honourers of this incomparable man, universally
belov'd of all who knew him.

                                                                                                             22
338 ILLNESS OF MY BROTHER. GALLERY AT CLARENDON HOUSE.

   This being the Queene's birth-day, greate was the gallantry at White
hall, and the night celebrated with very fine fire-works.
   My poore brother continuing ill I went not from him till the 17th,
when dining at the Groom Porters I heard Sir Edw. Sutton play excel
lently on the Irish harp ; he plays genteelly, but not approaching my
worthy friend Mr. Clark, a gent, of Northumberland, who makes it
exceed lute, viol, and all the harmony an instrument is capable of ;

pity 'tis that it is not more in use ; but indeede to play well takes up
the whole man, as Mr. Clark has assured me who, tho' a gent of

quality and parts, was yet brought              up to that  instrument from        5 yeares

old, as I remember he told me.
25. I waited on Lo. Sandwich, who presented me with the Sem-
brador he brought out of Spaine, shewing me his two bookes of obser

vations made during his ambassy and stay at Madrid, in which were

several rare things he promis'd to impart to me.

  27. I din'd at my Lord Ashley's (since Earle of Shaftesbury) when

the match of my niece1 was proposed for his onely sonn, in which my
assistance was desired for my Lord.

   28. Dr. Patrick preach'd at Covent Garden on 17 Acts, 31. the
certainty of Christ's coming to judgment, it being Advent ; a most

suitable discourse.

   19 Dec. I went to see the old play of ' Cataline' acted, having ben

now forgotten almost 40 yeares.

   20 Dec I din'd with my Lord Cornbury at Clarendon House, now
bravely furnish'd, especialy with the pictures of most of our ancient and
modern witts, poets, philosophers, famous and learned Englishmen ;

which collection of the Chancellor's I much commended, and gave his
Lordship a catalogue of more to be added.*

1 Probably the daughter of his brother Richard of Epsom, but who married Mr. Mountagu.
* In a letter  to the Lord Chancellor dated   18 March   1666-7. Mr. Evelyn says ;
               your Lp. enquires of me what   pictures  might be added to the Assembly  of the
"My Lord,

Learned   and Heroic persons    of England which your Lp. has already collected ;   the designe
of which                        magnific than the most famous heads of Foreigners  which do not
          I do infinitely more
concern the glory of our Country ; and it is in my opinion the most honorable ornament, the
most becoming and obliging, which your Lp. can thinke of to adome your
                                                                        palace     withal] :  such
therefore as seem to be wanting I shall range under these three heads.
                                The Learned.
Sir Hen. Savell.
Abp. of Armagh.                 Wm. Hooker.                 Ven. Bede.
Dr. Harvey.                     Dr. Sanderson.
Sir H. Wotton.                                              Jo. Duns Scotus.
                                Wm. Oughtred.
SirT. Bodley.                   M. Philips.                 Alcuinus.
                                Rog. Bacon.                 Ridley, 1
                                                            Latimer, fmanTn-

G. Buchanan.                    Geo. Ripley.                Roger Ascham.
                                                            . ,,Sir J. Cheke.
Jo. Barclay.                    Wm. of Occam.               I-ad^,  ( Elii. Joan Weston,J
Ed. Spencer.                    Hadrian «th.                        1 Jane Grey.
Win. Lilly.                     Alex. Ales.

   9 For an account of her see Ballard's Learned Ladies. There is a very scarce volume of
Latin Poems by her printed at Prague, 1606. Mr. Evelyn mentions her in his Numismau.
She is much celebrated by the writers of her time.
                       THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                     339

  I31. entertained my kind neighbours according to costome, giving

Almighty God thanks for his gracious mercys to me the past yeare.
   1669. 1 Jan. Imploring His blessing for the yeare entring, I went

to church, where our Doctor preached on 65 Psalm 12. apposite to the
season and beginning a new yeare.
3. About this time one of Sir William Penn's sonns had publish'd a
blasphemous book against the Deity of our blessed Lord.
29. I went to see a tall gigantic woman, who measur'd 6 feet 10
inches high, at 21 years old, born in the Low Countries.
              I  presented his Majesty with my ' Historie of the Foure
   13 Feb.       he told me of other like cheates. I gave my booke to
Impostors    '

            ;
Lord Arlington, to whom I dedicated it. It was now that he began to
tempt me about writing ' the Dutch War.'
15. Saw Mrs. Philip.s's ' Horace' acted againe.
18. To the Royal Society, when Signor Malpighi, an Italian phy
sician and anatomist, sent the Societie the incomparable Historie of
the Silkworme.

1 Mar. Din'd at Lord Arlington's at Goring House with the Bishop
of Hereford.

  4. To the Council of the R. Society, about disposing my Lord

Howard's Librarie, now given to us.

   16. To London, to place Mr. Christopher Wase about my Lord

Arlington.

   18. I went with Lord Howard of Norfolk to visit Sir William Ducie

at Charlton, where we din'd ; the servants made our coachmen so

drunk that they both fell off their boxes on the heath, where we were

fain to leave them, and were driven to London by two servants of
my Lord's. This barbarous custom of making the masters welcome

by intoxicating the servants had now the second time happen'd to my

coachmen.

My sonn came finally from Oxon.

Sir Fra. Walsingham.               POLITITIAHS.  Sir T. Smith.
Earl of Leicester.     Sir W. Raleigh.           Card. Pole.
                       Cardinal Wolsey.

                       Souldiehs.
Sir Fra. Drake.        Tho. Cavendish.
                       Sir Ph. Sidney.           Talbot.
Sir J. Hawkins.        E. of Essex.              Sir F. Grevill.

Sir Martin Frobisher.                            Hor. E. of Oxford.
   · Some of which, tho' difficult to procure originals of, yet happly copys might be found out

upon diligent enquiry. The rest I thinke your Lp. has already in good proportion.'
Mr. Evelyn, in a letter to Mr. Pepys, dated 13 August, 1689, tells him that the Lord Chan
cellor Clarendon had collected Portraits of very many of our great men ; and puts them down
promiscuously as he recollected them. Mr. Evelyn also there gives a list of Portraits which

he recommended to be added, a little different from the list contained in the preceding letter
to the Lord Chancellor ; and remarks that -"When Lord Clarendon's design of making this
collection was known, every body who had any of the portraits, or could purchase them at any
price, strove to make their court by presenting them. By this means he got many excellent
pieces of Vandyke, and other originals by Lely and other the best of our modem masters.'
34° CHELSEY COLLEDGE. ENCENIA OF THE SHELDON THEATRE.

2 April. Din'd at Mr. Treasurer's where was (with many noble
men) Col.  Titus of the                author of the famous piece against
Cromwell,  ' Killing no  bed-chamber,
                         Murder.'
I now plac'd Mr. Wase with Mr. Williamson, Secretary to the Secre
tary of State, and Clerk of the Papers.

   14. I din'd with the Abp. of Canterbury at Lambeth, and saw the
Library, which was not very considerable.
   19 May. At a Council of the R. Society our grant was finish'd, in
which his Majesty gives us Chelscy Colledge and some land about it.
It was ordered that 5 should be a quorum for a Council. The Vice-
President was then sworn for the first time, and it was propos'd how we

should receive the Prince of Tuscany, who desir'd to visit the Society.
20. This evening at 10 o'clock was borne my third daughter, who

was baptized on the 25th by the name of Susanna.
   3 June. Went to take leave of Lord Howard, going Ambassador to

Morocco. Dined at Lord Arlington's where were the Earle of Berk
shire, Lord St. John, Sir Robert Howard, & Sir R. Holmes.
10. Came my Lord Cornbury, Sir William Poultney, and others, to
visite me. I went this evening to London, to carry Mr. Pepys to my

brother Richard, now exceedingly afflicted with the stone, who had ben

successfully cut, and carried the stone as big as a tennis-ball, to shew

him and encourage his resolution to go thro' the operation.
   30. My wife went a journey of pleasure down the river as far as the
Sea, with Mrs. Howard, and her daughter the Maid of Honour, and

others, amongst whom that excellent creature Mrs. Blagge.

   7 July. I went towards Oxford ; lay at Little Wycomb. --8.

Arrived at Oxford.
  9. In the morning was celebrated the Encenia of the New Theater,
so magnificently built by the munificence of Dr. Gilbert Sheldon, Abp.
of Canterbury, in which was spent ,£.25,000, as Sir Christopher Wren,
the architect, (as I remember) tcld me ; and yet it was never seene by
the benefactor, my Lord Abp. having told me that he never did nor ever
would see it. It is in truth a fabrick comparable to any of this kind of

former ages, and doubtless exceeding any of the present, as this Univer

sity does for Colledges, Librairies, Scholes, Students, and order, all the

Universities in the world. To the Theater is added the famous Shel-
donian Printing-house. This being at the Act and the first time of
opening the Theater (Acts being formerly kept in St. Mary's church,
which might be thought indecent, that being a place set apart for the

immediate worship of God, and was the inducement for building this
noble pile) it was now resolv'd to keep the present Act in and cele
                                                             it,

brate its dedication with the greatest splendor and formalitie that might
be, and therefore drew a world of strangers and other companie to the
University from all parts of the nation.
The Vice Chancellor, Heads of Houses, and Doctors, being seated
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                   34*

it,in magisterial, seates, the Vice Chancellor's chaire and deske, Proctors,
                                I&c. cover'd with Brocatall (a kind of brocade) and cloth of gold ; the
 Universitie Register read the founder's grant and gift of it to the Uni-
                                                     itversitie for their scolastic exercises upon these solemn occasions. Then
 follow'd Dr. South, the Universitie's Orator, in an eloquent speech,
 which was very long, and not without some malicious and indecent;

 reflections on the Royal Society, as underminers of the University,,
 which was very foolish and untrue, as well as unseasonable. But, to let
 that pass from an ill natur'd man, the rest was in praise of the Arch- -
 bishop and the ingenious architect. This ended, after loud musiq from

 the corridor above, where an organ was plac'd, there follow'd divers

 panegyric speeches both in prose and verse, interchangeably pronoune'd
 by the young students plac'd in the rostrums, in Pindarics, Eclogues,
 Heroics, &c. mingled with excellent musiq, vocal and instrumental, to

entertain the ladies and the rest of the company. A speech was then
made in praise of academical learning. This lasted from 1 1 in the
morning till 7 at night, which was concluded with ringing of bells and
universal joy and feasting.

    10. The next day began the more solemn Lectures in all the Facul
 ties, which were perform'd in their several scholes, where all the Inceptor
 Doctors did their exercises, the Professors having first ended their read
ing. The assembly now rcturn'd to the Theater, where the Terra

Jilius (the Universitie Buffoone) entertain'd the auditorie with a tedious,

 abusive, sarcastical rhapsodie, most unbecoming the gravity of the
 Universitie, and that so grossly, that unlesse it be suppress'd, it will be

of ill consequence, as I afterwards plainly express'd my sense of it both

to the Vice Chancellor and severall heads of houses, who were perfectly
 asham'd of and resolved to take care of in future. The old face
tious way of raillying upon the questions was left off, falling wholy

 upon persons, so that 'twas rather licentious lyeing and railing than
genuine and noble witt. In my life was never witnesse of so shame-
full entertainment. After this ribauldry, the Proctors made their

 speeches. Then began the Musick Act, vocal and instrumental, above
 in the ballustrade corridore opposite to the Vice Chancellor's seate.
Then Dr. Wallis, the Mathematical Professor, made his Oration, and
created one Doctor of Musiq according to the usual ceremonies of
gowne (which was of white damask), cap, ring, kisse, &c. Next follow'd
the Disputations of the Inceptor Doctors in Medicine, the Speech of
their Professor Dr. Hyde, and so in course their respective creations.
Then disputed Inceptors of Law, the Speech of their Professor,
and creation. Lastly, Inceptors in Theologie Dr. Compton (brother
to the Earle of Northampton) being junior, began with greate
modesty and applause; so the rest. After which Dr. Tillotson, Dr.
 Sprat, &c. and then Dr. Allestree's speech, the King's Professor, and
their respective creations. Last of all the Vice Chancellor, shutting up
342 CONVOCATION AT OXFORD. HAVE A DEGREE CONFERRED ON ME.

the whole in a panegyrical oration celebrating their benefactor and the

rest, apposite to the occasion.
   Thus was the Theater dedicated by the scholastic exercises in all the

Faculties with greate solemnity ; and the night, as the former, enter

taining the new Doctors friends in feasting and musiq. I was invited

by Dr. Barlow, the worthy and learned Provost of Queene's ColL

   1 1. The Act Sermon was this forenoon preach'd by Dr. Hall in St
Maries in an honest practical discourse against Atheisme. In the

afternoone the Church was so crowded, that not coming early I could

not approach to heare.
   12. Mon. Was held the Divinity Act in the Theater againe, when

proceeded 17 Doctors, in all Faculties some.

   13. I din'd at the Vice-Chancellor's, and spent the afternoone in

seeing the rarities of the publick libraries, and visiting the noble marbles
and inscriptions, now inserted in the walles that compasse the area of
the Theater, which were 1 50 of the most ancient and worthy treasures
of that kind in the learned world. Now observing that -people ap-

proching them too neere, some idle persons began to scratch and injure
them, I advis'd that an hedge of holly should be planted at the foot of

the wall, to be kept breast-high onely, to protect them, which the Vice-

Chancellor promis'd to do the next season.
14. Dr. Fell,1 Dean of Christ-church and Vice-Chancellor, with
Dr. Allestree  Professor, with   Beadles and Maces before them,
visite me at                      went to visite Lord Howard's   came to
               my lodging. -- I                                  sons aj

Magdalen College.

   15. Having two daies before had notice that the University intended

me the honour of Doctor-ship, I was this morning attended by the

Beadles belonging to the Law, who conducted me to the Theater,

where I found the Duke of Ormond (now Chancellor of the Universitie)
with the Earl of Chesterfield and Mr. Spencer (brother to the late Earl
of Sunderland). Thence we march 'd to the Convocation House, a Con
vocation having been call'd on purpose ; here, being all of us rob'd in

the Porch in scarlett with caps and hoods, we were led in by the Pro

fessor of Laws and presented respectively by name, with a short eulogie,
to the Vice-Chancellor, who sate in the chaire, with all the Doctors

and Heads of Houses and Masters about the roome, which was exceed

ing full. Then began the Publiq Orator his speech, directed chiefly to
the Duke of Ormond the Chancellor, but in which I had my compli
ment in course. This ended, we were call'd up and created Doctors

according to the forme, and seated by the Vice-Chancellor amongst the
Doctors on his right hand ; then the Vice-Chancellor made a short

speech, and so saluting our brother Doctors, the pageantry concluded,
and the Convocation was dissolved. So formal a creation of Honorarie

Doctors had seldome ben seene, that a Convocation should be call'd on

                   1 Afterwards Bishop of Oxford.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  343

purple and speeches made by the Orator ; but they could do no lesse,
their Chancellor being to receive, or rather do them, this honour. I

should have ben made Doctor with the rest at the Publiq Act, but their

expectation of their Chancellor made them defer it I was then led

with my brother Doctors to an extraordinary entertainment at Dr.
Mewes, Head of St. John's College, and after aboundance of feasting
and compliments, having visited the Vice Chancellor and other
Doctors, and'given them thanks for the honour done me, I went towards
home the sixteenth, and got as far as Windsor, and to my house

the next day.

   4 Aug. I was invited by Sir Hen. Peckham to his Reading feast in
the Middle Temple, a pompous entertainement, where were the Abp.
of Canterbury, all the greate Earles and Lords, &c. I had much dis
course with my Lord VVinchelsea, a prodigious talker; and the Vene

tian Ambassador.

   17. To London, spending almost the intire day in surveying what

progresse was made in rebuilding the ruinous Citty, which now began
a little to revive after its sad calaniitie.

   20. I saw the splendid audience of the Danish Ambassador in

the Banquetting House at White-halL

  23.' I went to visite my most excellent and worthy neighbour the

Lord Bishop of Rochester at Bromely, which he was now repairing
after the dilapidations of the late rebellion.

   2 Sept I was this day very ill of a paine in my limbs, which conti
nued most of this weeke & was increased by a visite I made to my old
acquaintance the Earle of Norwich at his house in Epping Forest,
where are many good pictures put into the wainscot of the roomes,
which Mr. Baker, his Lordship's predecessor there, brought out of
Spaine ; especialy the Historic of Joseph, a picture of the pious and

learned Picus Mirandula, and an incomparable one of old Breugle.

The gardens were well understood, I mean the Potagere. I return'd

late in the evening, ferrying over the water at Greenewich.

   26. To Church to give God thanks for my recovery.

  ROct. 3. I received the Blessed Eucharist to my unspeakable joy.

   21. To the Society, meeting for the first time after a long recesse,

during Vacation, according to custome ; where was read a description
of the prodigious Eruption of Mount Etna ; and our English Itinerant
presented an account of his autumnal perigrination about England for
which we hired him, bringing dried fowls, fish, plants, animals, &c.

   26. My deare brother continued extreamely full of paine, the Lord
be gracious to him !

   Nov. 3. This being the day of meeting for the poore, we din'd
neighbourly together.

  25. I heard an excellent discourse by Dr. Patrick on the resurrec

tion ; & afterwards visited the Countesse of Kent, my kindswoman.
/344 DR- BRETON PREACHES. DEATH OF MY BROTHER.
8 Dec To London, upon the second edition of my · Sylva,' which I
presented to the Royal Society.
                     Dr. John Breton, Master of Emanuel    C"owlLhoinse
    1670.  Feb 6.  to our Viccar), preached on 1 John 27,                Cam
           (unkle                                                         shoe
bridge,
latchet I am not worthy to unloose, &c." describing the various

fashions of shoes or sandals worn by the Jews & other nations : of the
ornaments of the feete : how greate persons had servants that tooke

them off when they came to their houses, & beare them after them : by

which pointing the dignitie of our Saviour, when such a person as St.

John Baptist acknowledges his unworthinesse even ofthatmeane office.
The lawfulnesse, decentnesse, and necessitie, of subordinate degrees
and ranks of men and servants, as well in the Church as State :
against the late levellers and others of that dangerous rabble who

would have all alike.

   3 Mar.   Finding my brother [Richard] in such      exceeding tor
ture, and  that he now began to fall into convulsion
                                                      fits, I solemnly

set the next day apart to beg of God to mitigate his sufferings and

prosper the onely means which yet remained for his recovery, he

being not only much wasted but exceedingly and all along averse

from being cut (for the stone) ; but when he at last consented, and
it came to the operation and all things prepar'd, his spirit and reso

lution failed.

   6. Dr. Patrick preached in Covent Garden church. I participated
of the blessed Sacrament, recommending to God the deplorable con
dition of my deare brother, who was almost in the last agonies of death.
I watched late with him this night. It pleased God to deliver him out
of this miserable life, towards five o'clock this Moneday morning, to
my unspeakable griefe. He was a brother whom I most dearly lov'd

for his many virtues ; but two yeares younger than myself, a sober,
prudent, worthy gentleman. He had married a greate fortune, and left

one onely daughter, and a noble seate at Woodcote neere Epsom.
His body was open'd, and a stone taken out of his bladder, not much

bigger than a nutmeg. I returned home on the eighth, full of sadnesse,

and to bemoane my losse.

  20. A stranger preached at the Savoy French Church : the Liturgie
of the Church of England being now used altogether, as translated
into French by Dr. Purell.

21. We all accompanied the corpse of my dear brother to Epsom
church, where he was decently interr"d in the chapell belonging to

Woodcote House. A greate number of friends and gentlemen of the

country attended, about twenty coaches and six horses, and innu

merable people.

  22. I went to Westminster, where in the House of Lords I saw his

Majesty sit on his throne, but without his robes, all the Peeres sitting
with their hatts on ; the business 01 the day being the divorce of my
                             THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                               345

Lord Rosse. Such an occasion and sight had not ben seene in England

since the time of Hen. VIII.'
   5 May. To London, concerning the office of Latine Secretary to
his Majesty, a place of more honour and dignitie than profit, the re-

vertion of which he had promis'd me.
21. Came to visite me Mr. Henry Savill, and Sir Charles Scarborow.
26. Receiving a letter from Mr. Philip Howard, Lord Almoner to

the Queen,1 that Monsieur Evelin, first physitian to Madame (who was
now come to Dover to visit the King her brother), was come to towne,

greately desirous to see me, but his stay so short that he could not

come to me, I went with my brother to meete him at the Tower, where

he was seeing the magazines and other curiosities, having never before

ben in England: we renew'd our alliance and friendship, with much

regret on both sides that he being to returne towards Dover that
evening, we could not enjoy one another any longer. How this French

familie, Ivelin, of Evelin in Normandy, a very ancient and noble house,

is grafted into our Pedigree, see in the collection brought by me from

Paris   Juinne1.650I.  went  with some   friends  to  the  Bear Garden, where        was

    16

cock-fighting, dog-fighting, beare and bull baiting, it being a famous

day for all these butcherly sports, or rather barbarous cruelties. The
bulls did exceeding well, but the Irish wolfe-dog exceeded, which was a

tall greyhound, a stately creature indeede, who beate a cruell mastiff.

One of the bulls toss'd a dog full into a lady's lap, as she sate in one oi
the boxes at a considerable height from the arena. Two poore dogs
were kill'd, and so all ended with the ape on horseback, and I most

heartily weary of the rude and dirty pastime, which I had not seene, I

think, in twenty yeares before.

18. Dined at Goring House, whither my Lo. Arlington carried me

from White-hall with the Marquis of Worcester ; there we found Lo.

Sandwich, Viscount Stafford [since beheaded], the lieutenant of the
Tower, and others. After dinner my Lord communicated to me his
Majesty's desire that I would undertake to write the History of our

late War with the Hollanders, which I had hitherto declin'd ; this I

found was ill-taken, and that I should disoblige his Majesty, who had
made choice of me to do him this service, and if I would undertake it I

1 'When there was a project, 1669. for getting a divorce forthe King, to facilitate
»                                                                                    there

                                                                  in it
                                                                                                      it

                                                                                                                                                               ;

                                                                                                                                        it,
                                                                                                                                                  a

                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
was brought into the House of Lords a bill for dissolving the marriage of Lord Rosse, on
account of adultery, and to give him leave to marry again This bill, after great debates,
passed by the plurality of only two votes, and that by the great industry of the Lord's friends,
as well as the Duke's enemies, who carried on chiefly in hopes might be a precedent, and
inducement for the King to enter the more easily into their late proposals nor were they
little encouraged therein, when they saw the King countenance and drive on tho hill in Lord
Rosse's favour. Of 18 Bishops that were  the House, only two voted for the bill, of which

one voted through age, and one was reputed a Socinian.'-- These, in a note, are said to be
Dr. Cosin, Bishop of Durham, and Dr. Wilkins, Bishop of Chester,

Afterwards created Cardinal.
34^ LORD STAFFORD. MARRIAGE OF MY NIECE. SIR ROBERT MURRAY.

should have all the assistance the Secretary's office and others could
give me, with other encouragements, which I could not decently refuse.

Lord Stafford rose from table in some disorder because there were

roses stuck about the finite when the discert was set on the table; such

an antipathie, it seems, he had to them as once Lady Selenger (St.
Ledger) also had and to that degree, that as Sir Kenelm Digby tells

us, laying but a rose upon her cheeke when she was asleepe, it rais'd a
blister ; but Sir Kenelm was a teller of strange things.
24. Came the Earle of Huntingdon and Countesse, with the Lord
Sherrard, to visite us.
   29. To London, in order to my niece's marriage, Mary, daughter to
my late brother Richard, of Woodcot, with the eldest son of Mr. Attor

ney Mountague, which was celebrated at Southampton House Chapell,

after which a magnificent entertainment, feast and dauncing, dinner
and supper, in the great roome there, but the bride was bedded at my

sister's lodging in Drurie lane.
6 July. Came to visite me Mr. Stanhope, Gent. Usher to her Ma-

jestie, and unkle to the Earle of Chesterfield, a very fine man, with my
Lady Hutcheson.

  19. I accompanied my worthy friend that excellent man Sir Robert

Murray, with Mr. Slingsby, Master of the Mint, to see the latters seate
and estate at Burrow Green in Cambridgeshire, he desireing our ad

vice for placeing a new house which he was resolv'd to build ; * we set

out in a coach and six horses with him and his lady, din'd about

midway at one Mr. Turner's, where we found a very noble dinner,
venison, musiq, and a circle of country ladies and their gallants.

After dinner we proceeded and came to Burrow Green that night.
This had  ben the ancient seate of the
Slingsby  married), formerly Tutor to   Cheekes             (wVhIo. seThdaeugohldterhoMusre.

                                        K. Edw.

large and ample, and built for ancient hospitalitie, ready to fall down

with age, plac'd in a dirty hole, a stiffe clay, no water, next an ad-
joyning church-yard, and with other inconveniencies. We pitch'd on
a spot of rising ground, adorn'd with venerable woods, a dry and sweete

prospect East and West, and fit for a parke, but no running water ; at

a mile distance from the old house.

2a We went to dine at Lord Arlington's,1 who had newly built
a house of greate cost, I believe little less than ,£20,000.' His archi

1 It is probable that he did not build, and that after his misfortunes, which will be men
tioned hereafter, it was sold. Mr. Lysons, in his Britannia, under Cambridgeshire, says, that
what remains of an old brick mansion, is now a farm-house.
t Since Constable of the Tower.
a At Horseheath. The Arlingtons seated here before 1339 ; William created an Irish Peer,
by the title of Lord Arlington, in 1646. Mr. Lysons says the building cost £70,000, and with
                                      Bromley, esq. for £42,000. He
the estate was sold in 1687 to John  created Lord Montford in 1741.  expended £30,000    more
on the building. His grandson was                                                        Lord
                                                                     In 1776 the second
Montford sold the estate, the house being sold in 1777 for the materials, to be pulled down.
Lysons" Cambridgeshire, p. 116, 2x7.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  347

tect was Mr. Pratt. It is seated in a parke, with a sweete prospect and
stately avenue, but water still defective ; the house has also its infir
mities. Went back to Mr. Slingsby's.

   22. We rod out to see the greate meere or levell of recover'd fen
lande, not far off. In the way we met Lord Arlington going to his
house in Suffolk, accompanied with Count Ogniati the Spanish Mi
nister, and Sir Bernard Gascoigne ; he was very importunate with me
to go with him to Euston, being but fifteen miles distant, but in reguard
of my companie I could not. So passing thro' Newmarket, we alighted
to see his Majesty's house there, now new building ; the arches of the

cellars beneath are well turn'd by Mr. Samuel the architect, the rest
meane enough and hardly fit for a hunting house. Many of the roomes
above had the chimnies plac'd in the angles and comers, a mode now

introduc'd by his Majesty which I do at no hand approve of. I predict
it will spoile many noble houses and roomes if follow'd. It does onely
well in very small and trifling roomes, but takes from the state of

greater. Besides this house is place'd in a dirty streete, without any
court or avenue, like a common one, whereas it might, and ought to
have ben built at either end of the towne, upon the very carpet where
the sports are celebrated ; but it being the purchase of an old wretched
house of my Lord Thomond's, his Majesty was persuaded to set it on
that foundation, although the most improper imaginable for a house of

sport and pleasure.

   We went to see the stables and fine horses, of which many were here
kept at a vast expense, with all the art and tendernesse imaginable.

   Being ariv'd at some meeres, we found Lord Wotton and Sir John
Kiviet about their draining engines, having it seemes undertaken to do
wonders on a vast piece of marsh ground they had hired of Sir Thomas-
Chichley (Master of the Ordnance.) They much pleas'd themselves with
the hopes of a rich harvest of hemp and cole seed, which was the crop
expected. Here we visited the engines and mills both for wind and
water, draining it thro' two rivers or graffs cut by hand and capable of
carrying considerable barges, which went thwart one the other, dis
charging the water into the sea. Such at this spot had ben the former
winter, it was astonishing to see it how drie and so rich that weeds

grew on the bankes almost as high as a man and horse. Here my
Lord and his partner had built 2 or 3 roomes with Flanders white
bricks, very hard. One of the greate engines was in the kitchen, where

I saw the fish swim up, even to the very chimney hearth, by a small

cut thro' the roome, and running within a foote of the very fire.
    Having after dinner rid about that vast levell, pesterM with heate

and swarmes of gnatts, we return'd over New-market Heath, the way
being mostly a sweet turfe and down, like Salisbury Plaine, the jockies
breathing their fine barbs and racers, and giving them their heates.

   23 July. We return'd from Burrow Green to London, staying some
348 RED CROSSES ON A WOMAN'S ARME. THE FRENCH NUNNS.is it,

time at Audley End to see that fine palace. It is indeede a cheerfull5is
                              it
piece of Gotic building, or rather antico moderno, but placed in anifX
obscure bottome. The cellars and galleries are very stately. It has aXX a
river by a pretty avenue of limes, and in a parke.

   This in Saffron Walden parish, famous for that usefull plant, with
which all the countrie covertl.

   Dining at Bishop Stortford, we came late to London.
      Aug. There were sent me by neighbour a servant maid, who in

the last moneth, as she was sitting before her mistress at work, felt a
stroke on her arme a little above the wrist for some height, the smart of
which, as struck by another hand, caused her to hold her arme awhile
till somewhat mitigated, but put her into a kind of convulsion or rather

hysteric fit. A gentleman coming casually in, looking on her arme,

found that part poudred with red crosses, set in most exact and won-
derfull order, neither swelled nor depressed, about this shape,

            XXXXX
                                                           X

not seeming to be any way made by artifice, of a reddish colour, not

so red as blood, the skin over them smooth, the rest of the arme livid

and of a mortified hue, with certaine prints as were of the stroke of
                                             it

fingers. This had happen'd three severall times in July, at about 10

days intervall, the crosses beginning to weare out, but the successive
ones set in other different, yet uniforme order. The maide seemed

very modest, and came from London to Deptford with her mistress to

avoid the discourse and importunity of curious people. She made no

gaine by pretended no religious fancies, but seemed to be a plaine,
it,

                  ;
                                       ;
ordinary, silent, working wench, somewhat fat, short, and high
colour'd. She told me divers divines and physitians had seene her, but

were unsatisfied that she had taken some remedies against her fits,

but they did her no good she had never before had any fits once
                                                            I
since she seem'd in her sleepe to hear one say to her that she should    ;

tamper no more with them, nor trouble herselfe with any thing that
happen'd, but put her trust in the merits of Christ onely.
This the substance of what she told me, and what saw and
I is
               I     was formerly acquainted with the impostorious
Curiously examin'd.

Nunns of Loudune in France, which made such noise amongst the

Papists, therefore thought this worth the notice.  ;I  remember Mons.

Monconys (that curious traveller and a Roman Catholic) was by no
means satisfied with the stigmata of those Nunns, because they were
so shy of letting him scrape the letters, which were Jesus, Maria,

Joseph (as think) observing they began to scale off with whereasII it,
this poore wench was willing to submit to any trial so that profess
               THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                 349

I know not what to think of nor dare pronounce any thing
               I                                                              I    it
supematurall.
                                     it,                                        I         ;
   26. At Windsor supp'd with the Duke of Monmouth and the

next day, invited by Lord Arlington, din'd with the same Duke and
divers Lords. After dinner my Lord and had a conference of more

than arrhoure alone in his bedchamber, to engage me in the Historic
   sheVd him something that had drawn up, to his greate satisfaction,
I                           it
                               I
and he desir"d me to shew to the Treasurer.

   28. One of the Canons preach'd, then followed the offering of the

Knights of the Order, according to custom first the poore Knights in
                                                                              ;

procession, then the Canons in their formalities, the Deane and Chan
cellor, then his Majesty (the Soverainc), then the Duke of York, Prince
Rupert, lastly the Earle of Oxford, being all the Knights of the order

that were then at Court.

   din'd with the Treasurer, and consulted with him what pieces
I                                                                                                        I
  I

       it,
                                  ;

                                                        it

                                                                           a
was to add in the afternoone his Majesty tooke me aside into the bal-

conie over the terrace, extreamely pleas'd with what had ben told him
   had begun in order to his commands, and enjoyning me to proceede

vigorously in it. He told me he had ordered the Secretaries of State

to give me all necessary assistance of papers and particulars relating

to and enjoyning me to make                                                   little keene,ioT that the Hollanders

had very unhandsomely abus'd him in their pictures and libells.
   Windsor was now going to be repaired, being exceedingly ragged

and ruinous. Prince Rupert, the Constable, had begun to trim up the
keepe or high round tower, and handsomely adorned his hall with fur
niture of armes, which was very singular, by so disposing the pikes,

muskets, pistols, bandeliers, holsters, drums, back, breast, and head

pieces, as was very extraordinary. Thus those huge steepe stayres
ascending to had the walls invested with this martial furniture all
   I

                it

                                              I
                                                                                                      ;
                                                                       I
new and bright, so disposing the bandeliers, holsters, and drums, as to
represent festoons, and that without any confusion, trophy like. From

the hall we went into his bedchamber, and ample roomes hung with

tapissrie, curious and effeminate pictures so extreamely different from
the other, which presented nothing but warr and horror.
   The King pass'd most of his time in hunting the stag, and walking
in the parke, which he was now planting with rows of trees.
   13 Sept. To visite Sir Richard Lashford, my kinsman, and Mr.
Charles Howard at his extraordinary garden at Dipden.
   15. went to visit Mr. Arthur Onslow at West Clandon, a pretty
dry seate on the Downes, where we din'd in his greate roome.
   17. To visit Mr. Hussey, who being neere Wotton, lives in a sweete

vally deliciously watered.
   23. To Alburie to see how that garden proceeded, which found

exactly don to the designe and plot had made, with the crypta

thro' the mountaine in the park, 30 perches in length. Such a Pausi-
35° PRINCE OF ORANGE. MADEMOISELLE QUEROUAILLE.

lippe' is no where in England besides. The canall was now digging,

and the vineyard planted.

   14 Oct. I spent the whole afternoon in private with the Treasurer,

who put into my hands those secret pieces and transactions concerning
the Dutch war, and particularly the expedition of Bergen, in which he
had himselfe the cheife part, and gave me instructions, till the King

ariving from New-market we both went up into his bedchamber.

  21. Din'd with the Treassurer, and after dinner we were shut up to
gether. I                                                               ten paper bookes of
              receivM other   [further] advises, and
dispatches    and treaties ;  to return which againe                    I gave a note under

my hand to Mr. Jos. Williamson, Master of the Paper Office.
   31. I was this morning fifty yeares of age : The Lord teach me to

number my daies so as to apply them to his glory. Amen.
  4 Nov. Saw the Prince of Orange newly come to see the King his
uncle ; he has a manly, courageous, wise countenance, resembling his

mother and the Duke of Gloucester, both deceased.

  I now also saw that famous beauty, but in my opinion of a childish,
simple, and baby face, Mademoiselle de Querouaille,* lately Maide of
Honor to Madame, and now to be so to the Queene.
   23. Din'd with the Earle of Arlington, where was the Venetian

Ambassador, of whom I now tooke solemne leave, now on his returne.

There were also Lords Howard, Wharton, Windsor, and divers other

greate persons.

  24. I din'd with the Treasurer, where was the Earle of Rochester, a
very prophane wit.
   1 5 Dec It was the thickest
                                         and darkest fogg on the Thames that
was ever known in the memory
                                         of man, and I happened to be in the
very midst of it. I supp'd with Monsieur Zulestein, late Governor to
the late Prince of Orange.
  1671. 10 Jan. Mr. Bohun, my son's tutor, had ben 5 yeares
                                                                                                                    my
                                                                                              ii>

                                                                                                     'd
house, and now Batchelor of Laws and Fellow of New Colledge went

from me to Oxford to reside there, having well and faithfully perform

his charge.
  18. This day first acquainted his Majesty with that incomparable
              is

                I
                              I

                                                                     ;
young man Gibbon,9 whom had lately met with in an obscure place

31  A word adopted by Mr. Evelyn for a subterranean passage, from the famous grotto of

Pausyllipo, at Naples.
  - Henrietta, the King's sister, married to Philip Duke of Orleans, was then on visit here.
                                                                        ;
Mademoiselle   Querouaille came over in  her train,                     on purpose to entice   Charles into union   with
              which unhappily succeeded    but too                      well. She becameit    the King's mistress,   was
Lewis XIV.                                                                      is
made Duchess of Portsmouth, and was his favourite till his death.
                                                                                                 is
                                                                                                                a

                                                                                                                             is
    Usually known by the name of Gibbons celebrated for his exquisite carving. His prin
cipal performance said to be at Petworth. The following account of him appears in Wal.
pole's Catalogue of Painters, and incidental notes of other Artists, collected by Geo. Vertue.
'Grinting Gibbon.-- An original genius, a citizen of nature. There
                                                                                              no instance before

him of a man who gave to wood the loose and airy lightness of flowers, and chained together
the various productions of the elements with the free disorder natural to each species. It

uncertain whether he was born in Holland or in England                  said that he lived in Bell
                     THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                                                   351

by meere accident as I was walking neere a poore solitary thatched
house, in a field in our parish, neere Sayes Court. I found him shut

in ; but looking in at the window I perceived him carving that large
cartoon or crucifix of Tintoret, a copy of which I had myselfe brought

from Venice, where the original painting remaines. I asked if I might
enter ; he open'd the door civilly to me, and I saw him about such a

work as for the curiosity of handling, drawing, and studious exact-

nesse, I never had before seene in all my travells. I questioned him
why he worked in such an obscure and lonesome place ; he told me it
was that he might apply himselfe to his profession without interruption,

and wondred not a little how I had found him out. I asked if he was
unwilling to be made knowne to some greate man, for that I believed

it might turn to his profit ; he answered he was yet but a beginner, but

would not be sorry to sell off that piece ; on demanding the price, he
said ioo/. In good earnest the very frame was worth the money, there

being nothing in nature so tender and delicate as the flowers and

festoons about and yet the worke was very strong in the piece were
         I

                          it,

                                                I
                                                                                                                                            ;
more than ioo figures of men, &c.                            found he was likewise musical,

and very civil, sober, and discreete in his discourse. There was onely

an old woman in the house. So desiring leave to visite him some

times, went away.

Savage Court, Ludgate hill, and was employed by Betterton in decorating the Theatre in
Dorset Garden. He lived afterwards at Deptford, in the same house with a musician, where
the beneficent and curious Mr. Evelyn found and patronised both. This gentleman. Sir P.
II.Lely, and Bap. May, who was something of an Architect himself, recommended Gibbons to
Cha.     who was too indolent to search for genius, and too indiscriminate in his bounty to

confine to merit, but was always pleased when was brought home to him. He gave the
artist a place in the Board of Works, and employed his hand on ornaments of most taste in his
palaces, particularly at Windsor. Gibbon, in gratitude, made a present of his own bust in
wood to Mr. Evelyn, who kept at his house in Dover street. The piece that had struck so
good a judge was a large carving in wood of St. Stephen stoned, long preserved in the
sculptor's own house, and afterwards purchased and placed by the Duke of Chandos at
         it                                                  it
Cannons.*              is                                                is

                                          it                                ;I
Mr. Walpole not quite correct in this account. Gibbon, when young, was found by Mr.
Evelyn in a small house in Deptford, working on that famous piece from Tintoret, here said
to represent the stoning of St. Stephen, and which seems from Mr. Evelyn's account, to have
been his first performance of consequence.    It must have been afterwards that he lived in
Belle Sauvage Yard, and that he worked on the Theatre in Dorset Gardens. Mr. Evelyn

does not mention a musician, and says there was only an old woman                                                                              with him in  the  house
                                                                                                                                               to Mr. May   the  archi
at Deptford. It was Mr. Evelyn who recommended him to the King,
tect, and to Sir Christopher Wren. Of the bust nothing known at Wot. ton.
Copy from an original Letter addressed by G. Gibbon to Mr. Evelyn, now at Wotton*

Honred
Sir wold beg the faver wen you see Sir Joscff Williams (Williamson) again you wold be
I                                                            Ifto Carve his Ladis sons hous                                                    my Lord      Kildare
       1                                                                                                                                       wich my      Lord to
                                                             ar you haen Acquantans
         i
                       it

                          it

                            I
pleasd to speack  to him that hee             wold get me
for onderstand      will (be) verry           considerabell
speack to him his sealf and shall fcr Ev're be obliaged to You wold speack to Sir Josef my
seaif but knouw wold do better from you                      Sir youre Most umbell

                                                                                Sarvant

Lond. 33 Mar. 1683.                                                                                                                            G. Gibbon.
Mr. Evelyn wrote to Lord Kildare recommending Mr. Gibbon and to Mr. Gibbon with the

letter.
352 MY HISTORIE OF THE DUTCH WAR. COUNCIL OF PLANTATIONS.

   Of this young artist, together with my manner of finding him out,
I acquainted the King, and begg'd that he would give me leave to
bring him and his worke to White-hall, for that I would adventure my
reputation with his Majesty that he had never seene anything approch
    and that he would be exceedingly pleased, and employ him. The
it,
   9

       ;I
             'I

                I
                                           II

                                                                              I
King said he would himselfe go see him. This was the first notice his

Majestic ever had of Mr. Gibbon.

   20. The King came to me in the Queen's withdrawing roome from
the circle of ladies, to talk with me as to what advance had made in

the Historie of the Dutch War.              din'd with the Treasurer, and

afterwards we went to the Secretarie's Office, where we conferred

about divers particulars.
   31. was directed to go to Sir Geo. Downing, who having ben a

publick minister in Holland at the beginning of the war, was to give

me light in some material passages.
This yeare the weather was so wet, stormy, and unseasonable, as had

not ben knowne in many yeares.

   Feb.          saw the greate ball danc'd by the Queene and distinguished

ladies at White-hall Theater. Next day was acted there the famous

play call'd The Siege of Granada,' (Dryden) two days acted succes

sively there were indeede very glorious sceanes and perspectives, the

worke of Mr. Streeter, who well understands it.
   19. This day din'd with me Mr. Surveyor Dr. Christopher Wren,
and Mr. Pepys, Cleark of the Acts, two extraordinary ingenious and
knowing persons, and other friends.
                                            carried them to see the piece of

carving which had recommended to the King.
   25. Came to visit me one of the Lords Commissioners of Scotland

for the Union.

28. The Treasurer acquainted me that his Majesty was graciously

pleas'd to nominate me one of the Council of Forraine Plantations, andI
give me a salary of 500/. per ann. to encourage me.
          ;I
   29. went to thank the Treasurer, who was my greate friend and
loved me dined with him and much company, and went thence to my
Lo. Arlington, Secretary of State, in whose favour likewise was upon
                                                 I
                                                          I

                                                                                  it
many occasions, tho' cultivated neither of their friendships by any
                  ;
meane submissions.      kiss'd his Majesty's hand on his making me one
                   I
                       II

                             if

                                    it
of that new establish'd Council.
                 caused Mr. Gibbon to bring to White-hall his excellent
1  Mar.   it I

piece of-carving, where being come advertis'd his Majestie, who ask'd
                     told him in Sir Richard Browne's (my father-in-'I
me where was

law) chamber, and that                  pleas'd his Majesty to appoint whither

should be brought, being large and tho' of wood heavy, would take
                  No,' says the King, shew me the way, 111 go to Sir
care for  it   '

              ;

Richard's chamber,' which he immediately did, walking along the
entries after me as far as the ewrie, till he came up into the roome
                  ;
                                   . THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                       353

where I also lay. No sooner was he entertt and cast his eye on the

work but he was astonish'd at the curiositie of and having consider'd
                                                         it,

                                                                     I
a long time and discours'd with Mr. Gibbon, whom brought to
it
              it,
                  it
kisse his hand, he commanded should be immediately carried to the
                                   It

                                        it
Queenes side to shew her.             was carried up into her bed chamber,
where she and the King looked on and admired                    againe the King
                                                                it

                                                                                       ;

being call'd away left us with the Queene, believing she would have
                      being a crucifix but when his Majesty was gon, a French
bought                             ;

pedling woman, one Mad. de Coord, who us'd to bring pcticoates and
fauns, and baubles out of France to the Ladys, began to find fault with

severall things in the worke, which she understood no more than an

asse or a monkey, so as in a kind of indignation, caused the person
                                                                I

                                                                      a

                                                                                                  ;
who brought to carry back to the chamber, finding the Queene so
much govern'd by an ignorant French woman, and this incomparable
                      it
                         it

                                        it
                                                     it
artist had his labour onely for his paines, which not little displeas'd

me, and he was faine to send downe to his cottage againe he not

long after sold for ;£.8o. tho' well worth £.100. without the frame, to
Sir George Viner.
His Majesty's Surveyor, Mr. Wren, faithfully promis'd me to employ

him'.   having also bespoke his Majesty for his worke at Windsor,
       II
                                            ;
                                                 it,
which my friend Mr. May the architect there was going to alter and

repaire universally for on the next day had a fair opportunity of
                                                         I
                                                                                     I
                                                                                     I
talking to his Majesty about in the lobby next the Queenes side,
where presented him with some sheetes of my Historic.                                                thence

walk'd with him thro' St. James's Parke to the garden, where both
saw and heard a very familiar discourse between                                                      and

Mrs. Nellie' as they cal'd an impudent comedian, she looking out of
her garden on a terrace at the top of the wall, and
                                                                                                     stand

ing on the greene walke under it. was heartily sorry at this scene.
5.

  I
                                           I
Thence the King walked to the Dutchess of Cleaveland, another lady
of pleasure, and curse of our nation.
        dined at Greenewich, to take leave of Sir Tho. Linch, going
Governor of Jamaica.

   10. To London about passing my patent as one of the standing
Council for Plantations, a considerable honour, the others in the Council

being chiefly Noblemen, and Officers of State.
    April. To Sir Tho. Clifford the Treasurer, to condole with him on
22the losse of his eldest son, who died at Florence.
    May. The French King being now with greate army of 28,000
                                                         a

                                                                     I
men about Dunkirk, divers of the grandees of that Court, and a vast

number of gentlemen and cadets in fantastical habits came flocking
over to see our Court, and compliment his Majesty. was present

when they first were conducted into the Queenes withdrawing roome,

       The carving in the Choir, &c. of St. Paul's Cathedral was executed by Gibbon,
       Nell Gwyn there can be no doubt with what name to fill up these blanks.
f1

                                :

                                                                23
354 MONSIEUR DE GRAMONT. COL. BLOOD. PLANTATIONS.

where saluted their Majesties the Dukes of Guise, Longueville, and
many others of the first sort.

   10. Dined at Mr. Treasurer's, where dined Monsieur De Gramont
and severall French noblemen, and one Blood, that impudent bold
fellow who had not long before attempted to steale the imperial crowne
itselfe out of the Tower, pretending onely curiositie of seeing the regalia
there, when stabbing the keeper, tho' not mortally, he boldly went away
with it thro' all the guards, taken onely by the accident of his horse
falling down. How he came to be pardoned, and even received into
favour, not onely after this, but severall other exploits almost as daring

both in Ireland and here, I could never come to understand. Some

believed he became a spie of severall parties, being well with the Sec
taries and Enthusiasts, and did his Majesty services that way, which
none alive could do so well as he ; but it was certainely as the boldest
attempt, so the onely treason of this sort that was ever pardon'd. The
man had not onely a daring but a villainous unmercifull looke, a false

ii.countenance, but very well spoken and dangerously insinuating.

          I went to Eltham to sit as one of the Commissioners about the

subsidie now given by Parliament to his Majesty.
   17. Dined at Mr. Treasurer's [Sir Tho. Clifford] with the Earl of

Arlington, Carlingford, Lord Arundel of Wardour, Lo. Almoner to the
Queene, a French Count, and two abbots, with several more of French
nobility ; and now by something I had lately observed of Mr. Treasurer's

conversation on occasion, I suspected him a little warping to Rome.
   25. I dined at a feast made for me and my wife by the Trinity Com

pany for our passing a fine of the land which Sir R. Browne my wife's
father freely gave to found and build their Colledge or Almes houses on
at Deptford, it being my wife's after her father's decease. It was a
good and charitable worke and gift, but would have ben better bestowM
on the poore of that parish, than on the seamens widows, the Trinity
Company being very rich, and the rest of the poore of the parish ex
ceedingly indigent.

   26. The Earle of Bristol's house in Queene Street [Lincoln's Inn
Fields], was taken for the Commissioners of Trade and Plantations, and
furnish'd with rich hangings of the King's. It consisted of seven roomes
on a floore, with a long gallery, gardens, Ac. This day we met : the
Duke of Buckingham, Earl of Lauderdaile, Lord Colpeper, Sir Geo.
Carteret Vice Chamberlaine, and myselfe, had the oathes given us by
the Earle of Sandwich, our President. It was, to advise and counsel
his Majesty to the best of our abilities for the well governing of his
Forraine Plantations, Ac. the forme very little differing from that given
to the Privy Council. We then tooke our places at the Board in the
 Council Chamber, a very large roome furnished with atlases, mapps,
charts, globes, &c Then came the Lord Keeper, Sir Orlando Bridge-
man, Earl of Arlington, Secretary of State, Lord Ashley, Mr. Treasurer,
    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                      355

Sir John Trevor the other Secretary, Sir John Duncomb, Lord Ailing-
ton, Mr. Grey, son to the Lord Grey, Mr. Henry Broncher, Sir Humfry
Winch, Sir John Finch, Mr. Waller, and ColL Titus of the Bedcham
ber, with Mr. Slingsby Secretary to the Council, and two Clearks of the

Council, who had all ben sworne some dayes before. Being all set,
our Patent was read, and then the additional Patent, in which was re
cited this new establishment ; then was delivered to each a copy 01 the
Patent and of instructions : after which we proceeded to business. The
first thing we did was to settle the forme of a circular letter to the Go

vernors of all his Majesty's Plantations and Territories in the West

Indies and Islands thereof, to give them notice to whom they should
apply themselves on all occasions, and to render us an account of their

present state and government ; but what we most insisted on was to
know the condition of New England, which appearing to be very inde

pendent as to their regard to Old England or his Majesty, rich and

strong as they now were, there were greate debates in what style to

write to them, for the condition of that Colony was such that they were

able to contest with all other Plantations about them, and there was

feare of their breaking from all dependance on this Nation ; his Majesty
therefore commended this affaire more expressly. We therefore thought
fit in the first place to acquaint ourselves as well as we could of the
state of that place, by some whom we heard of that were newly come from

thence, and to be informed of their present posture and condition;

some of our Council were for sending them a menacing letter, which
those who better understood the peevish and touchy humor of that

Colonie, were utterly against.

  A letter was then read from Sir Tho. Modiford, Governor of
Jamaica ; and then the Council brake up.
   Having brought an action against one Cock for money which he had

received for me, it had been referred to an arbitration by the recom

mendation of that excellent good man the Chief Justice Hales ; but this

not succeeding, I went to advise with that famous lawyer Mr. Jones, of
Gray's Inn, and 27 May had a trial- before the Lo. Ch. Justice Hales,
and after the lawyers had wrangled sufficiently, it was referred to a new

arbitration. This was the very first suit at law that ever I had with

any creature, and 6 that it might be the last !
    JunIew. enAt ntoinCstoaullnactiilo,nwahteWreinwdassor.produe'd
1                                                                   a most  exact  and ample

6.

information of the state of Jamaica, and of the best expedients as to
New England, on which there was a long debate, but at length 'twas

concluded that, if any, it should be only a conciliating paper at first,
or civil letter, till we had better information of the present face of

things, since we understood they were a people almost upon the very
brink of renouncing any dependance on the Crowne.
19. To a splendid dinner at the greate roome in Deptford Trinity
356 STATE OF NEW ENGLAND ALARMS COUNCIL OF PLANTATIONS.

House, Sir Thomas Allen chosen Master, and succeeding the Earle
of Craven.

   20. To carry Coll. Midleton to White-hall to my Lo. Sandwich, our

President, for some information which he was able to give of the state
of the Colonie in New England.

   21. To Council againe, when one Coll. Cartwright, a Nottingham

shire man, (formerly in commission with Collonel Nicholls) gave
us a considerable relation of that country, on which the Council
concluded that in the first place a letter of amnestie should be

dispatch'd.
    24. Constantine Hugens, Signor of Zuylichem, that excellent learn'd

man, poet, andmusitian, now neere 80 yeares of age, a vigorous, brisk
man, came to take leave of me before his returne into Holland with
the Prince, whose Secretary he was.

   26. To Council, where Lo. Arlington acquainted us that it was his

Majesty's proposal we should every one of us contribute £20 towards
building a Council-chamber and conveniences somewhere in White-hall,
that his Majesty might come and sit amongst us and heare our debates ;
the mony we laid out to be reimbours'd out of the contingent monies
already set apart for us, vis. ,£1000 yearly. To this we unanimously
consented. There came an uncertaine bruite from Barbados of some
disorder there. On my return home I stept in at the Theater to see
the new machines for the intended scenes, which were indeede very
costly and magnificent.

   29. To Council, where were letters from Sir Tho. Modiford, of the
expedition and exploit of Coll. Morgan and others of Jamaica on the

Spanish Continent at Panama,
   4 July. To Council, where we drew up and agreed to a letter to be

sent to New England, and made some proposal to Mr. Gorges for his
interest in a Plantation there.

   24. To Council. Mr. Surveyor brought us a plot for the building
of our Council-chamber, to be erected at the end of the Privy-garden

in White-hall.

   3 August. A full appearance at the Council. The matter in debate

was, whether we should send a Deputy to New England, requiring them
of the Massachusets to restore such to their limits and respective pos
sessions as had petition'd the Council ; this to be the open Commission
onely, but in truth with seacret instructions to informe the Council of
the condition of those Colonies, and whether they were of such power
as to be able to resist his Majesty and declare for themselves as inde
pendent of the Crowne, which we were told, and which of late yeares
made them refractorie. Coll. Midleton being call'd in, assur'd us they
might be curb'd by a few of his Majesty's first-rate fregats, to spoile
their trade with the islands ; but tho' my Lo. President was not satis
fied, the rest were, and we did resolve to advise his Majesty to send
                THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                           357

Commissioners with a formal Commission for adjusting boundaries, &c.

with some other instructions.

   19. To Council. The letters of Sir Tho. Modiford were read,
giving relation of the exploit at Panama, which was very brave ; they
tooke, burnt and pillag'd the towne of vast treasures, but the best of the

booty had ben shipp'd off and lay at anchor in the South Sea, so that

after our men had rang'd the country 60 miles about, they went back

to Nombre de Dios, and embarq'd for Jamaica. Such an action had
not ben done since the famous Drake.

I din'd at the Hambrogh Residents, and after dinner went to the
christening of Sir Sam. Tuke's son Charles, at Somerset House, by a
Popish priest with many odd ceremonies. The godfathers were the
King and Lord Arundel of Wardour, and the godmother the Countesse

of Huntingdon.
   29 Aug. To London with some more papers of my progresse in the
Dutch Warr, delivered to the Treasurer.

1 Sept. Din'd with the Treasurer in company with my Lord Arling

ton, Halifax, & Sir Tho. Strickland ; and next day went home, being
the anniversarie of the late dreadfull fire of London.

13 Sept. This night fell a dreadful tempest
   15. In the afternoone at Council, where letters  were read from  Sir
Charles Wheeler concerning his resigning his        Government of
                                                                    St

Christopher's.

  21. I din'd in the Cittyat the fraternity feast in Yron-mongers Hall,"

where the 4 stewards chose their successors for the next yeare, with a
solemn procession, garlands about their heads and musiq playing

before them, so coming up to the upper tables where the gentlemen
Isate, they drank to the new stewards, and so we parted.
   22. din'd at the Treasurer's, where I had discourse with Sir Hen.
Jones (now come over to raise a regiment of horse), concerning the
French conquests in Lorraine ; he told me the King sold all things to

the souldiers, even to an handfull of hay.
   Lord Sunderland was now nominated Ambassador to Spaine.
   After dinner the Treasurer carried me to Lincoln's Inn, to one of the
Parliament Clearks, to obtaine of him that I might carry home and
peruse some of the Journals, which were accordingly delivered to me
to examine about the late Dutch war. Returning home I went on

shore to see the Costome House, now newly rebuilt since the dreadfull

conflagration.*

  9 Oct. I went after evening service to London, in order to a journey
of refreshment with Mr. Treasurer to Newmarket, where the King then

  .1 One of the grand court-days of that opulent Company, which is one of twelve,
   * This new edifice was again destroyed by fire in Feb. 1814, and has been rebuilt in a very
magnificent manner by Mr. Henry Peto, who contracted for the work at a price much short of
that proposed by any other builder.
358 RACING AT NEWMARKET. MADEMOISELLE QUEROUAILLE.

was, in his coach with 6 brave horses, which we changed thrice, first
at Bishops Stortford and last at Chesterford, so as by night we got to
New-market, where Mr. Henry Jermain (nephew to the Earle of St.
Alban's) lodged me very civily. We went immediately to Court, the
King and all the English gallants being there at their autumnal sports.

Supp'd at the Lo. Chamberlaine's, and the next day after dinner I was
on the heath, where I saw the greate match run between Woodcock and
Flatfoot, belonging to the King and to Mr. Eliot of the Bedchamber,

many thousands being spectators ; and a more signal race had not ben
run for many yeares.

   This over, I went that night with Mr. Treasurer to Euston, a palace
of Lord Arlington's, where we found Monsieur Colbert (the French Am

bassador), and the famous new French Maid of Honor, M'lle Querou-
aille, now coming to be in greate favour with the King. Here was also

the Countesse of Sunderland, and severall Lords and Ladies, who lodged
in the house.

   During my stay here with Lord Arlington neere a fortnight, his

Majesty came almost every second day with the Duke, who commonly

return'd to New-market, but the King often lay here, during which

time I had twice the honor to sit at dinner with him, with all free-
dome. It was universally reported that the faire Lady
                                                       was

bedded one of these nights, and the stocking flung, after the manner of a

married bride ; I acknowledge she was for the most part in her undresse
all day, and that there was fondnesse and toying with that young

wanton ; nay, 'twas said I was at the former ceremony, but 'tis
utterly false ; I neither saw nor heard of any such thing whilst I was
there, tho' I had ben in her chamber, and all over that apartment

late enough, and was myselfe observing all passages with curiosity

enough. However 'twas with confidence believed she was first made

a Misse, as they call these unhappy creatures, with all solemnity

at this time.

   On Sunday a young Cambridge Divine preached an excellent sermon
in the Chapell, the King and the Duke of York being present.

   16. Came all the greate men from New-market, and other parts both
of Suffolk and Norfolck, to make their court, the whole house fill'd from
one end to the other with lords, ladys and gallants ; there was such a
furnished table as I had seldome seene, nor any thing more splendid
and free, so that for fifteen days there were entertained at least 200

people and halfe as many horses, besides servants and guards at
infinite expence.

   In the morning we went hunting and hawking ; in the afternoone,
till almost morning, to cards and dice, yet I must say without noise,
swearing, quarrell, or confusion of any sort. I, who was no gamester, bad

often discourse with the French Ambassador Colbert, and went some
times abroad on horseback with the ladys to take the aire, and now and
                                   THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                     359

then to hunting ; thus idly passing the time, but not without more often

recesse to my pretty apartment, where I was quite out of all this hurry,
and had leasure when I would, to converse with bookes, for there is no

man more hospitably easy to be withall than my Lord Arlington, of
whose particular friendship and kindness I had ever a more than ordi
nary share. His house is a very noble pile, consisting of 4 pavillions
after the French, beside a body of a large house, and tho' not built al
together, but form'd of additions to an old house (purchas'd by his Lord
ship of one Sir T. Rookwood) yet with a vast expence made not onely
capable and roomesome, but very magnificent and commodious, as well

  within as without, nor lesse splendidly furnish'd. The stayre-case is

  very elegant, the garden handsome, the canall beautifull, but the soile

  drie, barren and miserably sandy, which flies in drifts as the wind sits.

  Here my Lord was pleas'd to advise with me about ordering his plan

  tations of firs, elmes, limes, &c. up his parke, and in all other places
  and avenues. I persuaded him to bring his park so neere as to compre

  hend his house within which he resolv'd upon,                      being now neere a
                                                                     raised by a pretty
  mile to it The water furnishing the fountaines
    a                                                         is it
                       it,
  engine, on very slight plaine wheels, which likewise serve to grind his
  come, from small cascade of the canall, the invention of Sir Sam.
  Moreland. In my Lord's house and especialy above the stayre-case,
  in the greate hall and some of the chambers and roomes of state, are

  paintings in fresco by Signor Verrio, being the first worke which he

  did in England.
     17. My Lord Hen. Howard coming this night to visit my Lord
  Chamberlaine, and staying day, would needes have me go with him
                                   I
  to Norwich, promising to convey me back after a day or two this, as
                                         '                           6

                                         I                                      ;
                                                                                              ;
                                                    a
1I   could not refuse, was not hard to be persuaded to, having a desire
  to see that famous scholar and physitian Dr. T. Browne, author of the
  Religio Medici,' and Vulgar Errors' &c. now lately knighted. Thither

  then went my Lord and alone in his flying chariot with horses and
  by the way, discoursing with me of severall of his concernes, he ac
  quainted me of his going to marry his eldest sonn to one of the King's
  natural daughters by the Dutchesse of Cleaveland, by which he reckon'd
  he should come into mighty favour. He also told me that tho' he kept

  that idle creature Mrs.          B                   and would leave ,£200 a yeare to the
                                                ',

  sone he had by her, he would never marry her, and that the King him-

  selfe had caution'd him against it But all the world knows how he

  kept this promise.

    Being come to the Ducal Palace, my Lord made very much of me,

  but had little rest, so exceeding desirous he was to shew me the con
    I

                                1
  trivance he had made for the entertainment of their Majesties and the

  whole Court not long before, and which, tho' much of was but tem
                                                                     it

  porary, apparently fram'd of boards only, were yet standing. As to

                                   Bickerton, see afterwards, under 1678, Jan. and August.
360 SIR THOMAS BROWN. CITY OF NORWICH. THEIR STUFF TRADE.

the Palace, it is an old wretched building, and that part of it newly
built of brick is very ill understood, so as I was of opinion it had ben

much better to have demolish'd all, and set it up in a better place, thai

to proceede farther ; for it stands in the very Market place, and thc

neere a river, yet a very narrow muddy one, and without any extent
   Next morning I went      see Sir Tho.                      whom I had
                        to  letter, tho' I   Browne    (with  him before).
some time corresponded  by                  had never   seen
His whole house and garden being a paradise and cabinet of rarities,
and that of the best collection, especialy medails, books, plants, and
natural things. Amongst other curiosities Sir Thomas had a collection
of the eggs of all the foule and birds he could procure, that country

(especialy the promontary of Norfolck) being frequented, as he said, by
severall kinds which seldome or never go farther into the land, as
cranes, storkes, eagles, and variety of water-foule. He led me to see

all the remarkable places of this ancient Citty,. being one of the largest,
and certainly, after London, one of the noblest of England, for its ven

erable Cathedrall, number of stately churches, cleanesse of the streetes,

and buildings of flints so exquisitely headed and squared as I
was much astonish'd at ; but he told me they had lost the art of
squaring the flints, in which they once so much excell'd, and of which
the churches, best houses, and walls, are built. The Castle is an an

tique extent of ground, which now they call Marsfield, and would have
ben a fitting area to have plac'd the Ducal palace in. The suburbs are

large, the prospects sweete, with other amenities, not omitting the
flower gardens, in which all the inhabitants exceL The fabric of stuffs

brings a vast trade to this populous towne.

Being return'd to my Lord's, who had ben with me all this morning,
he advis'd with me concerning a plot to rebuild his house, having

already as he said erected a front next the streete, and a left wing, and

now resolving to set up another wing and pavilion next the garden, and
to convert the bowling-greene into stables. My advice was, to desist

from all, and to meditate wholly on rebuilding an handsome palace at

Arundell House in the Strand, before he proceeded farther here, and

then to place this in the castle ground belonging to his Lordship.
   1 observed that most of the Church-yards (tho' some of them large
enough) were filled up with earth, or rather the congestion of dead
bodys one upon another, for want of earth, even to the very top of the

walls, and some above the walls, so as the Churches seemed to be

built in pitts.

   1 8 Oct. I return'd to Euston in my Lord's coach, leaving him at
Norwich, in company with a very ingenious gentleman, Mr. White,
whose father and mother (daughter to the late Lord Treassurer Weston,
Earl of Portland) I knew at Rome, where this gentleman was bome,
and where his parents lived and died with much reputation, during
their banishment in our civil broils.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                 36 1

  St. Leaving Euston, I lodged this night at New-market, where I

found the jolly blades raceing, dauncing, feasting, and revelling, more
resembling a luxurious and abandon'd rout, than a Christian Court.
The Duke of Buckingham was now in mighty favour, and had with
him that impudent woman the Countess of Shrewsbury, with his band
of fiddlers, &c.

   Next morning, in company with Sir Bernard Gascoyne and Lord
Hawly, I came in the Treassurers coach to Bishop Stortford, where he
gave us a noble supper. Next day to London, and so home.

   14 Nov. To Council, where Sir Cha. Wheeler, late Governor of the
Leeward Islands, having ben complain'd of for many indiscreete ma

nagements, it was resolv'd, on scanning many ot the particulars, to

advise his Majesty to remove him, and consult what was to be don to
prevent these inconveniences he had brought things to. This businesse
staide me in London almost a weeke, being in Council or Committee
every morning till the 15th.

   27. We ordered that a Proclamation should be presented to his
Majesty to signe, against what Sir Charles Wheeler had don in St.
Christopher's, since the war, on the articles of peace at Breda. He

was shortly afterwards recalled.
   6 Dec. Came to visite me Sir William Haywood, a greate pretender

to English antiquities.
    14. Went to see the Duke of Buckingham's ridiculous farce and

rhapsody, called ' The Recital,' ' buffooning all formal plays, yet

prophane enough.

   23. The Councillors of the Board of Trade din'd together at the
Cock in Suffolck streete.

    1672, 12 Jan. His Majesty renewed us our lease of Sayes Court pas
tures for 99 yeares, but ought, according to his solemn promise * (as I
hope he will still perform), have passed them to us in fee farme.

   23. To London, in order to Sir Richard Browne, my father in law,
resigning his place of Clerke of the Council to Joseph Williamson,
Esq. who was admitted and was knighted. This place his Majesty
had promis'd to give me many yeares before ; but upon consideration
of the renewal of our lease and other reasons, I chose to part with it to
Sir Joseph, who gave us and the rest of his brother clearks a handsome
supper at his house, and after supper a consort of music.

   3 February. An extraordinary snow : part of the weeke was taken
up in consulting about the commission of prisoners of war, and in
structions to our officers, in order to a second war with the Hollanders ;
his Majesty having made choice of the former Commissioners and

myselfe amongst them.

   11. In the aftemoone that famous proselyte, Monsieur Brevall,

I This roust mean his play of ' The Rehearsal.'
1 The King's engagement under his hand is now at Wotton.
362 DEATH OF DR. BRETON, OUR PASTOR. WAR WITH HOLLAND.

preach'd at the Abby, in English, extreamly well and with much elo
quence. He had ben a Capuchine, but was much better learned
than most of that order.

   12. At the Council we enterM on enquiries about improving the
Plantations by silks, galls, flax, senna, &c. and considered how nutmegs
and cinnamon might be obtain'd and brought to Jamaica, that soiie
and climate promising successe. Dr. Worsley being call'd in, spake
many considerable things to encourage it. We tooke order to send to
the Plantations that none of their ships should adventure homeward
single, but stay for company and convoys. We also deliberated on
some fit person to go as Commissioner to inspect their actions in
New England, and from time to time report how that people stood
affected. -- In future to meete at White-hall.

   20. Dr. Parr of Camerwell preach'd a most pathetic funebral dis
course and panegyric at the interment of our late pastor, Dr. Breton
(who died on the 18th), on ' Happy is the servant whom when his Lord
cometh, &c.' This good man, among other expressions profess'd that

he had never ben so touch'd and concern 'd at any losse as at this, unlesse

at that of K. Charles our Martyr, and Archbishop Usher, whose chap-
laine he had ben. Dr. Breton had preach'd on the 28th and 30th
Jan. : on the Friday, having fasted all day, making his provisionary
sermon for the Sunday following, he went well to bed, but was taken
suddenly ill, and expir'd before help could come to him.

   Never had a parish a greater losse, not onely as he was an excellent
preacher, and fitted for our greate and vulgar auditory, but for his ex
cellent life and charity, his meeknesse and obliging nature, industrious
helpfull, and full of good workes. He left neere £400 to the poore in
his will, and that what children of his should die in their minority,

their portion should be so employed. I lost in particular a special

friend, and one that had an extraordinary love to me and mine.

   25. To London, to speake with the Bishop and Sir John Cutler our
patron, to present Mr. Frampton (afterwards Bishop of Gloucester.)

   1 March. A full Council of Plantations, on the danger of the Lee

ward Islands, threaten'd by the French, who had taken some of our
ships, and began to interrupt our trade. Also in debate, whether the
new Governor of St. Christopher's should be subordinate to the Gover
nor of Barbados. The debate was serious and long.

   12. Now was the first blow given by us to the Dutch convoy of the
Smyrna fleete, by Sir Robert Holmes and Lord Ossorie, in which we
received little save blows, and a worthy reproch for attacking our neigh
bours ere any war was proclaim'd, and then pretending the occasion
to be, that some time before, the Merlin yacht chanceing to saile thro'
the whole Dutch fleete, their Admiral did not strike to that trifling
vessel. Surely this was a quarrel slenderly grounded, and not becoming
Christian neighbours. We are like to thrive accordingly. Lord Ossorie
                      THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                363

several times deplored to me his being engaged in it ; he had more jus
tice and honour than in the least to approve of tho' he had ben over
                                        is
                                                         it,
persuaded to the expedition. There no doubt but we should have

surpris'd this exceeding rich fleete, had not the avarice and ambition

of Holmes and Sprag separated themselves and wilfully divided our

fleete, on presumption that either of them was strong enough to deale
with the Dutch convoy without joyning and mutual help but they so
                                                                             ;

warmly plied our divided fleets, that whilst in conflict the merchants

sail'd away, and got safe into Holland.

  A few daies before this, the Treasurer of the Household, Sir Tho.

Clifford,1 hinted to me, as confident, that his Majesty would shut up
                it
                                     a
the Exchequer (and accordingly his Majesty made use of infinite trea
sure there, to prepare for an intended rupture) but, says he, will
                                        ;
                                                ;

                                                                        it
soone be open againe and every body satisfied for this bold man, who

had ben the sole adviser of the King to invade that sacred stock (tho1
some pretend          was Lord Ashley's counsel, then Chancellor of the

Exchequer), was so over confident of the successe of this unworthy

designe against the Smyrna merchants, as to put his Majesty on an
action which not onely lost the hearts of his subjects, and ruined many
widdows and orphans whose stocks were lent him, but the reputation
of his Exchequer for ever, being before in such credit, that he might
                                 it

have commanded halfe the wealth of the Nation.

The credit of this bank being thus broken did exceedingly discontent

the people, and never did his Majesty* affairs prosper to any purpose
after for as did not supply the expence of the meditated war, so
1               I it                                                                                           ; it
mealted away, know not how.
       it,
  To this succeeded the King's declaration for an universal tolleration

     The following taken from King James's Life by himself: On the King's intention to
have a Lord Treasurer (1673) instead of putting the Seals into Commission, the Duke of York
desired Lord Arlington to join with him in proposing to the King the Lord Clifford for that
                is                      '
                                                   it,
                              ;
considerable employment but he found Lord Arlington very cold in and endeavouring to
persuade the Duke that the King did not intend the alteration, and the next day he employed

a friend to press the Duke to endeavour to get Sir Robert Car to be Commissioner in the room
of Lord Shaftesbury (then appointed Lord Chancellor).
    Some few days after, the Duke proposed to his Majesty the Lord Clifford as Treasurer
'1                                      it,
       ;                                     it,

             ;                                                     :
                                                                                                            :
which was well received, and he said he would do as thinking no body fitter he also told
the Duke that Lord Arlington had a mind to have that Staff but he answered him that he

had too much kindness for him to let him have for he knew he was not fit for the office                        ;

and should he give him, would be his ruin. A little after the King told the Duke that he
                it
                           it

found Lord Arlington was angry with Lord Clifford, on knowing that he was to have the
place and desired the Duke to persuade Lord Arlington not to let the world see his discon
tent, and to endeavour to make them continue friends. They promised the Duke to live
friendly together, but Lord Arlington kept not his word, and was ever after cold, not worse,
                                                                    it,
towards him.
                                                                                if
Christmas coming on, the King spake to Lord Clifford and Lord Arundel of Wardour, to

persuade the Duke to receive the Sacrament with him at that time (which the Duke had for
borne for several months before). They urged the King not to press           and he then seemed
satisfied but the day before Christmas Eve, the King spoke again to Lord Clifford to repre
sent to the Duke what he had before said, which the Lord Clifford did, but found the Duke

was not to be moved in his resolution of not going against his conscience.'
364 THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND. TILBURY FORT. MISERIES OF WAR.

Papists and swarms of Sectaries now boldly shewing themselves in
their publiq meetings. This was imputed to-the same council, Clifford
warping to Rome as was believ'd, nor was Lord Arlington cleare of
suspicion, to gratifie that party, but as since it has prov'd, and was then
evidently foreseen, to the extreame weakening the Church of England

and its Episcopal Government, as 'twas projected. I speake not this

as my owne sense, but what was the discourse and thoughts of others

who were lookers on ; for I think there might be some relaxations

without the least prejudice to the present establishment, discreetly
limited, but to let go the reines in this manner, and then to imagine
they could take them up againe as easily, was a false politiq and
grcately destructive. The truth is, our Bishops slip'd the occasion, for
had they held a steady hand upon his Majesty's restauration, as they
might easily have don, the Church of England had emerg'd and flou-
rish'd without interruption ; but they-were then remisse, and covetous
after advantages of another kind, whilst his Majesty suffered them to
come into an harvest, with which, without any injustice, he might have
rumunerated innumerable gallant gentlemen for their services, who had
ruin'd themselves in the late Rebellion.1

   21 Mar. I visited the coasts in my district of Kent, and divers

wounded and languishing poore men that had ben in the Smyrna con

flict. I went over to see the new-begun fort of Tilbury ; a royal work
indeede, and such as will one day bridle a greate Citty to the purpose,

before they are aware.

   23. Capt. Cox, one of the Commissioners of the Navy, furnishing
me with a yatcht, I sail'd to Sheere-nesse to see that Fort also, now
newly finished ; severall places on both sides the Swale arid Medway
to Gillingham and Upnore, being also provided with redouts and bat
teries, to secure the station of our men of war at Chatham, and shut

the doore when the steedes were stolen.

   24. I saw the chirurgeon cut off the leg of a wounded sailor, the

stout and gallant man enduring it with incredible patience, without

being bound to his chaire as usual on such painfull occasions. I had

hardly courage enough to be present. Not being cut off high enough,
the gangreen prevail'd, and the second operation cost the poore crea
ture his life.

   Lord ! what miseries are mortal men subject to, and what confusion
and mischeif do the avarice, anger and ambition of Princes cause in
the world !

   25. I proceeded to Canterbury, Dover, Deal, the Isle of Thanet,

by Sandwich, and so to Margate. Here we had aboundance of mise
rably wounded men, his Majesty sending his cheife chirurgeon, Serjeant

   * This means the fines for renewals of leases not filled up during the Interregnum, and now
to be immediately applied for. Bishop Burnet says ihey were much misapplied. Hist, of his
own Time, I. 304.
THE UIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  365

Knight, to meete me, and Dr. Waldrond had attended me all the jour
ney. Having taken order for the accomodation of the wounded, I came

back thro' a country the best cultivated of any that in my life I had

any where seene, every' field lying as even as a bowling-greene, and

the fences, plantations, and husbandry in such admirable order as in

finitely delighted me after the sad and afflicting spectacles and objects

I was come from. Observing almost every tall tree to have a weather
cock on the top bough, and some trees half a dozen, I learn'd that on

a ccrtaine holyday the farmers feast their servants, at which solemnity
they set up these cocks in a kind of triumph.

   Being come back towards Rochester, I went to take order about
building a strong and high wall about a house I had hired of a gentle
man at a place call'd Hartlip, for a prison, paying 50/. yearly rent.
Here I settled a Provost Martial and other Officers, returning by Fe-
versham. On the 30th heard a Sermon in Rochester Cathedrall, & so
got to Sayes Court on the first of Aprill.

   4 April. I went to see the fopperies of the Papists at Somerset
House and York House, where now the French Ambassador had caus'd

to be represented our Blessed Saviour at the Paschal Supper with his
Disciples, in figures and puppets made as big as the life, of wax-work,

curiously clad and sitting round a large tabic, the roome nobly hung,

and shining with innumerable lamps and candles : this was expos'd to
all the world, all the Citty came to see it : such liberty had the Roman
Catholics at this time obtain'd.

    16. Sat in Council, preparing Lord Willougby's commission and

instructions as Governor of Barbados and the Caribbe" Islands.

    17. Sat on business in the Star Chamber.
   19. At Council, preparing instructions for Col. Stapleton, now to
go Governor of St. Christopher's ; and heard the complaints of the
Jamaica merchants against the Spaniards for hindering them from
cutting Logwood on the maine land, where they have no pretence.
   21. To my Lord of Canterbury, to entreate him to engage Sir
John Cutler, the patron, to provide us a grave and learned man, in
opposition to a novice.
    30. Congratulated Mr. Treassurer Clifford's new honour, being made
a Baron.
   2 May. My sonn John was specially admitted of the Middle Temple
by Sir Fra. North, his Majesties Solicitor General, and since Chancellor.

I pray God bless this beginning, my intention being that he should

seriously apply himself to the study of the Law.

   10. I was order'd by letter from the Council to repair forthwith to
his Majesty, whom I found in the Pal- Mai in St. James's Park, where

his Majesty coming to me from the company, commanded me to go
immediately to the sea coast, and to observe the motion of the Dutch
fleet and ours, the Duke and so many of the flower.of our Nation being
366 VISIT THE COAST DEFENCES. ARRANGE FOR PRISONERS COMING IN.

now under saile, coming from Portsmouth thro' the Downes, where

'twas believed there might be an encounter.

  ii. Went to Chatham.-- 12. Heard a Sermon in Rochester

CathedralL
   13. To Canterbury; visited Dr. Bargrave,1 my old fellow-traveller

in Italy, & great virtuoso.
   14. To Dover, but the fleet did not appear till the 16th, when the

Duke of York with his and the French squadron, in all 170 ships (of
which above 100 were men of war) sail'd by, after the Dutch, who were
newly withdrawn. Such a gallant and formidable navy never, I think,
spread saile upon the seas. It was a goodly yet terrible sight, to behold
them as I did, passing Eastward by the straights 'twixt Dover and Calais
in a glorious day. The wind was yet so high that I could not wel go
aboard, and they were soon got out of sight. The next day having
visited our prisoners at the Castle, and saluted the Governor, I tooke
horse for Margate. Here, from the North Foreland Light-house-top
(which is a Pharos, built of bricq and having on the top a cradle of iron
in which a man attends a greate sea-coal fire all the year long, when
the nights are darke, for the safeguard of sailors) we could see our
fleete as they lay at anker. The next morning they weighed, and sailed
out of sight to the N. E.

    19. Went to Margate ; and the following day was carried to see a
gallant widow, brought up a farmoresse, and I think of gigantic race,
rich, comely, and exceedingly industrious. She put me in mind of
Debora and Abigail, her house was so plentifully stored with all man
ner of countrie provisions, all of her owne growth, and all her conve-

niencies so substantial!, neate, and well understood ; she herselfe so

jolly and hospitable ; and her land so trim and rarely husbanded that
it struck me with admiration at her oeconomie.

   This towne much consists of Brewers of a certaine heady ale, and
they deale much in mault, &c. For the rest, 'tis raggedly built, and has
an ill haven, with a small fort of little concernment, nor is the island
well disciplin'd ; but as to the husbandry and rural part, far exceeding
any part of England, for the accurate culture of their ground, in which
they exceed, even to curiositie and emulation.

   We passed by Richborow, and in sight of Reculver, and so thro' a

sweete garden as it were, to Canterbury.

   24. To London, and gave his Majesty an account of my journey, and
that I had put all things in readinesse upon all events, and so return'd

home sufficiently wearied.

   31. I receiv'd another command to repaire to the Sea-side; so I
went to Rochester, where I found many wounded, sick, and prisoners

newly put on shore after the engagement on the 28th, in which the

"  1 Dean   MofiltCoannt"ersboumrey  a great benefactor to the Cathedral  Library  there.  See in Todd's
   Life of                           curious particulars concerning him.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  367

Earle of Sandwich, that incomparable person and my particular friend,
and divers more whom I loved, were lost. My Lord (who was Admiral
of the Blew) was in the Prince, which was burnt, one of the best men of
war that ever spread canvass on the sea. There were lost with this
brave man, a son of Sir Cha. Cotterell (Master of the Ceremonies), and
a son of Sir Cha. Harbord (his Majesty's Surveyor-general), two valiant
and most accomplish 'd youths, full of virtue and courage, who might

have saved themselves, but chose to perish with my Lord, whom they

honour'd and loved above their own lives.

   Here I cannot but make some reflections on things past. It was not

above a day or two that going to White-hall to take leave of his Lord
ship, who had his lodgings in the Privy Garden, shaking me by the hand

to bid me God-by'e, and said he thought he should see me no more,

and I saw to my thinking something boading in his countenance ; 'No,'

says he, ' they will not have me live. Had I lost a flcete (meaning on

his returne from Bergen when he tooke the East India prize) I should
have fared better ; but be it as it pleases God -- I must do something I

know not what to save my reputation.' Something to this effect he had
hinted to me ; thus I tooke my leave. I well remember that the Duke
of Albemarle, and my now Lord Clifford, had, I know not why, no
grcate opinion of his courage, because in former conflicts, being an able
and experiene'd seaman (which neither of them were), he always
brought off his Majesty's ships without losse, tho' not without as many
markes of true courage as the stoutest of them ; and I am a witnesse

that in the late war his owne ship was piere'd like a cullendar. But
the buisinesse was, he was utterly against this war from the beginning,
and abhorr'd the attacquing of the Smyrna fleete ; he did not favor the
heady expedition of Clifford at Bergen, nor was he so furious and con
fident as was the Duke of Albemarle, who believed he could vanquish
the Hollanders with one squadron. My Lord Sandwich was prudent
as well as valiant, and allways govem'd his affairs with successe and
little losse ; he was for deliberation and reason, they for action and

slaughter without either, and for this, whisper'd as if my Lord Sand

wich was not so gallant because he was not so rash, and knew how
fatal it was to loose a fleete, such as was that under his conduct, and
for which these very persons would have censured him on the other side.
This it was, I am confident, griev'd him and made him enter like a lion,
and fight like one too, in the midst of the hottest service, where the

stoutest of the rest seeing him engag'd and so many ships upon him,
durst not, or would not, come to his succour, as some of them, whom I
know, might have don. Thus this gallant person perish'd to gratifie

the pride and envy 01 some- 1 nam'd.

   Deplorable was the losse of one of the best accomplish'd persons,
not onely of this Nation but of any other. He was learned in sea
affaires, in politics, in mathematics, and in musiq ; he had been on
3W LOSS OF LORD SANDWICH. THE FLEETE AT THE NORE.

divers embassies, was of a sweete and obliging temper, sober, chast,
very ingenious, a true Nobleman, an ornament to the Court and
loyal to his Prince, nor has he left any behind him who approch
his many virtues.

   He had, I confesse, serv'd the tyrant Cromwell when a young man,
but 'twas without malice, as a souldier of fortune ; and he readily sub
mitted, and that with joy, bringing an entire fleete with him from the
Sound, at the first tidings of his Majestie's Restauration. I verily believe

him as faithfull a subject as any that were not his friends. I am yet
heartily griev'd at this mighty losse, nor do I call it to my thoughts

without emotion.
   2 June. Trinity Sonday I pass'd at Rochester; and on the 5th there

was buried in the Cathedral Mons. Rabiniere, reare Admiral of the
French squadron, a gallant person, who died of the wounds he received
in the fight. This ceremonie lay on me, which I perform 'd with all the
decency I could, inviting the Mayor and Aldermen to come in their
formalities ; Sir Jonas Atkins was there with his guards ; and the Deane
and Prebendaries : one of his countrymen pronouncing a funeral ora
tion at the brink of his grave, which I caus'd to be dug in the Quire.
This is more at large describ'd in the Gazette of that day. Col.
Rcymes, my colleague in Commission, assisting, who was so kind as
to accompany me from London, tho' it was not his district, for indeede
the stresse of both these warrs lay more on me by far than on

any of my breathren, who had little to do in theirs. -- I went to
see Upnore Castle, which I found pretty well defended, but it was
of no greate moment.

   Next day I sailed to the Fleete, now riding at the Buoy of the Nore,
where I met his Majesty, the Duke, Lord Arlington, and all the greate
men, in the Charles, lying miserably shatter^ ; but the misse of Lord
Sandwich redoubl'd the losse to me, and shew'd the folly of hazarding
so brave a fleete, and loosing so many good men for no provocation
but that the Hollanders exceeded us in commerce and Industrie, and
in all things but envy.

   At Sheernesse I gave his Majesty and his Royal Highness an account
of my charge, and return'd to Queenborow ; next day dined at Major

Dorels, Governor of Shere-nesse ; thence to Rochester, and the
following day home.

   12. To London to his Majesty, to solicite for mony for the sick and

wounded, which he promised me.

   19. To London againe, to solicit the same.
   31. At a Council of Plantations. Most of this weeke busied with

the sick and wounded.

   3 July. To Lord Sandwich's funeral, which was by water to

IWestminster in solemn pomp.

    31. entertain'd the Maids 01 Honour (among whom there was
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  369

one I infinitely esteem'd for her many and extraordinary virtues) at a

comedy this afternoone, and so went home.1

   1 Aug. I was at the marriage of Lord Arlington's onely daughter
(a sweete child if ever there was any5) to the Duke of Grafton, the
King's natural son by the Dutchesse of Cleaveland. The Abp. of
Canterbury officiating, the King and all the grandees being present.
I had a favour given me by my Lady, but tooke no greate joy at the

thing for many reasons.
    18. Sir James Hayes, Secretary to Prince Rupert, dined with me :

after dinner I was sent for to Gravesend, to dispose of no fewer than
800 sick men. That night I got to the Fleete at the Buoy of the
Nore, where I spake with the King and the Duke ; and after dinner

next day return'd to Gravesend.

   1 Sept. I spent this weeke in soliciting for monies, and in reading
to my Lord Clifford my papers relating to the first Holland war. -- Now
our Council of Plantations met at Lord Shaftesbury's (Chancellor of

the Exchequer) to reade and reforme the Draught of our new Patent,

joyning the Council of Trade to our political capacities. After this I

returned home in order to another excursion to the Sea-side, to get as
many as possible of the men who were recovered on board the Fleete.

   8. I lay at Gravesend, thence to Rochester, returning on the nth.

    1 5. Dr. Duport, Greek Professor of Cambridge, preached before the
King on I Timothy 6. 6. No greate preacher, but a very worthy and

learned man.

  25. I din'd at Lord John Berkley's (of Stratton), newly arriv'd out

of Ireland, where he had ben Deputy; it was in his new house', or
rather palace, for I am assured it stood him in neere ,£30,000. It is
very well built, and has many noble roomes, but they are not very con
venient, consisting but of one Corps de Logis ; they are all roomes of
state, without clossets. The staire-case is of cedar, the furniture is
princely : the kitchen and stables are ill-placed, and the corridore
worse, having no report to the wings they joyne to. For the rest, the

fore court is noble, so are the stables, and above all, the gardens, which
are incomparable by reason of the inequalitie of the ground, and a
pretty piscina. The holly hedges on the terrace I advised the planting
of. The porticos are in imitation of an house described by Palladio,
but it happens to be the worst in his booke, tho' my good friend Mr.
Hugh May, his Lordship's architect, effected it.

  26. I carried with me to dinner my Lord H. Howard (now to be

   1 Mrs. Blagg, whom he afterwards characterizes as a rare example of piety and virtue in
so rare a witt, beauty, and perfection, in a licentious court and depraved age. She was after
wards married to Mr. Godolphin.

   * She was then only 5 years old.
   3 Berkley House was burnt to the ground by accident. The site was on a farm called
Hay-hill Farm, the names of which are preserved in Hay-street, Hill-street, Farm-street.
Devonshire House, Lansdown House, Berkeley Square, &c. are built on part of the ground.

                                                                                                            24
370 LADY SUNDERLAND. THE FIRE-EATER. THE TWO COUNCILS.

made Earl of Norwich and Earl Marshall of England) to Sir Robert

Clayton's, now Sheriff of London, at his new house ', where we had a
greate feast ; it is built indeede for a greate Magistrate, at excessive
cost. The cedar dining-roome is painted with the historie of the
Gyants War, incomparably don by Mr. Streeter, but the figures are

too neere the eye.

   6 Oct. Dr. Thistlethwait  preached at White-hall   on 2 Apoc.  5. a
young but good preacher.                             Communion,   Dr.
                             I received the blessed

Blandford, Bp. of Worcester, and Deane of the Chapel, officiating.
Dined at my Lord Cliffords with Lord Mulgrave, Sir Gilbert Talbot,

and Sir Robert Holmes.
8. I tooke leave of my Lady Sunderland, who was going to Paris to
my Lord, now Ambassador there. She made me stay dinner at Lei

cester House, and afterwards sent for Richardson the famous Fire-
eater. He devour'd brimston on glowing coales before us, chewing and

swallowing them ; he mealted a beere-glasse and eate it quite up ;

then taking a live coale on his tongue, he put on it a raw oyster, the

coal was blown on with bellows till it flam'd and sparkl'd in his mouth,
and so remain'd till the oyster gaped and was quite boil'd ; then he

mealted pitch and wax with sulphur, which he drank downe as it
flamed ; I saw it flaming in his mouth a good while ; he also tooke up

a thick piece of yron, such as laundresses use to put in their smoothing-

boxes, when it was fiery hot, held it betweene his teeth, then in his
hand, and threw it about like a stone, but this I observ'd he car*d not

to hold very long ; then he stood on a small pot, and bending his body
tooke a glowing yron with his mouth from betweene his feete, without

touching the pot or ground with his hands ; with divers other pro

digious feates.

   13. After sermon (being summon'd before) I went to my Lord
Keeper's Sir Orlando Bridgeman at Essex House, where our new Patent

was opened and read, constituting us that were of the Council of Plan

tations to be now of the Council of Trade also, both united. After the

Patent was read, we all tooke our oathes and departed.

   24. Met in Council, the Earle of Shaftesbury, now our President,
swearing our Secretary and his Clearks, which was Mr. Lock, an excel

lent learned gentleman and student of Christ Church, Mr. Lloyd and
Mr. Frowde. We dispatch'd a letter to Sir Tho. Linch, Governor of
Jamaica, giving him notice of a design of the Dutch on that island.

   1 Situate in the Old Jewry. Sir Robert built it to keep his shrievalty, which he did with
great magnificence. It was for some years the residence of Mr. Samuel Sharp, an eminent
surgeon, and was afterwards occupied {viz. from 1806 to the close of the year 181 1)
by the London Institution for their library and reading rooms, previous to their temporary
removal to King's Arms Yard, Coleman Street. This Literary Institution, established by
Charter, is now finally settled in a new and splendid mansion, purposely erected by the pro
prietors, from a design by Mr. W. Brooks, on the North side of Moorfields (181S). --Streeter's
paintings have been long placed in the family seat of the Claytons at Marden, near Godstone,
Surrey.
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                  - 371

  I27. went to heare that famous preacher Dr. Frampton at St.

Giles's, on 39 Psalm 6. This Divine had been twice at Jerusalem, and
was not onely a very pious and holy man, but excellent in the pulpit

for the moving affections.
       8 Nov. At Council we debated the buisinesse of the Consulage of
Leghorne. I was of the Committee with Sir Humphrey Winch the
Chaireman to examine the Lawes of his Majestys severall Plantations

and Colonies in the West Indies, &c.

   15. Many Merchants were summon'd about the Consulage of
Venice ; which caused greate disputes ; the most considerable thought
it useless. This being the Queen Consort's birth-day, there was an
extraordinarie appearance of gallantrie, and a ball daunced at Court.
       30. I was chosen Secretary to the Royall Society.

       21 Dec. Settl'd the Consulage of Venice.

   1673. I Jan- After publiq prayers in the Chapell at White-hall,
when I gave God solemne thanks for all his mercies to me the yeare
past, &c, and my humble supplications to him for his blessing the yeare
now entering, I returned home, having my poore deceased servant

(Adams) to bury, who died of  pleurisie.   of  ' Rapinus       Hortorum.'t
   3. My sonn now publish 'd  his Version

       28. Visited Don Francisco de Melos, the Portugal Ambassador,

who shew'd me his curious Collection of Books and Pictures. He was

a person of good parts, and a vertuous man.
   6 Feb. To Council about reforming an abuse of the Diers with

Saundus and other false drougs ; examin'd divers of that trade.
   23. The Bishop of Chichester' preach 'd before the King on 2 Coloss.

14, 15. admirably well, as he can do nothing but what is well.
   5 Mar. Our new Vicar Mr. Holden preach'd in White-hall Chapel

on 4 Psalm 6, 7. This gentleman is a very excellent and universal
scholar, a good and wise man, but he had not a popular way of preach
ing, nor is in any measure fit for our plaine and vulgar auditorie, as his
predecessor was. There was, however, no comparison betwixt their
parts for profound learning ; but time and experience may forme him
to a more practical way than that he is in of University lectures and

erudition, which is now universally left off for what is much more

profitable.

   15. I heard the speech made to the Lords in their House by Sir
Sam. Tuke in behalfe of the Papists, to take off the Penal Laws ; and

then din'd with Col. Norwood.
   16. Dr. Pearson, Bishop of Chester,' preach'd on 9th Hebrews 14;

1 Of Gardens. Four Books. First written in Latin verse, by Renatus Rapinus, and now
made English. By I. E. London, 1673. Dedicated to Henry Earle of Arlington, &c
* Dr. Peter Gunning, formerly Master of St. John's College, Cambridge, afterwards Bishop
of Ely. Burnet says of him that he was a man of great reading, a very honest, sincere man,
       of no sound  judgment. Hist, of his own Times, I. 297.
but    Weil known   by his valuable Exposition of the Creed.
    *
372 SWORN A YOUNGER BROTHER OF THE TRINITY HOUSE.

a most incomparable sermon from one of the most learned Divines of

our Nation. I din'd at my Lord Arlington's with the Duke and Dutchesse
of Monmouth ; she is one of the wisest and craftiest of her sex, and

has much witt. Here was also the learned Isaac Vossius.

During Lent there is constantly the most excellent preaching by the
most eminent Bishops and Divines of the Nation.

   26 Mar. I was sworn a younger brother of the Trinity House, with
my most worthy and long acquainted noble friend Lord Ossorie (eldest
son to the Duke of Ormond), Sir Richard Browne my father-in-law

being now Master of that Society ; after which there was a greate

collation.

  29. I carried my sonn to the Bishop of Chichester, that learned and

pious man, Dr. Peter Gunning,1 to be instructed by him before he

recciv'd the holy sacrament, when he gave him most excellent advice,

which I pray God may influence and remain with him as long as he
lives ; and O that I had been so blessed and instructed when first I

was admitted to that sacred ordinance !

   30. Easter Day : myself and sonn received the blessed communion,
it being his first time, and with that whole week's more extraordinary
preparation. I beseech God make him a sincere good Christian, whilst
I endeavour to instill into him the feare and love of God, and discharge
the duty of a father.
At the sermon coram Rege, preached by Dr. Sparrow, Bp. of Exceter,
to a most crowded auditorie, I staied to see whether according to cos-
tome the Duke of York receiv'd the communion with the King ; but he
did not, to the amazement of every body. This being the second

yeare he had forborne and put it off, and within a day of the Parliament

sitting, who had lately made so severe an Act against the increase of

Poperie, gave exceeding griefe and scandal to the whole Nation, that

the heyre of and the sonn of a Martyr for the Protestant religion,
1
   1

     I
             I it,

                                        I2
should apostatize. What the consequence of this will be, God onely

knows, and wise men dread.

April.        dined with the Plenipotentiaries designed for the Treaty
of Nimeguen.

   17. carried Lady Tuke to thank the Countesse of Arlington for
speaking to his Majesty in her behalfe, for being one of the Queene
Consort's women. She carried us up into her new dressing-roome at

Goring House, where was abed, glasses, silver jars and vases, cabi

nets, and other so rich furniture as had seldom seene to this excesse
                                                                                                    ;

of superfluity were we now ariv'd, and that not onely at Court, but al

most universally, even to wantonesse and profusion.
   Dr. Compton, brother to the Earle of Northampton, preached on
   Corinth: 11 -- 16. shewing the Churches power in ordaining things
1
                                                                    1  See Note in preceding page.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  373

indifferent ; this worthy person's talent is not preaching, but he is like

to make a grave and serious good man.1

  I saw her Majesty's rich toylet in her dressing roome, being all of

massie gold, presented to her by the King, valued at 4000/.
   26. Dr. Lamplugh preached at St. Martine's, the holy Sacrament

following which I partook of, upon obligation of the late Act of Parlia- .
ment, enjoyning every body in oifice, civil or militarie, under penalty of
500/. to receive it within one moneth before two authentiq witnesses ;
being engrossed on parchment, to be afterwards produced in the Court
of Chancery, or some other Court of Record ; which I did at the

Chancery Barr, as being one of the Council of Plantations and Trade ;

taking then also the Oath of Allegiance and Supremacy, signing the
clause in the said Act against Transubstantiation.

   25 May. My sonn was made a younger Brother of the Trinity House.
The new Master was Sir Jer. Smith, one of the Commissioners of the
Navy, a stout seaman who had interpos'd and saved the Duke from

perishing by a fire-ship in the late warr.
   28. I carried one Withers, an ingenious shipwright, to the King,

to shew him some new method of building.

   29. I saw the Italian Comedie at the Court this afternoone.

    10 June. Came to visite and dine with me, my Lord Viscount Corn-
bury and his Lady; Lady Frances Hyde, sister to the Dutchesse of
York ; and Mrs. Dorothy Howard, Mayd of Honour. We went after

dinner to see the formal and formidable camp on Blackheath, raised to
invade Holland, or, as others suspected, for another designe. Thence
to the Italian Class-house at Greenewich, where glasse was blown of
finer mettal than that of Murano at Venice.

   13. Came to visit us, with other ladies of rank, Mrs. Sedley,"
daughter to Sir Charles, who was none of the most virtuous, but a witt.

   19. Congratulated the new Lord Treasurer, Sir Tho. Osborne, a
gentleman with whom I had ben intimately acquainted at Paris, and

who was every day at my father-in-law's house and table there, on

which account I was too confident of succeeding in his favour, as I

had don in his predecessor's ; but such a friend shall I never find, and

I neglected my time, far from believing that my Lord Clifford would

have so rashly laide down his staffe as he did, to the amazement of all
the world, when it came to the test of his receiving the communion,

which I am confident he forbore more from some promise he had en-

ter'd into to gratifie the Duke, than for any prejudice to the Protestant
religion, tho' I found him wavering a pretty while.

   23. To London, to accompanie our Council, who went in a body

   1 Henry, sixth ton of the second Earl of Northampton, educated at Oxford, was a cornet
in Lord Oxford's regiment of guards, took orders, and was successively Bishop of Oxford and

'London, in which last See he died, 171 ), aged At.
     The Duke of York's mistress, and afterwards created by him Countess of Dorchester.
374 FUNERAL OF SIR ROBT. MURRAY. PICTURES AT GUILDHALL,

to congratulate the new Lord Treasurer, no friend to                                because pro
moted by my L. Arlington, whom he hated.                                            it it,

   26. Came visitors from Court to dine with me, and see the army                       ;
still remaining encamped on Black-heath.
                                                                                          I
     July. This evening went to the funerall of my deare and excel                             I
lent friend, that good man and accomplish'd gentleman, Sir Robert
Murray,1 Secretary of Scotland. He was buried by order of his                                                   ;
Majesty in Westminster Abbey.
6                                                                                                          it

      I
                                I
   25. went to Tunbridge Wells to visite my Lord Clifford, late Lord
Treasurer, who was there to divert his mind more than his body

was believ'd that he had so engag"d himselfe to the Duke, that rather

than take the test, without which he was not capable of holding any
office, he would resigne that greate and honourable station. This am

confident gTiev'd him to the heart, and at last broke                               for tho' he

carried with him musiq and people to divert him, and when came to

see him, lodged me in his own apartment, and would not let me go

from him, found he was struggling in his mind, and being of a rough
I

and ambitious nature, he could not long brooke the necessitie he had

brought on himselfe, of submission to this conjuncture. Besides he

saw the Dutch warr, which was made much by his advise, as well as

the shutting up of the Exchequer,' very unprosperous. These things
his high spirit could not support. Having staied here two or three

daies, obtain'd leave of my Lord to returne.
   In my way saw my Lord of Dorset's house at Knowle, near Seven-
II
       IIoaks, a greate old-fashion'd house.
   30. To Council, where the business of transporting wool was
                I
                   Ibrought before us.
   31. went to see the pictures of all the Judges and eminent men

of the long robe, newly painted by Mr. Wright, and set up in Guild
hall, costing the Citty 1000/. Most of them are very like the persons
they represent, tho' never took Wright to be any considerable artist.

13 Aug.  rid to Durdans, where din'd at my Lord Berkley's
of Berkeley Castle, my old and noble friend, being his wedding an-I. I I
niversarie, where found the Dutchesse of Albemarle and much com-
                                                                             in it
panie, and return'd home that evening late.
   15. Came to visit me my Lord Chancellor, the Earle of Shaftesbury.
   18. My Lord Clifford being about this time return'd from Tun

bridge, and preparing for Devonshire, went to take my leave of him
at Wallingford House he was packing up pictures, most of which
11

       I

                                                              ;

                                                    it
were of hunting wild beasts, and vast pieces of bull-baiting, beare

He was universally beloved and esteemed by men of all sides and sorts. The life and
soul of the Royal Society. He delighted in every occasion of doing good. He had a supe
riority of genius and comprehension. Burnet, vol. p. 90.
      Burnet says the Earl of Shaftesbury was the chief man                         this advice. There  a story,
                                                                                                        is
                                                                                                                     it
though do not recollect the author, that Shaftesbury formed the plan, that Clifford got at
over a bottle of wine, and carried to the King as his own.
                  THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                               375

Ibaiting, &c      found him in his study, and restored to him several

papers of state and others of importance, which he had furnished me
with, on engaging me to write the Historie of the Holland War, with
other private letters of his acknowledgments to my Lord Arlington,

who from a private gentleman of a very noble family, but inconsider
able fortune, had advanc'd him from almost nothing. The first thing

was his being in Parliament, then knighted, then made one of the

Commissioners of the sick and wounded, on which occasion we sate

long together ; then on the death of Hugh Pollard, he was made

Comptroller of the Household and Privy Counselor, yet still my brother

Commissioner ; after the death of Lord Fitz-Harding, Treasurer of the
Household, he by letters to Lord Arlington, which that Lord shewed
me, begg'd of his Lordship to obtaine it for him as the very height of

his ambition ; these were written with such submissions and profes

sions of his patronage, as I had never seen any more acknowledging.
The Earle of Southampton then dying, he was made one of the Com
missioners of the Treasury. His Majestie inclining to put it into one
hand, my Lord Clifford, under pretence of making all his interest for his

patron my Ld. Arlington, cutt the grasse under his feet, and procur'd
it for himself, assuring the King that Lord Arlington did not desire it.
Indeede my Lord Arlington protested to me that his confidence in
Lord Clifford made him so remisse, and his affection to him was so
particular, that he was absolutely minded to devolve it on Lord Clif
ford, all the world knowing how he himselfe affected ease and quiet,
now growing into yeares, yet little thinking of this go-by. This was

the oncly greate -ingratitude Lord Clifford shew'd, keeping my Lord

Arlington in ignorance, continually assuring him he was pursuing his
interest, which was the Duke's, into whose greate favour Lord Clif

ford was now gotten, but which certainly cost him the losse of all, namely,
his going so irrevocably far in his interest. For the rest, my Lord

Clifford was a valiant uncorrupt gentleman, ambitious, not covetous ;

generous, passionate, a most constant sincere friend, to me in parti
cular, so as when he layd downe his office, I was at the end of all

my hopes and endeavours ; these were not for high matters, but to

obtain what his Majesty was really indebted to my father-in-law, which
was the utmost of my ambition, and which I had undoubtedly ob-
tain'd if this friend had stood. Sir Tho. Osborn, who succeeded him,

tho' much more oblig'd to my father-in-law and his family, and my
long and old acquaintance, being of a rr!0"> haughty and far lesse
obliging nature, I could hope for little ; a man of excellent natural

parts, but nothing of generous or grateful
Taking leave of my Lord Clifford, he wrung me by the hand, ano.
looking earnestly on me, bid me God-b'ye, adding, ' Mr. E. I shall
                            '       '        I, ' my  Lord,               meaning of
never  see  thee  more  ;'     No      said                  what's  the
                                   !

this ? I hope I shall see you often, and as greate a person againe.'
376 SUICIDE OF LORD CLIFFORD. HIS ORIGIN AND PROSPERITY.

1 No, Mr. E. do not expect  will never see this place, this Citty
                        I
                              iIt,

                                          I
or Court againe,' or words of this sound. In this manner, not with

out almost mutual tears, parted from him nor was long after, but
                                                                    a:      ;
the newes was that he was dead, and have heard from some who                                           I
                                                                               ; it
believe knew, he made himself away, after an extraordinary melan
choly. This not confidently affirm'd, but servant who lived in the
            It is
house, and afterwards with Sir Robt. Clayton, Lord Mayor, did, as
                        and when hinted some such thing to Mr.
well as others, report  it

                             ;

                                              I

Prideaux, one of his trustees, he was not willing to enter into that

discourse.       was reported with these particulars that causing his

servant to leave him unusually one morning, locking himselfe in, he

strangled himselfe with his cravatt upon the bed-tester his servant not
liking the manner of dismissing him, and looking thro' the key-hole

(as remember), and seeing his master hanging, brake in before heI
was quite dead, and taking him downe, vomiting a greate deale of
bloud, he was heard to utter these words, Well, let men say what
            if

                is
                         is

                                                                      '
they will, there a God, a just God above,' after which he spake no
moi ,\ This, true, dismal. Really he was the cheife occasion of

the Dutch warr, and of all that bloud which was lost at Bergen in at-
taquing the Smyrna fleete, and that whole quarrell. This leads me to

call to mind what my Lord Chancellor Shaftesbury affirm'd, not to me

onely, but to all my brethren the Councel of forraine plantations, when

not long after this accident being mention'd as we were one day sitting
in Councel, his Lordship told us this remarkeable passage that being
one day discoursing with him when he was only Sir Tho. Clifford,                            if ;
speaking of men's advancement to greate charges in the Nation,
   Well,' says he, my Lord, shall be one of the greatest men in
'     '

           it,

             II

                           '
                                 a
                                   ?' a

                                    II

                                                               a
                                                             '
                                                                    it
England. Don't impute what say either to fancy or vanity                                           ;   am

                                                                                                    I

certaine that shall be mighty man, but will not last long shall
                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                                   'I
not hold but dye bloudy death.' What,' says my Lord, your
                            'No matter for that,                             will be as tell
horoscope tells you so                                                   it                        I

you.' Well,' says my Lord Chancellor Shaftesbury,                                          '       were of

                                                                                                I

that opinion, either would not be greate man, but decline prefer
ment, or prevent my danger.' This my Lord affirmed in my hearing

before severall gentlemen and noblemen sitting in Council at White
hall. And the rather am confident of remembering what Sir Edw.
            I

                                                               it,

Walker (Garter King at Armes) had likewise affirm'd to me a long
time before, even when he was first made a Lord that carrying his
                                                                         ;

pedigree to Lord Clifford on his being created a Peer, and finding him
busy, he bid him go into his study and divert himself there till he was

at leisure to discourse with him about some things relating to his
family there lay, said Sir Edward, on his table, his horoscope and
      ;

                                                                                      it,
nativity calculated, with some writing under it, where he read that he

should be advane'd to the highest degree in the State that could be con-

ferr'd upon him, but that he should not long enjoy but should die,
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                             377

or expressions to that sense : and I think (but cannot confidently say)
a bloudy death. This Sir Edward affirm'd both to me and Sir Rich.
Browne, nor could I forbeare to note this extraordinary passage in

these memoires.

   14 Sept. Dr. Creighton, son to the late eloquent Bishop of Bath
and Wells, preached to the Household on 57 Isaiah 8.

   15. I procured 4000/. of the Lords of the Treasury, and rectified
divers matters about the sick and wounded.

   16. To Council, about choosing a new Secretary.
   17. I went with some friends to visit Mr. Bernard Grenville at Abs

Court in Surrey ; an old house in a pretty parke.

   23. I went to see Paradise, a roome in Hatton Garden furnished

with the representations of all sorts of animals handsomely painted on
boards or cloth, and so cut out and made to stand, move, fly, crawl,
roare, and make their severall cries. The man who shewed it made

us laugh heartily at his formal poetrie.

   15 Oct. To Council, and swore in Mr. Locke, secretary, Dr. Wors-

ley being dead.
   27. To Council, about sending succours to recover New York ; and

then we read the Commission and Instructions to Sir Jonathan Atkins,
the New Governor of Barbados.

   5 Nov. This night the youths of the Citty burnt the Pope in effi-
gie, after they had made procession with it in greate triumph, they
being displeas'd at the Duke for altering his religion and marrying an
Italian lady.1

   On St. Andrew's Day I first saw the new Dutchesse of York, and

the Dutchesse of Modena her mother.
   1 Dec. To Gressham College, whither the Citty had invited the

Royal Society by many of their cheife Alderman and Magistrates, who
gave us a collation, to welcome us to our first place of assembly, from
whence we had ben driven to give place to the Citty, on their making
it their Exchange, on the dreadfull conflagration, till their new Ex
change was finish'd, which it now was. The Society having till now
ben entertain'd and met at Arundel House.

   2. I dined with some friends, and visited the sick : thence to an
almes-house where was prayers and reliefe, some very ill and miserable.
It was one of the best daies I ever spent in my life.

   3. There was dinner at my Lord Lockart, design'd Ambassador for
France, a gallant and a sober person.

   9. I saw againe the Italian Dutchesse and her brother the Prince
Reynaldo.

   20. I had some discourse with certaine strangers, not unlearned,

who had ben bom not far from old Nineveh ; they assured me of the
ruines being still extant, and vast and wonderfull were the buildings,

' The Princess Mary Beatrice D'Este, daughter of the Duke of Modena.
378 CAREER AND SUCCESS OF SIR JOSEPH WILLIAMSON.

vaults, pillars, and magnificent fragments ; but they could say little of

the Toure of Babel that satisfied me : but the description of the

amcenitie and fragrancy of the country for health and cherefulnesse
delighted me, so sensibly they spake of the excellent aire and climate
in respect of our cloudy and splenetic country.
24. Visited some prisoners at Ludgate, taking orders about the re
leasing of some.
  30. I gave Almighty God thanks for his                                                                                                 me
                                           infinite goodnesse to                                                                         fol
the yeare past, and begged his mercie and  protection the yeare
lowing : afterwards invited my neighbours to spend the day with me.
'674, 5 Jan. I saw an Italian Opera in musiq, the first that had ben
in England of this kind.

  9. Sent for by his Majesty to write something against the Hol

landers about the duty of the Flag and Fisherie. Return'd with some

papers.
25 March. I dined at Knightsbridge with the Bishops of Salisbury,
Chester, and Lincoln, my old friends.
               His Majestie's                                 Mr. Demal-
    29  May.   L'Estrange, and  birth-day and Restauration.   to dine with
hoy,    Roger                   severall of my friends, came

me on the happy occasion.
                   Dryden, the famous Poet and now Laureat, came to
   27 June. Mr.     It was the anniversarie of my marriage, and the first
give me a visite.
day I went into my new little cell and cabinet, which I built below

towards the South court, at the East end of the parlor.                                                                                  the
   9 July. Paid
mill and land at   .£.360 for  purchase of Dr. Jacomb's son share  in
                   Deptford,
                               which I bought of the Beechers.
22. I went to Windsor with my wife and sonn to see my daughter
Mary, who was there with my Lady Tuke, and to do my duty to his
Majesty. Next day to a greate entertainment at Sir Robert Holmes's
at Cranburn Lodge in the Forest ; there were his Majesty, the Queen e,

Duke, Dutchesse, and all the Court. I return'd in the evening with
Sir Joseph Williamson, now declar*d Secretary of State. He was sonn
of a poore clergyman somewhere in Cumberland, brought up at Queen's
Coll. Oxford, of which he came to be a fellow ; then travell'd with

                    and returning when the King was restor"d, was receiv'd
as a Cleark under Mr. Secretary Nicholas ; Sir Henry Bennett (now
Lord Arlington) succeeding, Williamson is transferr'd to him, who
loving his ease more than businesse (tho' sufficiently able had he
applied himselfe to remitted all to his man Williamson, and in a
               ;

                       it)

                                                                                                                                      ;
short time let him so into the seacret of affaires, that (as his Lordship
himselfe told me) there was a kind of necessity to advance him and
so by his subtlety, dexterity, and insinuation, he got now to be prin

cipal Secretary absolutely Lord Arlington's creature, and ungratefull

enough. It has ben the fate of this obliging favorite to advance those
who soone forgot their original Sir Joseph was a musitian, could play
                           THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                   379

at Jeii de Goblets, exceeding formal, a severe master to his servants,

 but so inward with my Lord Obrien, that after a few moneths of that
 gentleman's death, he married his widow,1 who, being sister and heire
 of the Duke of Richmond, brought him a noble fortune. 'Twas
 thought they liv'd not so kindly after marriage as they did before. She
 was much censured for marrying so meanly, being herselfe allied to the
 Royal family.

    6 Aug. I went to Groombridge to see my old friend Mr. Packer, the
 house built within a moatc, in a woody valley. The old house had ben
 the place of confinement of the Duke of Orleans, taken by one Waller
 (whose house it then was) at the Battle of Agincourt, now demolish'd,
 and a new one built in its place, tho' a far better situation had ben on
 the South of the wood, on a graceful ascent. At some small distance
 is a large chapell, not long since built by Mr. Packer's father, on
 a vow he made to do it on the return of King Charles I. out of

 Spaine, 1625, and dedicated to St. Charles, but what saint there was

 then of that name I am to seeke, for, being a Protestant, I conceive it

Iwas not Borromeo.

       went to see my farme at Ripe neere Lewes.
    19. His Majesty told me how exceedingly the Dutch were dis-

"pleas'd at my treatise of the ' Historie of Commerce ; that the Hol

 land Ambassador had complained to him of what I had touch'd of the
 Flags and Fishery, &c. and desired the booke might be call'd in ;
 whilst on the other side he assurM me he was exceedingly pleas'd with
what I had done, and gave me many thanks. However, it being just
 upon conclusion of the treaty of Breda (indeed it was design'd to have
 ben publish'd some moneths before, and when we were at defiance),
. his Majesty told me he must recall it formally, but gave order that what
 copies should be publiqly seiz'd to pacifie the Ambassador, should im
 mediately be restored to the Printer, and that neither he nor the vendor
 should be molested. The truth that which touch'd the Hollander
was much lesse than what the King himselfe furnish'd me with, and
 oblig'd me to publish, having caus'd to be read to him before went

to the presse but the error was, should have ben publish'd before
 the peace was proclaim'd. The noise of this book's suppression made

    presently be bought up, and turn'd much to the stationer's advantage.

 It was no other than the Preface prepaid to be prefix'd to my History
of the whole Warr which now pursued no further.
                           ;                                                it
                                                                                is
                                                             it is,
                                                                 it              I.
                                                                                   it
it                         ;

    1                               I

       Lady Catherine Stuart, sister and heir to Charles Stuart Duke of Richmond and Lennox,
the husband of that admired beauty Mrs. Frances Stuart, with whom Charles the Second waa
so deeply in love, that he never forgave the Duke for marrying her, which,
                                                                                thought, he

had formed some intention of doing himself He took the first opportunity of sending him
into an honourable exile, as Ambassador to Denmark, where he shortly after died, leaving no

issue by the Duchess.                                                       By       Evelyn,

     Entitled, Navigation and Commerce, their Original and Progress, &c
·
                        '

Esq. S. K. S.' Svo. 1674. Dedicated to the King.
380 SIEGE OF MAESTRICHT. COLL. MORGAN. DR. BURNET.

   21. In one of the meadows at the foote of the long Terrace below the
Castle [Windsor], works were thrown up to shew the King a repre
sentation of the Citty of Maestricht, newly taken by the French. Bas
tions, bulwarks, ramparts, palisadoes, grafts, hornworks, counterscarps,
&c. were constructed. It was attack'd by the Duke of Monmouth
(newly come from that real siege) and the Duke of York, with a little
army, to shew their skill in tactics. On Saturday night they made
their approches, open'd trenches, rais'd batteries, tooke the counter
scarp, and ravelin after a stout defence ; greate gunns fir'd on both sides,
granados shot, mines sprung, parties sent out, attempts of raising the
siege, prisoners taken, parleys, and in short all the circumstances of a
formal siege to appearance, and, what is most strange, all without dis
order or ill accident, to the greate satisfaction of a thousand spectators.
Being night, it made a formidable shew. The siege being over, I went
·with Mr. Pepys back to London, where we ariv'd about three in

the morning.
    15 Sept. To Council, about fetching away the English left at Suri

nam, &c. since our reconciliation with Holland.

   21. I went to see the greate lossethat Lord Arlington had sustain'd

by fire at Goring house, this night consum'd to the ground, with ex
ceeding losse of hangings, plate, rare pictures, and cabinets ; hardly
any thing was sav'd of the best and most princely furniture that any
subject had in England. My lord and lady were at the time both

absent at the Bathe.

   6 Oct. The Lord Chief Baron Turner, and Serjeant Wild, Recorder
of London, came to visite me.

   20. At Lord Berkeley's I discours'd with Sir Thomas Modiford, late
Governor of Jamaica, and with Col. Morgan, who undertooke that
gallant exploit from Nombre de Dios to Panama, on the Continent of
America; he told me 10,000 men would easily conquer all the Spanish
Indies, they were so secure. They tooke greate booty, and much
greater had ben taken, had they not been betraied and so discover'd
before their approch, by which the Spaniards had time to carry their
vast treasure on board ships that put off to sea in sight of our men, who
had no boates to follow. They set fire to Panama, and ravaged the
country 60 miles about. The Spaniards were so supine and unexercis'd,
that they were afraid to fire a greate gun.

   31. My birth-day, 54th yeare of my life. Blessed be God. It was
also preparation-day for the holy Sacrament, in which I participated the

next day, imploring God's protection for the yeare following, and con
firming my resolutions of a more holy life, even upon the Holy Booke.
The Lord assist and be gracious unto me. Amen.

   1 s Nov. The Anniversarie of my baptisme : I first heard that famous

and excellent preacher Dr. Burnet (author of the History of the Refor
mation) on 3 Coloss. 10, with such a flow of eloquence and fullness of
matter, as shew'd hire to be a cerson of extraordinary Darts.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                             38 1

The night being her Majesty's birth-day, the Court was exceeding
splendid in clothes and Jewells, to the height of excesse.
17. To Council, on the business of Surinam, where the Dutch had

detain'd some English in prison   ever since the first war 1665.      rare
                                 violin, Signor Nicholao (with other
  19. I heard that stupendous
musitians), whom I never heard mortal man exceed on that instrument.

He had a stroak so sweete, and made it speake like the voice of a man,
and, when he pleas'd, like a consort of severall instruments. He did

wonders upon a note, and was an excellent composer. Here was also

that rare lutenist Dr. Wallgrave ; but nothing approch'd the violin in
Nicholao's hand. He plaied such ravishing things as astonish'd us all.

   2 Dec. At Mr. Slingsby's, Master of the Mint, my worthy friend,

a greate lover of musiq. Heard Signor Francisco on the harpsichord,
esteem'd one of the most excellent masters in Europe on that instrument;
then came Nicholao with his violin, and struck all mute but Mrs.

Knight, who sung incomparably, and doubtlesse has the greatest reach
of any English woman ; she had lately ben roaming in Italy, and was
of York much improv'd in that quality.

   1 5. Saw a comedie ' at night at Court, acted by the ladies onely,
amongst them Lady Mary and Ann, his Royal Highnesses two daugh

ters, and my dear friend Mrs. Blagg, who having the principal part,

perform'd it to admiration. They were all cover'd with Jewells.
   22. Was at the repetition of the Pastoral, on which occasion Mrs.

Blagg had about her neere ^.20,000 worth of Jewells, of which she
lost one worth about ,£.80, borrow'd of the Countess of Suffolk. The
press was so greate, that 'tis a wonder she lost no more. The Duke
of York made it good.

   1675. 20 Jan. Went to see Mr. Streeter, that excellent painter of
perspective and landskip, to comfort and encourage him to be cut for

the stone, with which that honest man was exceedingly afflicted.*
   22 Mar. Supp'd at Sir William Petty's with the Bp. of Salisbury

and divers honorable persons. We had a noble entertainment in a

house gloriously furnish'd ; the master and mistress of it were extraor
dinary persons. Sir William was the sonn of a meane man some
where in Sussex, and sent from Schole to Oxon, where he studied

Philosophy, but was most eminent in Mathematics and Mechanics:

proceeded Dr. of Physick, and was grown famous, as for his learning

   I This was the Masque of ' Calisto, or the Chaste Nymph,' by John Crowne. The per
formers in the piece were, the two daughters of the Duke of York, Lady Henrietta Went-
worth (afterwards mistress to the Duke of Monmouth), Countess of Sussex, Lady Mary
Mordaunt, Mrs. Blagg, who had been Maid of Honour to the Queen, and Mrs. Jennings, then
Maid of Honour to the Duchess of York, and who was afterwards the celebrated Duchess of
Marlborough. The Duke of Monmouth, Lord Dumblaine, Lord Daincourt, and others, were
the dancers ; and Mrs. Davis, Mrs. Knight, Mrs. Butler, and others, likewise acted and sung
in the performance. Printed, London 1675, in 410.

   > The King, it is said, who had a great regard for this artist, sent for a famous surgeon from
Pahs, on purpose to perform the operation.
382 SIR WILLIAM PETTY, HIS SERVICES, TALENTS, AND SUCCESS.

so for his recovering a poor wench that had ben hanged for felony ;

and her body having ben begged (as the custom is) for the anatomie
lecture, he bled her, put her to bed to a warm woman, and with spirits

and other meanes restored her to life.' The young scholars joyn'd and
made her a little portion, and married her to a man who had severall
children by her, she living 15 yeares after, as I have ben assured. Sir
William came from Oxon, to be tutor to a neighbour of mine ; thence,

when the rebells were dividing their conquests in Ireland, he was em-

ploy'd by them to measure and set out the land, which he did on an

easy contract, so much per acre. This he effected so exactly, that it

not only furnish'd him with a greate sum of money, but enabled him to

purchase an estate worth ^.4000 a yeare. He afterwards married the
daughter of Sir Hardresse Waller ; she was an extraordinary witt as

well as beauty, and a prudent woman.
   Sir William, amongst other inventions, was author of the double-bot-

tom'd ship, which tho' it perish'd, and he was censur'd for rashnesse,

being lost in the Bay of Biscay in a storme when, I think, 15 other
vessells miscarried. The vessell was flat-bottom'd, of exceeding use to
put into shallow ports, and ride over small depths of water. It con

sisted of 2 distinct keelcs crampt together with huge timbers, &c. so as

that a violent streamc ran betweene ; it bare a monstrous broad saile,

and he still persists that it is practicable and of exceeding use ; and he

has often told me he would adventure himselfe in such another, could

he procure sailors, and his Majestys permission to make a second
Experiment, which name the King gave it at the launching.
The Map of Ireland made by Sir William Petty is believ'd to be the
most exact that ever yet was made of any country. He did promise to
publish it ; and I am told it has cost him neare £. 1000 to have it
engrav'd at Amsterdam. There is not a better Latine poet living when

he gives himselfe that diversion ; nor is his excellence less in Council
and prudent matters of state ; but he is so exceeding nice in sifting
and examining all possible contingencies, that he' adventures at nothing
which is not demonstration. There were not in the whole world his

equal for a superintendant  of manufacture and    improvement of trade,
or to govern a Plantation.                        I should make him my
                             If I were a Prince,

second Counsellor at least. There is nothing difficult to him. He is
besides courageous, on which account I cannot but note a true storie of

   1 For a full account of this very remarkable event, see a pamphlet, entitled, ' Newes from
the Dead, or a true and exact narration of the miraculous Deliverance of Anne Greene, who
being executed at Oxford Dec. 14, 1650, afterwards revived; and by the care of certain
Physicians there is now perfectly recovered. Oxford, the second Impression, with Additions,
4to, 1651.' Added to the Narrative are several Copies of Verses in Latin, English, and French,
by Gentlemen of the University, commemorative of the story ; amongst others, one by Joseph
Williamson, afterwards Secretary of State, another by Christopher Wren, the famous archi
tect, then of Wadham College, Waiter Pope, Dr. Ralph Bathurst (the last under other names),
and many more. This was reprinted, but very negligently, from the first and worst edition,
in Morgan's ' Phoenix Britannicus/ 4to.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  383

him, that when Sir Aleyn Brodrick sent him a challenge upon a differ
ence 'twixt them in Ireland, Sir William, tho' exceedingly purblind,
accepted the challenge, and it being his part to propound the weapon,
desir'd his antagonist to meete him with a hatchet or axe in a dark
cellar, which the other of course refused. *Sir William was, with all
this, facetious and of easy conversation, friendly and courteous, and had
such a faculty of imitating others, that he would take a text and preach,
now like a brave orthodox divine, then falling into the Presbyterian
way, then to the phanatical, the quaker, the monk and friar, the
Popish priest, with such admirable action, and alteration of voice and
tone, as it was not possible to abstain from wonder, and one would
sweare to heare severall persons, or forbear to think he was not in good
earnest an enthusiast and almost beside himselfe ; then he would fall

out of it into a serious discourse ; but it was very rarely he would be

prevail'd on to oblige the company with this faculty, and that only
amongst most intimate friends. My Lord Duke of Ormond once
obtain'd it of him, and was almost ravish'd with admiration ; but by
and by he fell upon a serious reprimand of the faults and miscarriages
of some Princes and Governors, which tho' he nam'd none, did so sen
sibly touch the Duke, who was then Lieutenant of Ireland, that he
began to be very uneasy, and wisli'd the spirit lay'd which he had
rais'd, for he was neither able to endure such truthes, nor could he but
be delighted. At last he mealted his discourse to a ridiculous subject,
and came down from the joynt stoole on which he had stood ; but my
lord would not have him preach any more. He never could get favour
at Court, because he outwitted all the projectors that came neere him.
Having never known such another genius, I cannot but mention these

particulars amongst a multitude of others which I could produce.
When I who knew him in mean circumstances have ben in his splendid

palace, he would himselfe be in admiration how he ariv'd at it ; nor
was it his value or inclination for splendid furniture and the curiosities

of the age, but his elegant lady could endure nothing meane, or that
was not magnificent He was very negligent himselfe, and rather so
of his person, and of a philosophic temper. ' What a to-do is here !'
would he say, ' I can lie in straw with as much satisfaction.'

   He is author of the ingenious deductions from the bills of mortality,
which go under the name of Mr. Graunt ; also of that useful discourse
of the manufacture of wool, and several others in the register of the
Royal Society. He was also author of that paraphrase on the 104th
Psalm in Latin verse, which goes about in MS. and is inimitable. In
a word, there is nothing impenetrable to him.

   26 March. Dr. Brideoake was elected Bishop of Chichester on the
translation of Dr. Gunning to Ely.

   30. Dr. Allestree preached on 6 Romans 3, the necessitie of those
who are baptized to die to sinn ; a very excellent discourse from an

excellent preacher.
384 AT THE ROYAL SOCIETY. A CONFERENCE. MONS. QUEROUAILLE.

   25 April. Dr. Barrow,1 that excellent, pious, and most learned man,
divine, mathematician, poet, traveller, and most humble person,

preach d at White-hall to the household, on 20 Luke 27, of love and
charitie to our neighbours.

  29. I read my first discourse ' Of Earth and Vegetation,' before the
Royall Society, as a lecture in course after Sir Rob. Southwell had
read his the weeke before On Water. I was commanded by our Pre

sident and the suffrage of the Society to print it.
16 May. This day was my deare friend Mrs. Blagg married at the
Temple Church to my friend Mr. Sidney Godolphin, Groome of the

Bed-Chamber to his Majesty.

   18. I went to visite one Mr. Bathurst, a Spanish merchant, who

was my neighbour.

   31. I went with Lord Ossorie to Deptford, where we chose him
Master of the Trinity Company.

   2 June. I was at a conference of the Lords and Commons in the

Painted Chamber, on a difference about imprisoning some of their

members : and on the 3d, at another conference, when the Lords ac

cused the Commons for their transcendent misbehaviour, breach of

privilege, Magna Charta, subversion of government, aad other high,

provoking, and diminishing expressions, shewing what duties and sub

jection they owed to the Lords in Parliament by record of Hen. IV.
This was likely to create a notable disturbance.
*****15. This afternoone came Monsieur Querouaille and his lady, parents
to the famous beauty and                   favorite at Court, to see Sir R.

Browne, with whom they were intimately acquainted in Bretagne, at
the time Sir Richard was sent to Brest to supervise his Majestys sea
affaires, during the later part of the King's banishment. This gentle
man's house was not a mile from Brest ; Sir Richard made an acquaint

ance there, and being used very civily, was obliged to returne it here,
which we did. He seem'd a souldierly person and a good fellow, as the
Bretons generally are ; his lady had ben very handsome, and seem'd a
shrewd understanding woman. Conversing with him in our garden, I
found severall words of the Breton language the same with our Welch.
His daughter was now made Dutchess of Portsmouth and in the height
of favour, but he never made any use of it.

   27. At Ely House, I went to the consecration of my worthy friend
the learned Dr. Barlow, Warden of Queenes Coll. Oxon, now made
Bishop of Lincoln. After
·8

           I

                                               it,

                                                                                              ;

                                                                    I
                          succeeded a magnificent feast, where
were the - D. of Ormond, E. of Lauderdaile, the Lord Treasurer,
Lord Keeper, &c.
July.
       went with Mrs. Howard and her two daughters towards

Northampton Assizes, about a tryal at law, in which was concerned

     Master of Trinity College, Cambridge  succeeded Dr. John Pearson, when a; Je
BUhop of Chester.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  385

for them as Trustee. We lay this night at Henley on the Thames at

our attorney Mr. Stephens's, who entertain'd us very handsomely. --
Next day, dining at Shotover, at Sir Tim. Tyrill's, a sweete place, we
lay at Oxford, where it was the time of the Act. Mr. Robert Spencer,

unkle to the Earle of Sunderland, and my old acquaintance in France,
entertain'd us at his apartment in Christ Church, with exceeding gene
rosity. --The loth, the Vice-Chancellor, Dr. Bathurst (who had for
merly taken particular care of my sonn), President of Trinity Colledge,
invited me to dinner, and did mc greate honour all the time of my stay.
The next day he invited me and all my company, tho' strangers to him,
to a very noble feast I was at all the academic exercises. -- Sonday, at
St. Maries, preach'd a Fellow of Brazen-nose, not a little magnifying

the dignity of Church-men. --The nth, we heard the speeches, and

saw the ceremonie of creating Doctors in Divinity, Law, and Physic.
1 had early in the morning heard Dr. Morison, Botanic Professor,
reade on divers plants in the Physic Garden ; and saw that rare collec
tion of natural curiosities of Dr. Plot's, of Magdalen Hall, author of

'The Natural History of Oxfordshire,' all of them collected in that

Shire, and indeede extraordinary, that in one County there should be
found such varietie of plants, shells, stones, minerals, marcasites, touls,
insects, models of works, chrystals, achates, and marbles. He was
now intending to visite Staffordshire, and as he had of Oxfordshire, to
give us the natural, topical, political, and mechanical history. Pitty
it is that more of this industrious man's genius were not employ'd so
to describe every County of England ; it would have been one of
the most usefull and illustrious workes that was ever produced in

any age or nation.

   I visited also the Bodleian Library, and my old friend the learned

Obadiah Walker, head of University Coll. which he had now almost

rebuilt or repair'd. We then proceeded to Northampton, where we

arived the next day.

    In this journey went part of the way Mr. Ja. Graham (since Privy
Purse to the Duke), a young gentleman exceedingly in love with Mrs.

Dorothy Howard, one of the Mayds of Honour in our company. I

could not but pitty them both, the mother not much favouring it.
This lady was not onely a greate beauty, but a most virtuous and ex
cellent creature, and worthy to have ben wife to the best of men. My

advice was required, and I spake to the advantage of the young gen

tleman, more out of pitty than that she deserved no better match, for tlio'
he was a gentleman of a good family, yet there was greate inequalitie.

   14. I went to see my Lord Sunderland's seat at Althorp, 4 miles

from the ragged towne of Northampton (since burned, and well rebuilt).

Tis placed in a pretty open bottome, very finely watred and flanqued

with stately woods and groves in a parke, with a canall, but the water
is not running, which is a defect The house a kind of modern

                                                                                                                         25
386 ALTHORP HOUSE. SERVANTS IN LOVE. DR. SPRAT.

building of freestone, within most nobly furnished. The apart

ments very commodious, a gallerie and noble hall, but the kitchen
being in the body of the house and chapell too small, were defects.

There is an old yet honourable gate-house standing awry, and out-
housing meane, but design'd to be taken away. It was moated round

after the old manner, but it is now dry, and turfed with a beautifull

carpet. Above all are admirable and magnificent the severall ample

gardens furnish'd with the choicest fruite, and exquisitely kept. Greate

plenty of oranges and other curiosities. The parke full of foule, espe-
cialy hemes, and from it a prospect to Holmby House, which being

demolish'd in the late civil warrs, shews like a Roman mine, shaded

by the trees about a stately, solemn, and pleasing view.
                      it,

                                            ;
   15. Our cause was pleaded in behalfe of the mother, Mrs. Howard
and her daughters, before Baron Thurland, who had formerly ben
                                                                          ;
steward of Courts for me we carried our cause, as there was reason,                  '

for here was an imprudent as well as disobedient sonn against his mo

ther, by instigation doubtlesse of his wife, one Mrs. Ogle (an ancient
maid), whom he had clandestinely married, and who brought him no
fortune, he being heire apparent of the Earle of Berkshire. We lay at
Brickhill in Bedfordshire, and came home late next day.

This was journey of adventures and knight errantry. One of the
    a
lady's servants being as desperately in love with Mrs. Howard's womanit,
as Mr. Graham was with her daughter, and she riding on horseback

behind his rival, the amorous and jealous youth having a little drink in

his pate, had here killed himselfe had he not ben prevented for,

alighting from his horse, and drawing his sword, he endeavoured twice

or thrice to fall on    but was interrupted by our coachman and a
stranger passing by. After this, running to his rival and snatching
his sword from his side (for we had beaten his owne out of his hand),
and on the suddaine pulling downe his mistresse, would have mn both

of them thro'; we parted them, but not without some blood. This
miserable creature poyson'd himselfe for her not many daies after they

came to London.
  July 19. The Lord Tressurers Chaplaine preached at Walling-

ford House.

19  Aug. Dr. Sprat, prebend of Westminster and Chaplain to the
Duke of Buckingham, preached on the 3rd Epistle of Jude, shewing

     Mn. Howard was widow of William fourth son of the first Earl of Berkeshire, being the
daughter of Lord Dundass of the kingdom of Scotland. They had one son Craven Howard,
and two daughters, Dorothy, who married Col. James Grehme of Levens in Westmoreland
and Anne, who married Sir Gabriel Sylvius, Knt. Craven married two wives, the first of
                                               ;

                                                 it, ;
                                                                  is

                                                                                                ;
which was Anne, daughter of Tho. Ogle of Pinchbeck, co. Line. Esq. then maid of honour

to Queen Catherine. Collins's Peerage.                                    not correct
  These two daughters are the ladies here mentioned by Mr. Evelyn but he
in calling Craven heir apparent of the Earl of Berks, as besides the uncle then in possession
of the title, there waa another uncle before him, who in fact inherited and did not die till
many years after.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  387

what the primitive faith was, how neere it and how excellent that of the
Church of England, also the danger of departing from it.

   27. I visited the Bishop of Rochester at Bromely, and dined at Sir
Philip Warwick's at Frogpoole [Frognall].

    2 Sept. I went to see Dulwich Colledge, being the pious foundation
of one Allen, a famous Comedian in King James's time. The Chapell
is pretty, the rest of the Hospital very ill contriv'd ; it yet maintaincs

divers poore of both sexes. Tis in a melancholy port of Camerwcll

parish. I came back by ccrtaine medicinal Spa waters, at a place called
Sydnam Wells in Lewisham parish, much lrequented in Summer.

   10. I was casually shewed the Dutchesse of Portsmouth's splendid

appartment at White-hall, luxuriously furnished, and with ten times the
richnessc and glory beyond the Oucenes ; such massy pieces of plate,
whole tables, & stands, of incredible value.

    29. I saw the Italian Scaramucchio act before the King at White
hall, people giving money to come in, which was very scandalous, and

never so before at Court diversions. Having seene him act before in

Italy, many yearcs past, I was not averse from seeing the most excel

lent of that kind of folly.

    14 Oct. Din'd at Kensington with my old acquaintance Mr. Hen-
shaw, newly return'd from Denmark, where he had ben left resident

alter the death of the Duke of Richmond, who died there Ambassador.

   15. I got an extreme cold, such as was afterwards so epidemical, as

not only to afflict us in this island, but was rife over all Europe, like a
plague. It was after an exceeding dry summer and autumn.

   I settled affaires, my sonn being to go into France with my Lord

Berkeley, design'd Ambassador extraordinary for France and Plenipo
tentiary for the general treaty of peace at Nimeguen.

   24. Din'd at Lord Chamberlain's with the Holland Ambassador L.
Duras, a valiant gentleman whom his Majesty made an English Baron,
of a cadet, and gave him his seate of Holmby in Northamptonshire
[since Earle of Feversham].

   27. Lord Berkeley coming into Council, fell downe in the gallerie
at White-hall in a fit of apoplexie, and being carried into my Lord
Chamberlaines lodgings, severall famous doctors were employed all that

night, and with much ado he was at last recover'd to some sense, by

applying hot fire-pans and spirit of amber to his head, but nothing was

found so effectual as cupping him on the shoulders. It was an almost

miraculous restauration. The next day he was carried to Berkeley
House. This stopp'd his journey for the present, and caused my stay
in towne. He had put all his affaires and his whole estate in England
into my hands during his intended absence, which tho' I was very unfit
to undertake, in reguard of many businesses which then took me up,
yet upon the greate importunity of my lady and Mr. Godolphin (to

whom I could refuse nothing) I did take it on me. It scemes when be
3S8 LORD BERKELEY. MRS. HAMILTON. LADY MORDAUNT.

was Deputy in Ireland, not long before, he had ben much wronged by

one he left in trust with his affaires, and therefore wished for some un-

mercenary friend who would take that trouble on him ; this was to re

ceive his rents, look after his houses and tenants, solicite supplies from
the Lord Treasurer, and correspond weekly with him, more than enough
to employ any drudge in England ; but what will not friendship and
love make one do ?

   31. Din'd at my Lord Chamberlain's with my sonn. There were
the learned Isaac Vossius and Spanhemius, son of the famous man of

Heidelburg, nor was this gentleman less learned, being a generall
scholar. Amongst other pieces he was author of an excellent treatise
on Medails.

   10 Nov. Being the day appointed for my Lord Ambassador to set
out, I met them with my coach at New Crosse. There were with him
my Lady his wife and my deare friend Mrs. Godolphin, who out of an
extraordinary friendship would needes accompany my lady to Paris,

and stay with her sometime, which was the chiefe inducement for per

mitting my sonn to travel, but I knew him safe under her inspection,

and in reguard my Lord himselfe had promis'd to take him into his

special favour, he having intrusted all he had to my care.

   Thus we    set  out, 3 coaches    (besides mine), 3 waggons, and about
forty horse.       being late, and  my lord as yet but valetudinarie, we got
               It

but to Dartford the first day ; the next to Sittingbourne.
   At Rochester, the major, Mr. Cony, then an officer of mine for the
sick and wounded of that place, gave the ladies a handsome refresh

ment as we came by his house.
12. We came to Canterbury, and next morning to Dover.

There was in my Lady Ambassadresses company my Lady Hamil

ton, a sprightly young lady, much in the good graces of the family, wife
of that valiant and worthy gentleman Geo. Hamilton, not long after
slaine in the warrs. She had ben a maid of honour to the Dutchesse,
and now turn'd Papist.

   14. Being Sonday, my Lord having before deliver'd to me his letter
of attorney, keyes, seale, and his will, we took solemn leave of one

another upon the beach, the coaches carrying them into the sea to the
boats, which deliver'd them to Capt. Gunman's yacht the Mary. Being

under saile, the    castle gave   them 17 gunns,     which   Capt. Gunman
answered with 1                  went to Church, to  beg a  blessing on their
                   1. Hence I

voyage.

  2 Dec Being returned home, I visited Lady Mordaunt at Parsons

Greene, my Lord her sonn being sick. This pious woman deliver'd to
me ;£ioo. to bestow as I thought fit for the release of poore prisoners
and other charitable uses.

   21. Visited her Ladyship againe, where I found the Bp. of Win
chester, whom I had long known in France : he invited me to his house

at Chelsey.
                  THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                       389

23 Dec. Lady Sunderland gave me ten guineas to bestow in chari
ties.

1676, 20 Feb. Dr. Gunning, Bishop of Ely, preached before the
King
called   from 20  St. John   21, 22, 23,   chiefly against an anonymous booke
         ' Naked   Truth,'  a famous      and popular treatise against the cor

ruption in the Cleargie, but not sound as to its quotations, supposed to
have ben the Bishop of Hereford's [Dr. Herbert Croft], and was
answered by Dr. Turner, it endeavoring to prove an equality of order
of Bishop and Presbyter.
   27. Dr. Pritchard, Bp. of Glocester, preached at White-hall on 5
Isaiah 5. very allegorically according to his manner, yet very gravely
and wittily.
  29 February. I din'd with Mr. Povey, one of the Masters of Re

quests, a nice contriver of all elegancies, and exceedingly formall.
Supped with Sir J. Williamson, where were of our Society, Mr. Robert
Boyle, Sir Christ: Wren, Sir Wm. Petty, Dr. Holden, sub-dean of his
Majesty's Chapell, Sir James Shaen, Dr. Whistler, and our Secretary
Mr. Oldenburg.

4 March. Sir Thomas Linch was returned from his government
of Jamaica.
   16. The Countesse of Sunderland and I went by water to Parsons

Greene to visite my Lady Mordaunt, and to consult with her about my
Lord's monument. We return'd by coach.
   19. Dr. Lloyd, late Curate at Deptford, but now Bishop of Llandaff,
preached before the King on I Cor. 1 5. 57. that tho' sin subjects us to
Death, yet thro' Christ we become his conquerors.

    24.    Dr. Brideoak ', Bp. of Chichester, preach'd ;  a mean discourse
                                                          Worcester, on 26
for a    Bishop. I also heard Dr. Fleetwood, Bp. of

Matt. 38. of the sorrows of Christ, a deadly sorrow caused by our sinns;
he was no great preacher.
   23. To Twickenham Park, Lord Berkeley's country seate, to examine
how the bailiffs and servants ordered matters.

   30. Dining with my La. Sunderland, I saw a fellow swallow a knife,
and divers great pebble stones, which would make a plaine rattling one
against another. The knife.was in the sheath of home.
   Dr. North, sonn to my Lord North, preach'd before the King on 53
Isaiah 57. a very young but learned and excellent person. Note. This
was the first time the Duke appeared no more in Chapell, to the infinite

griefe and threatned mine of this poore Nation.

   2 ApriL I had now notice that my deare friend Mrs. Godolphin was

returning from Paris. On the 6th she arived to my greate joy, whom
I most heartily welcomed.
28 ApriL My wife entertain'd her Majesty at Deptford, for which

the Queene gave me thanks in the withdrawing-roome at White-halL
         1 Ralph Brideoake, Dean of Salisbury, succeeded Bp. Gunning in the See.
39° MR. PRIDEAUX. BLOOMSBURY. MOTHER OF THE MAIDS.

The University of           Oxford presented me with   the ' Marmora Oxoni-
                         '  the Bp. of Oxford writing
ensia     Arundelliana                                 to desire that I would
                        ;

introduce Mr. Prideaux the Editor (a young man most learned in Anti
quities) to the Duke of Norfolk, to present another dedicated to his
Grace, which I did, and we din'd with the Duke at Arundel House,

and supp'd at the Bp. of Rochester's with Isaac Vossius.

   7 May. I spoke to the Duke of York about my Lo. Berkeley's going

to Nimeguen. Thence to the Oueene's Council at Somerset House,

aboIuI.t  Mrs. Godolphin's lease of Spalding in Lincolnshire.

           I dined with Mr. Charleton, and went to see Mr. Mountague's

new palace, now the Brit. Museum, neere Bioomsbury, built by Mr.
Hooke of our Society after the French manner.

   13 May. Return'd home and found my son come from France,
praised be God.

  22. Trinity Monday. A chaplain of my Lord Ossorie's preach'd,
after which we took barge to Trinity House in London. Mr. Pepys
(Secy, of the Admiralty) succeeded my Lord as Master.

   2 June. I went with my Lord Chamberlaine to see a garden at En
field towne ; thence to Mr. Sec. Coventry's lodge in the Chace. It is

a very pretty place, the house commodious, the gardens handsome, and

our entertainment very free, there being none but my Lord and myselfe.

That which I most wondered at was, that in the compass of 25 miles,

yet within 14 of London, there is not an house, barne, church, or build

ing, besides three lodges. To this Lodge are three greate ponds and
some few inclosures, the rest a solitarie desert, yet stor'd with not lesse

than 3000 deere. These are pretty retreats for gentlemen, especialy
for those who are studious and lovers of privacy.

   We return'd in the evening by Hamsted, to see Lord Wotton's house
and garden, Belsize, built with vast expense by Mr. O'Neale, an Irish
gentleman who married Lord Wotton's mother Lady Stanhope. The
furniture is very particular for Indian cabinets, porcelain, and other
solid and noble moveables. The gallery very fine, the gardens very
large, but ill kept, yet woody and chargeable. The soil a cold weeping

clay, not answering the expence.

   12 June. I went to Sir Tho. Bond's new and fine house by Peck-

ham ; it is on a flat, but has a fine garden and prospect thro' the mea

dows to London.
2 July. Dr. Castillion, Prebend of Canterbury, preached before the

King on 15 John 22. at White-hall.
   19. Went to the funeral of Sir William Sanderson, husband to the

mother of the Maids,' and author of two large but meane histories
of King James and King Charles the First He was buried at
Westminster.
                            ,
1 Aug. In the afternoone, after prayers at St. James's ChapeU, was

1 The Queen's Maids of Honour ; there is or lately was a place with that title. (18x6.)
THE DIARY OK JOHN EVELYN.                                 39 1

christned a daughter of Dr. Leakes, the Duke's Chaplaine ; God
mothers were Lady Mary, daughter of the Duke of York, and the Dut-
chesse of Monmouth : Godfather, the Earle of Bathe.
                           me my Lord Halifax, Sir Thomas Meres,
   15. Came to dine with   of the Admiralty, Sir John Clayton, Mr.
one of the Commissioners

Slingsby, Mr. Henshaw, and Mr. Bridgeman.
   25. Din'd with Sir John Banks at his house in Lincoln's Inn
Fields, on recommending Mr. Upman to be tutor to his sonn going
into France. This Sir John Banks was a merchant of small beginning,
but had amass'd 100,000/.
26. I din'd at the Admiralty with Secretary Pepys, and supp'd at
the Lord Chamberlaines. Here was Capt. Baker, who had ben lately
on the attempt of the North West Passage. He reported prodigious
depth of ice, blew as a sapphire, and as transparent. The thick mists
were their cheife impediment and cause of their returne.
2 Sept I paid 1700/. to the Marquiss de Sissac, which he had lent
to my Lord Berkeley, and which I heard the Marquiss lost at play in a

night or two.
   The Dean of Chichester preach'd before the King on 24 Acts 16 ; and

Dr. Crighton preach'd the second sermon before him on 90 Psalm 17.
of wisely numbering our daies and well employing our time.

   3. Dined at Capt. Graham's, where I became acquainted with Dr.
Compton, brother to the Earle of Northampton, now Bishop of London,
and Mr. North, sonn to the Lord North, brother to the Ld. Cheife

Justice and Clerke of the Closet, a most hopefull young man. The
Bishop had once ben a souldier, had also travel'd Italy, and became a

most sober, grave, and excellent prelate.

   6. Supped at the Lord Chamberlaine's, where also supped the
famous beauty and errant lady the Dutchesse of Mazarine (all the
world knows her storie), the Duke of Monmouth, Countesse of Sussex
both natural children of the King by the Dutchess of Cleaveland),1

and the Countesse of Derby, a virtuous lady, daughter to my best friend

the Earle of Ossorie.

10 Sept. Din'd with me Mr. Flamsted, the learned astrologer and

mathematician, whom his Majesty had establish'd in the new Observa-

torie in Greenewich Park furnish'd with the choicest instruments. An

honest, sincere man.

   12. To London, to take order about the building of an house, or

rather an apartment which had all the conveniences of an house, for

   1 Mr. Evelyn forgot himself here. The Duke of Monmouth's mother was, it is well known,
Mrs. Lucy Walters, who was sometimes called Mrs. Barlow (mentioned before). Lady Anne
Fitzroy, as she is called in the books of Peerage, was married to Lennard Dacre. Earl of
Sussex, by whom she left a daughter only, who succeeded 00 her father's death to the Barony
of Dacre. Mr. Evelyn probably meant to speak of either the Duke of Southampton, the Duke
nf Grafton, or the Duke of Northumberland, all of whom Charles the Second had by the
Duchess of Cleaveland.
392 MY BIRTHDAY. BALL AT THE DUKE OF YORK'S.

my deare friend Mr. Godolphin and lady, which I undertooke to con

trive and survey, and employ workmen 'till it should be quite finished;
it being just over against his Majesties wood yard by the Thames side,
leading to Scotland yard.

   19. To Lambeth, to that rare magazine of marble, to take order
for chimney-pieces, &c. for Mr. Godolphin's house. The owner of the

workes had built for himselfe a pretty dwelling-house ; this Dutchman
had contracted with the Genoese for all their marble. We also saw
the Duke of Buckingham's Glasse-worke, where they made huge vases
of mettal as cleare, ponderous and thick as chrystal ; also looking-
glasses far larger and better than any that come from Venice.

   9 Oct I went with Mrs. Godolphin and my wife to Black-wall, to
see some Indian curiosities ; the streetes being slippery I fell against
a piece of timber with such violence that I could not speake nor fetch

my breath for some space : being carried into an house and let bloud,

I was removed to the water side and so home, where after a daies rest
I recovered. This being one of my greatest deliverances, the Lord

Jesus make me ever mindfull and thankfull.

   31. Being my birth-day, and 56 yeares old, I spent the morning in

devotion and imploring God's protection, with solemn thanksgiving for
all his signal mercies to me, especialy for that escape which concerned
me this moneth at Black-wall. Dined with Mrs. Godolphin, and re
turned home through a prodigious and dangerous mist.

   9 Nov. Finish'd the lease of Spalding for Mr. Godolphin.
   16. My sonn and I dining at my Lord Chamberlaine's, he shew*d
us amongst others that imcomparable piece of Raphael's, being a
Minister of State dictating to Guicciardini, the earnestness of whose
face looking up in expectation of what he was next to write is so to the
life, and so naturall, as I esteeme it one of the choicest pieces of that
admirable artist. There was a Woman's head of Leonardo da Vinci ;
a Madona of old Palma, and two of Van-Dyke's, of which one was his
owne picture at length, when young, in a leaning posture; the other
an Eunuch singing. Rare pieces indeede.

  4 Dec. I saw the greate ball daunced by all the gallants andladyes

at the Dutchesse of York's.
   10 Dec. There fell so deep a snow as hindered us from church.
   12. To London, in so great a snow as I remember not to have

seene the like.

   17. More snow falling, I was not able to get to church.
   1677. 8 Feb. I went to Roehampton with my lady Dutchesse of
Ormond. The garden and perspective is pretty, the prospect most

agreeable.

   15 May. Came the Earle of Peterborough to desire me to be a
Trustee for Lord Vise. Mordaunt and the Countesse, for the sale of
certaine lands set out by Act of Parliament to pay debts.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  393

   I12. went to London to give the Lo. Ambr. Berkeley (now re-

 turn'd from the Treaty at Nimeguen) an account of the greate trust
 repos'd in me during his absence, I having receiv'd and remitted to
 him no lesse than 20,000/. to my no small trouble and losse of time,

 that during his absence and when the Lord Treasurer was no greate
 friend [of his] I yet procur'd him greate sums, very often soliciting his
 Majesty in his behalfe ; looking after the rest of his estate and con-
 cernes intirely, without once accepting any kind of acknowledgment,

 purely upon the request of my dear friend Mr. Godolphin. I return'd

 with abundance of thanks and professions from my Lord Berkeley
 and my Lady.

     29. This business being now at an end and myself deliver^ from
 that intolerable servitude and correspondence, I had leisure to be some

  what more at home and to myselfe.

     3 July. I sealed the deedes of sale of the Mannor of Blechinglee
. to Sir Robt. Clayton, for payment of Lo. Peterborough's debts, accord

 ing to the trust of the Act of Parliament.
    16. I went to Wotton. -- 22. Mr. Evans, curate of Abinger, preach *d

 an excellent sermon on 5 Matthew 12. In the afternoone Mr. Higham
 at Wotton catechised.

    26. I din'd at Mr. Duncomb's at Sheere, whose house stands in-

 viron'd with very sweete and quick streams.
    29. Mr. Bohun, my sonn's late tutor, preached at Abinger on

 4 Phil. 8. very elegantly and practically.
    5 Aug. I went to visite my Lord Brounker, now taking the waters at

 Dulwich.
    9. Din'd at the Earl of Peterborow's the day after the marriage of

 my Lord of Arundel to Lady Mary Mordaunt daughter to the Earl of

 Peterborough.

    28. To visite my Lord Chamberlaine in Suffolk ; he sent his coach

 and 6 to meete and bring me from St. Edmonds Bury to Euston.

    29. We hunted in the park and kill'd a very fat buck. -- 31. I went

 a hawking.
    7 Sept. There din'd this day at my Lord's one Sir John Gaudy, a

 very handsome person, but quite dumb, yet very intelligent by signes,
 and a very fine painter ; he was so civil and well bred as it was not
 possible to disceme any imperfection by him. His lady and children
 were also there, and he was at church in the morning with us.

    4. I went to visite my Lord Crofts, now dying at St. Edmonds Bury,

 and tooke this opportunity to see this ancient Towne, and the remaines
 of that famous Monasterie and Abby. There is little standing intire
 save the gate-house ; it has ben a vast and magnificent Gotic structure,
 and of greate extent. The gates are wood, but quite plated over with
 iron. There are also two stately churches, one especialy.

    5. I went to Thetford, the Burrough Towne, where stand the mines
394 THETFORD ; IPSWICH ; CARDINAL WOLSEY.

of a religious house ; there is a round mountaine artificial)' raised, either
for some castle or monument, which makes a pretty landscape. As we

went and return'd, a tumbler shew'd his extraordinary addresse in the

Warren. I also saw the Decoy, much pleas'd with the stratagem.
  9. A stranger preach'd at Euston church, and fell into a handsome

panegyric on my Lord's new building the church, which indeede for its
elegance and cherefullness is one of the prettiest country churches in

England. My Lord told me his heart smote him that after he had

bestow'd so much on his magnificent palace there, he should see God's

House in the mine it lay in. He has also rebuilt the parsonage-house,

all of stone, very neate and ample.

   10. To divert me, my Lord would needs carry me to see Ipswich,
when we din'd with one Mr. Mann by the way, who was Recorder of

the towne. There were in our company my Lord Huntingtoure sonn
                   of Lauderdale, Sir Ed. Bacon a   learned gentleman of
to the Dutchesse   greate Chancellor Verulam, and   Sir John Felton, with      *
the family of the

some other Knights and Gentlemen. After dinner came the Bailiff and

Magistrates in their formalities with their maces to compliment my
Lord and invite him to the Towne house, where they presented us a

collation of dried sweet meates and wine, the bells ringing, &c. Then

we went to see the towne, and first, the Lord Viscount Hereford's house,

which stands in a park neere the towne, like that at Bruxclles in Flan

ders ; the house not greate yet pretty, especialy the hall. The stewes

for fish succeed one another and feed one the other, all paved at bot-

tome. There is a good picture of the Bl. Virgin in one of the parlours,

seeming to be of Holbein or some good master. Then we saw the
Haven, 7 miles from Harwich. The tide runs out every day, but the
bedding being soft mudd it is safe for shipping and a station. The

trade of Ipswich is for the most part Newcastle coales, with which they

supply London, but it was formerly a cloathing towne. There is not

any beggar asks alms in the whole place, a thing very extraordinary,

so order'd by the prudence of the Magistrates. It has in it 14 or 15

beautiful churches : in a word 'tis for building, cleanesse, and good
order, one of the best townes in England. Cardinal Wolsey was a
butcher's sonn of this towne, but there is little of that magnificent Pre

Ilate's foundation here, besides a schole and I think a library, which
did not see. His intentions were to build some greate thing. We re

turn'd late to Euston,  having travell'd above 50   miles this day.
                        this place, I found things   exceedingly improv'd.
  Since first I was at
It is seated in a bottome between two gracefull swellings, the maine
building being now in the figure of a Greek II with foure pavilions, two

at each corner, and a breake in the front, rail'd and balustred at the

top, where I caus'd huge jarrs to be plac'd full of earth to keepe them
steady upon their pedestalls between the statues, which make as good
a shew as if they were of stone, and tho' the building be of brick, and but
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  395

two stories besides cellars, and garretts cover'd with blue slate, yet there
is roome enough for a full court, the offices and out-houses being so
ample and well-dispos'd. The King's apartment is painted afresca, and

magnificently furnish'd. There are many excellent pictures of the greate
masters. The gallery is a pleasant, noble roome : in the breake, or

middle, is a billiard-table, but' the wainscot being of firr, and painted,
does not please me so well as Spanish oake without paint. The
chapel is pretty, the porch descending to the gardens. The orange
garden is very fine, and leads into the green-house, at the end of which
is a hall to eate in, and the conservatory some hundred feete long,
adorn'd with mapps, as the other side is with the heads of Ca?sars ill

cut in alabaster : over head are several apartments for my Lord, Lady,
and Dutchesse,' with kitchens and other offices below in a lesser form,
with lodgings for servants, all distinct, for them to retire to when they

please and would be in private and have no communication with the
palace, which he tells me he will wholly resign to his sonn-in-law and
daughter, that charming young creature. The canall running under
my lady's dressing-room chamber window is full of carps and loule
which come and are fed there. The cascade at the end of the canall

tumes a corne-mill, which provides the family, and raises water for the
fountaines and offices. To passe this canal into the opposite meadows,
Sir Sam. Moreland has invented a screw-bridge, which being turn'd
with a key lands you 50 foote distant at the entrance of an ascending
walke of trees, a mile in length, as tis also on the front into the park,
of 4 rows of ash-trees, and reaches to the park-pale, which is 9 miles

in compass, and the best for riding and meeting the game that I ever

saw. There were now of red and fallow deere almost a thousand, with
good covert, but the soile barren and flying sand, in which nothing will
grow kindly. The tufts of firr and much of the other wood were planted
by my direction some yeares before. This seate is admirably plac'd for
field sports, hawking, hunting, or racing. The mutton is small, but
sweete. The stables hold 30 horses and 4 coaches. The out-offices
make two large quadrangles, so as servants never liv'd with more ease
and convenience, never master more civil. Strangers are attended and
accommodated as at their home, in pretty apartments furnish'd with all
manner of conveniences and privacy. There is a library full of ex

cellent books. There are bathing-roomes, elaboratorie, dispensatorie,
a decoy, and places to keepe and fat fowl in. He had now in his new
church (neere the garden) built a dormitory or vault with several reposi
tories in which to burie his family. In the expence of this pious struc
ture, the church is most laudable, most of the Houses of God in this
country resembling rather stables and thatch'd cottages than temples in
which to serve the Most High. He has built a lodge in the park for

the keeper, which is a neate dwelling and might become any gentleman.

                                  1 His daughter, wife of the Duke of Grafton.
396 EUSTON; VICE AND TALENTS OF ITS NOBLE OWNER.

The same has he don for the parson, little deservingisfor murmuring
                                         is
                                                     it,
                                                          it,
                                                                                       it
that my Lord put him some time out of his wretched hovel, whilst
was building. He has also erected a faire inn at some distance from his
palace, with a bridge of stone over a river neere and repaired all the
tenants houses, so as there nothing but neatenesse and accommoda
                             I is
tions about his estate, which yet think not above ,£.1500 a yeare.
  believe he had now in his family 100 domestic servants. His lady
I(being one of the Bredrodes daughters, grandchild to a natural sonn of
         I
Henry Frederick Prince of Orange) a good-natur'd and obliging

woman. They love fine things and to live easily, pompously, and hos
pitably, but with so vast expence as plunges my Lord into debt exceed
ingly. My Lord himselfe          given to no expensive vice but building,
                             is

and to have all things rich, polite, and princely. He never plays, but

reades much, having the Latin, French, and Spanish tongues in per
fection. He has travell'd much, and the best bred and courtly per
                                    is
                                                                      it

                                                                                                                ;
son his Majesty has about him, so as the publiq Ministers more frequent
him than any of the rest of the Nobility. Whilst he was Secretary of

State and Prime Minister he had gotten vastly, but spent as hastily,

even before he had establish'd fund to maintaine his greatnesse and
                                 a

now beginning to decline in favour (the Duke being no great friend of
his) he knows not how to retrench. He was sonn of a Doctor of Laws
whom have seene, and being sent from Westminster Schole to Oxford

with intention to be a Divine, and parson of Harlington,' a village neere

Brainford, when Master of Arts, the Rebellion falling out, he follow'd
the King's Army, and receiving an honourable wound in the face? grew
into favour, and was advane'd from a meane fortune, at his Majestys
restauration, to be an Earle and Knight of the Garter, Lord Chamber-

laine of the Household, and first favourite for a long time, during which
the King married his natural sonn, the Duke of Grafton, to his onely

daughter and heiress, as before mentioned, worthy for her beauty and
virtue of the greatest Prince in Christendom. My Lord besides this,
                                    1

                                           I

                                                    is,
                                                                         is
a prudent and understanding person in businesse and speakes welL
Unfortunate yet in those he has advane'd, most of them proving un-

gratefull. The many obligations and civilities have receiv'd from this

noble gentleman extracts from me this character, and am sorry he

in no better circumstances.

Having now pass'd neere three weeks at Euston to my greate satis

faction, with much difficulty he suffered me to looke homeward, being

very earnest with me to stay longer, and to engage me, would himselfe
have carried and accompanied me to Lynn Regis, a towne of important

traffiq, about 20 miles beyond, which had never seene, as also the
                                    I

                                                             a
                                                                                           it,
Travelling Sands about 10 miles wide of Euston, that have so damaged

     See in Lord Clarendon's Continuation of his Life, &c- a curious circumstance relating to*1
Sir Henry Bennett's taking his title, when first created a Baron, from this place.

     A deep cut across his nose, he was always obliged to wear black patch upon and a
-o represented in bis portraits.
                     THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  397

the country, rouling from place to place, and like the Sands in the
Deserts of Lybia, quite overwhelm'd some gentlemen's whole estates,

as the relation extant in print and brought to the Royal Society

describes at large.
    13 Sept. My Lord's
at  Newmarket, stepping  coach convey 'd me to  Bury, and thence baiting

                           in at Audley End to  see that house againe, I
slept at Bishops Stortford, and the next day home. I was accompanied
in my journey by Major Fairfax, of a younger house of the Lord Fair

fax, a souldier, a traveller, an excellent musitian, a good-natur'd well-

bred gentleman.

   18. I preferred Mr. Philips (nephew of Milton) to the service of my

Lord Chamberlaine, who wanted a scholar to reade to & entertaine him

sometimes.

    12 Oct. With Sir Robert Clayton to Marden, an estate he had
bought lately of my kinsman Sir John Evelyn of Godstone in Surrey,
which from a despicable farme house Sir Robert had erected into a

seatc with extraordinary expence. Tis in such a solitude among hills,

as being not above 16 miles from London, seems almost incredible, the

ways up to it so winding and intricate. The gardens are large, .and

well wall'd, and the husbandry part made very convenient and perfectly
understood. The barnes, the stacks of come, the stalls for cattle,

pigeon-house, &c. of most laudible example. Innumerable are the
plantations of trees, especialy wallnuts. The orangerie and gardens
are very curious. In the house are large and noble roomes. He and

his lady (who is very curious in distillery) entertain'd me three or foure
days very freely. I earnestly suggested to him the repairing of an old
desolate dilapidated Church, standing on the hill above the house, '

which I left him in good disposition to do, and endow it better ; thert
not being above foure or five houses in the parish besides that of this
prodigious rich Scrivener'. This place is exceeding sharp in the winter
by reason of the serpenting of the hills ; and it wants running water;
but the solitude much pleas'd me. All the ground is so full of wild

   1 Woldingham. The Church consists of one room about 30 feet long and ai wide, without
any tower, spire, or bell. It is considered as a Donative, not subject to the Bishop, service
performed once a month. No Churchwarden ; two farm-houses, four cottages. By the Popu
lation Return in i8it, the nnmber of inhabitants was 5*- That disposition which was thought
to have appeared subsided ; the Church remains as it then was.

  * In London there was formerly a Company called Scriveners, now extinct. The last mem
ber of it, named Ellis, died at the age of more than 90. Dr. Johnson speaks well of him in
the present reign. The business comprehended that of a Banker, and wii.it is now called a
Conveyancer : they had money deposited with them for the purpose of making purchases, or
lending on mortgage, they preparing the Conveyances. In the timeof K. Charles I. during
the troubles and the interregnum, a gentleman of the name of Abbot in the City had a very
great share of this business. Sir Robert Clayton and a Mr. Morris were his clerks at the
same time, and jointly succeeded to his business, in which they had acquired a great estate.
Mr. Morris died first, and having no children, left his property to his friend Sir Robert. The
Editor lately saw a deed attested by Mr. Abbot as Scrivener, and by Mr. Morris and Mr.

Clayton as his servants.
398 THE PRINCE OF ORANGE ; BALL AT COURT ; THE PRINCESS MART.

thyme, marjoram, and other sweete plants, that it cannot be overstock'd
with bees ; I think he had neere 40 hives of that industrious insect
   14. I went to Church at Godstone, and to see old Sir John Evelyn's

dormitory, joining to the church, pav'd with marble, where he and his

lady lie on a very stately monument at length ; he in armour, of white
marble.' The inscription is onely an account of his particular branch
of the family on black marble.
15. Returned to London ; in the evening, I saw the Prince of
Orange, and supped with Lord Ossory.
"
         Saw againe the Prince of Orange : his marriage with the Lady
    23.
Mary, eldest daughter to the Duke of York, by Mrs. Hyde, the late

Dutchesse, was now declared.

   1 1 Nov. I was all this week composing matters betweene old Mrs.
Howard and Sir Gabriel Sylvius, upon his long and earnest addresses
to Mrs. Ann her second daughter, mayd of honor to the Queene. My
friend Mrs. Godolphin (who exceedingly lov'd the young lady) was
most industrious in out of pitty to the languishing knight so as
1
    5.

                                 it,

                                 I
                                       Ia

                                                                                it
                                                                                                                                                                              ;
tho' there were greate differences in their yeares, was at last effected,

and they were married the 13th in Hen. 7th's Chapell by the Bishop of
Rochester', there being besides my wife and Mrs. Graham, her sister,

Mrs. Godolphin, and very few more. We din'd at the old lady's, and
supp'd at Mr. Graham's at St. James's.
          The Queene's birth-day, greate Ball at Court, where the Prince

of Orange and his new Princesse daunced.

   19. They went away, and saw embarqu'd my Lady Sylvius, who
went into Holland with her husband, made Hoffmaester to the Prince,
a considerable employment. We parted with greate sorrow, for the
greate respect and honour bore her, a most pious and virtuous lady.
   27. Din'd at the Lord Treasurer's with Prince Rupert, Viscount

Falkenberg, Earle of Bathe, Lord O'Brien, Sir John Lowther, Sir
Christ. Wren, Dr. Grew, and other learned men.

   30. Sir Joseph Williamson, Principal Secretary of State, was chosen
President of the Royal Society after my Lord Viscount Brounker had

possess'd the chaire now sixteen yeares successively, and therefore now

thought fit to change, that prescription might not prejudice.

I4Dec. Being the first day of his taking the chaire, he gave us                                                                                                                  a

magnificent supper.
20. Carried to my Lord Treasurer an account of the Earl of Bris

tol's Librarie at Wimbleton, which my Lord thought of purchasing,
till acquainted him that was a very broken collection, consisting
                     it

much in books of judicial astrologie, romances, and trifles.

    25.  I  gave my sonn an office, with instructions how to govern his
youth       pray God give him the grace to make right use of it.
         ;                            a

          I

81       It a very fine monument, in perfect preservation.is
         Dr. John Dolben, also Dean of Westminster, translated afterwards to York.
              THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.              399

   1678. 23 Jan. Din'd with the Duke of Norfolk, being the first
time I had seene him since the death of his elder brother, who died at
Padoa in Italy, where he had resided above 30 yeares. The Duke had
now newly declared his mariage to his concubine, whom he promis'd me
he never would marry.' I went with him to see the Duke of Buck
ingham, thence to my Lord Sunderland, now Secretary of State, to
shew him that rare piece of Vosterman's (son of old Vostcrman) which
was a view or landscape of my Lord's palace, &c. at Althorp in North

amptonshire.
   8 Feb. Supping at my Lord Chambcrlaine's, I had a long discourse

with the Conte de Castel Mellor, lately Prime Minister in Portugal, who
taking part with his master King Alphonso was banish'd by his brother
Don Pedro, now Regent, but had behaved himselfe so uncorruptly in
all his ministrie, that tho' he was acquitted and his estate restored, yet
would they not suffer him to returne. He is a very intelligent and

worthy gentleman.
    18. My Lord Treasurer sent for me to accompany him to Wimble

don, which he had lately purchased of the Earle of Bristol : so breaking

fast with him privately in his chamber, I accompanied him with two

of his daughters, my Lord Conway and Sir Bernard Gascoyne, and

having surveyed his gardens and alterations, returned late at night.
    22. Dr. Pierce preach'd at White-hall on 2 Thcssal. 3. 6. against

our late Schismatics, in a rational discourse, but a little over-sbarpand

not at all proper for the auditory there.
   22 Mar. Dr. South preached coram Rege an incomparable discourse

on this text, 'A wounded spirit who can beare !' Note : Now was

our communion table plac'd altar-wise ; the church steeple, clock, and
other reparations finish'd.

   16 April. I shew'd Dom. Emanuel de Lyra (Portugal Ambassador)

and the Count de Castel Mellor the Repository of the R. Society and
the Colledge of Physitians.

   18. I went to see New Bedlam Hospital, magnificently built,* and
most sweetely placed in More-fields, since the dreadful fire in London.

   28 June. I went to Windsor with my Lord Chamberlaine (the
Castle now repairing with exceeding cost) to see the rare worke of
Verrio, an incomparable carving of Gibbons.

   29. Return'd with my Lord by Hounslow Heath, where we saw the
new-rais'd army encamp'd, design'd against France, in pretence at

1 It appears by the Books of Peerage that his Grace married to his second wife Mrs. Jane
Bickcrton, daughter of a Scotch  IgIe.ntlTehmearne,   Robert Bickcrton. Esq. who was Gentleman     of
the Wine Cellar to King Charles                      are engraved portraits both of this Duke and  of

bis Duchess.

1 Taken down, being greatly decayed, in 1814, and a new one erected on the Surrey side of
the Thames, in the road leading from St. George's Fields to Lambeth. On pulling it down,
Che foundations were found to be very bad, as it had been built on part of the Towne-ditch and

on a soil very unfit for the erection of so large a building. Patients were removed to the new

building 10 August \i 15.
400 THE BRITISH GRENADIERS. LIBRARY OF ELIAS ASHMOLE.

least, but which gave umbrage to the Parliament His Majesty and
a world of company were in the field, and the whole armie in battalia, a
very glorious sight. Now were brought into service a new sort of Sol
diers call'd Granadiers, who were dextrous in flinging hand granados,
every one having a pouch full ; they had furr'd caps with coped
crownes like Janizaries, which made them looke very fierce, and some
had long hoods hanging down behind, as we picture fools. Their
clothing being likewise pybald yellow and red.

   8 July. Came to dine with me my Lord Longford, Treasurer of Ire

Iland, nephew to that learned gentleman my Lord Aungier, with whom

   was long since acquainted : also the Lady Siddulph and other com
pany. .

    19. The Earle of Ossory came to take his leave of me, going into
Holland to command the English forces.

   20. I went to the Tower to try a mettal at the Assay-masters, which

onely provM Sulphur ; then saw Monsieur Rotiere, that excellent
graver belonging to the Mint, who emulates even the ancients, in both
mettal and stone ; he was now moulding an horse for the King's statue,

to be cast in silver, of a yard high. I din'd with Mr. Slingsby, Master

of the Mint.
   23. Went to see Mr. Elias Ashmole's library and curiosities at

Lambeth. He has divers MSS. but most of them astrological, to
which study he is addicted, tho' I believe not learned, but very indus
trious, as his History of the Order of the Garter proves. He shew'd
me a toade included in amber. The prospect from a turret is very
fine, it being so neere London, and yet not discovering any house
about the country. The famous John Tradescant bequeathed his
Repository to this gentleman, who has given them to the University of
Oxford, and erected a lecture on them, over the Laboratorie, in imita
tion of the R. Society.'

   Mr. Godolphin was made Master of the Robes to the King.
   25. There was sent me £.70, from whom I knew not, to be by me
distributed among poore people ; I afterwards found it was from that
deere friend (Mrs. Godolphin) who had frequently given me large sums

to bestow on charities.

   16 Aug. I went to Lady Mordaunt, who put £-ioo into my hands
to dispose of for pious uses, relief of prisoners, poore, &c. Many a
sum had she sent me on similar occasions ; a blessed creature she was,
and one that loved and feared God exemplarily.

   23. Upon Sir Robert Reading's importunity I went to visite the

   1 The donation took place in 1677, and a suitable building was erected by Sir Christ. Wren,
bearing the name of the ' Ashmolean Museum.' This was the first public institution for the
reception of rarities in Art or Nature established in England ; and in the infancy of the study
of Natural History in this country, possessed what was then considered as a valuable and su
perior collection. There are good portraits of Ashmole, and of the Tradescant family by
DoL»un, in the Museum, from which engravings have been very inaccurately taken.
                     THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                 4OI

.Duke of Norfolk at his new palace at Weybridge,' where he has laid

out in building neere ;£. 10,000, on a copyhold, and in a miserable,

barren, sandy place by the street side ; never in my life had I seene

such expense to so small purpose. The roomes are wainscotted, and

some of them parquetted with cedar, yew, cypresse, &c There are

some good pictures,  especialy that incomparable  painting of  Holbein's,
where the Duke of    Norfolk, Charles Brandon,    and Henry
                                                               VIII. are
dauncing with the three ladies, with most amourous countenances and

sprightly motion exquisitely expressed. Tis a thousand pities (as I

told my Lord of Arundel his son) that that jewel should be given away.

  24. I went to see my Lord of St. Alban's house at Byflete, an old

large building. Thence to the paper mills, where I found them making

a coarse white paper. They cull the raggs, which are linnen, for

white paper, woollen for brown ; then they stamp them in troughs to a
papp with pestles or hammers like the powder-mills, then put it into a

vessell of water, in which they dip a frame closely wyred with wyre as

small as a haire and as close as a weaver's reede ; on this they take up

the papp, the superfluous water draining thro' the wyre ; this they dex-

trously turning, shake out like a pancake on a smooth board between

2 pieces of flannell, then presse it between a greate presse, the flannell

sucking out the moisture ; then taking it out, they ply and dry it on
strings, as they dry linnen in the laundry ; then dip it in alum-water,

lastly polish and make it up in quires. They put some gum in the
water in which they macerate the raggs. The mark we find on the

sheets is formed in the wyre.

   25. After evening prayer visited Mr. Sheldon (nephew to the late
Abp. of Canterbury) and his pretty melancholy garden ; I tooke notice
of the largest arbor thuyris I bad ever seene. The place is finely

water'd, and there are many curiosities of India, shewn in the house.

There was at Weybridge the Dutchesse of Norfolk, Lord Tho. How

ard (a worthy and virtuous gentleman, with whom my sonn was some
time bred up in Arundel House) who was newly come from Rome,
where he had been some time ; also one of the Duke's daughters by
his first lady. My Lord leading me about the house made no scruple

of shewing me all the hiding-places for the Popish priests, and where

they said masse, for he was no bigotted Papist. He told me he never

trusted them with any seacret, and us'd Protestants only in all busi
nesses of importance.

  I went this evening with my Lord Duke to Windsor, where was a
magnificent Court, it being the first time of his Majesty removing thi

Jther since it was repaired.
  1 This house ws (Ae HnjpsiTy Mrs. Bickerton, whom the Duke married. After his death

she married Mr. fi toiKWlt, and to »}- together with Lord George Howard (her eldest son by the

Duke) sold it tc ~h3 Count^w ui iVirchester (mistress to James II.) Her daughter married

David Colyer Earl of Portmore, whose descendant is the present owner, but the house is ua
inhabited, and in a most ruinous state (1816).

                                                                                                           26
402 SHEENE ; SIR WILL. TEMPLE J THE ARUNDELIAN LIBRARY.

  27 Aug. I tooke leave of the Duke, and din'd at Mr. Hen. Brounc-

ker's, at the Abby of Sheene, formerly a monastery of Carthusians,
there yet xemaining one of their solitary cells with a crosse. Within
this ample inclosure are several pretty villas and fine gardens of the
most excellent fruites, especialy Sir William Temple's (lately Ambas
sador into Holland), and the Lord Lisle's, sonn to the Earle of Leices
ter, who has divers rare pictures, and above all, that of Sir Brian
Tuke's by Holbein.

   After dinner I walk'd to Ham, to see the house and garden of the
Duke of Lauderdale, which is indeede inferior to few of the best villas
in Italy itselfe ; the house furnish'd like a greate Prince's ; the par

terres, flower gardens, orangeries, groves, avenues, courts, statues, per
spectives, fountaines, aviaries, and all this at the banks of the sweetest
river in the world, must needes be admirable.

   Hence I went to my worthy friend Sir Henry Capel [at Kew] brother

to the Earle of Essex : it is an old timber house, but his garden has
the choicest fruit of any plantation in England, as he is the most
industrious and understanding in it.

   29. I was call'd to London to wait upon the D. of Norfolk, who

having at my sole request bestow'd the Arundelian Library on the
Royal Society, sent to me to take charge of the bookes and remove

them, onely stipulating that I would surfer the Heraulds cheif officer,
Sir William Dugdale, to have such of them as concem'd Herauldry
and the Marshall's office, bookes of Armorie and Genealogies, the
Duke being Earl Marshall of England. I procured for our Society,
besides printed bookes, neere 100 MSS., some in Greeke of greate con
cernment. The printed bookes being of the oldest impressions are not
the lesse valuable ; I esteem them almost equal to MSS. Amongst

 them are most of the Fathers printed at Basil before the Jesuits abus'd
them with their expurgatory Indexes ; there is a noble MS. of Vitru-
vius. Many of these bookes had ben presented by Popes, Cardinals,
 and greate persons, to the Earls of Arundel and Dukes of Norfolk ;
 and the late magnificent Earle of Arundel bought a noble library in

 Germanie, which is in this collection. I should not, for the honour I
beare the family, have persuaded the Duke to part with these, had I not

 seene how negligent he was of them, suffering the priests and every
 body to carry away and dispose of what they pleas'd, so that abun
 dance of rare things are irrecoverably gone.

  · Having taken order here, I went to the Royal Society to give them
 an account of what I had procur'd, that they might call a Council and

 appoint a day to waite on the Duke to thank him for this munificent gift.

    3 Sept. I went to London to dine with Mrs. Godolphin [formerly
 Mrs. Blagg, who had ben maid of honour to the Queene], and found
 her in labour ; she was brought to bed of a sonn, who was baptu'd in
 the chamber, by the name of Francis, the susceptors being Sir William
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  - 403

Godolphin (head of the family), Mr. John Hervey, Treassurer to the
Queene, and Mrs. Boscawen, sister to Sir William and the father.

   8. Whilst I was at church came a letter from Mr. Godolphin that

my deare friend his lady was exceedingly ill, and desiring my prayers
and assistance. My wife and I tooke boate immediately and went to
White-hall, where, to my inexpressible sorrow, I found she had ben
attacq'd with the new fever, then reigning this excessive hot autumn,
and which was so violent that it was not thought she could last

many hours.

   9. She died in the 26th yeare of her age, to the inexpressible afflic
tion of her deare husband and all her relations, but of none in the world
more than of myselfe, who lost the most excellent and inestimable
friend that ever liv'd. Never was a more virtuous and inviolable friend

ship ; never a more religious, discreet and admirable creature, beloved
of all, admired of all, for all possible perfections of her sex. She is

gon to receive the reward of her signal charity, and all other her Chris
tian graces, too blessed a creature to converse with mortals, fitted as

she was by a most holy life to be received into the mansions above-

She was for witt, beauty, good-nature, fidelity, discretion, and all accom
plishments, the most incomparable person. How shall I ever repay
the obligations to her for the infinite good offices she did my soule by so
oft ingaging me to make religion the termes and tie of the friendship
there was between us ! She was the best wife, the best mistress, the
best friend that ever husband had. But it is not here that I pretend to

give ber character, having desigrid to consecrate an account of her

worthy life to posterity.
   Her husband, struck with unspeakable affliction, fell down as dead.

The King himselfe and all the Court expressed their sorrow. To the

poore and miserable her losse was irreparable, for there was no degree
but had some obligation to her memorie. So carefull and provident
was she to be prepared for all possible accidents, that (as if she foresaw
her end) she received the heavenly viaticum but the Sunday before,
after a most solemn recollection. She put all her domestic concerns
into tne exactest order, and left a letter directed to her husband, to be
opened in case she died in child-bed, in which with the most pathetic
and endearing expressions of a most loyal and virtuous wife, she begs
his kindnesse to her memorie might be continu'd by his care and esteeme

of those she left behind, even to her domestic servants, to the meanest

of which she left considerable legacies, as well as to the poore. It was

now seven yeares since she was maid of honor to the Queene, that she
regarded me as a father, a brother, and what is more, a friend. We
often prayed, visited the sick and miserable, received, read, discoursed,
and communicated in holy offices together. She was most deare to my
wife and affectionate to my children. But she is gon ! This onely is

my comfort that she is happy in Christ and I shall shortly behold her
         404 DEATH OF MRS. GODOLPHIN ; HER FUNERAL ; HER PAPERS.

         againe ! r She desired to be buried in the dormitorie of his family,

         neere 300 miles from all her other friends. So afflicted was her hus
         band at this severe losse, that the intire care of her funerall was com
         mitted to me. Having closed the eyes and dropped a teare upon the

         cheeke of my deare departed friend, lovely even in death, I caused her
         corps to be embalmed and wrapped in lead, with a plate of brasse

         soldered thereon, with an inscription, and other circumstances due to
         her worth, with as much diligence and care as my greived heart would
         permit me ; I then retired home for two daies, which were spent in

         solitude and sad reflections.
             17. She was accordingly carried to Godolphin in Cornwall, in a

         hearse with six horses, attended by two coaches of as many, with
         about 30 of her relations and servants. There accompanied the hearse
         her husband's brother Sir William, two more of his brothers, and three

         sisters ; her husband was so overcome with grief, that he was wholly
         unfit to travel so long a journey till he was more composed. I went
         as far as Hounslow with a sad heart, but was obliged to return upon
         some indispensible affaires. The corpse was ordered to be taken out
         of the hearse every night, and decently placed in the house, with tapers
         about and her servants attending, to Cornwall and then was honor
         ably interi^d in the parish church of Godolphin. This funeral cost not

         much less than ,£1,000.

            With Mr. Godolphin looked over and sorted his lady's papers, most
         of which consisted of Prayers, Meditations, Sermon-notes, Discourses,
         and Collections on severall religious subjects, and many of her owne
         happy composing, and so pertinently digested, as she had ben all her
         life a student in divinity. We found a diary of her solemn resolutions,
         all tending to practical virtue, with letters from select friends, all put
         into exact method. It astonish'd us to see what she had read and
         written, her youth considered.

               Oct. The Parliament and the whole Nation were alarm'd about
         conspiracy of some eminent Papists for the destruction of the King and
         introduction of Popery, discovered by one Oates and Dr. Tongue,*
           it,

                                 I
                                                                  if ;

'1                                                                                     a
        1
              In the subsequent part of these memoirs will appear that Mr., itGodolphin (afterwards
         Lord Godolphin) continued the steady friend of Mr. Evelyn, whose   grandson married into
the family. The infant now mentioned as born carried on the friendship to the family through
a long life.

         Ezrael Tong, bred in University College, Oxford, being puritanically inclined, quitted the
University, but in 1648 returned, and was made a Fellow. He had the living of Pluckley in
Kent, but quitted being vexed by his parishioners and Quakers. In 1657 he was made Fel:
low of the new erected College at Durham, and that being dissolved in 1660, he taught school
at Islington. He then went with Col. Edward Harley to Dunkirk, but that being given up,' it,
he took small living in Herefordshire (Lentwardine) but soon quitted for St. Mary Stayn-
           a                                          ;;                    it

ing in London, which, after the fire in 1666, was united to St. Michael, Wood Street, and hr
held them to his death, in 1680. He was a great opponent of the Papists. Wood mentions
                     of his, amongst which are, 'The

                     The Jesuits' Morals,' 1680 (1670)
II.several publications                                 Jesuits   unmasked,' 1678;      'Jesuitical
                                                        the two  last translated from  the French.
Aphorisms,' 1678
Wood's Athen. Oxon. vol.  p. 50a.
   I THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                                                               '

                                                                                                                                                                            405

which last knew, being the translator          of the ' Jesuites' Morals;'

I went to see and converse with him at         White-hall, with Mr. Oates, -

one that was lately an apostate to the Church of Rome, and now
return'd againe with this discovery. He seem'd to be a bold man, and

in my thoughts furiously indiscreete ; but every body believ'd what he
said ; and it quite chang'd the genius and motions of the Parliament,

growing now corrupt and interested with long sitting and court prac
tices : but with all this Poperie would not go downe. This discoverie
turn'd them all as one man against and nothing was don but to find
                       ;

                                          it,
out the depth of this. Oates was encourag'd, and every thing he
affirm'd taken for gospel -- the truth is, the Roman Catholics were ex

ceeding bold and busy every where, since the Duke forbore to go any

longer to the Chapell.
   16 Oct Mr. Godolphin requested me to continue the trust his wife
had reposed in me in behalfe of his little sonn, conjuring me to transfer

the friendship had for his deare wife, on him and his.
   21 Oct. The murder of Sir Edmonbury Godfrey, found strangl'd
....about this time, as was manifest by the Papists, he being Justice ofa
                                                                                                                                                             a
      (a I
the Peace, and one who knew much of their practices, as conversant

with Colman sen-ant of the                     now accus'd), put the whole

nation into new ferment against them.

   31. Being my 58th of my age, required my humble addresses to
Almighty God, and that he would take off his heavy hand, still on my

family, and restore comforts to us after the losse of my excellent friend.
   Nov. Dr. Tillotson preach'd before the Commons at St. Mar
5

garet's. He said the Papists were now ariv'd at that impudence as to

denythat there ever was any such thing as the gunpowder conspiracy;
but he affirm'd that he himself had severall letters written by Sir Eve-

rard Digby (one of the traytors), in which he gloried that he was to
suffer for and that was so contriv'd, that of the Papists not above
   it

       ;

                        it

                               I
two or three should have ben blown up, and they, such as were not

worth saving.
15. The Queene's birth-day.
                                  never saw the Court more brave,

nor the nation in more apprehension and consternation. Coleman and

one Staly had now ben tried, condemn'd, and executed. On this

Oates grew so presumptuous, as to accuse the Queene of intending to
poison the King, which certainly that pious and vertuous lady abhorr'd

Mr. Evelyn speaks of Dr. Tong's having translated the last of these by his desire.
   Oates said that Thomas Whitbread, a priest, on 13 June, 16 . . did tell the Rector of St.
Outer's, that a Minister of the Church of England had scandalously put out the 'Jesuits'
Morals in English, and had endeavoured to render them odious, and had asked the Rector
*
               '

                                               '
                                                                                              ?
                                                                                                                                           .

                                                                                                                                                          '
whether he thought Oates might know him and the Rector called the deponent, who heard
Ifthese words as he stood at the chamber door, and when he went into the chamber of the Pro
vincial, he asked him  he knew the author of the Jesuits' Morals? deponent answered,

His person, but not his name.' Whitbread then demanded, whether he would undertake to
poison or assassinate the author; which deponent undertook, having ,£50. reward promised
him, and apppointed to return to England. --From a publication of Oates.
406 TITUS OATES AND THE PAPISTS. DISSOLUTION OF PARLIAMENT.

the thoughts of, and Oates his circumstances made it utterly unlikely,
in my opinion. He probably thought to gratifie some who would have
ben glad his Majesty should have married a fruitfull lady ; but the King
was too kind a husband to let any of these make impression on him.
However divers of the Popish Peeres were sent to the Towre, accus'd
by Oates, and all the Roman Catholic Lords were by a new act for ever
excluded the Parliament, which was a mighty blow. The King's, Queen's,

and Duke's servants, were banish'd, and a test to be taken by every

body who pretended to enjoy any office of publiq trust, and who would

not be suspected of Popery. I went with Sir William Godolphin, a
member of the Commons House, to the Bishop of Ely (Dr. Pet Gun

ning), to be resolv'd whether masses were idolatry, as the test express'd
it,
              it

                       a

                         I
   which was so worded that several good Protestants scrupl'd, and Sir
William, tho' learned man and excellent divine himselfe, had some

doubts about it The Bishop's opinion was, that he might take tho'
                                              aa
he wish'd had ben otherwise worded in the test                                it

                                                                                          is
                                                                                        it,
1679. 15 Jan.                              went with my Lady Sunderland to Chelsey, and
din'd with the Countesse of Bristol [her mother] in the greate house,
formerly the Duke of Buckingham's, spacious and excellent place for
the extent of ground and situation in good aire. The house large,
but ill contriv'd, tho' my Lord of Bristol, who purchas'd after he sold

Wimbledon to my Lord Treasurer, expended much mony on it. There
were divers pictures of Titian and Vandyke, and some of Bassano,
very excellent, especialy an Adonis and Venus, a Dukt of Venice, a
Butcher in his shambles selling meate to a Swisse; and of Van- Dyke,

my Lord of BristoVs picture, with the Earl of Bedford's at length, in

the same table. There was in the garden rare collection of orange-
                                              a

trees, of which she was pleas'd to bestow some upon me.
16. supp'd this night with Mr. Secretary at one Mr. Houblon's, a
I

French merchant, who had his house furnish'd en Prince, and gave us

a splendid entertainment.
   25. The Long Parliament, which had sat ever since the Restaura-
tion, was dissolv'd by persuasion of the Lord Treassurer, tho' divers of
them were believ'd to be his pensioners. At this all the politicians

were at a stand, they being very eager in pursuite of the late Plot of

the Papists.
30. Dr. Cudworth preached before the King at White-hall, on
                                                  ;
                                                                                          2
Timothy  it 3.              reckoning up the perils of the last times, in which,

                 5.

                           ;
amongst other wickednesse, Treasons should be one of the greatest,
applying to the occasion, as committed under a forme of reformation
and godlinesse concluding that the prophesy did intend more par

ticularly the present age, as one of the last times the sinns there

enumerated, more aboundantly reigning than ever.

Feb. Dr. Durell, Dean of Windsor, preach'd to the Household at
2
                                        1
White-hall, on Cor. 16. 22 he read the whole sermon out of his
                                           ;
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  407

notes, which I had never before seene a Frenchman do, he being of

Jersey, and bred at Paris.

  4. Dr. Pierce, Deane of Salisbury, preached on I John 4. I, 'Try

the Spirits, there being so many delusorie ones gone forth of late
into the world :' he inveied against the pernicious doctrines of Mr.
Hobbes.

   Mr. brother Evelyn was now chosen Knight for the County of Surrey,
carrying it against my Lord Longford and Sir Adam Brown of Betch-
worth Castle. The country coming in to give him their suffrages were
so many, that I believe they eate and dranke him out neere ,£2,000, by

a most abominable costome.

   1 April. My friend Mr. Godolphin was now made one of the Lords
Commissioners of the Treasury, and of the Privy Council.

   4. The Bp. of Gloucester preach'd, in a manner very like Bishop
Andrews, full of divisions, and scholastical, and that with much quick-

nesse. The holy Communion followed.
   20. Easter Day. Our Vicar preached exceeding well on I Cor. 5

and 7. The holy Communion followed, at which I and my daughter
Mary (now about 14 yeares old) received for the first time. The
Lord Jesus continue his grace unto her, and improve this blessed

beginning.
  ·24. The Duke of York, voted against by the Commons for his

recusancy, went over to Flanders, which made much discourse.

   4 June. I din'd with Mr. Pepys in the Tower, he having ben com

mitted by the House of Commons for misdemeanors in the Admiralty

when he was Secretary ; I believe he was unjustly charged '. Here I

saluted my Lords Stafford and Petre, who were committed for the

Popish Plot
   7. I saw the magnificent cavalcade and entry of the Portugal Am

bassador.

   17. I was godfather to a sonn of Sir Christopher Wren, Surveyor of

his Majesty s buildings, that most excellent and learned person, with
Sir William Fermor and my Lady Viscountesse Newport, wife of the
Treasurer of the Household.

   Thence to Chelsey, to Sir Stephen Fox, and my lady, in order to his
purchase of the Countesse of Bristol's house there, which she desirtt

me to procure a chapman for.

   19. I din'd at Sir Robert Clayton's with Sir Robert Viner, the

greate banquer.
   22. There were now divers Jesuites executed about the Plot, and a

rebellion in Scotland of the Phanatics, so that there was a sad pros
pect of public affairs.

   25. The new Commissioners of the Admiralty came to visite me,

   1 Mr. Pepys was concerned in a contested election in 1684, and his opponent accused him
of being a Papist, which the House of Commons inquired into, but without finding any proof.
By Grey's Debates it appears that he was accused of having sent information to the French
court of the state of the English Navy. Most incredible *
408 -COMMISSIONERS OF THE ADMIRALTY. A YOUNG PRODIGY.

viz. Sir Henry Capel, brother to the Earle of Essex, Mr. Finch, eldest
son to the Lord Chancellor, Sir Humph. Winch, Sir Thomas Meeres,
Mr. Hales, with some of the Commissioners of the Navy. I went with

them to London.

   I July. I dined at Sir W.Godolphin's, and with that learned gentleman

went to take the aire in Hyde Park, where was a glorious cortege.

   3 July. Sending a piece of venison to Mr. Pepys, still a prisoner, I

went and din'd with him.

   6. Now were there papers, speeches, and libels, publiqly cried in
the streetes against the Dukes of York and Lauderdale, &c. obnoxious

to the Parliament, with too much and indeede too shameful a liberty ;
but the people and Parliament had gotten head by reason of the vices
of the greate ones.

   There was now brought up to London a child, son of one Mr.
Wotton1, formerly amanuensis to Dr. Andrews, Bishop of Winton,

who both read and perfectly understood Hebrew, Greek, Latin, Arabic,
Syriac, and most of the modern languages ; disputed in Divinity, Law,
and all the Sciences ; was skilful in History both Ecclesiastical and
Profane ; in Politics ; in a word, so universally and solidly learned at

1 1 yeares of age, that he was looked on as a miracle. Dr. Lloyd, one

of the most deepe learned divines of this nation in all sorts of litera
ture, with Dr. Burnet, who had severely examined him, came away

1 The Rev. Henry Wotton, Minister of Wrentham, in Suffolk. This son was afterwards
the celebrated Wm. Wotton, the friend and defender of Dr. Bentley, and the antagonist of Sir
William Temple in the great Controversy about Antient and Modern Learning. His early
and extraordinary proficiency in letters and general knowledge of every kind, was comme
II.morated by his father in a pamphlet ' On the Education of Children,' addressed to King
Charles  and reprinted in 1753, with the attestations of several learned men who had exam-

ined him, to the truth of his uncommon abilities and wonderful acquisitions in the different

languages, both antient and modern : yet it is remarkable those eminent qualifications did not
advance him in the line of his profession beyond a Fellowship at Cambridge and a country
parsonage, viz. Milton, in Buckinghamshire, which was given him by the Earl of Nottingham,

'I10 whom he had been Chaplain. Sir Philip Skippon, who lived at Wrentham, in Suffolk, in a
letter to Mr. John Ray, Sep. 18, 1671, writes:  shall somewhat surprize you with what I
have seen in a little boy, William Wotton, 5 years old last month, son of Mr. Wotton, minister
of this parish, w ho hath instructed his child within the last 3 quarters of a year in the reading
the Latin, Creek, and Hebrew languages, which he can read almost as well as English, and
that tongue he could read at four years and three months old, as well as most lads of twice
his age.' Sir Philip left a draught of a longer letter to Mr. Ray, in which he adds, ' He is not
yet able to parse any language, but what he performs in turning the 3 learned tongues in;o
English, is done by strength of memory, so that he is ready to mistake when some words of
different signification have near the same sound. His father hath taught him by no rules, but
only uses his memory in remembering words.' --He was admitted of Catherine Hall, Cam
bridge, April, 1676, some months before he was 10 years old. He took the degree of B. A.
when only is years and 5  months old. Dr.  Burnet, Bp.   of Sarum, recommended him to Dr.
Lloyd, Bp. of St. Asaph,  who took him as  an assistant  in making a Catalogue of his books,
and carried him to St. Asaph, and gave him the sinecure of Llandrillo in Denbighshire. He
suffered from the satirical pen of Swift ; but this is no wonder, as he had spoken of the Tale of
a Tub as a profane piece of ribaldry. He compiled Memoirs of the Cathedral Churches of St.
David and St. Asaph, which Browne Willis published. When very young, he remembered
almost the whole of any discourse he had heard, and repeated to Bp. Lloyd one of his own
sermons. He died in 1726, aged 62, and was buried at Box ted in Sussex.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                  409

astonish'd, and told me they did not believe there had the like appeared
in the world. He had onely ben instructed by his father, who being

himselfe a learned person, confess'd that his sonn knew all that he him

selfe" knew. But what was more admirable than his vast memory was

his judgment and invention, he being tried with divers hard questions,
which requir'd maturity of thought and experience. He was also dex
trous in Chronology, Antiquities, Mathematics. In sum, an Intellectus

universalis, beyond all that we reade of Picus Mirandula, and other

precoce witts, and yet withall a very humble child.

   14. I went to see how things stood at Parson's Green, my lady

Viscountesse Mordaunt (now sick in Paris, whither she went for health)
having made me a trustee for her children, an office I could not refuse

to this most excellent, pious, and virtuous lady, my long acquaintance.

  1 5. I din'd with Mr. Sidney Godolphin, now one of the Lords Com

missioners of the Treasury.
18. I went early to the Old Bailey Sessions-house, to the famous
trial of Sir George Wakeman, one of the Queene's physitians, and three
Benedictine Monks ; the first (whom I was well acquainted with, and
take to be a worthy gentleman abhorring such a fact) for intending to
poison the King ; the others, as accomplices to carry on the plott, to

subvert the government and introduce Popery. The Bench was crowded

with the Judges, Lord Maior, Justices, and innumerable spectators.
The cheife accusers, Dr.
a man of inferior note.   Oates  (as he call'd himselfe),  and one Bedlow,
                                 testimonys were not so
                          Their                            pregnant, and I

feare much of it from hearsay, but swearing positively to some particu

lars, which drew suspicion upon their truth ; nor did circumstances so
agree as to give either the Bench or Jury so entire satisfaction as was
expected. After therefore a long and tedious tryal of 9 houres, the-

Jury brought them in not guilty, to the extraordinary triumph of the

Papists, and without sufficient disadvantage and reflections on the wit
nesses, especialy Oates and Bedlow. This was a happy day for the

Lords in the Tower, who expecting their triall, had this gon against the
prisoners at the bar, would all have ben in the utmost hazard. For my
part, I looke on Oates as a vain insolent man, puff d up with the favour
of the Commons for having discover 'd something realy true, more espe
cialy as detecting the dangerous intrigue of Coleman, prov'd out of his
owne letters, and of a generall designe which the Jesuited party of the
Papists ever had, and still have, to ruinethe Church of England ; but
that he was trusted with those greate seacrets he pretended, or had any
solid ground for what he accus'd divers noblemen of, I have many

reasons to induce my contrary beliefe. That among so many Com
missions as he affirm'd to have delivered to them from P. Oliva ' and

the Pope, he who made no scruple of opening all other papers, letters,
and seacrets, should not only not open any of those pretended Com-

1 Padrd Oliva, General of the Order of Jesuits.
4IO TITUS OATES. COLEMAN THE JESUIT. . CL1FDEN HOUSE,

missions, but not so much as take any copy or witnesse of any one of

them, is  almost miraculous. But   the Commons (some leading                  persons
          of them) had so exalted   him, that they tooke all he               said for
I meane
· gospell, and without more ado ruin'd all whom he nam'd to be conspi
rators ; nor did he spare whoever came in his way. But indeede the
murder of Sir Edm. Godfrey, suspected to have ben compass'd by the

Jesuite party for his intimacy with Coleman (a buisy person whom

I also knew) and the feare they had that he was able to have discover'd

some things to their prejudice, did so exasperate not only the Commons

but all the Nation, that much of these sharpnesses against the more

honest Roman Catholics who liv'd peaceably, is to be imputed to that

horrid fact.

  The Sessions ended, I din'd, or rather supp'd (so late it was), with

the Judges '. in the large roome annex'd to the place, and so retum'd
home. Tho' it was not my costome or delight to be often present at

any capital trials, we having them commonly so exactly publish 'd by

those who take them in short-hand, yet I was inclin'd to be at this
signal one, that by the ocular view of the carriages and other circum
stances of the managers and parties concerned, I might informe my-

selfe, and regulate my opinion of a cause that had so grievously alarm 'd

the whole nation.

   22 July. Din'd at Clapham at Sir D. Gauden's ; went thence with
him to Windsor, to assist him in a business with his Majesty. I lay
that night at Eton College, the Provost's lodgings (Dr. Craddock),

Iwhere I was courteously entertained.

   23. To Court : after dinner visited that excellent painter Verrio,
whose works in fresca in the King's palace at Windsor will celebrate
his name as long as those walls last He shew'd us his pretty garden,

choice flowers, and curiosities, he himselfe being a skilfull gardener,

   I went to Clifden, that stupendous natural rock, wood, and prospect,
of the Duke of Buckingham's,* buildings of extraordinary expence.
The grotts in the chalky rock are pretty : 'tis a romantic object, and the

place altogether answers the most poetical description that can be made

of solitude, precipice, prospect, or whatever can contribute to a thing
so very like their imaginations. The stande, somewhat like Jrascatiis

to its front, and on the platform, is a circular view to the utmost verge of
the horizon, which with the serpentina of the Thames is admirable. The

staire case is for its materials singular ; the cloisters, descents, gardens,

and avenue thro' the wood, august and stately, but the land all about

wretchedly barren, and producing nothing but feme. Indeede, as I

      The Judges were. Lord Chief Justice North, Mr. Justice Atkins, Mr. Justice Windham,
Mr. Justice Pemberton, Mr. Justice Dolben.
          · Cliefden's proud alcove,
          The bower of wanton Shrewsbury and Love.
                                                    Pope.
The Countess of Shrewsbury, whose husband having challenged the Duke, she is said nt
have held the horse of the latter in the habit of a page whilst they fought.
               THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                        411

told his Majesty that evening (asking me how I likM Clifden) without

flattery, that it did not please me so well as Windsor for the prospect

and park, which is without compare, there being but one only opening,
and that narrow, which led one to any variety, whereas that of Windsor
is every where greate and unconfin'd.

   Returning I call'd at my cousin Evelyn's, who has a very pretty seate
in the forest, 2 miles behither Clifden, on a flat, with gardens exqui

sitely kept tho' large, and the house a stanch good old building, and

what was singular, some of the roomes floorM dove-tail-wise without
a nail, exactly close. One of the closetts is parquettcd with plaine
deale, set in diamond, exceeding stanch and pretty.
  '7 Aug. Dined at the Sheriffs, when, the Company of Drapers and

their wives being invited, there was a sumptuous entertainment ac

cording to the formes of the Citty with musiq, &c. comparable to any

Prince's service in Europ.

  8. I went this morning to shew my Lord Chamberlaine, his Lady,

and the Dutchesse of Grafton, the incomparable work of Mr. Gibbons
the carver, whom I first recommended to his Majesty, his house being
furnish'd like a cabinet, not onely with his owne work, but divers ex
cellent paintings of the best hands. Thence to Sir Stephen Foxes,

where we spent the day.
   31. After evening service to see a neighbour, one Mr. Bohun, re
lated to my sonn's late tutor of that name, a rich Spanish merchant,

living in a neate place, which he has adorned with many curiosities,

especialy severall carvings of Mr. Gibbons, and some pictures by

Streeter.

I   13 Sept.   To Windsor,  to congratulate his  Majesty on his recovery;
   kiss'd the  Duke's hand  now lately return'd   from Flanders to visite

his brother the King, on which there were various bold and foolish dis

courses, the Duke of Monmouth being sent away.
   19. My Lord Sunderland, one of the principal Secretaries of State,

invited me to dinner, where was the King's natural sonn, the Earle
of Plymouth, the Earle of Shrewsbury, E. of Essex, E. of Mulgrave,
Mr. Hyde, and Mr. Godolphin. After dinner I went to prayers at Eton,
and visited Mr. Hen. Godolphin, fellow there, and Dr. Cradock.

   25. - Mr. Slingsby and Signior Verrio came to dine with me, to

whom I gave China oranges off my owne trees, as good, I think, as

were ever eaten.

  6 Oct. A very wet and sickly season.

   23. Dined at my Lo. Chamberlaines, the King being now newly re
turned from his New-market recreations.
   4 Nov. Din'd at the Lord MaioPs, and in the evening went to the
funerall of my pious, dear, and ancient learned friend, Dr. Jasper Need-

ham, who was buried at St. Bride's Church. He was a true and holy
Christian, and one who lov'd me with greate affection. Dr. Dove
   412 BLOOMSBURY. REMARRIAGE OF THE DUKE OF GRAFTON. "

'  jsreach'd with  an eulogie  due to his memory.    I lost in this person one
   of my dearest   remaining   sincere friends.
       5. I was invited to dine at my Lord Tividale's, a Scotch Earle, a
   learned and knowing nobleman. We afterwards went to see Mr. -
   Mountague's new palace neere Bloomsbery, built by our curator Mr.
   Hooke, somewhat after the French ; it was most nobly furnish'd, and

   a fine, but too much expos'd garden.
       6. Din'd at the Countesse of Sunderland's, and was this evening at

   the re-marriage of the Dutchesse of Grafton to the Duke (his Majesty's
   natural sonn) she being now 12 years old. The ceremonie was per
   formed in my Lord Chamberlaines (her fathers) lodgings at White-hall
   by the Bishop of Rochester, his Majesty being present. A sudden and

   unexpected thing, when every body believ'd the first marriage would

   have come to nothing ; but the measure being determin'd I was pri
   vately invited by my Lady, her mother, to be present. I confesse
   I could give her little joy, and so I plainely told her, but she said the
   King would have it so, and there was no going back. This sweetest,

   hopefullest, most beautifull child, and most vertuous too, was sacrifie'd

   to a boy that had ben rudely bred, without any thing to encourage them
   but his Majesty's pleasure. I pray God the sweete child find it to her
   advantage, who, if my augury deceive me not, will in few years be such

   a paragon as were fit to make the wife of the greatest Prince in Europe.

   I staied supper, where his Majesty sate betweene the Dutchesse of

   Cleaveland (the mother of the Duke of Grafton) and the sweete
   Dutchesse the bride ; there were several greate persons and ladies,
   without pomp. My love to my Lord Arlington's family and the sweete

   child made me behold all this with regret, tho' as the Duke of Grafton
. affects the sea, to which I find his father intends to use him, he may

   emerge a plaine, usefull, and robust officer, and were he polish'd, a

   tolerable person, for he is exceeding handsome, by far surpassing any
   of the King's other naturall issue.
       8 Nov. At Sir Stephen Fox's, and was agreeing for the Countesse
   of  Bristol's house
       18. I din'd at   at Chelsey within .£.500. -  Clayton]  being  desired
    "                   my Lord Maiors [Sir Robert

   by the Countesse of Sunderland to carry her thither on a solemn day,
   that she might see the pomp and ceremonie of this Prince of Citiiens,
   there never having ben any, who, for the stateliness of his palace, pro
   digious feasting, and magnificence, exceeded him. This Lord Maiors
   acquaintance had ben from the time of his being apprentice to one Mr.
   Abbot, his uncle, who being a scrivener, and an honest worthy man,
   one who was condemn'd to die at the beginning of the troubles 40
   Kyears past, as concern'd in the commission of array for    Charles I.
   had escap'd with his life; I often us'd his assistance in money matters.
   Robert Clayton, then a boy, his nephew, became after his uncle
   Abbot's death, so prodigiously rich and opulent, that he was reckon'd
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  - 413

one of the wealthiest citizens. He married a free-hearted woman, who

became his hospitable disposition, and having no children, with the
accession of his partner (Morris) and fellow apprentice, who also left
him his estate, he grew excessively rich. He was a discreete magis
trate, and tho' envied, I think without much cause. Some believ'd him

guilty of hard dealing, especialy with the Duke of Buckingham, much
of whose estate he had swallow'd, but I never saw any ill by him, con
sidering the trade he was of. The reputation and known integrity of
his uncle Abbot brought all the royal party to him, by which he got not
onely greate credit, but vast wealth, so as he pass'd this office with in
finite magnificence and honor.

   20 Nov. I din'd with Mr. Slingsby, Master of the Mint, with my

wife, invited to heare musiq, which was exquisitely perform'd by foure
of the most renown'd masters ; Du Prue, a Frenchman, on the lute ;

Signor Bartholomco, an Italian, on the harpsichord ; Nicolao on the

violin ; but above all for its sweetnesse and novelty, the viol d'amore

of 5 wyre-strings plaied on with a bow, being but an ordinary violin,
 play'd on lyre way by a German. There was also a flute douce, now
in much request for accompanying the voice Mr. Slingsby, whose
 sonn and daughter play'd skilfully, had these meetings frequently in
his house.

   21. I din'd at my Lord Mater's to accompany my worthiest and
generous friend the Earl of Ossorie ; it was on a Friday, a private day,

but the feast and entertainment might have become a King. Such an
hospitable costume and splendid magistrature dos no city in the world
shew, as I believe.

    23. Dr. Allestree preach'd before the household on 11 St. Luke 2.
 Dr. Lloyd on 28 Matt. 20. before the King, shewing with how little
reason the Papists applied those words of our Blessed Saviour to main-
taine the pretended infallibility they boast of. I never heard a more

 Christian and excellent discourse : yet were some offended that he

 seemed to say the Church of Rome was a true Church ; but 'twas a

 captious mistake, for he never affirmed any thing that could be more to
 their reproach, and that such was the present Church of Rome, show
 ing how much it had erred. There was not in this sermon so much as
a shadow for censure, no -person of all the Cleargy having testified
 greater zeale against the errors of the Papists than this pious and most
 learned person. I dined at the Bishop of Rochester's, and then went
 to St. Paul's to heare that greate wit Dr. Sprat, now newly succeeding
 Dr. Outram in the cure of St. Margaret's. His talent was a great
 memory, never making use of notes, a readinesse of expression in a
 most pure and plain style of words, full of matter, easily deliver'd.
. 26 Nov. I met the Earle of Clarendon with the rest of my fellow

 executors of the Will of my-late Lady Viscountesse Mordaunt, viz. Mr.

 Laurence Hyde, one of the Commissioners of the Treasury, and lately
414 LAURENCE HYDE ; LORD OSSORIE ; MARRIAGE OF MY SON. .

Plenipotentiary Ambassador at Nimeguen ; Andrew Newport, and Sir

Charles Wheeler, to examine and audit and dispose of this year's

accompt of the estate of this excellent Lady, according to the direction
of her will.

  27. I went to see Sir John Stonehouse, with whom I was treating a

marriage between my sonn and his daughter-in-law.

28. Came over the Duke of Monmouth from Holland unexpectedly
to his Majesty, whilst the Duke of York was on his journey to Scotland,
whither the King sent him to reside and governe. The bells and bon

fires of the Citty at this arrival of the Duke of Monmouth publishing
their joy, to the no small regret of some at Court. This Duke, whom
for distinction they call'd the Protestant Duke (tho' the sonn of an
abandon'd woman), the people made their idol.

  4 Dec. I din'd, together with Lord Ossorie and the E. of Chester
field, at the Portugal Ambassadors, now newly come, at Cleaveland
                                                                  The
House, a noble palace, too good for that infamous

- staire-case is sumptuous, and the gallerie and garden, but above all the

costly furniture belonging to the Ambassador, especialy the rich Japan
cabinets, of which I think there were a dozen. There was a billiard-

table, with as many more hazards as ours commonly have ; the game

being only to prosecute the ball till hazarded, without passing the port

or touching the pin ; if one miss hitting the ball every time, the game
is lost, or if hazarded. Tis more difficult to hazard a ball, tho' so many,
than in our table, by reason the bound is made so exactly even, and the

edges not stuff'd ; the balls also are bigger, and they for the most part

use the sharp and small end of the billiard stick, which is shod with

brasse or silver. The entertainment was exceeding civil, but besides a

good olio, the dishes were trifling, hash'd and condited after their

way, not at all fit for an English stomach, which is for solid meate.

There was yet good fowle, but roasted to coale, nor were the sweet-

meates good.
   30 Dec. I went to meete Sir John Stonehouse, and give him a par
ticular of the settlement on my sonn, who now made his adresses to

the young lady his daughter-in-law, daughter of Lady Stonehouse.
   1680. 25 Jan. Dr. Cave, author of ' Primitive Christianity,' &c. a
pious and learned man, preached at White-hall to the household on
3 James 17, concerning the duty of grace and charity.

   30. I supped with Sir Stephen Fox, now made one of the Lords
Commissioners of the Treasury.
   19 Feb. The writings for the settling joynture and other contracts
of marriage of my sonn were finished and sealed. The lady was to

bring 5000/. in consideration of a settlement of 500/. a yeare present
maintenance, which was likewise to be her jointure, and 500/. a yeare
after myne and my wife's decease. But with God's blessing it will be

at the least 1000/. a yeare more in few yeares. I pray God make him
                     , THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                             415

       worthy of and comfort to his excellent mother, who deserves much
                  it,
       from him.            a

                                              ;
          21. Shrove Tuesday. My sonn was married to Mrs. Martha Spen

       cer, daughter to my Lady Stonehouse by a former gentleman, at St
       Andrew's Holborn, by our Vicar, borrowing the Church of Dr. Stilling-

       fleet, Deane of St. Paul's, the present incumbent. We afterwards din'd

       at a house in Holborn and after the solemnity and dauncing was don,
       they were bedded at Sir John Stonehouse's lodging in Bow-streete,
       Covent Garden.

       26. To the R. Society, where met an Irish Bishop with his Lady,
                                                 ;I
       who was daughter to my worthy and pious friend Dr. Jeremy Taylor,
       late Bp. of Downe and Connor they came to see the Repository. She

       seemed to be a knowing woman, beyond the ordinary talent of her sex.

is I I   Mar.     I  din'd at my Lord Mayor's in order to the meeting my
      3
       Lady Beckford, whose daughter             (a  rich heiresse) had recommended
                                                         I
       to my brother of Wotton for his only sonn, she being the daughter of
       the lady by Mr. Ersfield [Eversfield], a Sussex gentleman.    5,
          16. To London, to receive ,£.3,000 of my daughter-in-law's portion,
       which was paid in gold.                                            I
       26. The Dean of Sarum preach'd on Jerem. 45,
                                                                 an hour and

       halfe from his common-place book of kings and greate men retiring to

       private situations. Scarce any thing of Scripture in it.
          18 April. On the earnest invitation of the Earle of Essex went
       with him to his house at Cashioberie in Hartford-shire. It was on
       Sunday, but going early from his house in the square of St. James, we

       ariv'd by ten o'clock this he thought too late to go to church, and we
       had prayers in his chapell. The house new, a plaine fabric, builtis
                               ;                     is

       by my friend Mr. Hugh May. There are divers faire and good roomes,
       and excellent carving by Gibbons, especialy the chimney-piece of the
       Library. There in the porch or entrance a painting by Verrio, of

       Apollo and the Liberal Arts. One roome parquetted with yew, which
         lik'd welL Some of the chimney mantles are of Irish marble, brought

       by my Lord from Ireland when he was Lord Lieutenant, and not much

       inferior to Italian. The tympanum or gabal at the front   a bass-
                                                                 is
                                                                     is

                                                                                              ;
       relievo of Diana hunting, cut in Portland stone, handsomely enough.

         did not approve of the middle dores being round, but when the Hall

       finish'd as design'd, being an oval with a cupola, together with the
                  it
                                    it
       other wing, will be a very noble palace. The library large, and

very nobly fumish'd, and all the books are richly bound and gilded
but there are no MSS. except the Parliament Rolls and Journals, the

"transcribing and binding of which cost him, as he assur'd me, ,£.500.
       No man has ben more industrious than this noble Lord in planting
about his seate, adorn 'd with walkes, ponds, and other rural elegancies
                                                          is
but the soile          stonie, churlish, and uneven, nor                               a;
                     is                                   the water neere
                                        a
enough to the house, tho' very swift and cleare stream runs withiu
4l6 . CASHIOBERIE HOUSE. SALE OF PARSON'S GREEN..

flight shot from it in the vally, which may fitly be call'd Coldbrook, it

being indeede excessive cold, yet producing faire troutes. Tis pitty

the house was not situated to more advantage, but it seemes it was
built just where the old one was, which I believe he onely meant to

repaire ; this leads men into irremediable errors, and it saves but

a very little.
The land about it is exceedingly addicted to wood, but the coldnesse
of the place hinders the growth. Black cherry-trees prosper even to

considerable timber, some being 80 foote long ; they make also very

handsome avenues. There is a pretty oval at the end of a faire walke,
set about with treble rows of Spanish chesnut trees.

The gardens are very rare, and cannot be otherwise, having so skill

ful an artist to govern them as Mr. Cooke, who is, as to the mechanic

part, not ignorant in Mathematics, and pretends to Astrologie. There
is an excellent collection of the choicest fruit.

As for my Lord, he is a sober, wise, judicious, and pondering person,

not illiterate beyond the rate of most noblemen in this age, very well

vers'd in English historie and affaires, industrious, frugal, methodical,
and every way accomplish'd. His Lady (being sister of the late Earle

of Northumberland) is a wise, yet somewhat melancholy woman, set
ting her heart too much on the little lady her daughter, of whom she

is over fond. They have an hopeful son at the Academic
My Lord was not long since come from his Lord Lieutenancy of

Ireland, where he shew'd his abilities in administration and govern

ment, as well as prudence in considerably augmenting his estate with
out reproach. He had ben Ambassador Extraordinary in Denmark,
and, in a word, such a person as became the sonn of that worthy Hero
his father to be, the late Lord Capel, who lost his life for K. Charles I.
We spent our time in the mornings in walking or riding, and con
triving [alterations], and the afternoones in the Library, so as I pass'd

my time for 3 or 4 daies with much satisfaction. He was pleas'd in
conversation to impart to me divers particulars of state, relating to the
present times. He being no great friend to the D
                                                        was now laid

aside, his integritie and abilities being not so suiteable in this con
juncture. 21. I returned to London.
   30 April. To a meeting of the executors of the late Viscountesse

Mordaunt's estate, to consider of the sale of Parson's Greene, being in
treaty with Mr. Loftus, and to settle the halfe yeare's account.
1 May. Was a meeting of the feoffees of the poore of our parish. This
yeare I would stand one of the collectors of their rents, to give example

to others. My sonn was added to the feoffees.
This afternoone came to visit me Sir Edw. Deering of Surrendon in
Kent, one of the Lords of the Treasury, with his daughter, married to
my worthy friend Sir Robert Southwell, Clerk of the Council, now

Extraordinary Envoye to the Duke of Brandenburgh, and other Pria
                                  THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.               417

ces in Germanie, as before he had ben in Portugal, being a sober, wise,

and virtuous gentleman,

   13. I was at the funeral of old Mr. Shish, master shipwright of his
Majesty's Yard here, an honest and remarkable man, and his death a

public losse, for his excellent successe in building ships (tho' altogether
illiterate), and for breeding up so many of his children to be able artists.

I held up the pall with three knights, who did him that honour, and he
was worthy of it. It was the costome of this good man to rise in the

night, and to pray kneeling in his owne coffin, which he had lying by
him many yeares. He was borne in that famous yeare of the Gun

powder plot 1605.
   14 June. Came to dine with us the Countesse of Clarendon, Dr.

Lloyd, Deane of Bangor, (since Bp. of St. Asaph), Dr. Burnett, author
of the History of the Reformation, and my old friend Mr. Henshaw.
After dinner we all went to seethe Observatory and Mr. Flamsted, who

shew'd us divers rare instruments, especialy the greate quadrant.

   24 July. Went with my wife and daughter to Windsor, to see that
stately Court, now neere finish'd. There was erected in the Court the
King on horseback, lately cast in copper, and set on a rich pedestal ot
white marble, the worke of Mr. Gibbons, at the expence of Toby Rus-
tate, a page ' of the back staires, who by his wonderful frugality had

ariv'd to a greate estate in mony, and did many works of charity, as
well as this of gratitude to his Master, which cost him ;£.looo. He is

a very simple, ignorant, but honest and loyal creature.

We all din'd at the Countesse of Sunderland's afterwards to see

Signor Verrio's garden, thence to Eton College to salute the Provost,

and heard a Latine speech of one of the Alumni being at the elec
tion), and were invited to supper, but took our leave, and got to Lon
                                                                  I"
don that night in good time.                                               ;
   26. My most noble and illustrious friend, the Earl of Ossorie, es                   ;

                                                                               I (it
                                                                                                      I

                                                                                                                  it
pying me this morning after sermon in the privy gallery, calling to me,

told me he was now going his journey (meaning to Tangier, whither he
was designed Governor and General of the Forces, to regaine the losses

we had lately sustain'd from the Moors, when Inchqueene was Gover

            ask'd he would not call at my house (as he always did when
nor).  I
                  if

                               '
ever he went out of England on any exploit) he said he must embark -

at Portsmouth, wherefore let you and dine together to-day, am

quite alone, and have something to impart to you                      am not well, shall

be private, and desire your company.' Being retired to his lodgings

and set down on couch, he sent to his secretary for the copy of a let
1

                              a
                                  it

                                                               ;

                                     it
ter which he had written to Lord Sunderland (Secretary of State),
                                                                  was to take notice how ill he resented
wishing me to reade

     Mr. Tobias Rustate. He was a great benefactor to Jesus College. Cambridge, in particu
lar, by an endowment of scholarships there for the benefit of young students, orphan sons of

Clergymen.                                                        --

                                                                      27
4'8 TANGIER ; THE DUKE OF ORMOND ; DEATH OF LORD OSSORIE.

that he should tell the King before Lord Ossorie's face, that Tangier

was not to be kept, but would certainly be lost, and yet added that 'twas
fit for Lord Ossorle should be sent, that they might give some account
of it to the world, meaning (as suppos'd) the next Parliament, when all
such miscarriages would probably be examin'd ; this Lord Ossorie took
very ill of Lord Sunderland, and not kindly of the King, who resolving

to send him with an incompetent force, seem'd, as his Lordship tooke      3 it,
to be willing to cast him away, not only on an hazardous adventure, but in

most men's opinion an impossibility, seeing there was not to be above
or 400 horse and 4000 foote for the garrison and all, both to defend the
towne, forme a camp, repulse the enemy, and fortifie what ground

they should get in. This touch'd my Lord deeply, that he should be .
so little consider*d as to put him on abusinesse in which he should pro
bably not only loose his reputation, but be chargM with all the mis
carriages and ill successe whereas at first they promis'd 6000 foote
;
                                              ;

                                                           ;
and 600 horse effective. My Lord being an exceeding brave and

valiant person, and who had so approv'd himself in divers signal

battailes, both at sea and land so belov'd, and so esteem'd by the
people, as one they depended upon all occasions worthy of such a

captain he looked on this as too greate an indifference in his Majesty
after all his services, and the merits of his father the Duke of Ormond,

and a designe of some who envied his virtue. It certainly tooke so
deepe roote in his mind, that he who was the most void of feare in the

world (and assur'd me he would go to Tangier with 10 men his
                                                                 if

Majesty commanded him) could not beare up against this unkindness.
Having disburden'd himselfe of this to me after dinner, he went with
his Majesty to the Sheriffs at greate supper in Fishmongers Hall, but
                                  a

finding himselfe ill, tooke his leave immediately of his Majesty, and

came back to his lodging. Not resting well this night, he was per*

suaded to remove to Arlington House for better accommodation. His
disorder tum'd to malignant fever, which increasing after all that six
;of the most able physicians could do, he became delirious, with intervals

 Iof sense, during which Dr. Lloyd (after Bp. of St. Asaph) administer'd
the holy sacrament, of which also participated. He died the Friday-
           a               I

                       ;following, the 30 July, to the universal griefe of all that knew or heard
of his greate worth, nor had any a greater Josse than myselfe. Oft
would he say was the oldest acquaintance he had in England (when
his Father was in Ireland), being now of above 3oyeares, contracted
                           it

abroad, when he rid in the Academie in Paris, and when we were sel-
dome asunder. His Majesty never lost a worthier subject, nor father a
better or more dutiful son a loving, generous, good-natur'd, and per
                           it ;
fectly obliging friend one who had done innumerable kindnesses to
                               ;  nor did he ever advance any that were
severall before they knew

not worthy no one more brave, more modest none more humble,
                                                              :

sober, and every way virtuous. Unhappy England in this illustrious
                     THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.   _ 419

person's loss ! Universal was the mourning for him and the eulogies
on him ; I staied night and day by his bed-side to his last gasp, to close
his deare eyes ! O
                     sad father, mother, wife,   and children ! What shall
I add ! he deserv'd  all that a sincere friend,  a brave souldier, a virtuous

courtier, a loyal subject, an honest man, a bountifull master, and good
Christian could deserve of his Prince and Country. One thing more

let me note, that he often express'd to me the abhorrence he had of that

base and unworthy action which he was put upon, of engaging the
Smyrna fleete in time of peace, in which.tho' he behav'd himselfe like

a.greate captaine, yet he told me it was the onely blot in his life, and
troubled him exceedingly. Tho' he was commanded, and never exa-

min'd further when he was so, yet he always spake of it with regret and
detestation. The Countesse was at the seate of her daughter, the

Countesse ol Derby, almost 200 miles off.
   30 August. I went to visite a French gentleman, one Monsieur Chai -
dine, who having ben thrice in the East Indies, Persia, and other remote

countries, came hither in our returne ships from those parts, and it
being reported that he was a very curious and knowing man, I was

desir'd by the R. Society to salute him in their name, and to invite him
to honour them with his company. Sir Jo. Hoskins and Sir Christopher
Wren accompanied me. We found him at his lodgings in his Eastern

habit, a very handsome person, extremely affable, a modest, well-bred

man, not inclin'd to talke wonders. He spake Latine, and understood

Greeke, Arabic, and Persian, from 1 1 yeares travels in those parts, whither

he went in search ofJewells, and was become very rich. He seem'd about

36 years of age. After the usual civilities we ask'd some account of the
extraordinary things he must have seene in travelling over land to those

places where few, if any, Northern Europeans us'd to go, as the

Black and Caspian Sea, Mingrelia, Bagdat, Nineveh, Persepolis,

&c He told us that the things most worthy of our sight would be the
draughts he had caus'd to be made of some noble mines, &c for that,

besides his own little talent that way, he had carried two good painters
with him, to draw landskips, measure and designe the remaines of the

palace which Alexander burnt in his frolic at Persepolis, with divers

temples, columns, relievos, and statues, yet extant, which he affirm 'd to

be sculpture far exceeding any thing he had observ'd either at Rome,
in Greece, or in any other part of the world where magnificence was in

estimation. He said there was an inscription in letters not intelligible,

though intire. He was sorry he could not gratify the curiosity of the

Society at present, his things not being yet out of the ship, but would

wait on them with them on his returne from Paris, whither he was

going the next day, but with intention to returne suddenly, and stay
longer here, the persecution in France not suffering Protestants, and he

was one, to be quiet. He told us that Nineveh was a vast citty, now
all buried in her mines, the inhabitants building on the subterranean
420 MONSIEUR CHARDINE. THE ROYAL LIBRARY AT WHITEHALL.

vaults, which were, as appear 'd the first stories of the old Cittie ; that
there were frequently found huge vases of fine earth, columns, and other,
antiquities ; that the straw which the Egyptians required of the Israel
ites, was not to burne, or cover the rowes of bricks as we use, but being ·
chopp'd small to mingle with the clay, which being dried in the sun
(for they bake not in the furnaces) would else cleave asunder ; that in
Persia are yet a race of Igniculi who worship the sun and the fire as Gods ;
that the women of Georgia and Mingrelia were universaly, and without
any compare, the most beautifull creatures for shape, features, and figure,
in the world, and therefore the Grand Seignior and Bashaws had had
from thence most of their wives and concubines ; that there had, within
these hundred yeares ben Amazons amongst them, that is to say, a sort
or race of valiant women, given to warr ; that Persia was extremely
fertile ; he spoke also of Japan and China, and of the many greate
errors of our late geographers, as we suggested matter for discourse. We
then took our leaves, failing of seeing his papers, but it was told us by
others that indeede he durst not open or shew them till he had first
shewed them to the French King, but of this he himselfe said nothing.

   2 Sept. I had an opportunity, his Majesty being still at Windsor, of
seeing his private library at White-hall, at my full ease. I went with
expectation of finding some curiosities, but though there were about
iooo volumes, there were few of importance which I had not perus'd
before. They consisted chiefly of such books as had from time to time

ben dedicated or presented to him ; a few Histories, some Travels and
French bookes, aboundance of mapps and sea charts, entertainments
and pomps, buildings and pieces relating to the navy, some mathema
tical instruments ; but what was most rare were 3 or 4 Romish brevia
ries, with a great deal of miniature and monkish painting and gilding,
one of which is most exquisitely don, both as to the figures, grotesques,
and compartments, to the utmost of that curious art. There is another

in which I find written by the hand of K. Hen. VII. his giving it to his

deare daughter Margaret, afterwards Queene of Scots, in which he
desires her to pray for his soule, subscribing his name at length. There
is also the processe of the philosophers great elixer, represented in divers
pieces of excellent miniature, but the discourse is in High Dutch, a
MS. There is another MS. in 4to. of above 300 yeares old in French,
being an institution of physic, and in the botanical part the plants are
curiously painted in miniature : also a folio MS. of good thicknesse,
being the severall exercises, as Theames, Orations, Translations, &c. of

K. Edward VI. all written and subscrib'd by his owne hand, and with

his name very legible, and divers of the Greeke interleave and cor
rected after the manner of schole boys exercises, and that exceedingly
well and proper, with some epistles to his preceptor, which shew that
young Prince to have ben extraordinarily advanc'd in learning, and as
Cardan, who had ben in England affirm'd, stupendiously knowing for
·THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  . 421

  his age. There is likewise his Journal ', no lesse testifying his early
  ripeness and care about the affaires of state.

     There are besides many pompous volumes, some emboss'd with gold,

·and intaglias on achats, medailes, &c I spent 3 or 4 intire daies,
  lock'd up and alone, among these bookes and curiosities. In the rest
  of the private lodgings contiguous to this, are divers of the best pictures
  of the greate masters, Raphael, Titian, &c. and, in my esteeme, above
 all, the Noli me tangere of our blessed Saviour to Mary Magdalen after

  his Resurrection, of Hans Holbein, then which I never saw so much

  reverence and kind of heavenly astonishment express 'd in a picture.
     There are also divers curious clocks, watches, and pendules of exqui

  site work, and other curiosities. An ancient woman, who made these
  lodgings cleane, and bad all the keys, let me in at pleasure for a small
  reward, by meanes of a friend.

    6 Sept I din'd with Sir Stephen Fox, now one of the Lords Com
 missioners of the Treasury. This gentleman came first a poore boy
  from the quire of Salisbury, then was taken notice of by Bp. Duppa,
 and afterwards waited on my Lord Percy (brother to Algernon E. of

  Northumberland), who procur'd for him an inferior place amongst the
  Clerks of the Kitchen and Greene Cloth side, where he was found so

  humble, diligent, industrious, and prudent in his behaviour, that his
 Majesty being in exile, and Mr. Fox waiting, both the King and Lords
 about him frequently employed him about their affaires ; trusted him
· both with receiving and paying the little mony they had. Returning
 with his Majesty to England, after greate wants and greate sufferings,
 his Majesty found him so honest and industrious, and withall so capable
 and ready, that being advane'd from Clerk of the Kitchen to that of
 the Greene Cloth, he procur'd to be Paymaster to the whole Army, and
 by his dexterity and punctual dealing he obtain'd such credit among-
 the banquers, that he was in a short time able to borrow vast sums of
 them upon any exigence. The continual turning thus of mony, and
 the'souldiers moderate allowance to him for his keeping touch with
 them, did so inrich him, that he is believ'd to be worth at least 200,000/.
 honestly gotten and unenvied, which is next to a miracle. With all
 this he continues as humble and ready to do a courtesie as ever he was.
 He is generous, and lives very honorably, of a sweete nature, well
 spoken, well bred, and is so highly in his Majesty's esteeme, and so
 usefull, that being long since made a knight, he is also advane'd to be
 one of the Lords Commissioners of the Treasurie, and has the rever-
 tion of the Cofferer's place after Harry Brouncker. He has married
 his eldest daughter to my Lord Cornwallis, and gave her 1 2,000 pounds,
 and restor'd that entangl'd family besides. He match'd his eldest son

 to Mrs. Trollop, who .brings with her (besides a greate sum) neere, if

     1 A note is added, that Dr. Burnet has transcribed many remarks out of this in his History
 of the Reformation.
422 SIR STEPHEN FOX. THE QUEEN OF SWEDEN. MY BIRTHDAY.

not altogether 2000/. per ann. Sir Stephen's Lady (an excellent
woman) is sister to Mr. Whittle, one of the King's chirurgeons. In a
word, never was man more fortunate than Sir Stephen ; he is an hand-

som person, vertuous, and very religious.

   23 Sept. Came to my house some German strangers and Signor

Pietro a famous musitian, who had ben long in Sweden ia Queene
Christina's Court ; he sung admirably to a guitar, and had a perfect

good tenor and base, and had set to Italian composure many of Abra

ham Cowley's pieces, which shew'd extremely well. He told me that
in Sweden the heate in some part of summer was as excessive as the
cold in winter ; so cold, he affirm'd, that the streetes of all the townes

are desolate, no creatures stirring in them for many moneths, all the
inhabitants retiring to their stoves. He spake high things of that ro

mantic Queene's learning and skill in languages, the majestie of her
behaviour, her exceeding wit, and that the histories she had read of
other countries, especially of Italy and Rome, had made her despise
her owne. That the real occasion of her resigning her Crowne was

the Noblemen's importuning her to marrie, and the promise which the

Pope had made her of procuring her to be Queene 01 Naples, which
also caus'd her to change her religion ; but she was cheated by his

crafty Holiness,1 working on her ambition ; that the reason ot her
killing her Secretary at Fountaine Beleau 2 was his revealing that in

trigue with the Pope. But after all this I rather believe it was her mad
prodigality and extreme vanity, which had consum'd those vast treasures
the greate Adolphus, her father, had brought out of Germany during
his [campaigns] there and wonderfull successes ; and that if she had

not voluntarily resign'd, as foreseeing the event, the Estates of her

Kingdom would have compell'd her to do so.

   30 Oct. I went to London to be private, my birthday being the next
day, and now I ariv'd at my sixtieth year, on which I began a more

solemn survey of my whole life, in order to the making and confirming

my peace with God, by an accurate scrutinie of all my actions past, as
far as I was able to call them to mind. How difficult and uncertaine,
yet how necessary a work ! The Lord be mercifull to me, and accept
me 1 Who can tell how oft he offendeth ? Teach me therefore so to
number my daies that I may apply my heart to wisdom, and make my

calling and election sure. Amen, Lord Jesus.  A  stranger          preach'd  at

   13. I spent this whole day in exercises.
White-hall on 16 Luke 30, 31.' I then went to St. Martin's, where the
Bp. of St. Asaph preach'd on 1 Peter 3, 15. ; the holy communion fol-
low'd, at which I participated, humbly imploring God's assistance ir»
the greate worke I was entering into. In the afternoone I heard Dr.
Sprat at St Margaret's on 17 Acts 11.
1 Pope Alexander VII. of the family of Chighi at Sienna.

* So called and written in that time.
1 This was probably to the King's household early in the morning.
            THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  4^3

  I began and spent the whole weeke in examining my life, begging
pardon for my faults, assistance and blessing for the future, that I

might in some sort be prepar'd for the time that now drew neere,

and not have the greate work to begin when one can worke no longer.
The Lord Jesus help and assist me ! I therefore stirr'd little abroad
till the 5  November, when 1 heard Dr. Tenison, the now Vicar of St.
Martin's    ; Dr. Lloyd, the former incumbent, being made the Bishop of
St Asaph.
7. I participated of the blessed Communion, finishing and con
firming my resolutions of giving myselfe up more intirely to God, to
whom I had now most solemnly devoted the rest of my poore remain

der of life in this world ; the Lord enabling me, who am an unprofit

able servant, a miserable sinner, yet depending on his infinite goodnesse

and mercy, accepting my endeavours.
   15. Came to dine with us Sir Richard Anderson, his lady, sonn,
and wife, sister to my daughter in law.

   30 Nov. The anniversary election at the Royall Society, brought
me to London, where was chosen President that excellent person and

greate philosopher Mr. Robert Boyle, who indeede ought to have ben
the very first ; but neither his infirmitie nor his modestie could now
any longer excuse him. I desired I might for this yeare be left out of
the Council, by reason my dwelling was in the country. The Society

according to costome dined together.
   This signal day begun the trial (at which I was present) of my Lord
Viscount Stafford, for conspiring the death of the King ; second sonn
to my Lord Thomas Howard Earle of Arundel and Surry, Earle Ma-

rishall of England and grandfather to the present Duke of Norfolk,
whom I so well knew, and from which excellent person I received so
many favours. It was likewise his birth-day. The trial was in West

minster Hall, before the King, Lords, and Commons, just in the same

manner as 40 yeares past, the greate and wise Earle of Strafford (there
being but one letter differing their names) receiv'd his trial for pre
tended ill government in Ireland, in the very same place, this Lord

Stafford's father being then High Steward. The place of sitting was

now exalted some considerable height from the paved floore of the
Hall, with a stage of boards. The throne, woolpacks for the Judges,
long formes for the Peeres, chaire for the Lord Steward, exactly ranged,
as in the House of Lords. The sides on both bands scaffolded to the
very roofe for the Members of the House of Commons. At the upper
end and on the right side of the King's state, was a box for his Majesty,
and on the left others for the greate ladyes, and over heade a gallerie
for Ambassadors and public Ministers. At the lower end or entrance

was a barr, and place for the prisoner, the Lieutenant of the Tower of

London, the axe-bearer and guards, my Lord Stafford's two daughters,

the Marchionesse of Winchester being one ; there was likewise a box
424 ' TRIAL AND CONDEMNATION OF VISCOUNT STAFFORD.

for my Lord to retire into. At the right hand, in another box, some
what higher, stood the Witnesses ; at the left the Managers, in the
name of the Commons of England, viz. Serjeant Maynard (the greate
lawyer) the same who prosecuted the cause against the Earle of Straf
ford 40 yeares before, being now neere 80 yeares of age) Sir William
Jones, late Attorney General, Sir Francis Winnington, a famous pleader,
and Mr. Treby now Recorder of London, not appearing in their gownes
as lawyers, but in their cloakes and swords as representing the Com
mons of England: to these were joined Mr. Hampden, Mr. Sacheverell,
Mr. Poule, Col. Titus, Sir Tho. Lee, all gentlemen of quality, and
noted parliamentary men. The two first dayes, in which were read
the commission and impeachment, were but a tedious entrance into
matter of fact, at which I was but little present. But on Thursday I
was commodiously seated amongst the Commons, when the witnesses
were sworn and examined. The principal witnesses were Mr. Oates
(who call'd himselfe Dr.)Mr. Dugdale, and Tuberville. Oates swore
that he delivered a commission to Viscount Stafford from the Pope, to
be Paymaster Generall to an army intended to be rais'd. Dugdale, that
being at Lord Aston's, the prisoner dealt with him plainly to murder his
Majestie : and Turberville, that at Paris he had also propos'd the
same to him.

   3. The depositions of my Lord's witnesses were taken, to invalidate
the King's witnesses ; they were very slight persons, but, being 15 or
16, they tooke up all that day, and in truth they rather did my Lord
injury than service.

   4. Came other witnesses of the Commons to corroborate the Kings,
some-being Peeres, some Commons, with others of good qualitie, who
tooke off all the former day's objections, and set the King's witnesses
recti in Curia.

   6. Sir Wm. Jones summ'd up the evidence ; to him succeeded all
the rest of the Managers, and then Mr. Hen. Poule made a vehement
oration. After this my Lord, as on all occasions, and often during the
trial, spoke in his- owne defence, denying the charge altogether, and
that he had never seene Oates or Tuberville at the time and manner
affirm'd: in truth, their testimonie did little weigh with me ; Dugdale's
orrely seem'd to press hardest, to which my Lord spake a greate while,
but confusedly, without any method. One thing my Lord said as to
Oates, which I confesse did exceedingly affect me ; that a person who
during his depositions should so vauntingly brag that tho' he went over
to the Church of Rome, yet he was never a Papist, nor of their religion,
all the time that be seem'd to apostatize from the Protestant, but only
as a spie ; tho' he confess'd he tooke their sacrament, worshipped
images, went thro' all their oathes and discipline of their proselytes,
swearing secrecy and to be faithfull, but with intent to come over againe
and betray them ; that such an hypocrite, that had so deeply prevari
   THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                  425

>

catedas even to tume idolator (for so we of the Church ofJIngland
term'd it), attesting God so solemnly that he was intirely theirs and

devoted to their interest, and consequently   (as he pretended) trusted ;
                                              wretch should be admitted
I say that the witnesse of such a proflygate

against the life of a Peere, this my Lord look'd upon as a monstrous

thing, and such as must needs redound to the dishonour of our Reli
gion and Nation. And verily I am of his Lordship's opinion ; such a

man's testimonie should not be taken against the life of a dog. But
the merit of something material which he discovered against Coleman,
put him in such esteeme with the Parliament, that now, I fancy, he

stuck at nothing, and thought every body was to take what he said

for Gospel. The consideration of this and some other circumstances

began to stagger me ; particularly how 'twas possible that one who
went among the Papists on such a designe, and pretended to be in

trusted with so many letters and commissions from the Pope and the

party, nay and deliver'd them to so many greate persons, should not

reserve one of them to shew, nor so much as one copy of any commis

sion, which he who had such dexterity in opening letters might cer

tainly have done, to the undeniable conviction of those whom he

accus'd: but, as I said, he gain'd credit on Coleman ; but as to others
whom he so madly flew upon, I am little inclin'd to believe his testi

mony, he being so slight a person, so passionate, ill-bred, and of such

impudent behaviour ; nor is it likely that such piercing politicians as

the Jesuits should trust him with so high and dangerous seacrets.
   7. On Tuesday I was againe at the trial, when judgment was de

manded ; and after my Lord had spoken what he could in denying the

fact, the Managers answering the objections, the Peeres, adjourned to
their house, and within two houres returned againe. There was in the
meane time this question put to the Judges, ' whether there being but

one witnesse to any single crime or act, it could amount to convict a

man of treason.' They gave an unanimous opinion that in case of
treason they all were overt acts, for tho' no man should be condemn'd

by one witnesse for any one act, yet for several acts to the same
intent, it was valid, which was my Lord's case. This being past and
the Peeres in their seates againe, the Lord Chancellor Finch (this day
the Lord High Steward) removing to the woolsack next his Majesty's

state, after summoning the Lieutenant of the Tower to bring forth his

prisoner, and proclamation made for silence, demanded ol every peer
(who were in all 86) whether William Lord Viscount Stafford were guilty
of the treason laid to his charge, or not guilty. Then the Peere spoken

to, standing up, and laying his right hand on his breast, said Guilty, or
Not Guilty, upon my honour, and then sate down, the Lord Steward

noting their suffrages as they answered upon a paper: when all had
done, the number of Not guilty being but 31, the Guilty 55: and then
after proclamation for silence againe, the Lord Steward directing his
426 EXECUTION OF LORD STAFFORD. COMETS AND METEORS.

speech to the prisoner, against whom the axe was turned edgewsys,
and not before, in aggravation of his crime, he being ennobled by the
King's father, and since received many favours from his present
Majesty, (after enlarging on his offence) deploring first his own un-
happinesse that he who had never condemn'd any man before, should
now be necessitated to begin with him ; he then pronounc'd sentence
of death by hanging, drawing, and quartering, according to forme, with
greate solemnity and dreadfull gravity, and after a short pause, told the
prisoner that he believ*d the Lords would intercede for the omission of
some circumstances of his sentence, beheading only excepted ; and
then breaking his white staff, the Court, was dissolved. My Lord
Stafford during all this latter part spake but little, and only gave their
Lordships thanks after the sentence was pronounced ; and indeede
behaved himselfe modestly and as became him.

   It was observ'd that all his owne relations of his name and family
condemn'd him, except his nephew the Earle of Arundel, son to the
Duke of Norfolk. And it must be acknowledge that the whole trial

was carried on with exceeding gravity: so stately and august an ap
pearance I had never seene before ; for besides the innumerable specta
tors of gentlemen and forraine ministers, who saw and heard all the
proceedings, the prisoner had the consciences of all the Commons of
England for his accusers, and all the Peeres to be his Judges and Jury.
He had likewise the assistance of what Counsel he would, to direct
him in his plea, who stood by him. And yet I can hardly think that
a person of his age and experience should engage men whom he never
saw before (and one of them that came to visite him as a stranger at
Paris) point blanq to murder the King : God onely who searches hearts
can discover the truth. Lord Stafford was not a man belov'd, especialy
of his own family.

    12. This evening looking out of my chamber window towards the
west, I saw a meteor of an obscure bright colour, very much in shape
like the blade of a sword, the rest of the skie very serene and cleare.
What this may portend God onely knows: but such another pheno
menon I remember to have seene in 1640, aboute the Triallof the greate

Earle of Strafford, preceeding our bloudy Rebellion. I pray God

avert his judgements. We have had of late severall comets, which tho'
 I believe appeare from naturall causes, and of themselves operate not,
yet I cannot despise them. They may be warnings from God, as they
 commonly are forerunners of his animadversions. After many daies
and many nights of snow, cloudy and dark weather, the comet was very
 m ich wasted.

    17 December. My daughter in law was brought to bed of a
 sonn christen'd Richard.

    22. A solemn publicq fast that God would prevent all Popish plotts,

 avert his judgements, and give a blessing to the proceedings of Parka
                        THE. DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.            427

inent which was now assembl'd, and which struck at the succession

of the Duke of York
29. The Viscount Stafford was beheaded on Tower-hiU.
1681, 10 Feb. I was at the wedding of my nephew John Evelyn of
Wotton, married    by   the Bp. of Rochester at Westminster in Henry
                   the  daughter and heyre of Mr. Eversfield of Sussex,
VII. Chapell, to
her portion ,£8000. The solemnity was kept with a few friends onely
at Lady Beckford's, the lady's mother.

   8 Mar. Visited and din'd at the Earle of Essex's, with whom I spent
most of the aftcrnoone alone. Thence to my (yet living) godmother
and kinswoman Mrs. Kcightley, sister to Sir Tho. Evelyn and niece to

my father, being now 86 yeares of age, sprightly, and in perfect health,

her eyes serving her as well as ever, and of a comely countenance,
that one would not suppose her above 50.

   27. The Parliament now conven'd at Oxford. Greate expectation
of his Royal Highness's case as to the succession, against which the
House was set.
An extraordinary sharp and cold spring, not yet a leafe on the

trees, frost and snow lying : whilst the whole nation was in the

greatest ferment.

   11 April. I tooke my leave of Dr. Lloyd (now Bishop of St. Asaph)

at his house in Leicester Fields, now going to reside in his diocese.
12. I din'd at Mr. Brisbane's, Secretary to the Admiralty, a learned

and industrious person, whither came Dr. Burnet to thank me for some

papers which I had contributed towards his excellent History of

the Reformation.

  26. I din'd at Don Pietro Ronquillo's, the Spanish Ambassador, at
Wild House (Drury Lane), who us'd me with extraordinary civility.

The dinner was plentiful, halfe after the Spanish, halfe after the English

way. After dinner he led me into his bed-chamber, where we fell into
a long discourse concerning religion. Tho' he was a learned man in
politics, and an advocate, he was very ignorant in religion, and unable
to defend any point of controversy ; he was however far from being
fierce. At parting he earnestly wish'd me to apply humbly to the
Blessed Virgin to direct me, assuring me that he had known divers

who had ben averse from the Roman Catholic Religion, wonderfully
enlighten'd and convinc'd by her intercession. He importun'd me to
come and visite him often.

29 April.     But  one showre    of rain all this month.  of  Northampton
5 May.     Came    to dine with  me Sir William Fermor

shire, and Sir Christopher Wren, his Majesty's Architect and Surveyor,
now building the Cathedral of St. Paul, and the Columne in memorie
of the Citty's conflagration, and was in hand with the building of 50

Parish Churches. A wonderful genius had this incomparable person.
   16 May. Came my Lady Sunderland to desire that I would propose
428 THE DAUGHTER OF SIR S. FOX. THE fcARL OF KILDARE.

a match to Sir Stephen Fox for her sonn, Lord Spencer, to marry Mrs.
Jane, Sir Stephen's daughter. I excus'd myself all I was able, for the
truth is, I was afraid he would prove an extravagant man : for though
a youth of extraordinary parts, and had an excellent education to render

him a worthy man, yet his early inclinations to extravagance made me
apprehensive that I should not serve Sir Stephen by proposing
                                                             it           like
                                                                   ; it,
a friend this being now his only daughter, well bred, and likely to
I
      ;receive a large share of her father's opulence. Lord Sunderland was
much sunke in his estate by gaming and other prodigalities, and was
             Inow no longer Secretary of State, having fallen into displeasure of
the King for siding with the Commons about the Succession but
which am assu^d he did not do out of his owne inclination, or for the

preservation of the Protestant religion, but by mistaking the ability of

the party to carry it. However, so earnest and importunate was the
Countesse, that did mention to Sir Stephen, who said that was too
                        it

                                I
great honour, that his daughter was very young as well as my Lord,

and he was resolved never to marry her without the parties mutual
liking, with other objections which neither would nor could con

tradict. He desir'd me to expresse to the Countesse the greate

sense he had of the honour don him, that his daughter and her sonn

were too young, that he would do nothing without her liking, which
he did not think her capable of expressing judiciously till she was 16
or 17 yeares of age, of which she now wanted
would put off as civilly as could.            a4  yeares, and that        it, I

2                       I

      It ;20 May. Our new curate preach'd, a pretty hopefull young man,
           I it
yet somewhat raw, newly come from colledge, full of Latine sentences,
                    itwhich in time will weare off. He read prayers very well.
   25. There came to visite me Sir William Walter and Sir John
Etowes and the next day the Earle of Kildare, young gent related

to my wife, and other company. There had scarce fallen any raine

since Christmas.

June.                 went to Hampton Court, when the Surrey gentlemen

presented their addresses to his Majesty, whose hand kiss'd, intro
                                                  I

duce by the Duke of Albemarle.

12. still continu'd so great a drought as had never ben known in

England, and was said to be universal.
   14 Aug. No sermon this afternoone, which think did not happen
twice in this parish these 30 years so gracious has God bep toI
and indeede to the whole nation God grant that we abuse not
                                :;

this greate priviledge, either by our wantonnesse, schisme, or unfaith-
fulnesse, under such meanes as he has not favoured any other nation

under heaven besides.
   23. went to Wotton, and on the following day was invited to Mr.
IDenzil Onslow's at his seate at Purford, where was much company and

such an extraordinary feast as had hardly seene at any country gen
                        I
                          THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                429/

tleman's table. What made it more remarkable was, that there was

not any thing save what his estate about it did afford : as venison,

rabbits, hares, pheasants, partridges, pigeons, quails, poultrie, all sortes
of fowle in season from his owne decoy neere his house, and all sorts of

fresh fish. After dinner we went to see sport at the decoy, where I

never saw so many herons.
The seate stands on a flat, the ground pasture, rarely water'd, and ex
ceedingly improv'd since Mr. Onslow bought it of Sir Robert Parkhurst,
who spent a faire estate. The house is timber, but commodious, and
with one ample dining-roome, the hall adom'd with paintings of fowle
and huntings, &c. the work of Mr. Barlow, who is excellent in this

kind from the life '.

- 30. From Wotton I went to see Mr. Hussey (at Sutton in Shere),
who has a very pretty seate well water'd, neere my brother's. He is

the neatest husband for curious ordering his domestic and field accom
modations, and what pertains to husbandry, that I have ever seene, as

to his granaries, tacklings, tooles, and utensills, ploughs, carts, stables,

wood-piles, wood-house, even to hen-roosts and hog-troughs. Methought

I saw old Cato or Varro in him ; all substantial, all in exact order.

The sole inconvenience he lies under, is the greate quantity of sand which

the streame brings along with        and fills his canals and receptacles
6
                                                  it,

                                                                                                          :

                                                                       I
                                                                                I
for fish too soone. The rest of my time of stay at Wotton was spent

in walking about the grounds and goodly woods, where have in my

youth so often entertain'd my solitude and so on the 2d of Sept.

once more returned to my home.

September. Died my pretty grand-child, and was interrM on

the 8th [at Deptford.]
   14. Din'd with Sir Stephen Fox, who propos'd to me the purchasing

of Chelsey College, which his Majesty had some time since given to our

Society, and would now purchase againe to build an Hospital or
                                                it
Infirmary for Souldiers there, in which he desired my assistance as one
                                                           3.
of the Council of the R. Society. -
   15. had another opportunity of visiting his Majesty's private it
Library at White-halL                                                   is is
s1
To Sir Sam. Moreland's, to see his house and mechanics'.
      II
   17. went with Monsieur Faubert about taking the Countesse of
Bristol's house for an academie, he being lately come from Paris for

his religion, and resolving to settle here

     This house has been pulled down many years.  The estate                   .the property of the Earl of
Onslow. 1816.
In Lambeth, at what now Vauxhall. where Sir Sam. Moreland had fitted up a house,
                          is
                                 is
and built a large room, which he furnished in a sumptuous manner, and constructed in his
garden some fountains. He was much in favour with the King for services he had rendered
to him whilst abroad, and this probably the place which                      said the King and his Ladies

used to cross the water to go to. Hist. Surrey, 111. 489, 490, 49s.
      He had a riding house between Swallow-street and King-street; the passage by bef/een
3                                                                              it
                      is
those streets, still (or lately was) called by his name (18x6.)
43° ..           DR. HOOPER. RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR AT COURT.

I23. went to see Sir Tho. Bond's fine house and garden at Peckham.
' 2 Oct. I went to Camerwell, where that good man Dr. Par (late
chaplain         to Abp.  Usher) preach'd   on  16 Acts, 30.
                 went to  Fulham to visit  the  Bishop of London,  in  whose  gar
  11. I
den I first saw the Sedum arborescens in flower, which was exceedingly

beautifull.

   5 Nov. Dr. Hooper preach'd on 12 Mark, 16, 17, before the King,
of the usurpation of the Church of Rome. This is one of the first rank
of pulpit men in the nation.

   15. I din'd with the Earle of Essex, who after dinner in his study,

where we were alone, related to me how much he had ben scandaliz'd

and inju^d in the report of his being privy to the marriage of his Lady's
niece, the rich young widow of the late Lord Ogle, sole daughter of the'
E. of Northumberland ; shewing me a letter of Mr. Thynn's excusing

himself for not communicating his marriage to his Lordship. He ac
quainted me also with the whole story of that unfortunate lady being
betrayM by her grandmother the Countesse of Northumberland, and

Col. Bret, for money ; and that tho', upon the importunity of the Duke

of Monmouth, he had delivered to the grandmother a particular of the
jointure which Mr. Thynn pretended he would settle on the lady, yet

he totally discouraged the proceeding, as by no means a competent

match for one that both by birth and fortune might have pretended to

the greatest prince in Christendom ; that he also propos'd the Earle of
                  or the Lord Cranburn, but          by no means for Mr. Thynn.
Kin1g9s. tonI ,  din'd with my worthy friend    was  Erskin, Master of the Char
                                                Mr.

terhouse, uncle to the Dutchesse of Monmouth ; a wise and learned
' gentleman, fitter to have ben a privy councillor and minister of state

than to have been laied aside.

   24. I was at the audience of the Russia Ambassador before both their
Majesties in the Banquetting-house. The presents were carried before
him, held up by his followers in two ranks before the King's State, and
consisted of tapissry (one suite of which was doubtless brought from
France as being of that fabrick, the Ambassador having pass'd thro'

that Kingdom as he came out of Spain), a large Persian carpet, furs of

sable and ermine, &c. but nothing was so splendid and exotic as the
Ambassador who came soone after the King's Restauration. This pre

sent Ambassador was exceedingly offended that his coach was not per
mitted to come into the Court, till being told that no King's Ambassador

did, he was pacified, yet requiring an attestation of it under the hand
of Sir Cha. Cotterell, the Master of the Ceremonies ; being, it seems,
afraid he should offend his Master if he omitted the least punctilio.
Twas reported he condemned his sonn to loose his head for shaving
off his beard, and putting himselfe in the French mode at Paris, and
that he would have executed it had not the French King interceded --

but qu : of this.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  43 1

   30 tyov. Sir Christopher Wren chosen President [of the Royal
Society], Mr. Austine, Secretary, with Dr. Plot, the ingenious author of
History of Oxfordshire. There was a most illustrious appearance.

   1682. 11 Jan. I saw the audience of the Morocco Ambassador',

his retinue nornumerous. He was receiv'd in the Banquetting-house,
both their Majesties being present. He came up to the Throne with-
out making any sort of reverence, not bowing his head or body. He
spake by a renegado Englishman, for whose safe return there was
a promise. They were all clad in the Moorish habite, cassocks of
coloured cloth, or silk, with buttons and loopes, over this an alhaga, or
white woollen mantle, so large as to wrap both head and body, a shash
or small turban, naked legg'd and arm'd, but with leather socks like the
Turks, a rich scymeter, and large calico sleeved shirts. The Ambassa

dor had a string of pearls oddly woven in his turban. I fancy the old

Roman habite was little different as to the mantle and naked limbs.
The Ambassador was an handsome person, well featur'd, of a wise
looke, subtill, and extreamely civile. Their presents were lions and
estridges (ostriches), &c. ; their errand about a peace at Tangier. But
the concourse and tumult of the people was intolerable, so as the officers

could keepe no order, which these strangers were astonish'd at at first,

there being nothing so regular, exact, and perform'd with such silence,
as is on all these public occasions of their country, and indeede over all
the Turkish dominions.

    14. Din'd at the Bp. of Rochester's, at the Abby, it being his mar
riage day, after twenty-four yeares. He related to me how he had ben
treated by Sir William Temple, foreseeing that he might be a delegate
in the concerne of my Lady Ogle, now likely to come in controversy
upon her marriage with Mr. Thynn ; also how earnestly the late E. of
Danby, Lord Treasurer, sought his friendship, and what plaine and

sincere advice he gave him from" time to time about his miscarriages
and partialities ; particularly his outing Sir John Duncomb from being
Chancellor of the Exchequer, and Sir Ste. Fox, above all, from Pay
master of the Armie. The Treasurer's excuse and reason was, that

Fox's credit was so over-greate with the bankers and monied men, that
he could procure none but by his meanes ; ' for that reason,' replied the

Bishop, ' I would have made him my friend, Sir Stephen being a person
both honest and of credit.' He told him likewise of his stateliness and
difficulty of accesse, and severall other miscarriages, and which indeede

made him hated.

   24. To the Royall Society, where at the Council we pass'd a new law
for the more accurate consideration of candidates, as whether they
would really be useful ; also concerning the honorary members, that

none should be admitted but by diploma.

   1 Named Hamct. There are different prints of him ; one of which is a large and fine one
by Robert.
432 DUTCHESS OF PORTSMOUTH. ERECTION OF GREENWICH HOSPITAL.

   This evening I was at the entertainement of the Morocco Ambas

sador at the Dutchesse of Portsmouth's glorious apartments at White

hall, where was a greate banquet of sweetemeates and musiq, but at

which both the Ambassador and his -retinue behaved themselves -with

extraordinary moderation and modesty, tho' plac'd about a long table
a lady betweene two moores, and amongst these were the King's natural
children, viz. Lady Lichfield and Sussex, the Dutchess of Portsmouth,

Nelly, &c. concubines, and cattell of that sort, as splendid as Jewells
and' excesse of bravery could make them. The Moores neither ad

miring nor seeming to regard any thing, furniture or the like, with any

earnestnesse, and but decently tasting of the banquet. They dranke a

little milk and water, but not a drop of wine ; they also dranke of a
sorbet and jacolatt ; did not looke about, or stare on the ladies, or ex-

presse the least suprize, but with a courtly negligence in pace, counte

nance, and whole behaviour, answering only to such questions as were
ask'd with a greate deale of wit and gallantrie, and so gravely tooke

leave with this compliment, ' That God would blesse the Dutchess of

Portsmouth and the Prince her sonn, meaning the little Duke of Rich
mond".' The King came in at the latter end, just as the Ambassador

was going away. In this manner was this slave (for he was no more
at home) entertain'd by most of the nobility in towne, and went often
to Hide Park on horseback, where he and his retinue shew'd their ex

traordinary activity in horsemanship, and flinging and catching their

launces at full speede ; they rid very short, aud could stand upright at
full speede, managing their spears with incredible agility. He went

sometimes to the theatres, where upon any foolish or fantastical action,

he could not forbear laughing, but he endeavour'd to hide it with ex-"
traordinary modesty and gravity. In a word, the Russian Ambassador,

still at Court, behav'd himselfe like a clowne, compar"d to this civil

h"ea2t7h. en.This evening Sir Ste. Fox acquainted me againe with his
Majestys resolution of proceeding in the erection of a Royal Hospital
for emerited souldiers on that spot of ground which the Royal Society

had sold to his Majesty for 1300/. and that he would settle 5000/.
per ami. on       and build to the value of 20,000/. for the reliefe
             it,
and reception of    4

                             I
                       companies, viz. 400 men to be as in a
colledge or monasterie.         was therefore desir'd by Sir Stephen

(who had not onely the whole managing of this, but was, as
   perceiv'd, himselfe to be a grand benefactor, as well became him
I                                         it

who had gotten so vast an estate by the souldiers) to assist him,
and consult what method to cast in, as to the government. So in
                                    it
his study we arranged the governor, chaplaine, steward, housekeeper,
                                       I
chirurgeon, cook, butler, gardener, porter, and other officers, with their

several salaries and entertainments.      would needes -have a Library,

and mention'd several bookes, since some souldiers might possibly be
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  4.33

studious when they were at leisure to recollect. Thus we made the
first calculations, and set downe our thoughts to be considerM and di
gested better, to shew his Majesty and the Archbishop. He also en-
gag'd me to consider of what laws and orders were fit for the
government, which was to be in every respect as strict as in any reli
gious convent.

    After supper came in the famous treble Mr. Abel, newly return'd
from Italy ; I never heard a more excellent voice ; one would have

sworn it had ben a woman's, it was so high, and so well and skillfully
manag'd, being accompanied by Signor Francesco on the harpsichord.

    28. Mr. Pepys, late Secretary to the Admiralty, shew'd me a large
folio containing the whole mechanic part and art of building royal
ships and men of warr, made by Sir Anth. Deane, being so accurate
a piece from the very keele to the lead block, rigging, gunns, victualling,
manning, and even to every individual pin and naile, in a method so
astonishing and curious, with the draught, both geometrical and in
perspective, and severall sections, that I do not think the world can
shew the like. I esteeme this booke as an extraordinary Jewell.

    7 Feb. My daughter Mary began to learn musick of Signor Bartho-
lomeo, and dauncing of Monsieur Isaac, reputed the best masters.

    Having had several violent fits of an ague, recourse was had to
bathing my legs in milk up to the knees, made as hot as I could en
dure it ; and sitting so in it in a deepe churn or vessell coverM with

Iblankets, and drinking carduus posset, then going to bed and sweating,

   not onely miss'd that expected fit, but had no more, only continued

weake, that I could not go to church 'till Ash Wednesday, which I had
not missed, I think, so long in twenty yeares, so gracious had God

beene to me.

   After this warning and admonition I now began to looke over and

methodize all my writings, accompts, letters, papers ; inventoried the
goods, and other articles of the house, and put things into the best

order I could, and made my will ; that new growing in yeares, I might
have none of these secular things and concerns to distract me when it
should please Almighty God to call me from this transitory life. With
this I prepaid some special meditations and devotions for the time of

sicknesse. The Lord Jesus grant them to be salutary for my poore
soul in that day, that I may obtain mercy and acceptance !

   1 March. My second grandchild was born, and christen'd the next
day by our Viccar at Sayes Court, by the name of John '. I beseeche
God to bless him.

   2. Ash Wednesday. I went to church ; our Viccar preached on

Proverbs, shewing what care and vigilence was required for the keep

Jing of the heart upright. The holy Communion followed, on which
  gave God thanks for his gracious dealing with me in my late sick

                     1 Who became his successor, and was created a baronet in 1713.

                                                                                                             28
434 MR. PEPYS. EXECUTION OF VRATS. THE ROYAL SOCIETY.

nesse, and affording me this blessed opportunity of praising him in
the Congregation, and receiving the cup of salvation with new and

serious resolutions.

    Came to see and congratulate my recovery, Sir John Lowther, Mr.
Herbert, Mr. Pepys, Sir Anth: Deane, and Mr. Hill.

    10. This day was executed Coll. Vrats, and some of his accomplices,
for the execrable murder of Mr. Thynn', set on by the principal Ko-
nigsmark ; he went to execution like an undaunted hero, as one that
had done a friendly office for that base coward C. Koningsmark, who
had hopes to marry his widow the rich Lady Ogle, and was acquitted
by a corrupt jury, and so got away. Vrats told a friend of mine who
accompanied him to the gallows, and gave him some advice, that he
did not value dying of a rush, and hop'd and believM God would deale
with him like a gentleman. Never man went so unconcern'd for his
tad fate.

   24. I went to see the corpse of that obstinate creature Coll. Vrats,

the King permitting that his body should be transported to his owne
country, he being of a good family, and one of the first embalmed by
a particular art invented by one William Russell, a coffin maker, which
preserv'd the body without disbowelling, or to appearance using any
bituminous matter. The flesh was florid, soft, and full, as if the per
son were onely sleeping. He had now ben dead neere 15 daies, and
lay expos'd in a very rich coffin lin'd with lead, too magnificent for
so daring and horrid a murderer.

   At the meeting of R. Society were exhibited some pieces of amber
sent by the Duke of Brandenburg, in one of which was a spider, in

another a gnat, both very intire. There was a discourse of the tinge-
ing of glass, especially with red, and the difficulty of finding any red
colour effectual to penetrate glass, among the glass-painters ; that the
most diaphonous, as blue, yellow, &c. did not enter into the substance
of what was ordinarily painted, more than very shallow, unless in
corporated in the mettal itselfe, other reds and whites not at all beyond
the superfices.

   5 ApriL To the R. Society, where at a Council was regulated what
collections should be published monthly, as formerly the transactions,
which had of late ben discontinu'd, but were now much call'd for by

Ithe curious abroad and at home.
   is. went this afternoone with severall of the Royal Society to a
supper which was all dress'd, both fish and flesh, in Monsieur Papin's
Digestors, by which the hardest bones of beefe itselfe, and mutton, were
made as soft as cheese, without water or other liquor, and with lesse
than 8 ounces of coales, producing an incredible quantity of gravy; and
for close of all a jelly made of the bones of beef, the best for clearness

   1 He ties buried in Westminster Abbey ; the manner of his death being represented on has
monument.
                 THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                      435

and good relish, and the most delicious that I had ever seene or tasted.
We eat pike and other fish bones, and all without impediment ; but
nothing exceeded the pigeons, which tasted just as if bak'd in a pie, all

jthese being stewM in their own juice, without any addition of water

save what swam about the Digester, as in balneo the natural juice of
all these provisions acting on the grosser substances, reduc'd the hard

est bones to tendernesse ; but it is best descanted with more particulars

for extracting tinctures, preserving and stewing fruite, and saving fuel,

in Dr. Papin's booke, publish'd and dedicated to our Society, of which

he is a member. He is since gone to Venice with the late Resident

here (and also a Member of our Society), who carried this excellent
mechanic, philosopher, and physician, to set up a philosophical meet
ing in that citty. This philosophical supper caus'd much mirth amongst
us, and exceedingly pleas'd all the company. I sent a glass of the

jelley to my wife, to the reproch of all that the ladies ever made of the

best hartshorn.

April. The season was unusually wet, with rain and thunder.
   25 May. I was desir'd by Sir Ste. Fox and Sir Christopher Wren
to accompany them to Lambeth, with the plot and desicjne of the Col
lege to be built at Chelsey, to have the Abp.'s approbation. It was a

quadrangle of 200 foote square after the dimensions of the larger qua

drangle at Christ Church, Oxford, for the accomodation of 440 persons,
with governor and officers. This was agreed on.

   The Duke and Dutchesse of York were just now come to London

after his escape and shipwreck as he went by sea for Scotland.
28. At the Rolls Chapell preached the famous Dr. Burnet on 2

Peter L 10. describing excellently well what was meant by Election ;

. viz. not the effect of any irreversable decree, but so call'd because they

embraced the Gospel readily, by which they became elect or precious

to God. It would be very needlesse to make our calling and election

sure, were they irreversable and what the rigid Presbyterians pretend.

In the afternoone to St. Lawrence's church, a new and cheerful pile.
  29, I gave notice to the Bp. of Rochester of what Maimburg had

publish'd about the motives of the late Dutchesse of York's perversion,
in his Historie of Calvinism ; and did myselfe write to the Bp. of Win
                               who being concern'd in  urged him
1

                                                       ',

                                              it,

                                                                       iIt,
                                                                                  I
chester (Dr. Morley) about
to set forth his vindication.
  R31. The Morocco Ambassador being admitted an honorary mem

ber of the Society, and subscribing his name and titles in Arabic,
was deputed by the Council to go and compliment him.
    19 June. The Bantame or East India Ambassadors (at this time

we had in London the Russian, Moroccan, and Indian Ambassadors,)

      The name of one was Pungearon Ni» Para, of the other Kaia Nebbe, or Keay Nabec
There are different prints of both, representing them exactly as here described. There wer*
ethers in the embassy, but probably of inferior decree.
 436 EAST INDIAN AMBASSADORS. MR. BOHUN, OF LEA.

 being invited to dine at Lord Geo. Berkeley's (now Earl), I went to the

 entertainment to contemplate the exotic guests. They were both very
 hard-favoured and much resembling in countenance some sort of monT
 keys. We eate at two tables, the Ambassadors and interpreter by
 themselves. Their garments were rich Indian silks, flower'd with gold,
 viz. a close waistcoate to their knees, drawers, naked legs, and on their
 heads capps made like fruit-baskets. They wore poison'd daggers at
 their bosoms, the hafts carv'd with some ugly serpents or devils heads,
 exceeding keene, and of Damasco metal. They wore no sword. The
 second Ambassador (sent it scemes to succeed in case the first should
 die by the way in so tedious a journey), having ben at Mecca, wore a
 Turkish or Arab shash, a little part of the linncn hanging downe behinde
 his neck, with some other difference of habite, and was halfe a Negro,
 bare legg'd and naked feete, and deem'd a very holy man. They sate
 cross-legg'd like Turks, and sometimes in the posture of apes and
 monkeys ; their nailes and teeth black as jet, and shining, which being
 the effect, as to their teeth, of perpetually chewing betel to preserve
 them from the tooth-ache, much raging in their country, is esteem'd
 beautifull. The first Ambassador was of an olive hue, a flat face,

 narrow eyes, squat nose, and Moorish lips, no haire appeared ; they
 wore several rings of silver, gold, and copper on their fingers, which
 was a token of knighthood or nobility. They were of Java Major,
 whose Princes have ben turn'd Mahometans not above 50 yeares since,
 the inhabitants are still pagans and idolators. They seem'd of a dull
 and heavy constitution, not wondering at any thing they saw, but ex
 ceedingly astonished how our Law gave us property in our estates, and
 so thinking we were all Kings, for they could not be made to compre
 hend how subjects could possess anything but at the pleasure of their
 Prince, they being all slaves ; they were pleas'd with the notion, and

 admirM our happinesse. They were very sober, and I believe subtle
 in their way. Their meate was cook'd, carried up, and they attended

 by several fat slaves, who had no covering save drawers, which appear'd
 very uncouth and loathsome. They eate their pilaw and other spoone-
 meate without spoones, taking up their pottage in the hollow of their
 fingers, and very dextrously flung it into their mouthes without spilling

 a drop.

    17 July. Came to dine with me the Duke of Grafton and the young
 Earle of Ossorie, son to my most deare deceas'd friend.
- 3a Went to visit our good neighbour Mr. Bohun, (Lea, Kent),
 whose whole house is a cabinet of all elegancies, especially Indian ; in
 the hall are contrivances of Japan skreens instead of wainscot ; and
 there is an excellent pendule clock inclos'd in the curious flower-work
 of Mr. Gibbons in the middle of the vestibule. The landskips of the
 skreens represent the manner of living, and country of the Chinese.
 But above all, his lady's cabinet is adorn'd on the fret, cieling, and
                       THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                       437

chimney-piece, with Mr. Gibbons's best carving. There are also some
of Streeter's best paintings, and many rich curiosities of gold and silver
as growing in the mines. The gardens are exactly kept, and the whole
place very agreeable and well water"d. The owners are good neigh
bours, and Mr. Bohun has also built and endow'd an hospital for eight

poor people, with a pretty chapell, and every necessarie accommodation.

   i Aug. To the Bp. of London at Fulham, to review the additions

which Mr. Marshall had made to his curious booke of flowers in minia

ture, and collection of insects.

4. With Sir Stephen Fox, to survey the foundations of the Royal

Hospital begun at Chelsey.
   9. The Council of the R. Society had it recommended to them to be
trustees and visitors, or supervisors, of the Academy which Monsieur

Faubert did hope to procure to be built by subscription of worthy gen

tlemen and noblemen, for the education of youth, and to lessen the vast

expence the Nation is at yearly by sending children into France to be

taught military exercises. We thought good to give him all the encou

ragement our recommendation could procure.

   15. Came to visite me Dr. Rogers, an acquaintance of mine long
since at Padoa. He was then Consul of the English Nation, and stu

dent in that Universitie, where he proceeded Dr. in Physic ; presenting

me now with the Latine oration he lately made upon the famous Dr.

Harvey's anniversarie in the Coll. of Physicians at London.
20. This night I saw another comet, neere Cancer, very bright, but

the stream not so long as the former.
   29. Supp'd at Lord Clarendon's with Lord Hyde his brother, now

the great favorite, who invited himselfe to dine at my house on the

Tuesday following.

  30 Oct. Being my birth-day, and I now entering my greate climac-
terical of 63, after serious recollections of the yeares past, giving Al

mighty God thanks for all his mercifull preservations and forbearance,

begging pardon for my sinns and unworthinesse, and his blessing and

mercy on me the yeare entering, I went with my Lady Fox to survey

her building, and give some directions for the garden at Chiswick ; the

architect is Mr. May ; somewhat heavy and thick, and not so well

understood ; the garden much too narrow, the place without water,
neere an highway, and neere another greate house of my Lord Burling

ton, little land about so that wonder at the expence but women
                       it,                                          ;

will have their will.             I

                                                                it
   25. was invited to dine with Mons. Lionberg, the Swedish Resi
dent, who made a magnificent entertainment, being the birth-day of
his King. There dined the Duke of Albemarle, D. of Hamilton, Earle
of Bathe, E. of Aylesbury, Lord Arran, Lord Castlehaven, the sonn of
I
         I
him who was executed 50 yeares before, and several gieate persons.
was exceeding afraide of drinking  being Dutch feast), but the
                                   (it
                                                 a
438 AT COURT. EARL OF ROCHESTER. DEATH OF MY FATHER-IN-LAW.

Duke of Albemarle being that night to waite on his Majestie, ezcesse

was prohibited ; and to prevent all, I stole away and left the company

as soone as we rose from table.

  28. I went to the Council of the Royal Society for the auditing the
last yeares accompt, where I was surpriz'd with a fainting fit that for
a time tooke away my sight, but God being mercifull to me, I recovered

it after a short repose.
30 Nov. I was exceedingly indanger'd and importun'd to stand the
election [for President of the R. S.] having so many voices, but by favor
of my friends, and regard of my remote dwelling, and now frequent

infirmities, I desir"d their suffrages might be transferred to Sir John

Hoskins, one of the Masters of Chancer)- ; a most learned virtuoso as
well as lawyer, who accordingly was elected.
   7 Dec. Went to congratulate Lord Hyde (the greate favorite),
newly made Earle of Rochester,' and lately marrying his eldest daughter
, to the Earle of Ossorie.
    18. I sold my East India adventure of ^.250 principal for £750 to

 the Royal Society, after I had been in that company 25 years, being

 extraordinary advantageous, by the blessing of God.
   23 Jan. 1683. Sir Francis North, sonn to the Lord North, and Lord
Cheife Justice, being made Lord Keeper on the death of the Earle of
Nottingham, the Lord Chancellor, I went to congratulate him. He is

a most knowing, learned, and ingenious man, and besides an excellent
person, of an ingenious and sweete disposition, very skilfull in music,

painting, the new philosophy, and politer studies.
   29. Supp'd at Sir Jos. Williamson's, where was a select companie
of our Society, Sir William Petty, Dr. Gale (that learned schole-master
of St. Paul's), Dr. Whistler, Mr. Hill, &c. The conversation was phy-

losophicall and cheerfull, on divers considerable questions proposed ;
as of the hereditary succession of the Roman Emperors ; the Pica

mentioned in the Preface to our Common Prayer, which signifies onely
the Greeke Kalendarium. These were mixed with lighter subjects.
2 Feb. I made my court at St. James's, when I saw the Sea Charts
of Capt. Collins, which that industrious man now brought to shew the
Duke, having taken all the coastings from the mouth of the Thames,

as far as Wales, and exactly measuring every creeke, island, rock,

soundings, harbors, sands, and tides, intending next Spring to proceed
till he had finish'd the whole Hand, and that measured by chains and
other instruments. A most exact and usefull undertaking.
                                                                 He
affirm'd, that of all the mapps put out since, there are none extant

so true as those of Jo. Norden, who gave us the first in Qu. Elizabeth's
time ; all since him are erroneous.
   12. This morning I receiv'd the newes of the death of my father-
in-law, Sir Richard Browne, Knt. and Bart, who died at. my house at

] Laurence, second son of the Chancellor.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                   439

Sayes Court this day at 10 in the morning, after he had labour'd under

the gowt and dropsie for neere 6 moneths, in the 78th yeare of his age.
The funerall was solemniz'd on the 19th at Deptford, with as much
decency as the dignity of the person, and our relation to him, required.
There being invited the Bp. of Rochester, severall noblemen, knights,
and all the fraternity of the Trinity Companie, of which he had ben
Master, and others of the country. The Vicar preach'd a short but

proper discourse on 39 Psalm, 10, on the frailty of our mortal condi
tion, concluding with an ample and well-deserv'd eulogie on the defunct,

relating to his honourable birth and ancestors, education, learning in

Greeke and Latine, modern languages, travels, publiq employments,
signal loyalty, character abroad, and particularly the honor of support
ing the Church of England in its public worship during its persecution
by the late Rebells usurpation and regicide, by the suffrages of divers
Bishops, Doctors of the Church, and others, who found such an asylum
in his house and family at Paris, that in their disputes with the Papists
(then triumphing over it as utterly lost) they us'd to argue for its visi
bility and existence from Sir R. Browne's chapell and assembly there.
Then he spake of his grcateand loyal sufferings during 13 yeares exile
with his present Majestie, his returne with him in the bignall yeare 1660 ;

his honorable employment at home, his timely recesse to recollect him-
selfe, his greate age, infirmities, and death. He gave to the Trinity
Corporation that land in Deptford on which are built those alms-houses
for 24 widows of emerited seamen. He was borne the famous yeare of
the Gunpowder Treason, in 1605, and being the last [male] of his
family, left my wife, his onely daughter, heire. His grandfather Sir
Richard Browne was the greate instrument under the greate Earl of
Leicester (favorite to Queene Eliz.) in his government of the Nether
lands. He was Master of the Household to King James, and Cofferer;

I think was the first who regulated the compositions thro' England for

the King's household provisions, progresses ', &c. which was so high a
service, and so gratefull to the whole nation, that he had acknowledg
ments and publiq thanks sent him from all the Counties ; he died by
the rupture of a veine in a vehement speech he made about the com
positions in a Parliament of King James. By his mother's side he was
a Gunson, Treasurer of the Navy in the reignes of Hen. 8, Qu. Mary,
and Qu. Eliz., and as by his large pedigree appeares, related to divers
of the English nobility. Thus ended this honorable person, after so
many changes and tossings to and fro, in the same house where he was
borne. ' Lord teach us so to number our days that we may apply our
hearts to wisdom !'

   By a special clause in his will he order'd that his body should be

1 The different Counties were to find provisions of different sorts, which were collected by
III.officers called purveyors, whose extortions often excited the attention of Parliament.  For &

particular account of their practices, see Archxologia, vol.  p. 349.
44" BURIAL IN CHURCHES. SIR THO. MILLINGTON.

buried in the Church-yard under the South East window of the Chancel,
adjoining to the burying places of his ancestors, since they came out of
Essex to Sayes Court, he being much offended at the novel costome of
burying every one within the body of the Church and Chancel, that

being a favour heretofore granted only to martyrs and greate persons ;
this excesse of making Churches Charnel-houses being of ill and irre-
verend example, and prejudicial to the health of the living, besides the
continual disturbance of the pavement and seates, and severall other
indecencies. Dr. Hall, the pious Bishop of Norwich, would also be so
interr'd ', as may be read in his Testament.

   16 March. I went to see Sir Josiah Child's prodigious cost in plant
ing walnut trees about his seate", and making fish-ponds, many miles
in circuit, in Epping Forest, in a barren spot, as oftentimes these sud-
dainly monied men for the most part seate themselves. He, from a
merchant's apprentice, and management of the East India Company's
stock, being ariv'd to an estate ('tis said) of ,£200,000 ; and lately
married his daughter to the eldest sonn of the Duke of Beaufort, late
Marques of Worcester, with ,£50,000 portional present, and various

expectations.

   I din'd at Mr. Houblon's', a rich and gentile French merchant, who
was building a house in the Forest, neaie Sir J. Child's, in a place

where the late Earle of Norwich dwelt some time, and which came from

his lady the widow of Mr. Baker. It will be a pretty villa, about 5

miles from White-chapell.

   18 March. I went to hear Dr. Homeck preach at the Savoy Church
on 2 Phil. 5. He was a German bome, a most pathetic preacher, a

\person of a Saint-like life, and hath written an excellent treatise of

Consideration
   20. Din'd at Dr. Whistler's at the Physicians Colledge, with Sir

Tho. Millington, both learned men ; Dr. W. the most facetious man in
nature, and now Censor of the College. I was here consulted where
they should build their library ; 'tis pity this Colledge is built so neere
New-gate Prison, and in so obscure an hole, a fault in placeing most of
our publiq buildings and Churches in the Citty, thro' the avarice of
some few men, and his Majesty not over-ruling it when it was in his
power after the dreadfull conflagration.

  21. Dr. Tenison preach'd at White-hall on I Cor. 6. 12 ; I esteeme

him to be one of the most profitable preachers in the Church of England
being also of a most holy conversation, very learned and ingenious.

1 As was afterwards, at Fulham, Dr. Compton, Bishop of London, who used to say ' The
Churchyard for the dead, the Church for the living/

   Where that elegant mansion, W .instead House, now stands.         -
1 The family were eminent merchants in the time of Queen Elizabeth.
4 The full title is, ' The great Law of Consideration, or a Discourse wherein the nature, use
fulness, and absolute necessity of Consideration, in order to a truly serious and religious life,
are laid open ; it went through several editions.
            THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                    - 441

The paines he takes and care of his parish will, I feare, weare him

out, which would be an inexpressible losse.1

   24. I went to heare Dr. Charleton's lecture on the heart in the

Anatomie Theater at the Physicians Colledge.
   30. I went to London in order to my passing the following weeke,

for the celebration of the Easter now approaching, there being in the
Holy Weeke so many eminent preachers officiating at the Court and
other places.

   6 ApriL Good Friday. There was in the afternoone, according to
costome, a Sermon before the King at White-hall ; Dr. Sprat preached
for the Bp. of Rochester.

   17. I was at the launching of the last of the 30 ships order'd to be

new built by Act of Parliament, named the Neptune, a second rate, one
of the goodliest vessells of the whole navy, built by my kind neighbour
young Mr. Shish, his Majesty's master shipwright of this dock.

    1 May. I went to Blackheath to see the new faire, being the first,
procurM by the Lord Dartmouth. This was the first day, pretended
for the sale of cattle, but I think in truth to enrich the new tavern at

the bowling greene, erected by Snape," his Majesty's farrier, a man full
of projects. There appeared nothing but an innumerable assembly of
drinking people from London, pedlars, &c. and I suppose it too neere
London to be of any greate use to the country.

   March was unusually hot and dry, and all April excessively wet.
   I planted all the out limites of the garden and long walks with holly.3
   9. Din'd at Sir Gabriel Sylvius's, and thence to visite the Duke of
Norfolck, to ask whether he would part with any of his Cartoons and

other drawings of Raphael and the greate masters ; he told me if he
might sell them altogether, he would, but that the late Sir Peter Lely
(our famous painter) had gotten some of his best. The person who
desired me to treate for them was Vander Douse, grandson to that

greate scholar, contemporary and friend of Joseph Scaliger.
   16. Came to dinner and visite Sir Richard Anderson of Pendly and

his Lady, with whom I went to London.
   June 8. On my return home from the R. Society, I found Mr. Wil-

braham, a young gent, of Cheshire.
   11. The Lord Dartmouth was elected Master of the Trinity House,

sonn to Geo. Legg, late Master of the Ordnance, and one of the

groomes of the bedchamber ; a greate favorite of the Duke's, an active
and understanding gentleman in sea affairs.

   1 Dr. Thomas Tenison succeeded Tillotson in the metropolitical see of Canterbury, having
been before Vicar of St. Martin's in the Fields and Bishop of Lincoln. He lived to a very

great age.

t Mr. Granger mentions a print of this person by White, and says he was father of Dr.
Snape of Eton : one of this family has been serjeant-farrier to the King for 300 years.

II.S 400 fret in length, 9 feet high, 6 in diameter, in my now ruined garden, thanks to the Czal
of Muscovy. Sylva, Book  chap. vi.
442 WINDSOR, ST. GEORGE'S HALL. MR. DRYDEN THE POET.

   13. To our Society, where      we received the Count de Zinzendorp,

Ambassador from the Duke          of Saxonie, a very fine young man : we
shewM him divers experiments on the magnet, on which subject the

Society were upon.
16. I went to Windsor, dining by the way at Chesewick (Chiswick),
at Sir Stephen Fox's, where I found Sir Robert Howard (that universal
pretender), and Signor Verrio, who brought his draught and designs
for the painting of the staire-case of Sir Stephen's new house.
   That which was new at Windsor since I was last there, and was sur

prising to me, was that incomparable fresca painting in St. George's
Hall, representing the legend                                                     Black
Prince, and his reception by      of St.  IGIIe.o;rgteh,e  and triumph of    the  totally
                                  Edw.                     volto, or roofe,  not

finish'd ; then the Resurrection in the Chapell, where the figure of the
Ascension is in my opinion comparable to any paintings of the most

famous Roman masters ; the Last Supper also over the altar. I liked

the contrivance of the unseene organ behind the altar, nor less the
stupendous and beyond all description the incomparable carving of our
Gibbons, who is, without controversie, the greatest master both for
invention and rarenesbe of worke, that the world ever had in any

age ; nor doubt 1 at all that he will prove as greate a master in the

statuary art.

Verrio's invention is admirable, his ord'nance full and flowing, antiq
and heroical ; his figures move ; and if the walls hold (which is the
onely doubt by reason of the salts which in time and in this moist cli

mate prejudice) the work will preserve his name to ages.
   There was now the terrace brought almost round the old Castle ; the
grass made cleane, even, and curiously turfd ; the avenues to the new-

park, and other walkes, planted with elmes and limes, and a pretty

canal, and receptacle for fowle ; nor lesse observable and famous is the

throwing so huge a quantity of excellent water to the enormous height
of the Castle, for the use of the whole house, by an extraordinary in
vention of Sir Samuel Morland.
   17 June. I din'd at the Earle of Sunderland's with the Earles of

Bath, Castlehaven, Lords Viscounts Falconberg, Faulkland, Bp. of

London, the Grand Master of Malta, brother to the Duke de Vendosme,
                                  Mr. Dryden the Poet. After evening prayer
(Iawyaolukn'dg  wild spark,) and  my Lord Clarendon, where we fell into dis
                in the park with
course of the Bp. of Salisbury (Dr. Seth Ward), his subtilty, &c Dr.
Durell, late Deane of Windsor, being dead, Dr. Turner, one of the

Duke's Chaplains, was made Deane.

   I visited my Lady Arlington, Groome of the Stole to her Majesty,
who hting hardly set down to supper, word was brought her that the

Queene was going into the park to walke, it being now neere eleven at
night ; the alarm caus'd the Countesse to rise in all haste, and leave her
supper to us. By this one may take an estimate of the extream slavery
           THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                   443

and subjection that courtiers live in, who have not time to eate and

drinke at their pleasure. It put me in mind of Horace's Mouse, and

to blesse God for my owne private condition.

Here was Monsieur de 1' Angle, the famous minister of Charenton,

lately fled from the persecution in France, concerning the deplorable

condition of the Protestants there.

   18. I was present, and saw and heard the humble submission and
petition of the Lord Maior, Sheriffs, and Aldermen, on behalf, of the

Citty of London, on the quo warranto against their charter, which they
deliverM to his Majesty in the Presence-chamber. It was deliver'd
kneeling, and then the King and Council went into the Council-cham
ber, the Maior and his brethren attending still in the Presence-cham

ber. After a short space they were called in, and my Lord Keeper

made a speech to them, exaggerating the disorderly and riotous be

haviour in the late election, and polling for Papillon and Du Bois after

the Common-hall had ben formally dissolv'd ; with other misdemeanors,

libells on the Government, &c. by which they had incurr'd his Majestys

high displeasure ; and that but for this submission, and under such

articles as the King should require their obedience to, he would cer

tainly enter judgment against them, which hitherto he had suspended.
The things requir'd were as follows : that they should neither elect

Maior, Sheriff, Alderman, Recorder, Common Serjeant, Towne Cleark,

Coroner, or Steward of Southwark, without his Majestys approbation ;

and that if they presented any his Majesty did not like, they should
proceed in wonted manner to a second choice; if that was disapprov'd,
his Majesty to nominate them ; and if within 5 daies they thought good
to assent to this, all former miscarriages should be forgotten. And so

they tamely parted with their so ancient privileges after they had
dined and ben treated by the King. This was a signal and most re

markable period. What the consequences will prove, time will shew.
Divers of the old and most learned lawyers and judges were of opinion

that they could not forfeit their charter, but might be personally punish'd

for their misdemeanors ; but the plurality of the younger judges and

rising men judg'd it otherwise.

The Popish Plot also, which had hitherto made such a noise, began

now sensibly to dwindle, thro' the folly, knavery, impudence, and

giddiness of Oates, so as the Papists began to hold up their heads
higher than ever, and those who had fled, flock'd to London from
abroad. Such suddaine changes and eager doings there had ben, with

out any thing steady or prudent for these last seaven yeares.

   19 June. I retum'd to towne in a coach with the Earle of Claren

don, when passing by the glorious palace his father built but few

yeares before, which they were now demolishing, being sold to cer-
taine undertakers, I turn'd my head the contrary way till the coach was
           least might minister occasion of speaking ot                                                which
gone past  it,

                    I

                                                                                                  it,
444 THEPLOT, EARL RUSSELL, ALGERNON SYDNEY, HOWARD OF ESCRICK.

must needs have griev'd him that in so short a time their pomp was

so sadly fallen.
   28. After the Popish Plot there was now a new, and (as they call'd

it) a Protestant Plot discovered, that certaine Lords and others should
designe the assassination of the King and the Duke as they were to
come from New-market, with a general rising of the Nation, and espe-
cialy of the Citty of London, disaffected to the present Government ;.
upon which were committed to the Tower the Lord Russell, eldest son
of the Earle of Bedford, the Earle of Essex, Mr. Algernon Sydney son
to the old Earle of Leicester, Mr. Trenchard, Hampden, Lord Howard

of Escrick, and others. A proclamation was issued against my Lord

Grey, the Duke of Monmouth, Sir Tho. Armstrong, and one Ferguson,
who had escaped beyond sea ; of these some were said to be for killing
the King, others for onely seizing on him and persuading him to new
counsels, on the pretence of the danger of Popery should the Duke
live to succeed, who was now again admitted to the councils and cabi
net seacrets. The Lords Essex and Russell were much deplored, few
believing they had any evil intention against the King or the Church ;
some thought they were cunningly drawn in by their enemies for not
approving some late councils and management relating to France, to
Popery, to the persecution of the Dissenters, &c. They were disco
vered by the Lord Howard of Escrick and some false brethren of the
club, and the designe happily broken ; had it taken effect, it would, to
all appearance, have expos'd the Government to unknowne and dan
gerous events, which God avert !

   28. Was borne my grand-daughter at Sayes Court, and christned
by the name of Martha Maria, our Viccar officiating. I pray God

blesse her, and may she choose the better part.

   13 July. As I was visiting Sir Tho. Yarbrow and his Lady in

Covent Garden, the astonishing newes was brought to us of the Earle
of Essex having cut his throat, having ben but three days a prisoner in
the Tower, and this happening on the very day and instant that Lord
Russell was on his trial, and had sentence of death. This accident
exceedingly amaz'd me, my Lord Essex being so well knowne by me to
be a person of such sober and religious deportment, so well at his ease,
and so much oblig'd to the King. It is certaine the King and Duke
were at the Tower, and pass'd by his window about the same time this
morning, when my Lord asking for a rasor shut himselfe into a closet
and perpetrated the horrid act. Yet it was wondred by some how it
was possible he should do it in the manner he was found, for the wound
was so deepe and wide, that being cut thro' the gullet, wind-pipe, and
both the jugulars, it reach'd to the very vertebrae of the neck, so that
the head held to it by a very little skin as it were ; the gapping too of
the rasor, and cutting his owne fingers, was a little strange ; but more,
that having pass'd the jugulars he should have strength to proceed so
             THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                              445

far, that an executioner could hardly have don more with an axe.
There were odd reflections upon it*

   This fatal newes coming to Hicks's Hall upon the article of my Lord
Russell's trial, was said to have had no little influence on the Jury and
all the Bench to his prejudice. Others said that he had himselfe on

some occasions hinted, that in case he should" be in danger of having
his life taken from him by any publiq misfortune, those who thirsted
for his estate should misse of their aim ; and that he should speak
favourably of that Earle of Northumberland,* and some others who

made away with themselves ; but these are discourses so unlike his
sober and prudent conversation, that I have no inclination to credit
them. What might instigate him to this devilish fact, I am not able
to conjecture. My Lord Clarendon, his brother-in-law, who was with
him but the day before, assur'd me he was then very cheerfull, and

declar'd it to be the effect of his innocence and loyalty ; and most be

lieve that his Majesty had no severe intentions against him, tho'hewas
altogether inexorable as to Lord Russell, and some of the rest. For

my part, I believe the crafty and ambitious Earle of Shaftesbury had
brought them into some dislike of the present carriage of matters at

Court, not with any designe of destroying the Monarchy (which
Shaftsbury has in confidence and for unanswerable reasons told me he

would support to his last breath, as having seene and felt the miserie
of being under mechanic tyranny), but perhaps of setting up some
other whom he might governe, and frame to his own Platonic fancie,

without much regard to the religion establish'd under the Hierarchie,

for which he had no esteeme ; but when he perceiv'd those whom he
had engag'd to rise, fail of his expectations, and the day past, reproch-
ing his complices that a second day for an exploit of this nature was
never successfull, he gave them the slip, and got into Holland, where

the fox died, three moneths before these unhappy Lords and others
were discovert or suspected. Every one deplor'd Essex and Russell,
especialy the last, as being thought to have ben drawn in on pretence
only of endeavouring to rescue the King from his present councellors,
and secure Religion from Popery, and the Nation from arbitrary Go
vernment, now so much apprehended ; whilst the rest of those who

were fled, especialy Ferguson and his gang, had doubtlesse some bloudy
designe, to set up a Commonwealth, and turn all things topsy turvy.

Of the same tragical principles is Sidney.
   13. I had this day much discourse with Monsieur Pontaq, son to

the famous and wise prime President of Bourdeaux. This gentleman
was owner of that excellent vignoble of Pontaq and Obrien, from whence

1 Bishop Burnet, after making every enquiry by desire of the Countess, does not believe
                              Own Times, vol. I. p. 569.
that  Essex  was murdered.  Earl of Northumberland, shot  himself  in  the  Tower,  to which  he
   *  Henry  Percy, eighth

had been committed on a charge of high treason in June 1585.
446 HEINSIUS'S LIBRARY. THE KING MELANCHOLY. THE NATION M ADD.

come the choicest of our Bourdeaux wines ; and I think I may truly
say of him, what was not so truly said of St Paul, that much learning
had made him mad. He had studied well in philosophic, but cheifly

the rabbines, and was exceedingly addicted to cabalistical fancies, an

eternal hablador [babbler], and halfe distracted by reading aboundance
of the extravagant Eastern Jewes. He spake all languages, was very
rich,   had a  handsome person, and     was well bred, about 45 yeares of
        July.                           learned Scots gentleman, whom I    age.
    14         I visited Mr. Fraser, a                                     had

formerly recommended to Lord Berkeley for the instruction and go
vernment of his sonn, since dead at sea. He had now ben in Holland
at the sale of the learned Heinsius's library, and shew'd me some very
rare and curious bookes, and some MSS. which he had purchas'd to

good value. There were three or four Herbals in miniature, accurately
don, divers Roman antiquities, of Verona, and very many books of

Aldus's impression.

   15. A stranger, an old man, preach'd on 6 Jerem. 8. the not heark

ening to instruction, portentous of desolation to a people ; much after

Bp. Andrews's method, full of logical divisions, in short and broken
periods, and Latine sentences, now quite out of fashion in the pulpit,
which is grown into a far more profitable way, of plaine and practical

discourses, of which sort this Nation, or any other, never had greater

plenty or more profitable (I am confident) ; so much has it to answer
for thriving no better on it.
- The public was now in greate consternation on the late plot and
conspiracy ; his Majestie very melancholy, and not stirring without

double guards ; all the avenues and private dores about White-hall
and the Park shut up, few admitted to walke in it. The Papists in the

meane time very jocond, and indeede with reason, seeing their own
brought to nothing, and turn'd to ridicule, and now a conspiracy of

Protestants as they call'd them.
The Turks were likewise in hostility against the German Emperor,
almost masters of the Upper Hungary, and drawing towards Vienna.
On the other side the French King (who 'tis believed brought in the
infidels) disturbing his Spanish and Dutch neighbours, having swal
lowed up almost all Flanders, pursuing his ambition of a fifth universal
monarchy ; and all this blood and disorder in Christendom had evi
dently its rise from our defections at home, in a wanton peace, minding
nothing but luxurie, ambition, and to procure money for our vices.
To this add our irreligion and atheism, greate ingratitude, and selfe
interest ; the apostacy of some, and the suffering the French to grow
so greate, and the Hollanders so weake. In a word, we were wanton

madd, and surfeiting with prosperity ; every moment unsettling the old,
foundations, and never constant to any thing. The Lord in his mercy
avert the sad omen, and that we do not provoke him till he beare it no

longer 1
.- . THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                      447

This summer did we suffer 20 French men of war to passe our Chan-

nell towards the Sound, to help the Danes against the Swedes, who had

abandon'd the French interest ; we not having ready sufficient to guard

our coasts or take cognizance of what they did ; though the nation never
had more, or a better navy, yet the sea never had so slender a fleete.
   19 July.
marry the     George Prince of Denmark, who landed  this day, came to
             Lady Anne, daughter to the Duke : so
                                                    I returned home,

having seene the young gallant at dinner at White-hall.
   20. Severall of the Conspirators of the lower forme were executed
 at Tyburn ; and the next day,
. 21. Lord Russell was beheaded in Lincoln's Inn Fields, the execu

tioner giving him three butcherly strokes. The speech he made, and

paper which he gave the Sheriff declaring his innocence, the noblenesse

of the family, the piety and worthynesse of the unhappy gentleman,

Iwrought much pity, and occasion'd various discourses on the plot.

   25. againe saw Prince George of Denmark : he had the Danish
countenance, blonde, of few words, spake French but ill, seem'd some

what heavy, but reported to be valiant, and indeede he had bravely
rescu'd and brought off his brother the K. of Denmark in a battaile

against the Swedes, when both those Kings were engag'd very smartly.
   28. He was married to the Lady Anne at White-hall. Her Court

and Household to be modell'd as the Duke's, her father, had ben, and

they to continue in England.
1 Aug. Came to see me Mr. Flamsted, the famous astronomer,

from his Observatorie at Greenewich, to draw the meridian for my

pendule, &c.

   2. The Countesses of Bristol and Sunderland, aunt and cousin ger-

man of the late Lord Russell, came to visite me, and condole his sad

fate. The next day came Col. Russell, uncle to the late Lord Russell,
and brother to the Earle of Bedford, and with him Mrs. Middleton,

that famous and indeede incomparable beauty, daughter to my relation
Sir Robert Needham.

  I19. went to Bromely to visite our Bishop, and excellent neighbour,

& to congratulate his now being made Archbishop of Yorke. On the

28th he came to take his leave of us, now preparing for his journey and

residence in his province.
   28. My sweete little grandchild Martha Maria died, and on the 29th

was buried in the parish church.
   2 September. This morning was read in the Church, after the office

was done, the declaration setting forth the late conspiracy against

the King's person.

   3. I went to see what had ben done by the Duke of Beaufort on his
late purchas'd house at Chelsey, which I once had the selling of for the

Countesse of Bristol ; he had made greate alterations, but might have
built a better house with the materials and the cost he had been at.
448 THE DUTCHESSE OF GRAFTON. DEMOLITION OF CLARENDON HOUSE.

   Saw the Countesse of Monte Feltre, whose husband I had formerly

known ; he was a subject of the Pope's, but becoming a Protestant, he
resided in England, and married into the family of the Savillcs oi York
shire. The Count, her late husband, was a very learned gent: agreate
politician, and a goodly man. She was accompanied by her sister ex
ceedingly skill'd in painting, nor did they spare for colour on their
owne faces. They had a greate deal of wit.

   9. It being the day of publiq thanksgiving for his Majesty's late

preservation, the former declaration was againe read, and there was an

office us'd, compos'd for the occasion. A loyal Sermon was preached
on the divine right of Kings, from 144 Psalm 10. 'Thou hast preserved

David from the peril of the sword.'
    15. Came to visite me the learned anatomist Dr. Tyson, with some

other Fellows of our Society.
   16. At the elegant villa and garden of Mr. Bohun's at Lee. He

shewed me the zinnar tree or platanus, and told me that since they had
planted this kind of tree about the Citty of Ispahan in Persia, the .
plague, which formerly much infested the place, had exceedingly abated
of its mortal effects, and render'd it very healthy.

   18. I went to London to visite the Dutchesse of Grafton, now greate
with child, a most virtuous and beautifull lady. Dining with her at
my Lord Chamberlaine's, met my Lord of St. Alban's, now grown so
blind that he could not see to take his meate. He has liv'd a most
easy life, in plenty even abroad, whilst his Majesty was a sufferer ; he
has lost immense sums at play, which yet, at about 80 yeares old, he
continues, having one that sits by him to name the spots in the cards.
He eate and drank with extraordinary appetite. He is a prudent old
courtier, and much enrich'd since his Majesty's returne.

   After dinner I walked to survey the sad demolition of Clarendon

House, that costly and only sumptuous palace of the late Lord Chan

cellor Hyde, where I have often ben so cheerfull with him, and some

times so sad: happening to make him a visite but the day before he fled
from the angry Parliament, accusing him of mal-administration, and
being envious at his grandeur, who from a private lawyer came to be
father in law to the Duke of York, and as some would suggest, design
ing his Majesty's marriage with the Infanta of Portugal, not apt to
breed ; to this they imputed much of our unhappiness, and that he
being sole minister and favorite at his Majesty's restauration, neglected
to gratify the king's suffering party, preferring those who were the cause
of our troubles. But perhaps as many of these things were injuriously
laid to his charge, so he kept the government far steadier than it has

prov'd since. I could name some who I think contributed greately to

his ruin, the buffoones and the misses, to whom he was an eye-sore.

Tis true he was of a jolly temper after the old English fashion ; but

France had now the ascendant, and we were become quite another na
      THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                    449

tion. The Chancellor gone, and dying in exile, the Earl his successor

sold that which cost ,£50,000. building, to the young Duke of Albemarle

for ^25,000. to pay debts which how contracted remains yet a mystery,

his sonn being no way a prodigal. Some imagine the Dutchesse his

daughter had ben chargeable to him. However it were, this stately
palace is decreed to ruine, to support the prodigious waste the Duke of
Albemarle had made of his estates since the old man died. He sold it

to the highest bidder, and it fell to ccrtaine rich bankers and mechanics,

who gave for it and the ground about it ,£35,000.; they designe a new
towne as it were, and a most magnificent piazza e. square.) 'Tis
said they have already materials towards with what they sold of the
if

                                it

                                I!

                         a; I
                                                                       it
                                                                                          (i.
house alone, more worth than what they paid for it. See the vicissi

tude of earthly things              was astonished at this demolition, nor less

at the little army of labourers and artificers levelling the ground, laying

foundations, and contriving greate buildings at an cxpence of ,£200,000.

they perfect their designe.'
19. In my walkes
                                   stepp'd into a goldbeaters work-house, where

he shew'd me the wonderfull ductilitie of that spreading and oylie
metall. He said must be finer than the standard, such as was old

angel gold, and that of such he had once scene to the value of .£100.
stamp'd with the agnus dci and coyn'd at the time of the holy war,

which had ben found in ruin'd wall somewhere in the north, neere to

Scotland, some of which he beat into leaves, and the rest sold to the

curiosi in antiquities and medails.
   23 Sept. We had now the welcome tidings of the King of Poland
raising the siege of Vienna, which had given terror to all Europe, and
utmost reproch to the French, who 'tis believ'd brought in the Turks
for diversion that the French King might the more easily swallow

. Flanders, and pursue his unjust conquests on the Empire, whilst we

sat unconcern'd and under deadly charm from somebody.
                                    I' a
There was this day a collection for rebuilding New-market, consum'd

by an accidental fire, which removing his Majesty thence sooner than

was intended, put by the assassinates, who were disappointed of their
rendezvous and expectation by wonderfull providence. Tins made the
                                        a

In a letter to Lord Combury, dated Sayes Court, a? Jan. t66.'-fi, Mr. Evelyn having
1been to see Clarendon House, says,       went with prejudice and critical spirit, incident to
                                                  I Ia
   I                                                   I

                                                                                    ;

                                                                                      is

                                                                               I
those who fancy they know any thing in art acknowledge that have never scene a nobler
                                           ;I

pile. My old friend and fellow traveller (inhabitants and co-temporaries at Rome) has per
fectly acquitted himself. It  is,  without hyperbole, the best contrived, the most useful],

gracefull, and magnificent house in England  ;    except not Audley End, which, though larger

                                               I

and full of gaudy barbarous ornaments, dos not gratine judicious spectators. Here state
and use, solidity and beauty, most symetrically combined together. Nothing abroad pleases
me better, nothing at home approches it.
                                             have no designe to gratifie the architect beyond
                                           I

                                               I
what am obliged as a professed honorer of virtue wheresoever 'tis conspicuous but when

had seriously contemplated every roome (for went into 'em all, from the cellar to the plat-
forme on the roofe), scene how well and judiciously the walls were erected, the arches cut and

turn'd, the timber brae'd, their scantlings and contignations dispo&'d, was most highly satis

fied, and do acknowledge myseife to have much improv'd by what obscrv'd.'

                                                                                               29
45° THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF LONDON REVOKED. JEFFERIES.

King more earnest to render Winchester the seate of his autumnal field
diversions for the future, designing a palace there, where the antient
castle stood ; infinitely indeede preferable to New-market for prospects,
air, pleasure, and provisions. The surveior has already begun the
foundation for a palace, estimated to cost ,£35,000, and his Majesty
is purchasing ground about it to make a parke, &c.

   4 Oct. I went to London, on receiving a note from the Countesse
of Arlington, of some considerable charge or advantage I might ob-

taine by applying mysclfe to his Majesty on this signal conjuncture of
his Majesty entering up judgment against the City Charter ; the pro

posal made me I wholly declin'd, not being well satisfied with these

violent transactions, and not a little sorry that his Majesty was so often
put upon things of this nature against so greate a Citty, the conse

quences whereoff may be so much to his prejudice ; so I return'd
home. At this time the Lord Chief Justice Pemberton was displaced.
He was held to be the most learned of the judges, and an honest man.
Sir Geo. Jefferies was advanc'd reputed to be most ignorant, but most
daring. Sir Geo. Treby, Recorder of London, was also put by, and
one Genner, an obscure lawyer, set in his place. Eight of the richest

and cheife aldermen were remov'd, and all the rest made onely justices
of the peace, and no more wearing of gownes or chaines of gold. The
Lord Mayor and two Sheriffs holding their places by new grants, as
Custodes, at the King's pleasure. The pompe and grandure of the
most august Citty in the world thus changM face in a moment, which
gave greate occasion of discourse and thoughts of hearts, what all this
would end in. Prudent men were for the old foundations.

   Following his Majesty this morning thro' the gallerie, I went, with

the few who attended him, into the Dutchesse of Portsmouth's dressing
roome within her bed-chamber, where she was in her morning loose
garment, her maids combing her, newly out of her bed, his Majesty
and the gallants standing about her ; but that which engagM my curi
osity was the rich and splendid furniture of this woman's apartment,
now twice or thrice pull'd down and rebuilt to satisfie her prodigal and
expensive pleasures, whilst her Majestys doa not exceede some gentle

men's ladies in furniture and accommodation. Here I saw the new

fabriq of French tapissry, for designe, tendernesse of worke, and in

comparable imitation of the best paintings, beyond any thing I had

ever beheld. Some pieces had Versailles, St. Germain's, and other
palaces of the French King, with huntings, figures, and landskips, exotiq
fowls, and all to the life rarely don. Then for Japan cabinets, screenes,
pendule clocks, greate vases of wrought plate, tables, stands, chimney
furniture, sconces, branches, braseras, &c. all of massive silver, and out
of number, besides some of her Majesty's best paintings.

   Surfeiting of this, I din'd at Sir Stephen Fox's, and went contented

home to my poor, but quiet villa. What contentment can there be in
             THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                           4.5 1

the riches and splendor of this world, if purchas'd with vice and
dishonour !

   10 Oct Visited the Dutchesse of Grafton, not yet brought to bed,
and dining with my Lord Chamberlaine (her father), went with them
to see Montagu House, a palace lately built by Lord Montagu, who

had married the most beautifull Countesse of Northumberland'. It is
a stately and ample palace. Signior Verrio's fresca paintings, especialy
the funeral pile of Dido, on the stayrecase, the labours of Hercules,
fight with the Centaurs, effeminacy with Dejanira, and Apotheosis or

reception amongst the gods, on the walls and roofe of the greate
roome above, I think exceedes any thing he has yet don, both for

designe, colouring, and exuberance of invention, comparable to the
greatest of the old masters, or what they so celebrate at Rome. In
the rest of the chamber are some excellent paintings of Holbein and
other masters. The garden is large, and in good aire, but the fronts
of the house not answerable to the inside. The Court at entrie, and

wings for offices seeme too neere the strecte, and that so very narrow

and meanely built that the corridore is not in proportion to the rest,

to hide the court from being overlook'd by neighbours, all which might

have ben prevented had they plac'd the house further into the ground,
of which there was enough to spare. But on the whole it is a fine

palace, built after the French pavilion way, by Mr. Hooke, the Curator,
of the Royal Society. There were with us my Lady Scroope, the

greate witt, and Monsieur Chardine, the celebrated traveller.

    13. Came to visite me my old and worthy friend Mr. Packer,
bringing with him his nephew Berkeley, grandson to the honest judge.

A most ingenious, virtuous, and religious gentleman, seated neere

Worcester, and very curious in gardening.
   17 Oct. I was at the court leet of this manor, my Lord Arlington
his Majesty's High Steward.*
26. Came to visite and dine with me, Mr. Brisbane, Secretary to

the Admiralty, a learned and agreeable man.
          I                          Sir
    30.  of  went to Kew to visite        Hen. Capell, brother   to the late
             Essex ; but he being   gone  to Cashioberry, after
Earle                                                            I had seene

his garden and the alterations therein, I return'd home. He had re
paired his house, roofd his hall with a kind of cupola, and in a niche
was an artificial fountaine ; but the roome seems to me over melan
choly, yet might be much improv'd by having the walls well painted a
fresco. The two greene houses for oranges and mirtles communicating
 with the roomes below, are very well contrivM. There is a cupola

made with pole-work betweene two elmes at the end of a walk, which

   I He was made Earl of Montagu by King William, and Duke by Queen Anne. His wife was
Lady Elizabeth, daughter of Thomas Wriothesley Earl of Southampton, widow of Joccline
Percy, the nth and last Earl of Northumberland (of that family).

  I The manor of Deptford le Strond, alias West Greenwich.
452 MONMCTUTH AGAIN AT COURT. MARRIAGE OF MRS. CASTLE.

being coverM by plashing the trees to them, is very pretty: for the rest
there are too many fir trees in the garden.

   17 Nov. I tooke a house in Villiers Streete, York Buildings, for the

winter, having many important concernes to dispatch, and for the edu
cation of my daughters.

   23. The Duke of Monmouth, till now proclaim'd traytor on the
pretended plot for which Lord Russell was lately beheaded, came this
evening to White-hall and render'd himselfe, on which were various

discourses.

   26. I went to compliment the Dutchesse of Grafton, now laying-
in of her first child, a sonn ', which she called for, that I might see it.
She was become more beautiful, if it were possible, than before, and

full of vertue and sweetnesse. She discours'd with me of many parti

culars, with greate prudence and gravity beyond her yeares.
   29. Mr. Forbes shewM me the plot of the garden making at Bur

leigh, at my Lord Exeter's, which I look'd on as one of the most noble

that I had seene.

   The whole court andtownein solemn mourning for the death of the
K. of Portugal, her Majesties brother.

   30. At the anniversary dinner of the Royal Society the King sent
us two does, Sir Cyril Wych was elected President.

   S Dec. I was this day invited to a wedding of one Mrs. Castle, to
whom I had some obligation, and it was to her fifth husband, a Lieu

tenant Colonel of the Citty. She was the daughter of one Burton, a
broom-man, by his wife who sold kitchen stuff in Kent Streete, whom
God so bless'd that the father became a very rich, and was a very

honest man ; he was Sheriff of Surrey, where I have sat on the bench
with him. Another of his daughters was married to Sir John Bowles ;
and this daughter was a jolly friendly woman. There was at the wed
ding the Lord Maior, the Sheriff, several Aldermen, and persons of
qualitie ; above all, Sir Geo. Jefferies, newly made Lord Chiefe Justice

of England, with Mr. Justice Withings, daune'd with the bride and
were exceeding merrie. These greate men spent the rest of the after-
noone, till 1 1 at night, in drinking healths, taking tobacco, and talking
much beneath the gravity of Judges that had but a day or two before
condemn 'd Mr. Algernon Sidney, who was executed the 7th on Tower
 Hill, on the single witnesse of that monster of a man, Lord Howard of
 Escrick, and some sheets of paper taken in Mr. Sidney's study, pre
tended to be written by him, but not fully provM, nor the time when,
but appearing to have ben written before his Majesty's restauration,
 and then pardoned by the act of oblivion ; so that tho' Mr. Sidney was
 known to be a person obstinately averse to government by a monarch

   ' Charles,  who   succeeded his  father  killed in Ireland in X690.  This son was   Lord   Lieutenant
of Ireland,    Lord  Chamberlain,   Privy                               the reigns of  Anne,
                                            Counsellor, K. G. Sec. in                          George I.
and George II. There is a fine whole-length mezzotinto of him by Faber.
                       THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                453

(the subject of the paper was in answer to one of Sir E. Filmer), yet
it was thought he had very hard measure. There is this yet observable,

that he had ben an inveterate enemie to the last King, and in actual

rebellion against him ; a man of grcate courage, greate sense, greate
parts, which he shew'd both at his trial and death ; for when he came
on the scaffold, instead of a speech, he told them onely that he had
made his peace wijh God, that he came not thither to talk, but to die ;

put a paper into the Sheriffs' hand, and another into a friend's, sayd

one prayer as short as a grace, laid down his neck, and bid the execu

tioner do his office.

   The Duke of Monmouth, now having his pardon, refuses to acknow
ledge there was any treasonable plot ; for which he is banish'd White
hall. There was a greate disappointment to some who had prosecuted

Trenchard, Hampden, &c. that for want of a second witnesse were come

out of the Tower upon their habeas corpus.
   The King had now augmented his guards with a new sort of dragoons,

who carried also granados, and were habited after the Polish manner,

with long picked caps, very fierce and fantastical.

   7. I went to the Tower, and visited the Earl of Danby, the late Lord

High Treasurer, who had ben imprison'd four years : he receiv'd me
with greate kindnesse. I dined with him, and staied till night. We
had discourse of many things, his Lady railing sufficiently at the keep
ing her husband so long in prison. Here I saluted the Lord Dun-

blaine's wife ', who before had ben married to Emerton, and about

whom there was that scandalous businesse before the delegates.
     The small pox very prevalent and mortal ; the Thames frozen.
23.
26.  I dined at Lord Clarendon's, where I was to meet that ingenious

and learned gentleman Sir Geo. Wheeler, who has published the

excellent description of Africa and Greece, and who being a Knight

of a very fair estate and young, had now newly entred into holy

orders.

  27. I went to visite Sir John Chardin, a French gentleman who had

travell'd three times by land into Persia, and had made many curious

researches in his travells, of which he was now setting forth a relation.

It being in England this year one of the severest frosts that had hap-
pen'd of many yeares, he told me the cold in Persia was much greater,
the ice of an incredible thicknesse ; that they had little use of iron in all

that country, it being so moiste (tho' the aire admirably clear and
healthy), that oyle would not preserve it from rusting, so that they had

neither clocks nor watches ; but some padlocks they had for doores

and for boxes.

   30. Dr. Sprat, now made Deane of Westminster, preached to the
King at White-hall, on 6 Matt. 24. Recollecting the passages of the

   ! Peregrine Viscount Dumblaine, youngest son of the Earl of Danby, so created in his
father's life-time, and who became his successor in title and estate.
454 SEVERE FROST; BOOTHS AND PASTIMES ON THE THAMES.

past yeare, I gave God thanks for his mercies, praying his blessing for

the future.

    1684, 1 January. The weather continuing intolerably severe,
streetes of booths were set upon the Thames ; the aire was so very cold
and thick, as of many yeares there had not ben the like. The small pox
was very mortal.

   2. I din'd at Sir Ste. Fox's : after dinner came a fellow who eate live

charcoal, glowingly ignited, quenching them in his mouth, and then
champing and swallowing them down. There was a dog also which
seem'd to do many rational actions.

   6. The river quite frozen.
   9. I went crosse the Thames on the ice, now become so thick as to
beare not onely streetes of boothes, in which they roasted meate, and
had divers shops of wares, quite acrosse as in a towne, but coaches,
carts, and horses, passed over. So I went from Westminster Stayres to

Lambeth, and din'd with the Archbishop : where I met my Lord Bruce,

Sir Geo. Wheeler, Coll. Cooke, and severall divines. After dinner and

discourse with his Grace till evening prayers, Sir Geo. Wheeler and I

walked over the ice from Lambeth Stayres to the horse ferry.

   10. I visited Sir Robert Reading, where after supper we had musiq,

but not comparable to that which Mrs. Bridgeman made us on the
guittar with such extraordinary skill and dexterity.

    16. The Thames was fill'd with people and tents, selling all sorts of
wares as in the Citty.

   24. The frost continuing more and more severe, the Thames before
London was still planted with boothes in formal streetes, all sorts of
trades and shops furnish'd and full of commodities, even to a printing
presse, where the people and ladyes tooke a fancy to have their names
printed, and the day and yeare set down when printed on the Thames ' ;
this humour tooke so universally, that 'twas estimated the printer
gain'd .£5. a day, for printing a line onely, at sixpence a name, besides
what he got by ballads, &c. Coaches plied from Westminster to the
Temple, and from several other staires to and fro, as in the streetes,
sleds, sliding with skeetes, a bull-baiting, horse and coach races, puppet
plays and interludes, cookes, tipling, and other lewd places, so that it

seem'd to be a bacchanalian triumph, or carnival on the water, whilst it

was a severe judgment on the land, the trees not onely splitting as if by

lightning-struck, but men and cattle perishing in divers places, and the
very seas so lock'd up with ice, that no vessells could stir out or come
in. The fowles, fish, and birds, and all our exotiq plants and greenes
universally perishing. Many parkes of deer were destroied, and all

I1 By favour of a gentleman possessed of innumerable literary curiosities, have one of
these cards now before me. Within a treble border. ' Monsieur et Madam                      Printed
on the River of Thames being frozen. In the 36h year of hang Charles the  IJIu.stFeelb. .  £, 168*.'
v. s. is added with a pen, probably by Mr. Justell. Editor.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  455

sorts of fuell so deare that there were greate contributions to preserve
the poore alive. Nor was this severe weather much lesse intense in
most parts of Europe, even as far as Spaine and the most Southern
tracts. London, by reason of the excessive coldnesse of the aire hin

dering the ascent of the smoke, was so fill'd with the fuliginous steame
of the sea-coale, that hardly could one see crosse the streetes, and this

filling the lungs with its grosse particles, exceedingly obstructed the
breast, so as one could scarcely breath. Here was no water to be had
from the pipes and engines, nor could the brewers and divers other
tradesmen worke, and every moment was full of disastrous accidents.

   4 Feb. I went to Sayes Court to see how the frost had dealt with
my garden, where I found many ofthegreenes and rare plantes utterly

destroied. The oranges and mirtills very sick, the rosemary and laurells

dead to all appearance, but the cypress likely to indure it.

   5. It began to thaw, but froze againe. My coach crossed from
Lambeth to the Horseferry at Millbank, Westminster. The booths

were almost all taken downe, but there was first a Map or Landskip

cut in copper representing all the manner of the camp, and the several
actions, sports, and pastimes thereon, in memory of so signal a frost '.

   7. I dined with my Lord Keeper [North], and walking alone with

him some time in his gallery, we had discourse of musiq. He told me

he had ben brought up to it from a child, so as to sing his part at first
sight. Then speaking of Painting, of which he was also a greate
lover, and other ingenious matters, he desir'd me to come oftener

to see him.

   8. I went this evening to visite that greate and knowing virtuoso

Monsieur JustelL The weather was set in to an absolute thaw and
raine, but the Thames still frosen.

    10. After eight weekes missing the foraine posts, there came abound-

ance of intelligence from abroad.
   12. The Earle of Danby, late Lord Treasurer, together with the

Roman Catholic Lords impeach'd of High Treason in the Popish Plot,
had now their Habeas Corpus, and came out upon baile, after five
yeares imprisonment in the Tower. Then were also tried and deeply
fin'd Mr. Hampden and others for being suppos'd of the late Plot, for
which Lord Russell and Col. Sidney suffer'd ; as also the person who
went about to prove that the Earle of Essex had his throat cut in the
Tower by others ; likewise Mr. Johnson, the author of that famous

piece called Julian.
   15. Newes of the Prince of Orange having accus'd the Deputies of

Amsterdam of Crimen lesae Majestatis, and being Pensioners to France.
   Dr. Tenison communicated to me his intention of erecting a Library

in St. Martin's parish, for the publiq use, and desir'd my assistance with

   1 There are different representations of this curious scene, both in wood and copperplate
engravings.
456 PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR LONDON. TOUCHING FOR THE KING'S EVIL.

Sir Christopher Wren about the placeing and structure thereof. A
worthy and laudable designe.. He told me there were 30 or 40 young
men in Orders in his parish, either Governors to young gentlemen or
Chaplains to noblemen, who being reprov'd by him on occasion for
frequenting taverns or coffee-houses, told him they would study or em

ploy their time better, if they had books. This put the pious Doctor

on this designe ; and indeede a greate reproch it is that so greate a
Citty as London should not have a publiq Library becoming it. There
ought to be one at St. Panics ; the West end of that church (if ever
finish'd) would be a convenient place.

  23. I went to Sir John Chardin, who desired my assistance for the

engraving the plates, the translation, and printing his History of that
wonderfull Persian Monument neere Pcrsepolis, and other rare antiqui

ties, which he had caus'd to be drawne from the originals in his second

journey into Persia, which we now concluded upon. Afterwards I
went with Sir Christopher Wren to Dr. Tenison, where we made the
drawing and estimate of the expence of the Library, to be begun this

next Spring neere the Mewes '.

Greate expectation of the Prince of Orange's attempts in Holland to

bring those to Amsterdam to consent to the new levies, to which we

were no friends, by a pseudo-politic adherence to the French interest.

26. Came to visite me Dr. Turner, our new Bishop of Roches

ter.

  28. I din'd at Lady Tuke's, where I heard Dr. Walgrave (Phy-

sitian to the Duke and Dutchesse) play excellently on the lute.
7 March. Dr. Meggot, Deane of Winchester, preached an incompa
rable sermon, (the King being now gone to New-market,) on 12 Heb.
     shewing and pathetically  pressing  the care we  ought to have least
15.  come short of the grace   of God.   Afterwards
                                                      I went to visite Dr.
we

Tenison at Kensington, whither he was retired to refresh after he had

ben sick of the small-pox.                                          of
   15. At White-hall preached Mr. Henry Godolphin, a prebend
St. Paules, and brother to my deare friend Sydnie, on 55 Isaiah 7.   I
dined at-the Lord Keeper's, and brought to him Sir John Chardin, who
shewed him his accurate draughts of his travells in Persia.

   28. There was so greate a concourse of people with their children
to be touch'd for the Evil, that six or seven were crush'd to death by
pressing at the Chirurgeon's doore for tickets. The weather began to
be more mild and tolerable, but there was not the least appearance

of any Spring.
   30 Easter day. The Bp. of Rochester [Dr. Turner] preach'd be

fore the King ; after which his Majesty, accompanied with three of his

   & There is now (1817) a handsome room well furnished with books, under the care of the
Vicar of St. Martin's, in Castle-street, near the Mews gate. Sion College is more peculiarly
appropriated to the Clergy in the City.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  457

natural sonns, the Dukes of Northumberland, Richmond, and St.

Albans, (sons of Portsmouth, Cleaveland, and Nelly), went up to the
Altar ; the three boys entering before the King within the railes, at the
right hand, and three Bishops on the left, viz. London (who officiated),
Durham, and Rochester, with the Sub-dean Dr. Holder. The King

kneeling before the Altar, making his offering, the Bishops first receiv'd,
and then his Majesty ; after which he retired to a canopied seate on the
right hand. Note, there was perfume burnt before the Office began.
I had receiv'd the Sacrament at White-hall early with the Lords and -
Household, the Bishop of London officiating. Then went to St. Mar
tin's, where Dr. Tenison prench'd (recovered from the small-pox) ; then
went againe to White-hall as above. In the afternoone went to St.

Martin's againe.

   4 April. I retum'd home with my family to my house at Saves

Court, after five months residence in London ; hardly the least appear
ance of any Spring.

   30. A Letter of mine to the Royal Society concerning the terrible

effects of the past winter being read, they desired it might be printed
in the next Part of their Transactions.1

    10 May. I went to visite my brother in Surrey. Call'd by the way
at Ashted, where Sir Robert Howard (Auditor to the Exchequer) enter-
tain'd me very civilly at his new built house, which stands in a Park
on the Downe, the avenue South ; tho' downe hill to the house, which
is not grcate, but with the outhouses very convenient. The staire-case
is painted by Verrio with the storie of Astrca ; amongst other figures
is the Picture of the Painter himselfe, and not unlike him; the rest is

well done, onely the columns did not at all please me ; there is also
Sir Robert's own Picture in an oval ; the whole in fresca. The place
has this greate defect, that there is no water but what is drawn up by

horses from a very deepe well.

    11. Visited Mr. Higham, who was ill, and died 3 days after. His

grandfather and father (who christen'd me), with himselfe, had now
ben Rectors of this parish 101 yeares, viz. from May 1583.

    12. I return'd to London, where I found the Commissioners of the
Admiralty abolish'd, and the office of Admiral restord to the Duke, as
to the disposal and ordering all Sea businesse ; but his Majesty sign'd
all Petitions, Papers, Warrants, and Commissions, that the Duke, not
acting as Admiral by commission or office, might not incur the penalty
of the late Act against Papists and Dissenters holding offices, and re
fusing the Oath and Test. Every one was glad of this change, those
in the late Commission being utterly ignorant in their duty, to the

greate damage of the Navy.

    The utter ruine of the Low Country was threatened by the siege of
Luxembergh, if not timely rcliev'd, and by the obstinacy of the Hol-

     I This wai done in No. 158. See it in Dr. Kippis'i Edit. Biog. Brit. vol. V. p. 613.
45& LUXEMBERG SURRENDERED. NEW ARRESTS IN LONDON.

landers, who refus'd to assist the Prince of Orange, being corrupted by

the French.

   16. I received ,£.600 of Sir Charles Bickerstaff for the fee-farm of
Pilton in Devon.
' 26. Lord Dartmouth was chosen Master of the Trinity Company,
newly return'd with the fleete from blowing up and demolishing Tan

gier. In the sermon preach 'd on this occasion Dr. Can observed that,

in the 27th chapter of the Acts of the Apostles, the casting anchor out
of the fore-ship had been cavill'd at as betraying total ignorance : that

it is very true our seamen do not do so, but in the Mediterranean

their ships were built differently from ours, and to this day it was the

practice to do so there.

      Luxembergh was surrendered to the French, which makes them mas

ter of all the Netherlands, gives them entrance into Germany, and a fair

game for universal monarchy ; which that we should suffer, who only
and easily might have hinder'd, astonish'd all the world. Thus is the
poor Prince of Orange ruin'd, and this nation and all the Protestant
interest in Europe following, unlesse God in his infinite mercy, as by a
miracle, interpose, and our greate ones alter their counsels. The French

fleete were now besieging Genoa, but after burning much of that beau-

tifull citty with their bombs, went off with disgrace.

   12 June. I went to advise and give directions about the building

two streetes in Berkeley Gardens, reserving the house and as much of
the garden as the breadth of the house. In the meane time I could not

but deplore that sweete place (by far the most noble gardens, courts,

and accommodations, stately porticos, &c. any where about the towne)
should be so much straighten'd and turn'd into tenements. But that

magnificent pile and gardens contiguous to built by the late Lord
                                             ;
Chancellor Clarendon, being all demolish'd, and design'd for Piazzas
and buildings, was some excuse for my Lady Berkeley's resolution ofI

letting out her ground also for so excessive a price as was offer'd,it,

advancing neere ^.1000 per ann. in mere ground-rents; to such a;
mad intemperance was the age come of building about a citty, by far

too disproportionate already to the nation1  having in my time seene

it    almost as large again as was within my memory.
                          if it
     111. My cousin Vemey, to whom a very greate fortune was fallen,

      came to take leave of us, going into the country a very worthy and

      virtuous young gentleman.
         22. Last Friday Sir Tho. Armstrong was executed at Tyburn for
      treason, without tryal, having been outlaw'd and apprehended in Hol
      land, on the conspiracy of the Duke of Monmouth, Lord Russell, &c.

      which gave occasion of discourse to people and lawyers, in reguard  it

      was on an outlawry that judgment was given and execution  '.

        What would Mr. Evelyn think he saw what now called London
        When brought up for judgement Armstrong insisted on his right to a trial, the act giving
                                 U

                                                         J
                         THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  459

   2 July. I went to the Observatory at Greenewich, where Mr. Flam-

sted tooke his observations of the eclipse of the sun, now almost three

parts obscured.

   There had been an excessive hot and dry Spring, and such a drought
still continu'd as never was in my memorie.

   13 July. Some small sprinkling of raine ; the leaves dropping from
the trees as in Autumn.

   25. I din'd at Lord Falkland's, Treasurer of the Navy, where after
dinner we had rare musiq, there being, amongst others, Signior Pietro

Reggio and Signior John Battist, both famous, one for his voice, the
other for playing on the harpsichord, few if any in Europe exceeding
him. There was also a Frenchman who sung an admirable basse.

   26. I retum'd home where I found my Lord Cheife Justice [Jeffe-

ries], the Countesse of Clarendon, and Lady Cath. Fitz-Gerald, who

dined with me.
   10 August. We had now rain after such a drowth as no man in

England had known.
   24. Excessive hot. We had not had above one or two considerable

showers, and those storms, these 8 or 9 months. Many trees died lor
the want of refreshment.

   31. Mr. Sidney Godolphin was made Baron Godolphin.
   26 Sept. The King being retum'd from Winchester, there was a
numerous Court at White-hall.
   At this time the Earle of Rochester was remov'd from the Treasury
to the Presidentship of the Council ; Lord Godolphin was made first
Commissioner of the Treasury in his place ; Lord Middleton (a Scot)
made Secretary of State, in the room of Lord Godolphin. These

alterations being very unexpected and mysterious, gave greate occasion
of discourse.

   There was now an Ambassador from the King of Siam in the East
Indies to his Majesty.

   22. Oct. I went with Sir William Godolphin to see the Rhinoceros,
or Unicorn, being the first that I suppose was ever brought into Eng
land. She belonged to some East India merchants, and was sold (as I

remember) for above ^.2000.

   At the same time I went to see a Crocodile, brought from some of
the West India islands, resembling the Egyptian Crocodile.

   24 Oct. I din'd at Sir Stephen Fox's with the Duke of Northum
berland. He seem'd to be a young gentleman of good capacity, well

bred, civil, and modest : newly come from travell, and had made his

that right to those who came in within a year, and the year was not expired. Jefferies refused
it ; and when Armstrong insisted that he asked nothing but law, Jefferies told him he should
have it to the full, and ordered his execution in six days. When Jefferies went to the King at
Windsor soon after       trial,       King  took a ring from his linger, and gave it to Jefferies,
                    the          the
Burnet II. 9S9.
460 THE LORD MAIOR'S SHEW; THE QUEENE'S BIRTH-DAY.

campaigne at the siege of Luxemburg. Of all his Majesty's children
(of which he had now six Dukes) this seem'd the most accomplish'd and
worth the owning. He is extraordinary handsome and well shap'd.
What the Dukes of Richmond and St. Alban's will prove, their youth

does not yet discover ; they are very pretty boys.
   26. Dr. Goodman preach'd before the King on 2 James 12. con

cerning the law of liberty : an excellent discourse and in good method.
He is author of ' The Prodigal Son,' a treatise worth reading, and

another of the old Religion.
   28. I carried Lord Clarendon thro' the Citty, amidst all the squibbs

and Bacchanalia of the Lord Maior's shew, to the Royal Society [at
Gresham Coll.] where he was propos'd a member ; and then treated
him at dinner.

1 went to St. Clements, that pretty built and contrivM church, where

a young divine gave us an eloquent Sermon on 1 Cor. 6. 20. inciting to
gratitude and glorifying God for the fabriq of our bodys & the dignitie

of our nature.

  27. I visited the Lord Chamberlaine, where din'd the black Baron

and Monsieur Flamerin, who had so long ben banish'd France for

a duel.

  2 Nov. A suddaine change from temperate warme weather to an

excessive cold raine, frost, snow, and storm, such as had seldome ben

known. This Winter weather began as early and fierce as the past did
late ; till about Christmas there had ben hardly any Winter.

   4. Dr. Turner, now translated from Rochester to Ely upon the death
of Dr. Peter Gunning, preached before the King at White-hall on
3 Romans 8, a very excellent sermon, vindicating the Church of Eng
land against the pernicious doctrines of the Church of Rome. He

challenged the producing but of 5 Cleargymen who forsooke our Church
and went over to that of Rome, during all the troubles & rebellion in

England, which lasted neere twenty yeares ; and this was to my certaine

observation a greate truth.
    15. Being the Queene's birth-day, there were fire-works on the

Thames before White-hall, with pageants of castles, forts, and other
devices of gyrondolas, serpents, the King and Queene's armes and
mottos, all represented in fire, such as had not ben seen here. But the
most remarkable was the severall fires and skirmishes in the very

water, which actually mov'd a long way, burning under the water, now

and then appearing above giving reports like muskets and cannon,
It

                                               it,

                                                                    It

                                                                                      is
                                                                                                 it
                                                                                                &
with granados and innumerable other devices.  said cost ,£.1 500.

was concluded with a ball, where all the young ladys and gallants
daunced in the greate halL The Court had not ben seene so brave and

rich in apparell since his Majesty's Restauration.                                                   Seale,

   30. In the morning Dr. Fiennes, sonn of the Lord Say
preached before the King on 21 Joshua 11.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                               461

  3 Dec. I carried Mr. Justell and Mr. Slingsby (Master of the Mint),

to see Mr. Sheldon's collection of Medaills. The series of Popes was

rare, and so were several amongst the modernes, especialy that of John
Husse*s martyrdome at Constance ; of the Roman Emp. Consulars ;

some Greeke, &c. in copper, gold, and silver ; not many truly antique ;
a medallion of Otho, P. jEmil. &c. hardly antient. They were held at

a price of ,£.1000, but not worth, I judge, above ,£.200.
   7. I went to see the new church at St. James's, elegantly built ; the

altar was especialy adorn 'd, the white marble inclosure curiously and
richly carved, the flowers and garlands about the walls by Mr. Gibbons

in wood ; a pelican with her young at her breast, just over the altar in

the carv'd compartment and border, invironing the purple velvet

fring'd with I. H. S. richly embroider'd, and most noble plate, were
given by Sir R. Geere, to the value (as was said) of .£.200. There
was no altar any where in England, nor has there ben any abroad, more

handsomely adorn'd.

   17. Early in the morning I went into St. James's Park to see three
Turkish or Asian horses, newly brought over, and now first shewed to
his Majesty. There were foure, but one of them died at sea, being

three weekes coming from Hamborow. They were taken from a

Bashaw at the siege of Vienna, at the late famous raising that leaguer.

I never beheld so delicate a creature as one of them was, of somewhat

a bright bay, two white feet, a blaze ; such a head, eyes, eares, neck,

breast, belly, haunches, legs, pasterns, and feete, in all reguards beauti-

full and proportion'd to admiration ; spirited, proud, nimble, making

halt, turning with that swiftnesse, and in so small a compasse, as was
admirable. With all this so gentle and tractable as call'd to mind
what I remember Busbequius speakes of them, to the reproch of our

groomes in Europe, who bring up their horses so churlishly as makes
most of them retain their ill habits. They trotted like does, as if they

did not feele the ground.    500 ginnies was demanded for    the first  ; 300
for the second ; and 200   for the third, which was browne.             them
                                                               All of

were choicely shap'd, but the two last not altogether so perfect as the

first. It was judg'd by the spectators, among whom was the King,

Prince of Denmark, Duke of Yorke, and several of the Court, noble

persons, skill'd in horses, especialy Mons. Faubert and his sonn, (pro
vost masters of the Academie, and esteem'd of the best in Europe,)

that there were never seene any horses in these parts to be compar'd

with them. Add to all this, the furniture, consisting of embroidery on

ithe saddle, houseings, quiver, bow, arrows, scymeter, sword, mace, or

battle-axe la Turcisq; the Bashaw's velvet mantle furr'd with the
most perfect ermine I ever beheld ; all which, yron worke in common

furniture, being here of silver, curiously wrought and double gilt, to an

incredible value. Such and so extraordinary was the embrodery, that

I never saw any thing approching it. The reins and headstall were of
462 LORD CORNWALLIS ; THE GYMNASIUM ; DUELLING IN ENGLAND.

crimson silk, cover'd with chaines of silver gilt There was also a
Turkish royal standard of an horse's taile, together with all sorts of

- other caparisons belonging to a general's horse, by which one may

estimate how gallantly and magnificently those infidels appeare in the

field, for nothing could be seene more glorious. The gentleman (a
German) who rid the horse was in all this garb. They were shod with
yron made round and closed at the heele, with a hole in the middle
about as wide as a shilling. The hoofes most intire.
   18 Dec. I went with Lord Cornwallis to see the young gallants do

their exercise, Mr. Faubert having newly rail'd in a manage, and fitted

it for the academy. There were the Dukes of Norfolk and Northum
berland, Lord Newburgh, and a nephew of (Duras) Earle of Feversham.
The exercises were, 1. running at the ring ; 2. flinging a javelin at a

Moor's head ; 3. discharging a pistol at a mark ; lastly, taking up a
gauntlet with the point of a sword ; all these perform'd in full speede.
The D. of Northumberland hardly miss'd of succeeding in every one, a

dozen times, as I think. The D. of Norfolk did exceeding bravely.
                                                                                                        Here I saw
Lords Newburgh and Duras                                                                               chevai," and

ithe difference of what the
                                                                 seem'd  ncoathllin"gbseol  dextrous.
                                                                 French                     homme
"ion homme a cheval y" the Duke of Norfolk being the first, that is,

rather a fine person on a horse, the Duke of Northumberland being
both in perfection, namely, a graceful person and excellent rider. But
the Duke of Norfolk told me he had not ben at this exercise these 12

yeares before. There were in the field the Prince of Denmark, and the

Lord Landsdown, sonn of the Earle of Bath, who had ben made a

Count of the Empire last Summer for his service before Vienna.

  20. A villainous murder was perpetrated by Mr. St. John, eldest
son to Sir Walter St. John, a worthy gentleman, ona knight of quality',
in a tavern. The offender was sentene'd and repriev'd. So many

horrid murders and duels were committed about this time as were never
before heard of in England, which gave much cause of complaint and

murmurings.

  1685. 1 Jan. It prov"d so sharp weather, and so long and cruel a

frost, that the Thames was frozen acrosse, but the frost was often dis-

solv'd, and then froze again.
11. A young man preached upon 13 St. Luke 5. after the Presby
terian tedious method and repetition.
  24. I            at Lord Newport's,
           din'd                                                 who has some excellent pictures,
especialy  that   of Sir Tho. Hanmer,                            by Van Dyke, one of the best he
ever painted ; another of our English Dobson's painting ; but above

I Sir William Estcourt. It was in a sudden quarrel, and there was doubt whether it was
more than manslaughter : but he was advised to plead guilty, and then had a pardon, for
which he paid j£i,6oo. Exactly loo years before, one of his family was tried for a simihu
oafnfdencBer,aya'scqHuiitstte,d,ofbSuutrroebyl,igeIIdI.to33g3o,  abroad, though                                  Manning
                                                                 App. cxx.       he  was  afterwards  employed.
               THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                             "

                                                                           463

all, Christ in the Virgin's lap by Poussin, an admirable piece, with

Isomething of most other famous hands.                     saw this evening such a

   25. Dr. Dove preach'd before the King.
scene of profuse gaming, and the King in the midst of his three con
cubines, as I had never before seen. Luxurious dallying and pro-

phanenesse.

   27. I din'd at Lord Sunderland's, being invited to heare that cele

brated voice of Mr. Pordage, newly come from Rome ; his singing
was after the Venetian recitative, as masterly as could be, and with an
excellent voice both treble and basse ; Dr. Walgrave accompanied it
with his theorbo, lute, on which he perform'd beyond imagination, and
is doubtlesse one of the greatest masters in Europe on that charming in
strument. Pordage is a priest, as Mr. Bernard Howard told me in

private.
   There was in the roome where we din'd, and in his bed-chamber,

those incomparable pieces of Columbus a Flagellation, the Grammar-
schoole, the Venus and Adonis of Titian ; and of Vandyke's that pic
                late E. of
ture   of the  of Bedford,  DSiigrbyKe(nfaetlhmer  of the  Countess  of Sunderland),
and   Earle                                        Digby,  and two   Ladys of incom

parable performance ; besides that of Moses and the burning bush of
Bassano, and several other pieces of the best masters. A marble head

of M. Brutus, &c.
   28. I was invited to my Lord Arundel of Wardour, (now newly

releas'd of his 6 yeares confinement in the Tower on suspicion of the
Plot call'd Oates's Plot,) where after dinner the same Mr. Pordage
entertain'd us with his voice, that excellent and stupendous artist Sig-
nior Jo. Baptist playing to it on the harpsichord. My daughter Mary
being with us, she also sung to the greate satisfaction of both the
masters, and a world of people of quality present

   She. did so also at my Lord Rochester's the evening following, where
we had the French Boy so fam'd for his singing, and indeede he had
a delicate voice, and had ben well taught. I also heard Mrs. Packer
(daughter to my old friend) sing before his Majesty and the Duke, pri
vately, that stupendous basse Gosling accompanying her, but hers was
so loud as tooke away much of the sweetnesse. Certainly never woman

had a stronger or better eare, could she possibly have govern'd it. She
would do rarely in a large church among the nunns.

  '4 Feb. I went to London, hearing his Majesty had ben the Monday
before (2 Feb.) surpriz'd in his bed-chamber with an apoplectic fit, so
that by God's providence, Dr. King (that excellent chirurgeon as
well as physitian) had not ben accidentally present to let him blood
(having his lancet in his pocket) his Majesty had certainly died that
moment, which might have ben of direful consequence, there being no
body else present with the King save this Doctor and one more, as
am assur'd. It was mark of the extraordinary dexterity, resolution,
      if,
                                   a

                                                                                                         I
 464. DANGEROUS ILLNESS AND DEATH OF CHARLES IL

 and presence of mind in the Doctor, to let him bloud in the very pa*
 roxysm, without staying the coming of other physitians, which regularly
 should have ben don, and for want of which he must have a regular par
 don, as they tell me '. This rescu'd his Majesty for the instant, but it was
 only a short reprieve. He still complain'd, and was relapsing, often
 fainting, with sometimes epileptic symptoms, till Wednesday, for which
 he was cupp'd, let bloud in both jugulars, had both vomit and purges,
 which so reliev'd him that on Thursday hopes of recovery were signified
 in the publiq Gazette, but that day, about noone, the physitians thought
 him feaverish. This they seem'd glad of, as being more easily allay'd
 and methodically dealt with than his former fits ; so as they prescrib'd
 the famous Jesuits powder : but it made him worse, and some very
 able Doctors who were present did not think it a fever, but the effect
 of his frequent bleeding and other sharp operations us'd by them about
 his head, so that probably the powder might stop the circulation, and
 renew his former fits, which now made him very weake. Thus he
 pass'd Thursday night with greate difficulty, when complaining of a
 paine in his side, they drew 12 ounces more of blood from him ; this
 was by 6 in the morning on Friday, and it gave him reliefe, but it did
 not continue, for being now in much paine, and struggling for breath,
 he lay dozing, and after some conflicts, the physitians despairing of him,

 he gave up the ghost at halfe an houre after eleven in the morning, being
 6 Feb. 16S5, in the 36th yeare of his reigne, and 54th of his age.

     Prayers were solemnly made in all the Churches, especialy in both
 the Court Chapells, where the Chaplaines reliev'd one another every
 halfe quarter of an houre from the time he began to be in danger till
 he expir'd, according to the forme prescrib'd in the Church Offices.
 Those who assisted his Majesty's devotions were, the Abp. of Canter
 bury, the Bishops of London, Durham, and Ely, but more especialy

 Dr. Ken, the Bp. of Bath and Wells *. It is sayd they exceedingly

     1 The Privy Council approved of what he had done, and ordered him .£1000, but which was

 never paid. him. Burnet, II- 1010V --There are two fine portraits of Dr. King engraved, and

  in mezzotinto, in which the above instance of his skill and promptitude is noticed.

    - The account given of this by King James II. is, that when the King's life was wholly de

  spaired of, and it was time to prepare for anofher world, two Bishops came to do their func
  tion, who reading the prayers appointed in the Common Prayer Book on that occasion, when
  they came to the place where usually they exhort a sick person to make a confession of his

 Itsins, the Bishop of Bath and Wells, who was one of them, advertized him. was net of obli

 gation ; and after a short exhortation asked him, if he were sorry for his sins f which the
  King saying he was, the Bishop pronounced the absolution, and then asked him if he pleased
- to receive the Sacrament f to which the King made no reply, and being pressed by the Bishop
  several times, gave no other answer but that it was time enough, or that he would think of it.
  King James says that he stood all the while by the bed-side, and seeing the King would not

  receive the Sacrament from them, and knowing his sentiments, he desired the company to
  stand a little from the bed, and then asked the King whether he should send for a Priest, to
  which the King replied, ' For God's sake, brother, do, and lose no time.' The Duke said he
  .would bring one to him ; but none could be found except father Huddleston, who had been
  so assistant in the King's escape from Worcester ; he was brought up by a back staircase, and
  the company were desired to withdraw, but he (the Duke of York) not thinking fit that lie
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                          465

mrg'd the receiving the Holy Sacrament, but his Majesty told them he

would consider of which he did so long 'till it was too late. Others
it,
whispered that the Bishops and Lords, except the Earles of Bath and
                 ;
Feversham, being ordered to withdraw the night before, Hurlston, the
                      a
Priest, had presumed to administer the Popish Offices. He gave his

breeches and keys to the Duke, who was almost continually kneeling

by his bed-side, and in teares. He also recommended to him the care
of his natural children, all except the Duke of Monmouth, now in

Holland, and in his displeasure. He intrcated the Queene to pardon
him (not without cause) who little before had sent a Bishop to
excuse her not more frequently visiting him, in regard of her excessive

griefe, and withall, that his Majesty would forgive                  it      at any time she
had offended him. He spake to the Duke of York to be kind to the
Dutchesse of Cleaveland, and especialy Portsmouth, and that Nelly      a if

might not starve.

  Thus died King Charles II. of a vigorous and robust constitution,

;ind in all appearance promising a long life. He was a Prince of many
virtues, and many greate imperfections debonnaire, easy of acccssc,
                                            ;
not bloudy nor cruel his countenance fierce, his voice greate, proper;
;
              ;
                                         ;
of person, every motion became him a lover of the sea, and skilfull
in shipping not affecting other studies, yet he had laboratory, and

knew of many empirical medicines, and the easier mechanical mathe

matics he lov'd planting and building, and brought in a politer way

of living, which pass'd to luxury and intolerable expense. He had a.
particular talent in telling a story, and facetious passages, of which he

had innumerable this made some buffoons and vitious wretches too
;

            a
              it
presumptuous and familiar, not worthy the favour they abus'd. He

tooke delight in having number of little spaniels follow him and lie
in his bed-chamber, where he often suffer'd the bitches to puppy and

give suck, which render'd very offensive, and indeede made the whole

Court nasty and stinking. He would doubtlesse have ben an excellent

Prince, had he ben less addicted to women, who made him uneasy, and

allways in want to supply their unmeasurable profusion, to the detri
ment of many indigent persons who had signaly serv'd both him and
Lis father. He frequently and easily changM favorites, to his greate
prejudice. As to other publiq transactions and unhappy miscarriages,
"tis not here intend to number them but certainly never had King
I

                                                                  ;

more glorious opportunities to have made himselfe, his people, and all

Europe happy, and prevented innumerable mischiefs, had not his too
easy nature resign'd him to be manag'd by crafty men, and some

abandon'd and profane wretches who corrupted his othe wise sufficient
parts, disciplin'd as he had ben by many afflictions during his banish-

should be left alone with the King, desired the Earl of Bath, Lord or the Bedchamber,
                                                                     ;a
                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                      1,
and the Earl of Faversham, Captain of the Guard, should stay the rest oeing gone father
Huddleston was introduced, and administered the Sacrament. life of James
                                                                                                          p. 747.

                                                                             30
466 LAST HOTTRS, FAULTS AND CHARACTER OF THE LATE KING.

ment, which gave him much experience and knowledge of men and
things ; but those wicked creatures took him off from all application
becoming so greate a King. The history of his reigne will certainely

be the most wonderfull for the variety of matter and accidents, above

any extant in former ages : the sad tragical death of his father, his
banishment and hardships, his miraculous restauration, conspiracies
against him, parliaments, wars, plagues, fires, comets, revolutions

abroad happening in his time, with a thousand other particulars. He

was ever kind to me, and very gracious upon all occasions, and there-

Core I cannot, without ingratitude, but deplore his losse, which for many
respects as well as duty I do with all my soul.

  His Majesty being dead, the Duke, now K. James II. went imme

diately to Council, and before entering into anybusinesse, passionately

declaring his sorrow, told their Lordships that since the succession had

fallen to him, he would endeavour to follow the example of his prede
cessor in his clemency and tendernesse to his people ; that, however he

had ben misrepresented as affecting arbitrary power, they should find
the contrary, for that the laws of England had made the King as greate

a monarch as he could desire ; that he would endeavor to maintain the

Government both in Church and State, as by Law establish'd, its prin

ciples being so firme for monarchy, and the members of it shewing

themselves so good and loyal subjects y and that as he would never

  i This is the  substance and very nearly in the  words given by King James               II.  in bis MSS.
                 Life; but in that -MSS. are some   words which Mr. Evelyn                      omitted, viz.
printed in his                                                                             has

Iafter speaking of the Members of the Church of England as good and loyal subjects, the King

adds, and therefore shall always take cart to defend and support it. The King then goes
on to say, that being desired by some present to allow copies to be taken, he said he had not
committed it to writing ; on which Mr. Finch [then Solicitor General, afterwards Earl of
Aylesfordj replied, that what his Majesty had said had made so deep an impression on him,
that he believed he could repeat the very words, and if his Majesty would permit him, he
would write them down ; which the King agreeing to, he went to a table and wrote them
down, and this being shewn to the King, he approved of
                                                                                   and was immediately
                                                   it it
published.                                              it,

The King then goes on to say No one can wonder that Mr. Finch should word the speech: it,
                              ;
                                          ;                                a it
as strong as he could in favour of the Established Religion, nor that the King in such a hurry

should pass over without reflection for though his Majesty intended to promise both se
;
curity to their religion and protection to their persons, he was afterwards convinced had
              it                                                                                ; it
                 itbeen better expressed by assuring them he never would endeavour to alter the established

Religion, rather than that he would endeavour to preserve and that he would rather support
and defend the professors of  it,
                                   rather than the Religion itself they could not expect he

should make a conscience of supporting what in his conscience he thought erroneous his
engaging not to molest the professors of it, nor to deprive them or their successors of any

spiritual dignity, revenue, or employment, but to suffer the ecclesiastical affairs to go on in

the track they were in, was all they could wish or desire from a Prince of different persua

sion but having once approved that way of expressing which Mr. Finch had made choice
of, he thought necessary not to vary from in the declarations or speeches he made after
                                              it
wards, not doubting but the world would understand in the meaning he intended. --'lis
true afterwards it was pretended he kept not up to this engagement, but had they deviated

no further from the duty and allegiance which both nature and repeated oaths obliged them
to, than he  did from his    word,* they had
during bis   short reign in  England. Vol.    IIs.til4l 3r5e.mained  as  happy  a  people  as they really  were

" The words in italics were afterwards interlined by the son of King James the Second. Edit.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  467

 depart from the just rights and prerogatives of the Crown, so would he
 never invade any man's property ; but as he had often adventured his
 life in defence of the nation, so he would still proceede, and preserve
 it in all its lawful rights and liberties.

    This being the substance of what he said, the Lords desir'd it might
 be publish'd, as containing matter of greate satisfaction to a jealous

 people upon this change, which his Majesty consented to. Then were
 the Council sworn, and a Proclamation ordered to be publish'd, that all

 Officers should continue in their stations, that there might be no failure
 of public justice, till his further pleasure should be known. Then the
 King rose, the Lords accompanying him to his bed-chamber, where,
 whilst he repos'd himselfe, tired indeede as he was with griefe and
 watching, they return'd againe into the Council-chamber to take order
 for the proclaiming his Majesty, which (after some debate) they con
 sented should be in the very forme his grandfather K. James I. was,
 after the death of Queene Elizabeth ; as likewise that the Lords, &c.
 should proceede in their coaches thro' the Citty for the more solemnity

 of it. Upon this was I, and severall other Gentlemen waiting in the
 Privy-gallerie, admitted into the Council-chamber to be witnesse of

 what was resolv'd on. Thence with the Lords, the Lord Marshall and

 Heraulds, and other Crowne Officers being ready, we first went to

 White-hall-gate, where the Lords stood on foote bare-headed, whilst
 the Herauld proclaim'd his Majesty's title to the ImperialCrowne and
 Succession according to the forme, the trumpets and kettle-drums

. having first sounded 3 times, which ended with the people's acclama
 tions. Then a Herauld call'd the Lords' coaches according to rank,
 myselfe accompanying the solemnity in my Lord Comwallis's coach,
 first to Temple Barr, where the Lord Maior and his brethren met us on
 horseback, in all theire formalities, and proclaim'd the King ; hence to

 the Exchange in Comhill, and so we return'd in the order we set forth.
 Being come to White-hall, we all went and kiss'd the King and Queenes
 hands. He had ben on the bed, but was now risen and in his undresse.
 The Queene was in bed in her appartment, but put forth her hand,

 seeming to be much afflicted, as I believe she was, having deported

 herselfe so decently upon all occasions since she came into England,
 which made her universally belov'd.

    Thus concluded this sad and not joyfull day.

    I can never forget the inexpressible luxury and prophanenesse,

 gaming and all dissoluteness, and as it were total forgetfullnesse of God

 (it being Sunday evening) which this day se'nnight I was witnesse of,

 the King sitting and toying with his concubines, Portsmouth, Cleave-
 land, and Mazarine, &c. a French boy singing love songs, in that
 glorious gallery, whilst about 20 of the greate courtiers and other dis
 solute persons were at Basset round a large table, a bank of at least
468 PROCLAMATION OF JAMES II. FUNERAL OF CHARLES IL

2000 in gold before them, upon which two gentlemen who were
with me made reflexions with astonishment. Six days after was all in

the dust !

   It was enjoyn'd that those who put on mourning' should wear it as fol

a father, in the most solemn manner.
   10 Feb. Being sent to by the Sheriff of the County to appeare and

assist in proclayming the King, I went the next day to Bromely, where

I met the Sheriff and the Commander of the Kentish Troop, with an
appearance, I suppose, of above 500 horse, and innumerable people,

two of his Majesty's trumpets and a Serjeant with other officers, who
having drawn up the horse in a large field neere the towne, march'd
thence, with swords drawne, to the market-place, where making a ring,
after sound of trumpets and silence made, the High Sheriff read the
proclaiming titles to his Bailiffe, who repeated them aloud, and then
after many shouts of the people, his Majesty's health being drunk in a
flint glasse of a yard long, by the Sheriff, Commander, Officers and
cheife Gentlemen, they all dispers'd, and I return'd.

   13. I pass'd a fine on selling of Honson Grange in Staffordshire,

being about £.20 per ami., which lying so grcate a distance I thought
fit to part with it to one Burton, a farmer there. It came to me as part
of my daughter-in-law's portion, this being but a fourth part of what
was divided betweene the mother and three sisters.

   14. The King was this night very obscurely buried1 in a vault
under Hen. 7th's Chapell at Westminster, without any manner of pomp,
and soone forgotten after all this vanity, and the face of the whole
Court was exceedingly chang'd into a more solemn and moral beha
viour ; the new King affecting neither prophanenesse nor buffoonery.
All the greate Officers broke their staves over the grave, according to

form.

   1-5. Dr. Tenison preach'd to the Household. The second sermon
should have ben before the King ; but he, to the greate griefe of his
subjects, did now for the first time go to masse publickly in the little
Oratorie at the Duke's lodgings, the doors being set wide open.

  16. I din'd at Sir Robert Howard's, Auditor of the Exchequer, a

gentleman pretending to all manner of arts and sciences, for which he
had ben the subject of Comedy, under the name of Sir Positive ; not
ill-natur'd, but insufferably boasting. He was sonn to the late Earl of

Berkshire.

1 The funeral could not be performed with so great solemnity as some persons expected ,
because his late Majesty dying in, and his present Majesty professing, a different Religion
from that of his people, it had been a difficult matter to reconcile the greater ceremonies which
must have been performed according to the Rites of the Church of England, with the obliga
tion of not communicating with it in spiritual things ; to avoid, therefore, either disputes OB
one hand, or scandal on the other, it was thought more prudent to do it in a more private man
ner, though at the same time there was no circumstance of state and pomp omitted, which
possibly could be allowed of.   All the Privy Council,                                      Lords about:
towne attended at the funeral.    Life of King James    all  the household,  and  all  the

                                                        II.  vol. II. p. 6.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                     469

   17. This morning his Majesty restorM the staffe and key to Lord
Arlington, Chamberlaine ; to Mr. Savill, Vice-chamberlaine ; to Lords
Newport and Mainard, Treasurer and Comptroler of the Household;
Lord Godolphin made Chamberlaine to the Queene ; Lord Peterborow
Groome of the Stole in place of the Earle of Bath ; the Treasurer's staff

to the Earle of Rochester ; and his brother the Earle of Clarendon
Lord Privie Seale in place of the Marquis of Halifax, who was made
President of the Council ; the Secretarys of State remaining as before.

   19. The Lord Treasurer and the other new Officers were sworneat
the Chancery Barr and the Exchequer.

   The late King having the revenue of Excise, Costoms, and other late

duties granted for his life only, they were now farmed and lett to seve-
rall persons, upon an opinion that the late King might lett them for

three yeares after his decease ; some of the old Commissioners refus'd
to act. The lease was made but the day before the King died ' ; the
major part of the Judges (but as some think not the best Lawyers) pro-
nounc'd it legal, but four dissented.

   The Clerk of the Closet had shut up the late King's private Oratorie
next the Privy-chamber above, but the King caus'd it to be open'd
againe, and that prayers should be said as formerly.

   22. Several most useful Tracts against Dissenters, Papists, and

Fanatics, and Resolutions of Cases, were now publish'd by the London
Divines.

   4 Mar. Ash-Wednesday ; after evening prayers I went to London.
   5. To my griefe I saw the new pulpit set up in the Popish Oratorie

at White-hall for the Lent preaching, masse being publicly said, and

the Romanists swarming at Court with greater confidence than had ever

ben seene in England since the Reformation, so as every body grew

jealous to what this would tend.

   A Parliament was now summon'd, and greate industry us'd to obtaine

elections which might promote the Court interest, most of the Corpo
rations being now by their new Charters impower'd to make what re-
tumes of members they pleas'd.

    There came over divers envoys and greate persons to condole the
death of the late King, who were receiv'd by the Queene Dowager on
a bed of mourning, the whole chamber, cieling and floore hung with

black, and tapers were lighted, so as nothing could be more lugubrous
and solemne. The Queene Consort sat out under a state on a black
foot-cloth, to entertaine the circle (as the Queene us'd to do), and that
very decently.

6. Lent Preachers continu'd as formerly in the Royal ChapelL

1 King James, in his Life, makes no mention of this lease, but only says ht continued to
collect them, which conduct was not blamed ; but on the contrary, he was thinkcd for it in an
address from the Middle Temple, Denned by Sir Bartholomew Shore, and presented by
Sir Humphrey Mackworth,
Vol. II. pp. 16, 17.     carrying great authority with  it,  nor did the Parliament find fault.
470 DEATH, ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND VIRTUE OF MY DAUGHTER MARY.

   7. ' My daughter  Mary was taken    with the small pox, and there soon
                     of her recovery.
was found no hope                       A very greate affliction to me: but
God's holy will be done.

10. She receiv'd the blessed Sacrament ; after which, disposing

herselfe to suffer what God should determine to inflict, she bore the

remainder of her sicknesse with extraordinary patience and piety, and

more than ordinary resignation and blessed frame of mind. She died

the 14th, to our unspeakable sorrow and affliction, and not to ours
onely, but that of all who knew her, who were many of the best quality,
greatest and most virtuous persons. The justnesse of her stature, person,
comelinesse of countenance, gracefullnesse of motion, unaffected tho"

more than ordinary beautifull, were the least of her ornaments compared
with those of her mind. Of early piety, singularly religious, spending

a part of every day in private devotion, reading and other vertuous exer

cises : she had collected and written out many of the most usefull and

judicious periods of the books she read in a kind of common-place, as
out of Dr. Hammond on the New Testament, and most of the best

practical treatises. She had read and digested a considerable deale of

history and of places. The French tongue was as familiar to her as

English ; she understood Italian, and was able to render a laudable
account of what she read and observed, to which assisted a most faith

ful memory and discernment ; and she did make very prudent and dis-

creete reflections upon what she had observed of the conversations

among which she had at any time ben, which being continualy of per

sons of the best quality, she thereby improved. She had an excellent

voice, to which she play'd a thorough bass on the harpsichord, in both

which she arived to that perfection, that of the schollars of those two

famous masters Signiors Pietro and Bartholomeo she was esteem'd the

best ; for the sweetnesse of her voice and management of it added such

an agreeablenesse to her countenance, without any constraint or con-

cerne, that when she sung, it was as charming to the eye as to the eare;
this I rather note, because it was a universal remarke, and for which so

many noble and judicious persons in musiq desired to heare her, the
last being at Lord Arundel's of Wardour. What shall I say, or rather

not say, of the cheerefullness and agreeablenesse of her humour ? con

descending to the meanest servant in the family, or others, she still kept

up respect, without the least pride. She would often reade to them,

examine, instruct, and pray with them if they were sick, so as she was

exceedingly beloved of every body. Piety was so prevalent an ingre
dient in her constitution (as I may say) that even amongst equals and
superiors she no sooner became intimately acquainted, but she would

endeavour to improve them, by insinuating something of religious, and

that tended to bring them to a love of devotion ; she had one or two
confidents with whom she used to passe whole dayes in fasting, reading,
and prayers, especialy before the monethly communion and other
THE DIARY OF-JOHN EVELYN.  471

solemn occasions. She abhorr'd flattery, and tho' shi had aboundance
of witt, the raillery was so innocent and ingenuous that it was most agree
able ; she sometimes would see a play, but since the stage grew licen

tious, express'd herselfe weary of them, and the time spent at the theater

was an unaccountable vanity. She never play'd at cards without ex-
treame importunity and for the company, but this was so very seldome

that I cannot number it among any thing she could name a fault. No

one could read prose or verse better or with more judgment ; and as
she read, so she writ, not only most correct orthography, with that
maturitie of judgment and exactnesse of the periods, choice of ex
pressions, and familiarity of stile, that some letters of hers have

astonish'd me and others to whom she has occasionally written. She had
a talent of rehersing any comical part or poeme, as to them she might
be decently free with was more pleasing than heard on the theater ; she
daunc'd with the greatest grace I had ever seene, and so would her

master say, who was Monsieur Isaac ; but she seldome shew'd that per
fection, save in the gracefullnesse of her carriage, which was with an
aire of spritely modestie not easily to be described. Nothing affected, but
natural and easy as well in her deportment as in her discourse, which

was always materiall, not trifling, and to which the extraordinary sweet-

nesse of her tone, even in familiar speaking, was very charming. No

thing was so pretty as her descending to play with little children, whom
she would caresse and humour with greate delight. But she most
affected to be with grave and sober men, of whom she might learne
something, and improve herselfe. I have ben assisted by her in reading
and praying by me ; comprehensive of uncommon notions, curious of

knowing every thing to some excesse, had I not sometimes repressed

it. Nothing was so delightfull to her as to go into my study, where she

would willingly have spent whole dayes, for as I sayd she had read

aboundance of history, and all the best poets, even Terence, Plautus,
Homer, Virgil, Horace, Ovid ; all the best romances and modern

poemes ; she could compose happily, and put in pretty symbols, as in
the Mundus Muliebris, (a poem of Evelyn's) wherein is an enumeration
of the immense variety of the modes and ornaments belonging to the
sex ; but all these are vaine trifles to the virtues which adorn'd her
soule ; she was sincerely religious, most dutifull to her parents, whom

she lov'd with an affection temper'd with greate esteeme, so as we were
easy and free, and never were so well pleas'd as when she was with
us, nor needed we other conversation ; she was kind to her sisters,
and was still improving them by her constant course of piety. Oh
deare, sweete, and desireable child, how shall I part with all this good
ness and virtue without the bitternesse of sorrow and reluctancy of a
tender parent ! Thy affection, duty,, and love to me was that of a
friend as well as a child. Nor lesse deare to thy mother, whose ex
ample and tender care of thee was unparellel'd, nor was thy returne
472 MY RESIGNATION UNDER SEVERE DOMESTIC TRIAL.

to her lesse conspicuous ; Oh ! how she mourns thy loss ! how desolate

hast thou left us ! To the grave shall we both carry thy memory !

   God alone (in whose bosom thou art at rest and happy !) give us to
resigne thee and all our contentments (for thou indeede wert all in this
world) to his blessed pleasure ! Let him be glorified by our submission,
and give us grace to blesse him for the graces he implanted in thee, thy
virtuous life, pious and holy death, which is indeede the onely comfort
of our soules, hastening thro' the infinite love and mercy of the Lord
Jesus to be shortly with thee, deare child, and with thee and those
blessed saints like thee, glorifye the Redeemer of the world to all eter
nity ! Amen !

   It was in the 19th year of her age that this sicknesse happen'd to her."

An accident contributed to this disease ; she had an apprehension of it
in particular, and which struck her but two days before she came home,
by an imprudent gentlewoman whom she went with Lady Falkland to
visite, who after they had ben a good while in the house, told them she
had a servant sick of the small pox (who indeede died the next day) j
this my poore child acknowledged made an impression on her spirits.
There were foure gentlemen of quality offering to treate with me about
marriage, and I freely gave her her owne choice knowing her discre
tion. She showed great indifference to marrying at all, for truly, says
she to her mother (the other day), were I assur'd of your life and my
deare father's, never would I part from you ; I love you and this home,
where we serve God, above all things, nor ever shall I be so happy:

I know and consider the vicissitudes of the world, I have some expe

rience of its vanities, and but for decency more than inclination, and
that you judge it expedient for me, I would not change my condition,
but rather add the fortune you designe me to my sisters, and keepe up
the reputation of our family. This was so discreetly and sincerely
utter'd that it could not but proceede from an extraordinary child and
one who lov'd her parents beyond example.

   At London she tooke this fatal disease, and the occasion of her being
there was this ; my Lord Viscount Falkland's Lady having ben our
neighbour (as he was Treasurer of the Navy), she tooke so greate an
affection to my daughter, that when they went back in the autumn to
the Citty, nothing would satisfie their incessant importunity but letting
her accompany my Lady, and staying sometime with her ; it was with
the greatest reluctance I complied. Whilst she was there, my Lord
being musical, when I saw my Lady would not part with her till Christ
mas, I was not unwilling she should improve the opportunity of learn
ing of Signior Pietro, who had an admirable way both of composure
and teaching. It was the end of February before I could prevail with
my Lady to part with her ; but my Lord going into Oxfordshire to
stand for Knight of the Shire there, she express'd her wish to come
home, being tir'd of the vain and empty conversation of the towne, the
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  473

theatres, the court, and trifling visites which consum'd so much precious
time, and made her sometimes misse of that regular course of piety
that gave her the greatest satisfaction. She was weary of this life, and

I think went not thrice to Court all this time, except when her mother
or I carried her. She did not affect shewing herselfe, she knew the

Court well, and pass'd one summer in it at Windsor with Lady Tuke
one of the Queene's women of the bed chamber (a most virtuous re
lation of hers) ; she was not fond of that glittering scene, now become
abominably licentious, though there was a designe of Lady Rochester
and Lady Clarendon to have made her a maid of honour to the Queene
as soon as there was a vacancy. But this she did not set her heart

upon, nor indeede on any thing so much as the service of God, a quiet
and regular life, and how she might improve herselfe in the most ne

cessary accomplishments, and to which she was arriv'd at so greate
a measure.

   This is the little history and imperfect character of my deare child,

whose piety, virtue, and incomparable endowments deserve a monu
ment more durable than brasse and marble. Precious is the memo
rial of the just. Much I could enlarge on every period of this hasty
account, but that I ease and discharge my overcoming passion for the

present, so many things worthy an excellent Christian and dutifull child
crowding upon me. Never can I say enough, oh deare, my deare child,

whose memory is so precious to me !

   This deare child was born at Wotton in the same house and chamber
in which I first drew my breath, my wife having retired to my brother

there in the great sicknesse that yeare upon the first of that moneth,
and neere the very houre that I was borne, upon the last: viz. October.

    16 March. She was interr'd in the South-east end of the Church at

Deptford, neere her grandmother and severall of my younger children
and relations. My desire was she should have ben carried and layed

among my own parents and relations at Wotton, where I desire to be

interr'd myselfe, when God shall call me out of this uncertaine transi
tory life, but some circumstances did not permit it. Our Vicar Dr.
Holden preach'd her funeral sermon on I PhiL 21. ' For to me to live
is Christ and to die is gaine,' upon which he made an apposite discourse,
as those who heard it assur'd me (for griefe suffered me not to be pre
sent), concluding with a modest recital of her many virtues and signal

piety, so as to draw both teares and admiration from the hearers. I

was not altogether unwilling that something of this sort should be
spoken for the edification and encouragement of other young people.

    Divers noble persons honourM her funeral, some in person, others
sending their coaches, of which there were six or seven with six horses,
vis. the Countesse of Sunderland, Earle of Clarendon, Lord Godol-
phin, Sir Stephen Fox, Sir William Godolphin, Viscount Falkland, and
others. There were distributed amongst her friends about sixty rings.
474 MY DAUGHTER WAS A LITTLE MIRACLE WHEN SHE LIVED.

Thus liv'd, died, and was buried the joy of my life, and ornament
of her sex and of my poore family ! God Almighty of his infinite
mercy grant me the grace thankfully to resigne myselfe and all I have,

or had, to his divine pleasure, and in his good time, restoring health

and comfort to my family: 'teach me so to number my days that I

· may apply my heart to wisdom,' be prepar'd for my dissolution, and

 that into the hands of my blessed Saviour I may recommend my
spirit ! Amen !
   On looking into her closet, it is incredible what a number of collec
tions she had made from historians, poetes, travellers, &c. but above all

devotions, contemplations, and resolutions on these contemplations,
found under her hand in a booke most methodically dispos'd ; prayers,

meditations, and devotions on particular occasions, with many pretty
letters to her confidants ; one to a divine (not nam'd) to whom she
writes that he would be her ghostly father, and would not despise her
for her many errors and the imperfections of her youth, but beg,of God

to give her courage to acquaint him with all her faults, imploring his

assistance and spiritual directions. I well remember she had often de-
sirM me to recommend her to such a person, but I did not think fit

to do it as yet, seeing her apt to be scrupulous, and knowing the great

innocency and integrity of her life.

   It is astonishing how one who had acquir'd such substantial and
practical knowledge in other ornamental parts of education, especialy

music both vocal and instrumental, in dauncing, paying and receiving
.visites, and necessary conversation, could accomplish halfe of what she

has left ; but she never affected play or cards, which consume a worlc}
of precious time, so she was in continual exercise, which yet abated
nothing of her most agreeable conversation. But she was a little mi

racle while she livM, and so she died !

   1 6 Mar. I was invited to the funerall of Capt. Gunman, that excel

lent pilot and seaman, who had behavM himselfe so valiantly in the

Dutch warr. He died of a gangrene, occasion'd by his fall from the
pier of Calais. This was the Captain of the yatcht carrying the Duke

(now King) to Scotland, and was accus'd for not giving timely warning
when she split on the sands, where so many perish'd ; but I am most

confident he was no ways guilty, either of negligence or designe, as he
made appeare not onely at the examination of the matter of fact, but
in the Vindication he shew'd me, and which must needes give any man

of reason satisfaction. He was a sober, frugal, cheerfull and tempe

rate man ; we have few such seamen left.

8 ApriL Being now somewhat compos'd after my greate affliction,
I went to London to hear Dr. Tenison                      being on a Wednesday in
                     I

                                                     (it
Lent) at White-halL  obseiVd that tho' the King was not in his
seate above in the chapell, the Doctor made his three congees, which
they were not us'd to do when the late King was absent, making then
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                    475

one bowing onely. I ask'd the reason ; it was sayd he had a special
order so to do. The Princesse of Denmark was in the King's Closet,

but sat on the left hand of the chaire, the Clearke of the Closet stand

ing by His Majesty's chaire, as if he had ben present.
   I met the Queene Dowager going now first from White-hall to dwell

at Somerset-house.

   This day my brother of Wotton and Mr. Onslow were candidates for
Surrey against Sir Adam Brown and my cousin Sir Edward Evelyn,
and were circumvented in their election by a trick of the Sheriffs1
taking advantage of my brother's party going out of the small village

of Leatherhead to seek shelter and lodging, the afternoone being

tempestuous, proceeding to the Election when they were gon ; they

expecting the next morning ; whereas before and then they exceeded

the other party by many hundreds, as I am assured. The Duke of
Norfolk led Sir Edw. Evelyn's and Sir Adam Brown's party. For this

Parliament, very meane and slight persons (some of them gentlemen's
servants, clearkes, and persons neither of reputation nor interest) were
set up, but the country would choose my brother whether he would or
no, and he miss'd it by the trick above mention'd. Sir Adam Brown
was so deafe that he could not heare one word. Sir Edw. Evelyn * was

an honest gentleman much in favour with his Majesty.

   IO. 1 went early to White-hall to heare Dr. Tillotson, Deane of

Canterbury, preaching on 9Eccles. 18. I returned in the evening, and
visited Lady Tuke, and found with her Sir Geo. Wakeman, the physi-
tian, whom I had seene tried and acquitted, amongst the plotters for
poisoning the late King, on the accusation of the famous Oates ; and
surely I believ'd him guiltlesse.

  14. According to my costome I went to London to passe the holy

weeke there.

   17. Good Friday. Dr. Tenison preached at the new church at St.
James's, on 1 Cor. 16, 22, upon the infinite love of God to us, which
he illustrated in many instances. The holy Sacrament followed, at

which I participated. The Lord make me thankfull. In the after

noone Dr. Spratt, Bp. of Rochester, preached in Whitehall Chapell,
the auditory very full of Lords, the two Archbishops, and- many
others, now drawne to towne upon the occasion of the Coronation

and ensuing Parliament. I supp'd with the Countesse of Sunder

land and Lord Godolphin, and returned home.
   23. Was the Coronation of the King and Queene. The solemnity

was magnificent, as is set forth in print. The Bp. of Ely preach'd ;

'Mr. Samuel Lcwcn. His name does not appear in the History of Surrey amongst the
landowners, but it is there stated that in 1709 Sir William Lewen purchased the rectory of
Ewel, and that he was Lord Mayor of London in 1717. Vol. I. 470.
   s His            at Long Ditton, near Kingston, which  town  had surrendered  their charter
to King   seat was                                        King  James appointed   Sir Edward
          Charles   II. about a month before his death.
Evelyn one of the new Corporation.
476 TITUS OATES TRIED, CONVICTED, WHIPPED, AND PILLORIED.

but, to the greate sorrow of the people, no Sacrament, as ought to
have ben. However the King begins his reigne with greate expecta
tions, and hopes of much reformation as to the late vices and pro-
phanenesse both of Court and Country. Having ben present at the

late King's Coronation, I was not ambitious of seeing this ceremonie.
   3 May. A young man preach'd, going chaplain with Sir Jo. Wi-

burn, Governor of Bombay in the East Indies.

   7. I was in Westminster Hall when Oates, who had made such a

stir in the kingdom, on his revealing a Plot of the Papists, and alarm'd
several Parliaments, and had occasioned the execution of divers Priests,
Noblemen, &c. was tried for perjurie at the King's Bench ; but being
very tedious, I did not endeavour to see the issue, considering that
it would be published. Aboundance of Roman Catholics were in the
Hall in expectation of the most gratefull conviction and mine of a
person who had ben so obnoxious to them, and, as I verily believe,
had don much mischiefe and greate injury to several by his violent
and ill-grounded proceedings ; whilst he was at first so unreasonably
blowne up and encouraged, that his insolence was no longer sufferable.

   Mr. Roger L'Estrange (a gentleman whom I had long known, and a
person of excellent parts abating some affectations) appearing first
against the Dissenters in several Tracts, had now for some yeares
turn'd his style against those whom (by way of hateful distinction) they
call'd Whiggs and Trimmers, under the title of Observator, which came
out 3 or 4 days every weeke, in which sheets, under pretence to serve
the Church of England, he gave suspicion of gratifying another party,
by several passages which rather kept up animosities than appeas'd

them, especialy now that nobody gave the least occasion.1

   10. The Scots valueing themselves exceedingly to have ben the first
Parliament call'd by his Majesty, gave the Excise and Costomes to him
and his successors forever; the D. of Queensberry making eloquent
speeches, and especialy minding them of a speedy suppression of those
late desperate Field-Conventiclers who had done such unheard-of
assassinations. In the meane time elections for the ensueing Parlia
ment in England were thought to be very indirectly carried on in most
places. God grant a better issue of it than some expect 1

   16. Titus Oates was sentenced to be whipped and pilloried
with the utmost severity.

   21 May. I din'd at my Lord Privy Seale's with Sir William Dug-
dale, Garter King at Armes, author of the Monasticon and other

learned workes : he told me he was 82 yeares of age, and had his sight

  1 In the first Dutch war, whilst Mr. Evelyn was one of the Commissioners for sick and
wounded, Mr. L'Estrange in hit Gazette mentioned the barbarous usage of the Dutch prisoners
of war: Mr. Evelyn wrote him a very spirited letter, desiring that the Dutch Ambassador

(who was then in England) and his friends would visit the prisoners, and examine their provi
sions ; and he desir'd Mr. L'Estrange would publish ois vindication in his next number.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                     477

and memory perfect.' There was shewn a draught of the exact shape
and dimensions of the Crowne the Queene had been crowned withall,
together with the Jewells and pearles ; their weight and value, which
amounted to ,£.100,658 sterling, attested at the foote of the paper by

the jeweller and goldsmith who sett them.

   22. In the morning I went with a French gentleman, and my Lord
Privy Scale, to the House of Lords, where we were plac'd by his lord

ship next the Bar, just below the Bishops, very commodiously both for

hearing and seeing. After a short space came in the Queene and
Princesse of Denmark, and stood next above the Archbishops, at the
side of the House on the right hand of the throne. In the interim

divers of the Lords, who had not finish'd before, took the Test and

usual Oathes, so that her Majesty, the Spanish and other Ambassadors,

who stood behind the throne, heard the Pope and worship of the Virgin
Maiy, &c. renoune'd very decently, as likewise the prayers which fol-

low'd, standing all the while. Then came in the King, the Crowne on

his head, and being seated, the Commons were introduced, and the

House being full, he drew forth a paper containing his speech, which
he read distinctly enough, to this effect: 'That he resolv'd to call a

Parliament from the moment of his brother's decease, as the best

meanes to settle all the concernes of the Nation, so as to be most easy

and happy to himselfe and his subjects ; that he would confirme what
ever he had said in his declaration at the first Council concerning his
opinion of the principles of the Church of England, for their loyaltie,
and would defend and support  and preserve its government as by
;

                       it,

                                                               ;
law now establish'd that, as he would invade no man's property, so he
would never depart from his owne prerogative and as he had ventur'd
his life in defence of the Nation, so he would proceede to do still that,
                                                                                           ;

having given this assurance of his care of our Religion (his word was
your Religion) and Property (which he had not said by chance but
solemnly), so he doubted not of suitable returnes of his subjects duty
and kindnesse, especialy as to settling his Revenue for life, for the many
weighty necessities of government, which he would not suffer to be pre
carious that some might possibly suggest that were better to feede
and supply him from time to time only, out of their inclination to fre
quent Parliaments, but that that would be a very improper method to
take with him, since the best way to engage him to meete oftener would
;

                                                                      it

be always to use him well, and therefore he expected their compliance
speedily, that this Session being but short, they might meet againe to
satisfaction.' At every period of this the House gave loud shouts.
Then he acquainted them with that morning's news of Argyle's being
landed in the West Highlands of Scotland from Holland, and the
treasonous declaration he had published, which he would communicate

. Sir Isaac Heard, the present Garter King at Anns,                                        about the same age, and in eu.1al
  possession of his faculties (:8 16).
a

                                                                                       is
47? MEETING AND MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE OF PARLIAMENT.

to them, and that he should take the best care he could it should meete

with the' reward it deserv'd, not questioning the Parliament's zeale and

readinesse to assist him as he desir'd ; at which there follow'd another
Vive U Roi, and so his Majesty retir'd.

So soone as the Commons were return'd and had put themselves into
a grand Committee, they immediately put the question, and unanimously .
voted the Revenue to his Majesty for life. Mr. Seymour made a bold

speech against many Elections, and would have had those members
                       were obnoxious, to withdraw, till they had clear'd
 who (he pretended)    being legally return'd ; but no one seconded him.    '
' the matter of their
The truth is, there were many of the new members whose Elections and

Returns were universally censurM, many of them being persons of no

condition or interest in the Nation, or places for which they seiVd,
especially in Devon, Cornwall, Norfolk, &c said to have ben recom

mended by the Court and from the effect of the new charters changing

the electors. It was reported that Lord Bath carried down with him

[into Cornwall] no fewer than 15 charters, so that some call'd him the

Prince Elector : whence Seymour told the House in his speech that if

this was digested, they might introduce what religion and lawes they

pleas'd, and that tho' he never gave heed to the feares and jealousies
of the people before, he now was really apprehensive of Popery. By
the printed list of Members of the House 505 there did not appeare to
be above 135 who had ben in former Parliaments, especialy that lately
held at Oxford.
In the Lords House Lord Newport made an exception against two

or three young Peeres, who wanted some moneths, and some only four

or five daies of being of age.
The Popish Lords who had ben sometime before releas'd from their

confinement about the Plot, were now discharg'd of their impeach

ment, of which I gave Lord Arundel of Wardour joy.

Oates, who had but two dayes before ben pilloried at severall places

and whipt at the carts taile from Newgate to Aldgate, was this day
plac'd on a sledge, being not able to go by reason of so late scourging,
and draggtt from prison to Tyburn, and whipt againe all the way,

which some thought to be very severe and extraordinary ; but if he was
guilty of the perjuries, and so of the death of many innocents, as I feare
he was, his punishment was but what he deserv'd. I chanc'd to pass
just as execution was doing on him. A strange revolution !
Note : there was no speech made by the Lord Keeper [Bridgeman]

after his Majesty, as usual

  It was whispered he would not be long in that situation, and many
believe the bold Cheif Justice Jefferies, who was made Baron of Wem
in Shropshire, and who went thorough stitch in that tribunal, stands

fair for that office. I gave him joy the morning before of his new
honour, he having always ben very civil to me.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN. -  479

    24 May. We had hitherto not any raine for many moneths, so as
the caterpillars had already devour' d all the winter finite thro' the
whole land, and even kill'd severall greater old trees. Such two winters

and summers I had never knowne.

   4 June. Came to visite and take leave of me Sir Gab. Sylvius, now
going Envoy extraordinary into Denmark, with his Secretary and Chap-
laine, a Frenchman, who related the miserable persecution of the Pro
testants in France ; not above 10 Churches left them, and those also
threaten'd to be demolish'd; they were commanded to christen their

children within 24 houres after birth, or else a Popish Priest was to be

call'd, and then the infant brought up in Popery. In some places they
were 30 leagues from any minister or opportunity of worship. This

persecution had displeas'd the most industrious part of the nation, and
dispers'd those into Swisse, Burgundy, Holland, Germany, Denmark,
England, and the Plantations. There were with Sir Gabriel, his lady,
Sir Wm. Godolphin and sisters, and my Lord Godolphin's little son,

my charge. I brought them to the water side where Sir Gabriel em-

bark'd, and the rest return'd to London.
    14. There was now certaine intelligence of the Duke of Monmouth

landing at Lyme in Dorsetshire, and of his having set up his standard

as King of England. I pray God deliver us from the confusion which

these beginnings threaten !
    Such a dearth for want of raine was never in my memory.
    17. The Duke landed with but 150 men, but the whole Kingdom

was alarm'd, fearing that the disaffected would joyn them, many of the
train'd bands flocking to him. At his landing he publish'd a declara
tion, charging his Majesty with usurpation and several horrid crimes,
on pretence of his owne title, and offering to call a free Parliament.
This declaration was order'd to be burnt by the hangman, the Duke
proclaim'd a traytor, and a reward of ,£.5,000 to any man who should

kill him.
   At this time the words engraved on the monument in London, inti

mating that the Papists fiVd the Citty, were erased and cut out.
   The exceeding drowth still continues.

   1 8. I received a warrant to send out a horse with 12 dayes provi

sion, &c.
   28. We had now plentifull raine after 2 yeares excessive drowth and

severe winters.
 - Argyle taken in Scotland and executed, and his party dispers'd.

   2 July. No considerable account of the troops sent against the
-Duke of Monmouth, tho' greate forces sent. There was a smart
skirmish, but he would not be provok'd to come to an encounter, but
still kept in the fastnesses.

    Dangerfield whipp'd, like Oates, for perjurie.
   8 July. Came news of Monmouth's utter defeate, and the next day
                                                                                                                             r -  ·

480 DEFEAT OF MONMOUTH I HIS CAPTURE, AND MISERABLE STATa

of his being taken by Sir William Portman and Lord Lumley with the
militia of their counties. It seemes the horse, commanded by Lord
Grey, being newly rais'd and undisciplin'd, were not to be brought in
so short a time to endure the fire, which expos'd the foote to the King's,
so as when Monmouth had led the foote in greate silence and order,
thinking to surprize Lieutenant General Lord Feversham newly en-
camp'd and given him a smart charge, interchanging both greate and
small shot, the horse, breaking their owne ranks, Monmouth gave it
over, and fled with Grey, leaving their party to be cut in pieces to the
number of 2000. The whole number reported to be above 8,000, the
King's but 2,700. The slaine were most of them Mcndip-tniners, who
did greate execution with their tooles, and sold their lives verydearely,

whilst their leaders flying were pursu'd and taken the next morning,

not far from one another. Monmouth had gone 16 miles on foote,
changing his habite for a poore coate, and was found by Lord Lumley
in a dry ditch cover'd with fern-brakes, but without sword, pistol, or
any weapon, and so might have pass'd for some countryman, his beard
being grown so long and so grey as hardly to be known, had not his

George discovert him, which was found in his pocket. Tis said he

trembl'd exceedingly all over, not able to speake. Grey was taken not
far from him. Most of his party were anabaptists and poore cloth-
workers of the country, no gentleman of account being come in to him.
The arch-boutefeu Ferguson Matthews, &c. were not yet found. The
.£5.000 to be given to whoever should bring Monmouth in, was to be
distributed among the militia by agreement between Sir William Port-
man and Lord Lumley. The battail ended, some words, first in jest,
then in passion, pass'd between Sherrington Talbot (a worthy gentle
man, son to Sir John Talbot, and who had behav'd himselfe very hand
somely) and one Capt. Love, both commanders of the militia, as to

whose souldiers fought best, both drawing their swords and passing at
one another. Sherrington was wounded to death on the spot, to the
greate regret of all who knew him. He was Sir John's only son.

   9 July. Just as I was coming into the lodgings at White-hall, a
little before dinner, my Lord of Devonshire standing very neere his

Majesty's bed-chamber doore in the lobby, came Col. Culpeper, and in
a rude manner looking my Lord in the face, asked whether this was a
time and place for excluders to appeare ; my Lord at first tooke little
notice of what he said, knowing him to be a hot-headed fellow, but he
reiterating my Lord ask'd Culpeper whether he meant him he said,
yes, he meant his Lordship. My Lord told him be was no excluder (as
indeed he was not) the other affirming againe, my Lord told him
he lied, on which Culpeper struck him box on the eare, which my Lord
return'd and fell'd him. They were soone parted, Culpeper was seiz'd,
and his Majesty, who was all the while in his bed-chamber, order"d
him to be carried to the Green Cloth Officer, who sent him to the
it,

                    ;

                                                  a
                                                     it

                                                                                                                          ;
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  481

Marshalsea, as he deserv'd. My Lord of Devonshire had nothing

said to him.

   I supp'd this night at Lambeth at my old friend's, Mr. Elias Ash-
mole's, with my Lady Clarendon, the Bishop of St. Asaph, and Dr.

Tenison, where we were treated at a greate feast.
    10 July. The Count of Castel Mellor, that greate favourite and

prime minister of Alphonso, late King of Portugal, after several yeeres
banishment, being now received to grace and call'd home by Don Pedro
the present King, as having ben found a person of the greatest integrity
after all his sufferings, desi^d me to spend part of this day with him,
and assist him in a collection of books and other curiosities, which he

would carry with him into Portugal.
    Mr. Hussey, a young gentleman who made love to my late deare

child, but whom she could not bring hcrselfe to answer in affection, died

now of the same cruel disease, for which 1 was extreamly sorry, because

Ihe never enjoy'd himselfe after my daughter's decease, nor was averse

to the match, could she have overcome her disinclination.

   15. I went to see Dr. Tenison's Library [in St. Martin's.]

    Monmouth was this day brought to London and examin'd before the
King, to whom he made greate submission, acknowlcdg'd his seduction
by Ferguson the Scot, whom he nam'd the bloudy villain. He was sent

to the Tower, had an interview with his late Dutchesse, whom he

receiVd coldly, having liv*d dishonestly with the Lady Henrietta Went-

worth for two ycares. He obstinately asserted his conversation with

that debauch'd woman to be no sin, whereupon, seeing he could not be

persuaded to his last breath, the divines who were sent to assist him
thought not fit to administer the Holy Communion to him. For the
rest of his faults he profess'd greate sorrow, and so died without any

apparent feare ; he would not make use of a cap or other circumstance,
but lying downe bid the fellow do his office better than to the late Lord
Russell, and gave him gold ; but the wretch made five chopps before
he had his head off; which so incens'd the people, that had he not
been guarded and got away, they would have torn him to pieces.

   The Duke made no speech on the scaffold (which was on Tower
Hill) but gave a paper containing not above 5 or 6 lines, for the King,
in which he disclaims all title to the Crown, acknowledges that the late
King, his father, had indeede told him he was but his base sonn, and
so desir'd his Majesty to be kind to his wife and children. This rela
tion I had from Dr. Tenison (Rector of St. Martin's), who, with the
Bishops of Ely and Bath and Wells, were sent to him by his Majesty,

and were at the execution.
   Thus ended this quondam Duke, darling of his father and the ladies,

being extreamly handsome and adroit ; an excellent souldier and dan
cer, a favourite of the people, of an easy nature, debauch'd by lusts,

--sedue'd by crafty knaves who "would have set him up only to make a
                                                                                                             31
482 THE DUCHESS OF MONMOUTH, AND HER LATE HUSBAND.

property, and took the opportunity of the King being of another re
ligion, to gather a party of discontented men. He fail'd & perish'd.
He was a lovely person, had a virtuous and excellent lady that
brought him greate riches, and a second dukedom in Scotland. He
was Master of the Horse, General of the King his father's Army, Gen
tlemen of the Bed-chamber, Knight of the Garter, Chancellor of Cam
bridge, in a word, had accumulations without end. See what ambition
and want of principles brought him to ! He was beheaded on Tuesday
14th July. His mother, whose name was Barlow, daughter of some
very meane creatures, was a beautiful strumpet, whom I had often

seene at Paris ; she died miserably without any thing to bury her ; yet
. this Perkin had ben made to believe that the King had married her ;
a monstrous and ridiculous forgerie ; and to satisfy the world of the

iniquity of the report, the King his father (if his father he really was,
for he most resembl'd one Colonel Sydney,' who was familiar with his

mother) publickly and most solemnly renounc'd                                  to be so enter'd
it
                                 I

                                                                          it,
in the Council Booke some yeares since, with all the Privy Councillor's

attestation.'

Had not pleas'd God to dissipate this attempt in the beginning,
there would in all appearance have gather'd an irresistible force which
would have desperately proceeded to the ruine of the Church and
Government, so general was the discontent and expectation of the
opportunity. For my owne part look'd upon this deliverance as most
signal. Such an inundation of phanatics and men of impious principles

must needs have caus'd universal disorder, cruelty, injustice, rapine,

sacrilege, and confusion, an unavoidable civil war and misery without

end. Blessed be God the knot was happily broken, and a faire prospect

of tranquillity for the future we reforme, be thankfull, and make a
                          ;
right use of this mercy.
18 July. went to see the muster of the Scotch and English reif
1                                                 6
         ·1                                   it
giments whom the Prince of Orange had lately sent to his Majesty out
               I
of Holland upon this rebellion, but which were now returning, there
                                                                                              **·

Mr. Robert Sidney, commonly called handsome Sidney, related to the Earl of Leicester

of that name.

    Ross, tutor to the Duke of Monmouth, proposed to Bishop Cozens to sign a certificate of

the King's marriage to Mrs. Barlow, though her own name was Walters this the Bishop
refused. She was bom of a gentleman's family in Wales, but having little means and less
                                                                               ;
                                                                                           ;
grace, came to London to make her fortune. Algernon Sidney, then a Colonel in Cromwell's
army, had agreed to give her 50 broad pieces (as he told the Duke of York) but being
ordered hastily away with his regiment, he missed his bargain. She went into Holland, where
the fell into the hands of his brother Colonel Robert Sidney, who kept her for some time, till
the King hearing of her, got her from him. On which the Colonel was heard to say, Let who
will have her she already sped and after being with the King she was so soon with child that
               is

the world had no cause to doubt whose child was, and the rather that when he grew to be a
man, he very much resembled the Colonel both in stature and countenance, even to a wort on

his face. However the King owned the child. In the King's absence she behaved so loosely,
that on his return from his escape at Worcester, he would have no further commerce with hear,
II.and she became a common prostitute at Paris. Life of King James
                                                                               vol. 491.
                                                                               I.
                 THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                            483

having ben no occasion for their use. They were all excellently clad
and well disciplin'd, and were incamped on Blackheath with their tents:
the King and Queene came to see them exercise, and the manner of
their incampment, which was very neate and magnificent.

By a grosse mistake of the Secretary of his Majesty's forces, it had

ben order'd that they should be quarter'd in private houses, contrary to
an Act of Parliment, but on my informing his Majesty timely of
                                                                      it,
                                                                         it

was prevented.

   The two horsemen which my son and myselfe sent into the county

troopes, were now come home, after moneth's being out to our greate
                 it
                                       a
charge.

   20. The Trinity Company met this day, which should have ben on

the Monday after Trinity, but was put off by reason of the Royal Char

ter being so large that could not be ready before. Some immunities

were super-added. Mr. Pepys, Secretary to the Admiralty, was a

second time chosen Master. There were present the Duke of Grafton,

Lord Dartmouth, Master of the Ordnance, the Commissioners of the

Navy, and brethren of the Corporation. We went to Church according
to costome, and then took barge to the Trinity House, in Loudon, where

we had a great dinner, above So at one table.
Aug. went to see Mr. Wats, keeper of the Apothecaries Garden
7
                                                                  a collection of innumerable
           I

                                                              is
of Simples at Chelsea, where there

rarities of that sort particularly, besides many rare annuals, the tree

bearing Jesuits bark, which had don such wonders in quartan agues.
What was very ingenious was the subterranean heate, conveyed by a

stove under the conservatory, which was all vaulted with brick, so as

he has the doores and windowes open in the hardest frosts, secluding

only the snow.

   15. Came to visite us Mr. Boscawen with my Lord Godolphin's
little son, with whose education hither his father had intrusted me.

   27. My daughter Elizabeth died of the small pox, soon after having
married a young man, nephew of Sir John Tippett, surveyor of the
Navy, and one of the Commissioners. The 30th she was buried in the
Church at Deptford. Thus in lesse than six moneths were we deprived
of two children for our unworthinesse and causes best knowne to God,

whom beseeche from the bottome of my heart that he will give us
3
grace to make that right use of all these chastisements, that we may
    Ibecome better, and entirely submitt in all things to his infinite wise

disposal. Amen.
      Sept Lord Clarendon (Lord Privy Seale) wrote to let me know
that the King being pleas'd to send him Lord Lieutenant into Ireland,

was also pleas'd to nominate me one of the Commissioners to execute

the office of Privy Seale during his Lieutenancy there, behoving me
                                                                  it

to wait upon his Majesty to give him thanks for this greate honour.
       accompanied his Lordship to Windsor (dining by the way at
5.

  I
484 ST. GEORGE'S HALL. CHIEF JUSTICE JEFFERIES. MRS. GRAHAM.

Sir Henry Capel's at Kew), where his Majesty receiving me with extra

ordinary kindnesse, I kiss'd his hand. I told him how sensible I was
of his Majesty's gracious favour to me, that I would endeavour to serve
him with all sincerity, diligence, and loyalty, not more out of my duty
thaninclination. He said he doubted not of and was glad he had the
                                      is
opportunity to shew me the kindnesse he had for me. After this cameit,

aboundance of greate men to give me joy.                 I
                                                                I

                                                                     I
      Sunday. went to prayer in the Chapell. and heard Dr. Standish.I6I

II,The second sermon was preach'd by Dr. Creighton, on Thess. 4,
persuading to unity and peace, and to be mindfull of our owne busi-

nesse, according to the advice of the Apostle. Ther. went to heare a

Frenchman who preached before the King and Qucene in that splendid
Chapell next St. George's Hall. Their Majesties going to masse, with
drew to consider the stupendous painting of the Hall, which, both

for the art and invention, deserve the inscription in honour of the
painter, Signior Verrio. The history
                                      Edward the 3d receiving the
Black Prince, coming towards him in a Roman triumph. The whole
roofe the history of St. George. The throne, the carvings, &c are
    is
incomparable, and think equal to any, and in many circumstances6
                     I

exceeding any, have scene abroad.
      din'd at Lord Sunderland's, with (amongst others) Sir WilliamI
Soames, design'd Ambassador to Constantinople.it I
About o'clock came Sir Dudley and his brother Roger North, and
brought the greate seale from my Lord Keeper, who died the day before
at his house in Oxfordshire. The King"went immediately to Council
                                                       I

                                                                          ;
every body guessing who was most likely to succeed this greate officer;

most believing could be no other than my Lord Chief Justice Jef-

feries, who had so vigorously prosecuted the late rebells, and was now

gone the Western circuit, to punish the rest that were secured in the

several counties, and was now neere upon his returne.                                                                            tooke my.

leave of his Majesty, who spake very graciously to me, and supping
that night at Sir S. Fox's, promis'd to dine there the next day.
                        I

15 Sept.           accompanied Mr. Pepys to Portsmouth, whither his

Majesty was going the first time since his coming to the Crowne, to
see in what state the fortifications were. We tooke coach and six

horses, late after dinner, yet got to Bagshot (26 m.) that night.
Whilst supper was making ready went and made a visit to Mrs.
                        is

                                         I
                                                         I
                                                                I

                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                              ;
Graham, some time maid of honour to the Queene Dowager, now wife
to James Graham, Esq. of the privy purse to the King her house
being a walke in the forest, within a little of a quarter mile from Bag-

shot towne. Very importunate she was that would sup, and abide
there that night, but being oblig'd by my companion, return'd to our
inn, after she had shew'd me her house, which was very commodious
and well furnish'd, as she was an excellent housewife, prudent and
virtuous lady. There a parke full of red deere about it. Her eldest
               THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                     48$

son was now sick there of the small-pox, but in a likely way of recovery,

and other of her children run about, and among the infected, which

she said she let them do on purpose that they might whilst young

pass that fatal disease she fancied they were to undergo one time
or other, and that this would be for the best : the severity of this

cruell disease so lately in my poore family confirming much of what

she affirmed.

·16. The next morning setting out early, we ariv'd soon enough at

Winchester to waite on the King, who was lodg'd at the Dean's (Dr.
Meggot). I found very few with him besides my Lords Fevcn.ham,
Arran, Newport, and the Bishop of Bath and Wells. His Majesty
was discoursing with the Bishops concerning miracles, and what

strange things the Saludadors ' would do in Spaine, as by creeping

into heated ovens without hurt, and that they had a black crosse in the

roofe of their mouthes, but yet were commonly notorious and profane

wretches ; upon which his Majesty further said, that he was so ex-

treamly difficult of miracles, for feare of being impos'd upon, that if he

should chance to see one himselfe, without some other witness, he
should apprehend it a delusion of his senses. Then they spake of the

boy who was pretended to have a wanting leg restor'd him, so confi

dently asserted by Fr. de Sta. Clara and others. To all which the

Bishop added a greate miracle happening in Westminster to his cer-

taine knowledge, of a poor miserably sick and decrepit child (as I

remember long kept unbaptiz'd), who immediately on his baptism
recovered ; as also of the salutary effect of K. Charles his Majesty's

father's blood, in healing one that was blind.

There was something said of the second sight happening to some
persons, especially Scotch ; upon which his Majesty, and I think Lord
Arran, told us that Mons
                          a French nobleman, lately here in

England, seeing the late Duke of Monmouth come into the play-house
ilat ' London, suddenly cried out to somebody sitting in the same box,

Voilk Monsieur comme tntre sans tete. Afterwards his Majesty

spoke of some reliques that had effected strange cures, particularly a
piece of our BL Saviour's Crosse, and heal'd a gentleman's rotten nose

by onely touching ; and speaking of the golden crosse and chaine

taken out of the coffin of St Edward the Confessor at Westminster, by

1 A* to that of the Saludador (of which likewise I remember Sir Arthur Hopton, formerly
Ambassador at Madrid, has told me many like wonders) Mr. Pepys passing through Spaine,
and being extreamly inquisitive of the truth of these pretended miracles o( the Saludadors,
found a very famous one at last, to whom he offered a considerable reward if he would make
a trial of the oven, or any other thing of that kind, before him ; the fellow ingeniously told
him that finding he was a more than ordinary curious person, he would not deceive him, and
so acknowledged that he could do none of the feates really, but that what they pretended was
all a cheate, which he would easily discover, though the poore superstitious people were easily
imposed upon ; yet have these imposters an allowance of the Bishops to practice their jug-
J.lings. This Mr. Pepys affirmed to me, but, said he, I did not conceive it fit to interrupt his
Majesty, who so solemnly told what they pretended to da  E.
486 CATHOLICISM OF THE LATE KING. THE NEW PALACK

one of the singing men, who, as the scaffolds were taking down after

his Majesty's coronation, espying a hole in the tomb, and something

glisten, put his hand in and brought it to the Deane, and he to the
King ; his Majesty began to put the Bishop in mind how earnestly the
late King (his brother) call'd upon him, during his agonie, to take out
what he had in his pocket. I had thought, said the King, it had ben

for some keys, which might lead to some cabinet that his Majesty would
have me secure ; but, says he, you well remember that I found nothing
in any of his pockets but a crosse of gold, and a few insignificant

papers ; and thereupon he shew'd us the crosse, and was plcas'dto put

it into my hand. It was of gold, about three inches long, having on

one side a crucifix enamell'd and emboss'd, the rest was grav'd and gar-

nish'd with goldsmiths'                                       work, and two pretty broad table  amethists (as
                                                              bottom a pendant pearle ; within   was inchas'd
I conceiv'd), and at the

a little fragment, as was thought, of the true Crosse, and a Latine in

scription in gold and Roman letters.1 More company coming in, this

discourse ended. I may not forget a resolution which his Majesty

made, and had a little before enter'd upon it at the Council Board at
Windsor or White-hall, that the Negroes in the Plantations should all

be baptiz'd, exceedingly declaiming against that impiety of their masters

prohibiting              out of mistaken opinion that they would be ipso facto
I                              a
        ;
                    it,                I
                                                 It

                                                          is
                                                                     is

                                                                      It
free but his Majesty persists in his resolution to have them christen 'd,

which piety the Bishop blessed him for.

went out to see the new Palace the late King had began, and
brought almost to the covering.                               plac'd on the side of the hill
where formerly stood the old Castle. It a stately fabric, of three
sides and a corridor, all built of brick, and comish'd, windows and
columns at the break and entrance of free-stone.
                                                                          was intended for

a hunting-house when his Majesty should come to these parts, and has

an incomparable prospect.                                     believe there had already been £20,000

and more expended, but now his Majesty did not seeme to encourage
the finishing at least for a while.


              I

                          it,
Hence went to see the cathedral, a reverend pile, and in good re-

paire. There are still the coffins of the six Saxon Kings, whose bones

had ben scatter'd by the sacrilegious Rebells of 1641, in expectation,                          I

suppose*, of finding some valuable reliques, and afterwards gathered
up againe and put into new chests, which stand above the stalls of
the Choir.

   17 Sept. Early next morning we went to Portsmouth, something
before his Majesty ariv'd. We found all the way full of people, the
women in their best dress, in expectation of seeing the King pass by,
which he did riding on horseback a good part of the way. We found
the Maior and Aldermen with their mace, and in their formalities,

     There a pamphlet giving an account of this finding and presenting
the name of George Taylour but his name was Henry Keepe.
1                                                                         to the King, unties

               is

                                                           ;
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                   487

standing at the entrance of the fort, a mile on this side of the towne,
where the Maior made a speech to the King, and then the guns of the
fort were fired, as were those of the garrison so soone as the King was
come into Portsmouth. All the souldiers (neere 3000) were drawn up,
and lining the streetes and platforme to God's-house (the name of the
Governor's house), where, after he had view'd the new fortifications and
ship-yard, his Majesty was entertain'd at a magnificent dinner by Sir

. . Slingsby the Lieut. Governor, all the gentlemen in his traine setting
down at table with him, which I also had don had I not ben before
engagM to Sir Robert Holmes, Governor of the Isle of Wight, to dine

with him at a private house, where likewise we had a very sumptuous

and plentiful repast of excellent venison, fowle, fish, and fruit.

After dinner I went to wait on his Majesty againe, who was pulling
on his bootes in the Towne-hall, adjoyning the house where he din'd,

and then having saluted some ladys, who came to kiss his hand, he

tooke horse for Winchester, whither he returned that night. This hall
is artificially hung round with amies of all sorts, like the Hall and

Keep at Windsor.

   I went hence to see the ship-yard and dock, the fortifications, and

other things.

   Portsmouth when finish'd will be very strong, and a noble key.
There were now 32 men of war in the harbour. I was invited by Sir
R. Beach the Commissioner, where, after a greate supper, Mr. Secre

tary and myselfe lay that night, and the next morning set out for Guild

ford, where we ariv'd in good hour, and so the day after to London.

   1 had twice before ben at Portsmouth, the Isle of Wight, &c. many
yeares since. I found this part of Hampshire bravely wooded, espe-
cialy about the house and estate of CoL Norton, who, tho' now in being,
having formerly made his peace by means of CoL Legg, was formerly
a very fierce commander in the first Rebellion. His house is large,
and standing low, on the road from Winchester to Portsmouth.
   By what I observ'd in this journey, is that infinite industry, sedulity,

gravity, and greate understanding and experience of affaires, in his
Majesty, that I cannot but predict much happiness to the Nation, as to

its political government ; and if he so persist, there could be nothing

more desir'd to accomplish our prosperity but that he was of the

National Religion.

   30. The Commission of Lord Clarendon for Lieutenant of Ire
land was seal'd this day.

2 Oct. Having a letter sent me by Mr. Pepys with this expression
at the foote of
                 it,
                   I'
                           I
                                                                            (a

                                                                        I
                                                                           I
                    have something to shew you that may not have
another time,' and that would not faile to dine with him, accordingly
went. After dinner he had me and Mr. Houblon rich and consider

able merchant, whose father had fled out of Flanders on the persecu
tion of the Duke of Alva) into a private roome, and told us that being
488 THE KING ON THE RELIGIOUS BELIEF OF HIS LATE BROTHER.

lately alone with his Majesty, and upon some occasion of speaking con
cerning my late Lord Arlington dying a Roman Catholic, who had all
along seem'd to profess himselfe a Protestant, taken all the tests, &c
till the day (I think) of his death, his Majesty sayd that as to his in

clinations he had known him long wavering, but from feare of looseing
his places he did not think it convenient to declare himself. There are,
says the King, those who believe the Church of Rome gives dispensa
tions for going to church, and many like things, but that is not so ; for

if that might have ben had, he himselfe had most reason to make use
of it. Indeede, he said, as to some matrimonial cases, there are now and

then dispensations, but hardly in any cases else. This familiar dis
course encourag'd Mr. Pepys to beg of his Majesty, if he might ask
it without offence, and for that his Majesty could not but observe how
it was whispered among many, whether his late Majesty had ben re-

concil'd to the Church of Rome ; he againe humbly besought his

Majesty to pardon his presumption if he had touch'd upon a thing
which did not befit him to looke into : the King ingenuously told

him that he both was and died a Roman Catholic, and that he had not

long since declar'd it was upon some politic and state reasons, best

known to himselfe (meaning the King his brother) but that he was of
that persuasion : he bid him follow him into his closet, where opening
a cabinet, he shew'd him two papers, containing about a quarter of

a sheete, on both sides written, in the late King's owne hand, severall

arguments opposite to the doctrine of the Church of England, charging
her with heresy, novelty and the fanaticism of other Protestants, the
.chief whereof was, as I remember, our refusing to acknowledge the
Primacy and Infallibility of the Church of Rome ; how impossible it
                                               till of late how un
was that so many ages should never dispute
                          ;                    ;
                                                             ;
                                          it,
likely our Saviour would leave his Church without a visible head and

guide to resort to, during his absence with the like usual topics so

well penn'd as to the discourse as did by no means seeme to me to have

ben put together by the late King, yet written all with his owne hand,

blotted and interlin'd, so as, indeede was not given him by some
                      if  it

                                           ;
priest, they might be such arguments and reasons as had ben incul

cated from time to time, and here recollected and in the conclusion

shewing his looking on the Protestant Religion (and by name the
Church of England) to be without foundation, and consequently false

and unsafe. When his Majesty had shewn him these originals, he was

pleas'd to lend him the copies of those two papers, attested at the bot

tom in or lines, under his owne hand.
I

     4

                5
   These were the papers saw and read. This nice and curious pasI
sage thought fit to set downe. Tho' all the arguments and objections

were altogether weake, and have a thousand times ben answer'dby our

Divines they are such as their Priests insinuate among their proselites,
if
               ;
as nothing were Catholiq but the Church of Rome, no salvation out
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                    489

of that, no reformation sufferable, bottoming all their errors on St.

Peter's successors unerrable dictatorship, but proving nothing with any

reason, or taking notice of any objection which could be made against

it. Here all was taken for granted, and upon it a resolution and pre
ference implied. I was heartily sorry to see all this, tho' it was no other

than was to be suspected, by his late Majesty's too greate indifference,
neglect, and course of life, that he had ben perverted, and for secular

respects onely profess'd to be of another beliefe, and thereby giving

greate advantage to our adversaries, both the Court and generaly the

youth and greate persons of the Nation becoming dissolute and highly

profane. God was incens'd to make his reign very troublesome and
unprosperous, by warrs, plagues, fires, losse of reputation by an universal

neglect of the publique for the love of a voluptuous and sensual life,
which a vicious Court had brought into credit. I think of it with sor
row and pity when I consider of how good and debonaire a nature that

unhappy Prince was, what opportunities he had to have made himselfe

the most renown'd King that ever sway'd the British scepter, had he

ben firm to that Church for which his martyr'd and blessed father suf-

fer'd ; and had he ben gratefull to Almighty God, who so miraculously

restored him, with so excellent a Religion ; had he endeavoured to

owne and propagate it as he should have don, not onely (or the good of
his Kingdom, but of all the Reformed Churches in Christendom, now

weaken d and neere ruin'd thro' our remissnesse and suffering them to

be suplanted, persecuted and destroy'd, as in France, which we tooke no
notice of. The consequence of this time will shew, and I wish it may

proceed no further. The emissaries and instruments of the Church of

Rome will never rest till they have crush'd the Church of England, as

knowing that alone to be able to cope with them, and that they can
never answer her fairly, but lie aboundantly open to the irresistible

force of her arguments, antiquity and purity of her doctrine, so that

albeit it may move God, for the punishment of a Nation so unworthy,

to eclipse againe the profession of her here, and darknesse and super
stition prevaile, I am most confident the doctrine of the Church of
England will never be extinguish'd, but remaine visible, if not eminent,
to the consummation of the world. I have innumerable reasons that
confirm me in this opinion, which I forbear to mention here.

   In the mean time as to the discourse of his Majesty with Mr. Pepys,
and those papers, as I do exceedingly prefer his Majesty's free and in
I

                            is,
                               a
                                             is
                                                      it

                                                Ia
genuous profession of what his own Religion  beyond concealment

upon any politic accounts, so thinke him of most sincere and

honest nature, one on whose word one may relie, and that he makes

conscience of what he promises, to performe it. In this confidence
hope that the Church of England may yet subsist, and when shall

please God to open his eyes and turne his heart (for that peculiarly
in the Lord's hands) to flourish also. In all events whatever do become
49<5 MY PORTRAIT PAINTED BY KNEIXER. SWALLOWFIELD HOUSE. -

of the Church of England, it is certainely, of all the Christian profes

sions 'on the earth, the most primitive, apostolical and excellent.

  I8 Oct. had my picture drawn this week by the famous Kneller.
  I14. went to London about finishing my lodgings at White-halL

   1 5. Being the King's birth day, there was a solemne ball at Court,

and before it musiq of instruments and voices. At the musiq I hap-

pen'd by accident to stand the very next to the Qucene and the King,
who talk'd with me about the musick.
                                                                            >

1 8. The King was now building all that range from East to West
by the Court and Garden to the streete, and making a new Chapel for

the Queene, whose lodgings were to be in this new building, as also a

new Council chamber and offices next the South end of the Banquetting

house. I returned home next morning to London.
  22. I accompanied my Lady Clarendon to her house at Swallow-
field in Berks, dining by the way at Mr. Graham's lodge at Bagshot ;

the house, new repair'd and capacious enough for a good family, stands

in a Park.

Hence we went to Swallowfield; this house is after the antient build

ing of honourable gentlemen's houses, when they kept up antient hos

pitality, but the gardens and waters as elegant as 'tis possible to make

a flat, by art and industrie, and no meane expence, my lady being so
extraordinarily skill'd in the flowery part, and my lord in diligence of
planting"; so that I have hardly seene a seate which shews more tokens
of it than what is to be found here, not only in the delicious and rarest
fruits of a garden, but in those innumerable timber trees in the ground

about the seate, to the greatest ornament and benefit of the place.
There is one orchard of 1000 golden, and other cider pippins ; walks
and groves of elms, limes, oaks, and other trees. The garden is so
beset with all manner of sweete shrubbs, that it perfumes the aire.

The distribution also of the quarters, walks, and parterres, is excellent.
The nurseries, kitchin garden full of the most desireable plants ; two
very noble Orangeries well furnished ; but above all, the canall and

fishponds, the one fed with a white, the other with a black running
water, fed by a quick and swift river, so well and plentifully stor"d with

fish, that for pike, carp, breame and tench, I never saw any thing
approching it. We had at every meale carp and pike of size fit for the
table of a Prince, and what added to the delight was to see the hundreds
taken by the drag, out of which, the cooke standing by, we pointed out
what we had most mind to, and had carp that would have ben worth
at Loudon twenty shillings a piece. The waters are flagg'd about with
Calamus aromaticus, with which my lady has hung a closet, that
retains the smell very perfectly. There is also a certaine sweete willow
and other exotics : also a very fine bowling-greene, meadow, pasture,
and wood ; in a word, all that can render a country seate delightful
There is besides a well furnish'd library in the house.
                                       THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  49 1

26. We return'd to Lo'ndon,-having ben treated with ah sorts of

cheere and noble freedom by that most religious and vertirous lady.
She was now preparing to go for Ireland with her husband, made Lord
Deputy, and went to this country-house and antient seate of her father

and family,1 to set things in order during her absence ; but never were

good people and neighbours more concern'd than all the country (the
poor especialy) for the departure of this charitable woman ; every one
was in teares, and she as unwilling to part from them. There was

amongst them a maiden of primitive life, the daughter of a poore

labouring man, who had sustain'd her parents (sometime since dead)
by her labour, and has for many years refus'd marriage, or to receive

any assistance from the parish, besides the little hermitage my lady

gives her rent-free ; she lives on foure pence a day, which she gets by
spinning ; says she abounds and can give almes to others, living in

greate humility and content, without any apparent affectation or singu

larity ; she is continualy working, praying or reading, gives a good
account of her knowledge in religion, visites the sick ; is not in the least
given to talke ; very modest, of a simple not unseemly behaviour ; of a

comely countenance, clad very plaine, but cleane and tight. In sum,
ihe appeares a saint of an extraordinary sort, in so religious a life as is

seldom met with in villages now-a-daies.

   27.. I was invited to dine at Sir Ste. Fox's with my Lord Lieutenant,

where was such a dinner for variety of all things as I had seldome seene,
and it was so for the trial of a master cooke whom Sir Stephen had re
commended to go with his Lordship into Ireland ; there were all the

dainties not onely of the season, but of what art could add, venison,

plaine solid meate, fowle, bak'd and boil'd meates, banquet [desert],
&c. in exceeding plenty and exquisitely dress'd. There also din'd my
Lord Ossory and Lady (the Duke of Beaufort's daughter), my Lady
Treasurer, Lord Cornbery, &c.

   28. At the Royal Society an urn full of bones was presented, dug up

in an highway, whilst repairing in a field in Camberwell in Surrey
                                       it,
                                                it
                                                       it

                                                                           ;

                                                                       a;
                                                                                 it

                                                                                                                                   ;
was found intire with its cover, amongst many others, believ'd to be
it

        it
                             it
truly Roman and antient
Sir Richard Bulkeley described to us a model of a charriot he had

invented, which was not possible to overthrow in whatever uneven
way was drawn, giving us a wonderfull relation of what had per-

form'd in that kind, for ease, expedition, and safety there were some
inconveniences yet to be remedied -- would not contain more than

one person was ready to take fire every 10 miles, and being plac'd,
;

and playing on no fewer than- 10 rollers, made most prodigious
                                       A remedy was to be sought for these
noise, almost intolerable.

inconveniences.

       She was daughter and heiress of Wm. Backhouse, Esq.  and widow of Sir Wm Back-
bouse, Bart. Collins Peerage.
1
                                    s
   49-» LORD CHAN. JEFFERIES. PERSECUTION OF FRENCH PROTESTANTS.

'    31. I din'd at our greate Lord  Chancellor Jefferies, who us'd me
                                     late Chief Justice who bad newlj
   with much respect. This was the
   ben the Western Circuit to try the Monmouth conspirators, and had.
                                                                                                    .

   formerly don such severe justice amongst the obnoxious in West
   minster Hall, for which his Majesty dignified him by creating him first
   a Baron, and now Lord Chancellor. He had some years past ben con
   versant at Deptford ; is of an assurM and undaunted spirit, and has
   servM the Court interest on all the hardiest occasions ; is of nature cruel

   and a slave of the Court.
      3 Nov. The French persecution of the Protestants raging with the
   utmost barbarity, exceeded even what the very heathens us'd: innu
   merable persons of the greatest birth and riches leaving all their
   earthly substance, and hardly escaping with their lives, dispers'd thro"

   all the countries of Europe. The French tyrant abrogated the Edict
   of Nantes which had ben made in favour of them, and without any
   cause ; on a suddaine demolishing all their Churches, banishing, im

   prisoning, and sending to the gallics all the ministers ; plundering the
   common people, and exposing them to all sorts of barbarous usage by

   souldiers sent to ruine and prey on them ; taking away their children ;

   forcing people to the Masse, and then executing them as relapsers ; they
   burnt their libraries, pillag'd their goods, eate up their fields and sub
   stance, banish'd or sent the people to the gallies, and seiz'd on their

   estates. There had now ben number'd to passe thro' Geneva onely (and
   that by stealth, for all the usual passages were strictly guarded by sea

   and land) 40,000 towards Swisserland. In Holland, Denmark, and all

   about Germany, were dispers'd some hundred thousands ; besides
   those in England, where though multitudes of all degrees sought for

   shelter and wellcome as distressed Christians and Confessors, they

   found least encouragement, by a fatality of the times we were fallen into,

   and the uncharitable indifference of such as should have embrac'd them ;
   , and I pray it be not laid to our charge. The famous Claude fled to

   Holland, Allix1 and severall more came to London, and persons of greate

   estates came over, who had forsaken all. France was almost dispeopled,

   the bankers so broaken that the Tyrant's revenue was exceedingly

   diminish'd, manufactures ceas'd, and every body there, save the Jesu-
   ites, abhorr'd what was don, nor did the Papists themselves approve it.
   What the further intention is time will shew, but doubtlesse portending

   some revolution. I was shew'd the harangue which the Bishop of

   Valentia on Rhone made in the name of the Cleargie, celebrating the

   French King, as if he was a God, for persecuting the poore Protestants,

      1 Mr. Peter Allix, a minister of the Refonn'd Church at Charcnton, came over with his
   whole family, and met with great encouragement here. He was the author of several learned
   discourses in defence of the Christian Religion in general, and of Protestantism in particular.
   His eldest son John Peter Allix became D. D., and after passing through different preferments,
   was in 1730 made Dean of Ely, and died in 1758, and was buried in his church of Castla
   Camps in Cambridgeshire.
                         THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                493

with this expression in                     That as his victory over heresy was greater
'
                            :

                                                ;

                                         it,

                                                       '

                                                                                       is it
than all the conquests of Alexander and Caesar, was but what was

'wish'd in England and that Godseem'd to raise the French King to

'this power and magnanimous action, that he might be in capacity to
'assist in doing the same here.' This paragraph very bold and re

markable severall reflecting on Archbishop Usher's prophecy as now

begun in France, and approching the orthodox in all other reform'd

churches. One thing was much taken notice of, that the Gazettes

which were still constantly printed twice a weeke, informing us what
was don all over Europe, never spake of this wonderfull proceeding in

France, nor was any relation of publish'd by any, save what private
                                            it
                                                           it

                                                                                                     :
letters and the persecuted fugitives brought whence this silence list
                                                                                                           !
not to conjecture, but appealed very extraordinary in a Protestant
countrie that we should know nothing of what Protestants suffered,                                             I

whilst greate collections were made for them in forreine places, more

hospitable and Christian to appearance.

     Nov. It being an extraordinary wctt morning, and myself indis
5

             a
                     it
posed by very greate rheume, did not go to church, to my very
                                            :

                                                I

                                                                 ;

                                                               a

                                                                                          ;
greate sorrow, being the first Gunpowder Conspiracy anniversary that

had ben kept now these So yeares under prince of the Roman religion.

Bonfires were forbidden on this day what does this portend
    Began the Parliament the King in his speech required con
9.

tinuance of a standing force instead of a militia, and indemnity and

dispensation to Popish officers from the Test demands very unex
pected and unpleasing to the Commons. He also requir'd a supply
of revenue, which they granted, but return'd no thanks to the King
for his speech, till farther consideration.
   12. The Commons postpon'd finishing the bill for the supply, to
consider the Test, and the Popish officers this was carried but by
                                            ;
one voice.                                                    ;
   14. dined" at Lambeth, my Lord Archbishop carrying me with
him in his barge there were my Lord Deputy of Ireland, the Bp. of
Ely, and St. Asaph, Dr. Sherlock, and other divines Sir William Hay-
4
ward, Sir Paule Rycaut, &c.
20. The Parliament was adjourn'd to February, severall both ofII
                                         :
                           aLords and Commons excepting against some passage of his Majesty's
speech relating to the Test, and continuance of Popish officers in com
mand. This was greate surprize in a Parliament which people be-

leiv'd would have complied in all things.
Popish pamphlets and pictures sold publickly no books nor
                                                                                                        ;

answers to them appearing till long after.
    21. resign'd my trust for composing a difference between Mr.

Thynn and his wife.

22. Hitherto was a very wett warme season.
    Dec Lord Sunderland was declar'd President of the Counsel, and
494 DINED AT MR. PEPYS'. THE VENETIAN AMBASSADORS.

yet to hold his Secretarie's place. The forces dispos'd into severall
quarters thro' the kingdome are very insolent, on which there are
greate complaints.

   Lord Brandon tried for the late conspiracy, was condemn'd and
pardon'd ; so was Lord Grey, his accuser and witnesse.

   Persecution in France raging, the French insolently visite our ves-
sells, and take away the fugitive Protestants ; some escape in barrells.

   10. To Greenwich, being put into the new Commission of Sewers.
   13. Dr. Patrick, Dean of Peterborough, preach'd at Whitehall,
before the Princesse of Denmark ; who since his Majesty came to the
Crown, allways sate in the King's closet, and had the same bowings
and ceremonies applied to the place where she was, as his Majesty
had when there in person.
   Dining at Mr. Pepys's, Dr. Slayer shewed us an experiment of a
wonderful nature, pouring first a very cold liquor into a glass, and
super- fusing on it another, to appearance cold and cleare liquor also ;
it first produced a white cloud, then boiling, divers corruscations and
actual flames of fire mingled with the liquor, which being a little
shaken together, fixed divers sunns and Starrs of real fire, perfectly
globular, on the sides of the glasse, and which there stuck like so many
constellations, burning most vehemently, and resembling Starrs and
heavenly bodies, and that for a long space. It seemed to exhibite a
theorie of the eduction of light out of the chaos, and the fixing or
gathering of the universal light into luminous bodys. This matter or
phosphorus was made out of human blood and urine, elucidating the

vital flame or heate in animal bodys. A very noble experiment.
   16. I accompanied my Lord Lieutenant as far as St, Alban's, there

going out of towne with him neere 200 coaches of all the greate

officers and nobilitie. The next morning on taking leave, I retum'd

to London.

   18. I din'd at the greate entertainment his Majesty gave the

Venetian Ambassadors, Signiors Zenno and Justiniani, accompanied
with 10 more noble Venetians of their most illustrious families, Cor-
naro, Maccenigo, &c. who came to congratulate their Majesties coming
to the Crowne. The dinner was most magnificent and plentifull, at
four tables, with music, kettle drums, and trumpets, which sounded
upon a whistle at every health. The banquet [desert] was 12 vast
chargers pil'd up so high that those who sat one against another could

hardly see each other. Of these sweetmeates, which doubtless were

some days piling up in that exquisite manner, the Ambassadors touch'd
not, but leaving them to the spectators who came out of curiosity to
see the dinner, were exceedingly pleas'd to see in what a moment of
time all that curious work was demolish'd, the comfitures voided, and
the tables clear'd. Thus his Majesty entertain'd them three days,
which (for the table only) cost him £600, as the Cleark of the Greene
i THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.              495

cloth (Sir William. Boreman) assurM me. Dinner ended, I saw their

procession or cavalcade to White-hall, innumerable coaches attending.
The two Ambassadors had 4 coaches of
(as I remember), besides other equipage  their owne and 50 footemen
                                         as splendid as the occasion
would permitt, the Court being still in mourning. Thence I went to

the audience which they had in the Queene's presence chamber, the
Banquetting house being full of goods and furniture till the galleries

on the garden side, Council chamber, and new Chapell now in

building, were finish 'd. They went to their audience in those plain
black gownes and caps which they constantly weare in the Citty of

Venice. I was invited to have accompanied the 2 Ambassadors in

their coach to supper that night, returning now to their own lodgings,
as no longer at the King's expence ; but being weary I excus'd myself.

  19 Dec My Lord Treasurer made me dine with him, where I be

came acquainted with Monsieur Barillon, the French Ambassador, a

learned and crafty advocate.

   20. Dr. Turner, brother to the Bp. of Ely, and sometime Tutor to
my son, preach'd at White-hall on 8 Mark 38, concerning the submis
sion of Christians to their persecutors, in which were some passages
indiscreete enough, considering the time, and the rage of the inhumane

French tyrant against the poore Protestants.
   22. Our patent for executing the office of Privy Seal during the-

absence of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, being this day seal'd by the
Lord Chancellor, we went afterwards to St. James's, where the Court

then was on occasion of building at White-hall ; his Majesty delivered
the seale to my Lord Tiviot and myselfe, the other Commissioners not

being come, and then gave us his hand to kisse. There were the two
Venetian Ambassadors, and a world of company ; amongst the rest
the first Popish Nuncio' that had ben in England since the Reforma

tion, so wonderfully were things chang'd, to the universal jealousy.
   24. We were all three Commissioners sworne on our knees by the

Cleark of the Crowne, before my Lord Chancellor, three severall oathes ;
allegiance, supremacy, and the oath belonging to the Lord Privy Seal,
which last we tooke standing. After this the Lord Chancellor invited
us all to dinner, but it being Christmas-eve we desir'd to be excus'd,

intending at three in the afternoone to seale divers things which lay
ready at the office ; so attended by three of the Clearks of the Signet,

we met and seal'd. Amongst other things was a pardon to West, who

being privy to the late conspiracy had reveal'd the accomplices to save
his owne neck. There were also another pardon and two Indeniza

tions ; and so agreeing to a fortnight's vacation, I retum'd home.

   31. Recollecting the passages of the yeare past, and made up ac-
compts, humbly besought Almighty God to pardon those my sinns

which had provoked him to discompose my sorrowfull family ; that he

1 Ferdinand Count D' Ada, afterwards a Cardinal. There is a good mezxotinto print of him.
49°" JOHN DRYDEN AND HIS SONS' PROVERBS. MRS. NELLY. "

would accept of our humiliation, and in his good time .restore comfort '

to it. I also blest God for all his undeserved mercies and preserva
tions, begging the continuance of his grace and preservation. -- The

winter had hitherto been extraordinary wett and mild.

   1686. 1 Jan. Imploring the continuance of God's providential care
for the yeare now entered, I went to the publiq devotions. The Deane
of the Chapell and Cleark of the Closet put out, viz. Bp. of London
and . . . , and Rochester (Sprat) and Durham (Crewe) put into
their places ; the former had oppos"d the toleration intended, and

shewn a worthy zeale for the Reform'd Religion as establish'd.

  6. I din'd with the Abp. of York, where was Peter Walsh, that
Romish Priest so well known for his moderation, professing the Church
of England to be a true member of the Catholic Church ; he is us'd to

go to our publiq prayers without scruple, and did not acknowledge the

Pope's infallibility, onely primacy of order.
19. Passed the Privie Scale, amongst others, the creation of Mrs.
Sedley ' (concubine to                             ) Countesse of Dorchester, which the
IQuoebesneervteodokshveeryhagrrdielyvouesaltye,  so as for two dinners, standing neere  her
                                                 one morsel, nor spake one word to      the

King, or to any about her, tho' at other times she us'd to be extreamly

pleasant, full of discourse and good humour. The Roman Catholics
were also very angry, because they had so long valu'd the sanctity of

their religion and proselytes.
Dryden the famous playwriter, and his two sonns, and Mrs. Nelly

(Misse to the late      ) were said to go to masse; such proselytes

were no greate losse to the church.
This night was burnt to the ground my Lord Montague's palace in
Bloomsbury, than which for painting and furniture there was nothing
more glorious in England. This happen'd by the negligence of a ser

vant airing, as they call                        some of the goods by the fire in moist
                           it,                                      a
                                         a
season indeede so wet and mild winter had scarce ben seene in
1
                ;man's memory.

  At this Seale there also pass'd the creation of Sir. H. Walgrave to
be a Peere. He had married one of the King's natural daughters by

Mrs. Churchill. These two Seales my brother Commissioners pass'd

in the morning before came to towne, at which was not displeas'd.
                    II                              I

                                                a               is
We likewise pass'd Privy Seales for ,£276,000 upon severall accounts,

_ pensions, guards, wardrobes, privie purse, &c. besides divers pardons,
 and one more which must not forget (and which by Providence was
                                                                       I

      Catharine, daughter of Sir Charles Sedley, Bart, one of the famous knot of wits and cour'
tiers of King Charles's time--he was also poet, and wrote some dramatic pieces. She bad
                                                                    :
a daughter by King James II. and was afterwards married to David Earl of Portmore, by'

whom she had two sons, and died in 1717. Lord Dorset's well known verses, Tell me,

Dorinda, why so gay,' &c are addressed to this lady. Her father's sarcasm when he voted
for filling up the vacant throne with the Prince and Princess of Orange well known King

James made my daughter a Countess, and have been helping to make his daughter a Queen.'
                                                 I
              THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                497

not present at) one Mr. Lytcott to be Secretary to the Ambassador to
Rome. We being three Commissioners, any two were a quorum.

   21. I din'd at my Lady Arlington's, groome of the stole to the
Queene Dowager, at Somerset House, where din'd the Countesses of
Devonshire, Dover, &c in all 1 1 ladys of quality, no man but myselfe

being there.
24. Unheard of cruelties to the persecuted Protestants of France,

such as hardly any age has seene the like, even among the Pagans.

6 Feb. Being the day on which his Majesty began his reign, by
order of Council it was to be solemniz'd with a particular Office and
Sermon, which the Bp. of Ely (Dr. Fr. Turner), preach'd at White
hall on 11 Numb. 12 ; a Court oration upon the Regal office. It was

much wonder'd at that this day, which was that of his late Majesty's

death, should be kept as a festival,  and not [instead of] the day of the
                                      said to have been formerly the cos-
present King's coronation. It is
tom, tho' not till now since the reigne of King James I.
   The Dutchesse of Monmouth being in the same seate with me at

church, appeared with a very sad and afflicted countenance.
8. I tooke the Test in Westminster Hall, before the Lord Cheif
Justice. I now came to lodge at Whitehall in the Lord Privy Seal's
lodgings.
   12. My greate cause was heard by my Lord Chancellor, who gran
ted me a re-hearing. I had 6 eminent lawyers, my antagonists 3,
whereof one was the smooth-tong Solicitor,1 whom my Lord Chan

cellor reprov'd in greate passion for a very small occasion. Blessed be

God for his greate goodnesse to me this day.

    19. Many bloody and notorious duels were fought about this time.
The Duke of Grafton kill'd Mr. Stanley, brother to the Earle of [Derby],
indeede upon an almost insufferable provocation. It is to be hop'd

his Majesty will at last severely remedy this unchristian custome.
Lord Sunderland was now Secretary of State, President of the Coun

cil, and Premier Minister.

1 March. Came Sir Gilbert Gerrard to treate with me about his
sonn's marrying my daughter Susanna. The father being obnoxious,
end in some suspicion and displeasure of the King, I would receive no
proposal till his Majesty had given me leave, which he was pleas'd to

do ; but after severall meetings we brake off on his not being willing

to secure any thing competent for my daughter's children ; besides that

I found most of his estate was in the coal pits as far off as Newcastle,

and on leases from the Bishop of Durham, who had power to make

concurrent leases, with other difficulties.

   7. Dr. Frampton, Bp. of Gloucester, preach'd on 44 Psalm, 17, 18,
19, shewing the severall afflictions of the Church of Christ from the

primitives to this day, applying exceedingly to the present conjuncture,

           * Mr. Finch, called Silvcr-Tm£ut, from his manner of speaking.
                                                                                                   32
49? AM LORD PRIVY SEAL. PAPIST GOVERNOR OF DOVER CASTLE.

when many were wavering in their minds, and greate temptations
appearing thro' the favour now found by the Papists, so as the people
were full of jealousies and discouragement. The Bp. magnified the

Church of England, exhorting to constancy and perseverance.

   10. A Council of the Royal Society about disposing of Dr. Ray's
   book of Fishes, which was printed at the expence of the Society.

      12. A docquet was to be seal'd importing a lease of 21 yeares to

   one Hall, who styl'd himselfe his Majesty's printer (he lately tum'd
   Papist) for the printing Missalls, Offices, Lives of Saints, Portals
   Primers, &c. books expressly forbidden to be printed or sold, by divers
   Acts of Parliament ; I refus'd to put the scale to making my excep
                                                                         it,
                                                                                          6
   tions, so was laied by.

      14. The Bp. of Bath and Wells (Dr. Ken) preach'd on John 17,
   a most excellent and pathetic discourse: after he had recommended
   the duty of fasting and other penetential duties, he exhorted to con
   2
   stancy in the Protestant religion, detestation of the unheard-of cruelties
          IIof the French, and stirring up to a liberal contribution. This Sermon

                  itwas the more acceptable, as was unexpected from Bishop who
                         3,                   it                         ;
                                                                                       ;
   had undergon the censure of being inclin'd to Popery, the contrary
   whereof no man could shew more. This indeede did all our Bishops,                   a
'                                                                                       for none were
     the      disabusing     and        reproch   of all    their delators
 to

   more zealous against Popery than they were.

      16. was at a review of the Army about London, in Hide Park,
   about 6000 horse and foote, in excellent order his Majesty and in

   finity of people being present.

      17. went to my house in. the country, refusing to be present at
   what was to passe at the Privy Seale the next day. In the morning
   Dr. Tenison preached an incomparable discourse at White-hall, on

      Timothy 4.

      24. Dr. Cradock (Provost of Eaton) preached at the same place on

   49 Psalm 13. shewing the vanity of earthly enjoyments.
      28. Dr. White, Bp. of Peterboro', preach'd in a very eloquent style,
   on 26 Matthew, 29, submission to the will of God on all accidents and
   at all times.
     29. The Duke of Northumberland natural son of the late King
   1

                                   ,
                                                                     (a
   by the Dutchess of Cleaveland) marrying very meanly, with the helpe
   of his brother Grafton, attempted to spirit away his wife.

     A Briefe was read in all Churches for relieving the French Pro
   testants who came here for protection from the unheard-of cruelties of
   their King.
     -Aprill 2. Sir Edward Hales, a Papist, made Governor of Dover
   Castle.'                                                              

       III.Nottaking  the Test his coachman   was set up    to inform against him, and    claim  the £500
               When   this was to be brought  to trial the  Judges were secretly asked    their  opinions,
   penalty.
   and such   as  were not clear  with  the  Court, were turned out.     Half of them were dismissed
   Burnet,
                   mo, xxil.

                                                                                                            '

                                                                                                            I
               THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                              499

    15. The Abp. of York (Dr. John Dolben) now died of the small
pox, aged 62, a corpulent man. He was my special loving friend, and
whilst Bp. of Rochester (from whence he was translated) my excellent
neighbour. He was an unexpressible losse to the whole church, and
that province especialy, he being a learned, wise, stoute, and most
worthy prelate ; I looke on this as agreate stroke to the poore Church
of England, now in this defecting period.

   18. In the afternoone I went to Camberwell to visit Dr. Parr.
After Sermon I accompanied him to his house, where he shew'd me the
Life and Letters of the late learned Primate of Armagh (Usher) and

among them that letter of Bp. Bramhal's to the Primate, giving notice
of the Popish practices to pervert this Nation, by sending an hundred
priests into England, who were to conforme themselves to all sectaries
and conditions for the more easily dispersing their doctrine amongst us.
This letter was the cause of the whole impression being seiz'd, upon
pretence that it was a political or historical account of things not re
lating to theology, tho' it had ben licens'd by the Bishop ; which

plainely shew'd what an interest the Papists now had, that a Protestant
booke, containing the life and letters of so eminent a man, was not to
be publish'd. There were also many letters to and from most of the
learned persons his correspondents in Europe. The book will, I doubt
not, struggle through this unjust impediment.

    Several Judges were put out, and new complying ones put in.
   25. This day was read in our church the Briefe for a collection for
reliefe of the Protestant French, so cruely, barbarously, and inhumanly

oppress'd without any thing laied to their charge. It had ben long

expected, and at last was with difficulty procur'd to be publish'd, the
interest of the French Ambassador obstructing it.

    S May. There being a Seale it was fear'd we should be requir'd to
passe a doquett dispensing with Dr. Obadiah Walker and four more,
whereof one was an apostate curate of Putney ', the others officers of
University College, Oxford, to hold their masterships, fellowships, and
cures, and keepe publiq schooles, and enjoy all former emoluments,
notwithstanding they no more frequented or us'd the public formes of
prayers or communion with the Church of England, or tooke the test
and oathes of allegiance and supremacy, contrary to 20 Acts of Parlia

ment ; which dispensation being also contrary to his Majesty's owne
gracious declaration at the beginning of his reigne, gave umbrage (as
well it might) to every good Protestant, nor could we safely have pass'd

it under the Privy Seale, wherefore it was done by immediate warrant,
sign'd by Mr. Solicitor.

   This Walker was a teamed person, of a monkish life, to whose tuition

1 Edw. Sclater. From a Protestant he became a Roman Catholic : and in 1689 he read
                                                                      Manny og and Bray'l
III.his recantation from that church, and again became a Protestant.
Surrey,  300.
500 PAPACY IN THE ASCENDANT. TYRCONNEL GONE TO IRELAND.

I had more than 30 yeares since recommended the sonns of my worthy
friend Mr. Hyldyard of Horsley in Surrey, believing him to be far from

what he provM, an hypocritical conceal'd Papist, by which he perverted
the eldest sonn of Mr. Hyldyard, Sir Edward Hale's eldest sonn, and
severall more, to the greate disturbance of the whole Nation, as well as
of the University, as by his now publiq defection appear'd. All engines

being now at work to bring in Popery, which God in mercy prevent !
This day was burnt in the old Exchange, by the common hangman,
a translation of a booke written by the famous Monsieur Claude, relating

onely matters of fact concerning the horrid massacres and barbarous
proceedings of the French King against his Protestant subjects, with
out any refutation of any facts therein ; so mighty a power and ascen

dant here had the French Ambassador, who was doubtlesse in greate
indignation at the pious and truly generous charity of all the Nation,

for the reliefe of those miserable sufferers who came over for shelter.

About this time also the Duke of Savoy, instigated by the French
King to extirpate the Protestants of Piedmont, slew many thousands of

those innocent people, so that there seem'd to be an universal designe

Ml.to destroy all that would not go to masse, throughout Europe. Quod
avertat D. O.     No faith in Princes !
12. I refus'd to put the Privy Seale to Dr. Walker's licence for
printing and publishing divers Popish books, of which I complain'd
both to my Lord of Canterbury (with whom I went to advise in the
Council Chamber), and to my Lord Treasurer that evening at his
lodgings. My Lord of Canterbury's advice was, that I should follow

Imy owne conscience therein1 ; Mr. Treasurer's, that if in conscience

could dispense with for any other hazard he believ'd there was none.
2

                           I it,
Notwithstanding this persisted in my refusal.

   29. There was no sermon on this anniversary, as there usually had
ben ever since the reigne of the present King.

      June. Such storms, raine and foul weather, seldom known at this
time of the yeare. The camp at Hounslow Heath, from sicknesse and
other inconveniences of weather, forc'd to retire to quarters the storms
                                                                ;

being succeeded by excessive hot weather, many grew sick. Greate
feasting there, especialy in Lord Dunbarton's quarters. There were
many jealousies and discourses of what was the meaning of this in-

campment.

   A Seale this day, mostly pardons and discharges of Knight Baronets

fees, which having ben pass'd over for so many yeares, did greatly dis
oblige several families who had servM his Majestic Lord Tirconnell
gon to' Ireland, with greate powers and commissions, giving as much
cause of talke as the camp, especialy 19 new privy councillors and

judges being now made, amongst which but three Protestants, and Tir

connell made GeneralL

               1  SancrofL Burnet describes htm as a timid man
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  501

   New Judges also here, amongst which was Milton, a Papist (brother
to that Milton who wrote for the Regicides), who presum'd to take his
place without passing the Test.' Scotland refuses to grant liberty of

masse to the Papists there.
   The French persecution more inhuman than ever. The Protestants

in Savoy successfully resist the French dragoons sent to murder them.
   The King's chiefe physician in Scotland apostatizing from the Pro

testant religion, does of his own accord publish his recantation at

Edinburgh.3

   11. I went to see Middleton's receptacle of water at the New
River, and the new Spa Wells neere.

   20. An extraordinary season of violent and sudden raine. The
camp still in tents.

   24. My Lord Treasurer settled by greate businesse with Mr.
Pretyman, to which I hope God will at last give a prosperous issue.

   25. Now his Majesty, beginning with Dr. Sharp and Tully, pro
ceeded to silence and suspend divers excellent divines for preaching

against Popery.

   27. I had this day ben married 39 yeares-- blessed be God for all

his mercies.
   The new very young Lord Cheif Justice Herbert declared on the

bench that the governmnet of England was entirely in the King ;

that the Crown was absolute ; that penal laws were powers lodged in
the Crown to enable the King to force the execution of the law, but
were not bars to bind the King's power ; that he could pardon all
offences against the law, and forgive the penalties, and why could he
not dispense with them ? by which the Test was abolish'd. Every one
was astonish'd. Greate jealousies as to what would be the end of these

proceedings.

   6 July. I supp'd with the Countesse of Rochester, where was also

the Dutchesse of Buckingham and Madame de Governe", whose daugh

ter was married to the Marquess of Halifax's sonn. She made me a
character of the French King and Dauphin, and of the persecution.
That they kept much of the cruelties from the King's knowledge ; that
the Dauphin was so afraid of his father, that he durst not let any thing
appeare of his sentiments ; that he hated letters and priests, spent all
his time in hunting, and seem'd to take no notice of what was passing.

   1 Christopher Milton, made a Baron of the Exchequer. He did not hold his situation long,
and Dr. Johnson admits that from weakness of constitution he retired before he had done any
disreputable act.

   * Sir Robert Sib-bald, who was the most learned antiquary in Scotland, had lived in a course
of philosophical virtue, but in great doubt as to revealed religion, was prevailed on by the
Earl of Perth to turn Papist ; but he soon became ashamed of having done so on so little
inquiry. He went to London for some months, retiring from all company, and went into a
deep course of study, by which he came to see into the errors of Popery. He then returned

III.to Scotland, and published his recantation openly in a church. Burnett's Own Times,

xi 28.
S°2 DR. ALLIX OF LAMBETH. ECCLESIASTICAL COMMISSIONERS.

   This lady was of a greate family and fortune, and had fled hither
for refuge.

   8. I waited on the Abp. at Lambeth, where I din'd and met the

famous preacher and writer, Dr. Allix, doubtlesse a most excellent and
learned person. The Abp. and he spoke Latin together, and that very
readily.

   II. Dr. Meggot, Deane of Winchester, preach'd before the House

hold in St. George's chapell at Windsor, the late King's glorious chapell
now seiz'd on by the masse priests. Dr. Cartwright, Deane of Ripon,
preach'd before the greate men of the Court in the same place.

   We had now the sad news of the Bishop of Oxford's death,' an extra
ordinary losse to the poore Church at this time. Many candidates for
his Bishoprick and Deanry, Dr. Parker, South, Aldrich, &c Dr.
Walker (now apostatizing) came to Court, and was doubtlesse very

buisy.

   13. Note, that standing by the Queene at Bassett (Cards) I ob-

serv'd that she was exceedingly concern'd for the losse of ;£.So. ; her
outward affability much changed to statelinesse, since she has ben

exalted.

   The season very rainy and inconvenient for the Camps. His Majesty

very cherefull.
    14. Was seal'd at our office the Constitution of certaine Commis

sioners to take upon them the full power of all Ecclesiastical affairs, in
as unlimited a manner, or rather greater, than the late High Commis
sion Court, abrogated by Parliament ; for it had not onely faculty to
inspect and visite all Bishops dioceses, but to change what laws and
statutes they should think fit to alter among the Colledges, tho'
founded by private men ; to punish, suspend, fine, &c. give oathes and
call witnesses. The maine drift was to suppresse zealous preachers.
In sum, it was the whole power of a Vicar General-- note the conse
quence ! Of the Cleargy the Commissioners were the Abp. of Canter
bury [Sancroft], Bishops of Durham [Crew] and Rochester [Sprat] ;
of the Temporals, the Lord Treasurer, the Lord Chancellor [Tefleries]
(who alone was ever to be of the quorum), the Cheife Justice
[Herbert], and Lord President [Earl of Sunderland].

   18. I went to see Sir John Chardin at Greenwich.
   4 August. I din'd at Signior Verrio's, the famous Italian Painter, now

settled in his Majesty's garden at St. James's, which he had made a
very delicious Paradise.

   8. Our Vicar gone to dispose of his country living in Rutlandshire,
having St. Dunstan in the East given him by the Abp. of Canterbury.

  I went to visite the Marquess Ravigne", now my neighbour at

Greenewich, retired from the persecution in France. He was the
Deputy of all the Protestants of that Kingdom in the Parliament of Paris,

                                  1 Dr. John Fell, also Deane of Christ Church.
            THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                         503

and severall times Ambassador in this and other Courts ; a person

of greate   le' aDrrn.inCgomanpdtoenxpBerpie. ncoef  '.      was  on  Monday  suspended,
   8 Sept.
                                                     London

on pretence of not silencing Dr. Sharp of St. Giles's for something of

a sermon in which he zealously reprov'd the doctrine of the Roman
Catholics. The Bishop having consulted the Civilians, they told him

he could not by any Law proceed against Dr. Sharp without producing

witnesses, and impleading according to forme : but it was over-rul'd

by my Lord Chancellor, and the Bishop sentenc'd without so much as
being heard to any purpose. This was thought a very extraordinary
way of proceeding, and was universally resented, and so much the

rather for that 2 Bishops, Durham (Crewe) and Rochester (Sprat),
sitting in the Commission and giving their suffrages, the Abp. of
Canterbury refus'd to sit amongst them. He was only suspended
ab officio, and that was soone after taken off. He was brother to the
Earl of Northampton, had once ben a Souldier, had travelled in Italy,

but became a sober, grave, and excellent Prelate.

12. Buda now taken from the Turks, a Form of Thanksgiving was

order'd to be us'd in the (as yet remaining) Protestant Chapells and
Church of White-hall and Windsor.

The King of Denmark was besieging Hambrow, no doubt by the

French contrivance, to embroile the Protestant Princes in a new warr,

that Holland, &c. being ingag'd, matter for new quarrell might arise :

the unheard-of persecution of the poore Protestants still raging more

than ever.

22.. The Danes retire from Hambrow, the Protestant Princes ap

pearing for their succour, and the Emperor sending his Minatories to
the King of Denmark, and also requiring the restoration of the D. of

Saxe Gothorp. Thus it pleas'd God to defeate the French designes,

which were evidently to kindle a new warr.

   14 Oct. His Majestys birth-day ; I was at his rising in his bed

chamber, afterwards in the Parke, where 4 companies of Guards were
drawn up. The officers, &c. wonderful rich and gallant ; they did not

head their troops, but their next officers, the Colonels being on horse
back by the King whilst they march'd. The Ladys not lesse splendid
at Court, where there was a Ball at night, but small appearance of
qualitie. . All the shops both in the Citty and Suburbs were shut up,

and kept as solemnly as any holyday. Bonefires at night in West

minster, but forbidden in the Citty.

     17. Dr. Patric, Deane of Peterborow, preached at Covent Garden
-Church on 5 Ephes. 18. 19. shewing the costome of the primitive

 Saints in serving God with Hymns, and their frequent use of them

  1 His son was with King William in Ireland, and was made Earl of Galway.but was dis
missed by violence of party, as being a Frenchman, though his conduct had been in every
respect most excellent, as will be mentioned hereafter.
504 CRAN BOURN. DR. WARREN. LORD MAYOR'S SHEW. DR. BIRCH.

upon all occasions : perstringing the profane way of mirth and intem
perance of this ungodly age. Afterwards I visited my Lord Cheife
Justice of Ireland, with whom I
                                     had long and private discourse                                    con
cerning the miserable condition      that kingdom was like to be
                                                                                                       in if

Tyrconnell's Councils should prevaile at Court.

   23. Went with the Countesse of Sunderland to Cranbourn, a lodge
and walke of my Lord Godolphin's in Windsor Parke. There was one

room in the house spared in the pulling downe the old one, because
the late Dutchesse of York was borne in it ; the rest was built and
added to it by Sir Geo. Cateret, Treasurer of the Navy ; and since the
whole was purchas'd by my Lord Godolphin, who spake to me to go

see and advise what trees were fit to be cut downe to improve the
     it,
              it
dwelling, being inviron'd with old rotten pollards, which corrupt the

aire. It stands on a knowle, which tho' insensibly rising, gives a
prospect over the Keepe of Windsor, about three miles N. E. of it.
                                                                                                       ;

                                                                                                                       it
                                                                                                                         6 is
The ground clayey and moist the water stark naught the park
     ;                        2

                is                :
pretty the house tolerable, and gardens convenient. After dinner we
came back to London, having coaches both going and coming, of

horses apiece, which we chang'd at Hounslow.

   24 Oct. Dr. Warren preached before the Princesse at White-hall5
on Matthew, of the blessedness of the pure in heart, most elegantly

describing the blisse of the beatifical vision. In the afternoone Sir

Geo. Wheeler, knight and bart. preach'd on the 4th Matt, upon the.
necessity of repentance, at St. Margaret's, an honest and devout dis
course, and pretty tolerably perform'd. This gentleman coming from
his travels out of Greece fell in love with the daughter of Sir Thomas

Higgies, his Majesty's Resident at Venice, niece to the Earle of Bath,

and married her. When they return'd into England, being honoured

with knighthood, he would needes turne Preacher, and tooke orders.

He publish'd learned and ingenious book of his travels, and a
         '.                                                                             '
                                                                                                             is
                   a
very worthy person, a little formal and particular, but exceedingly                                                       '

devoute                                                                                                                     is

   27. There was a triumphant shew of the Lord Maior both by land                                                                               '
and water, with much solemnity, when yet his power has been so much

diminish'd, by the losse of the Citty's former charter.
                  went to St. Martin's in the morning, where Dr. Birch
1    Nov.  I
  5
                          I.
preach'd very boldly against the Papists, from 16 John 2. In the

   SirGeorge Wheeler was born whilst his parents were in exile at Breda for their attach
ment to King Charles          He was of Lincoln College, Oxford. On his return from his

travels in Asia and Greece he was knighted. Having presented several antiquities which he
bad collected to the University of Oxford in 1683, they gave him his degree of A. M. He
took orders against the advice of powerful friends, but from an earnest desire to be useful as
a Parish Priest and he well fulfilled his intentions. He became Rector of Houghton-le-
Spring in Durham, the living which had been so exemplarily filled by the Northren Apostle;
                     *
Bernard Gilpin, and whose example he worthily followed. Bishop Crew also gave him a stall
iKneDnut.rhamSurtCeaetsh, edrHails. torHyeofdiDedurohnam18'Ja(1n8.161)7, 3w3.herHe isa
                                                                                        descendants    are seated at Ottcrdcn  in
                                                                                        large account      given of nun.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                             505

aftemoone I heard Dr. Tillotson in Lincoln's Inn Chapell, on the same
text, but more cautiously.
16. I went with part of my family to passe the melancholy winter
in London at my sonn's house in Arundel Buildings.

  S Dec. I dined at my Lady Arlington's, Groome of the Stole to

the Queene Dowager at Somerset House, where dined divers French
Noblemen, driven out of their Country by the persecution.

 16. I carried the Countesse of Sunderland to see the rarities of one
Mr. Charleton in the Middle Temple, who shew'd us such a collection
as I had never seene in all my travels abroad, either of private gentle
men or princes. It consisted of miniatures, drawings, shells, insects,
medailes, natural things, animals (of which divers, I think 100, were
kept in glasses of spirits of wine), minerals, precious stones, vessells,

curiosities in amber, christal, achat, &c. ; all being very perfect and

rare in their kind, especialy his bookes   of birds,  fish, flowers,   and                   '
shells, drawn and miniatur'd to the life.   He told   us that one     book

stood him in ,£300 ; it was painted by that excellent workman whom

the late Gaston Duke of Orleans emploied. This gentleman's whole
collection, gathered by himselfe travelling over most parts of Europe,
is estimated at ^8000. He appear'd to be a modest and obliging
person '.

  29. I went to heare the musiq of the Italians in the New Chapel,
now first open'd publickly at White-hall for the Popish service. No

thing can be finer than the magnificent marble work and architecture
at the end, where are four statues, representing St. John, St. Peter, St.
Paul, and the Church, in white marble, the work of Mr. Gibbons, with
all the carving and pillars of exquisite art and greate cost. The altar-

piece is the Salutation ; the volto in fresca, the Assumption of the
Blessed Virgin according to their tradition, with our Bl. Saviour, and
a world of figures, painted by Verrio. The throne where the King and

Queene sit is very glorious, in a closet above, just opposite to the altar.
Here we saw the Bishop in his mitre and rich copes, with 6 or 7
Jesuits and others in rich copes, sumptuously habited, often taking off
and putting on the Bishop's mitre, %vho sate in a chaire with armes

pontificaly, was ador'd and cens'd by 3 Jesuits in their copes ; then he -
went to the altar and made divers cringes, then censing the images

and glorious tabernacle plac'd on the altar, and now and then changing

\ place : the crosier, which was of silver, was put into his hand with
      a world of mysterious ceremony, the musiq playing, with singing.
    I could not have believ'd I should ever have seene such things in the
      King of England's Palace, after it had pleas'd God to enlighten this
^Nation ; but our greate sin has, for the present, eclips'd the blessing,

which I hope He will in mercy and his good time restore to its purity.

  i Tfiis collection was afterwards purchased by Sir Hans Sloane, and now forms part of tho

\British .Museum. Gent. Mag. Nov. 1816, p. 395, from Mr. Bagford's papers in the Brit Mus.
506 TYRCONNELL MADE LORD LIEUTENANT OF IRELAND.

   Little appearance of any Winter as yet.
   1687. 1 Jan. Mr. Wake preach'd at St. Martin's on 1 Tim. 3. 16
concerning the mysterie of Godlinesse. He wrote excellently in answer

to the Bishop of Meaux.

  3. A seal to confirm a gift of £4000 per annum for 99 yeares to the

Lord Treasurer out of the Post Office, and .£1700 per annum for ever
out of Lord Gray's estate.
There was now another change of the greate Officers. The Treasury
was put into Commission, two profess'd Papists amongst them, viz.
Lords Bellasis and Dover, joyn'd with the old ones, Lord Godolphin,
Sir Stephen Fox, and Sir J. Earnley.
   17. Much expectation of severall greate men declaring themselves

Papists. Lord Tyrconnell gone to succeed the Lord Lieutenant [Cla-
rendon] in Ireland, to the astonishment of all sober men, and to the
evident mine of the Protestants in that Kingdom, as well as of its

greate improvement going on. Much discourse that all the White Staff

Officers and others should be dismiss'd for adhering to their Religion.

Popish  Justices  of the Peace established in all Counties, of the meanest
of the  people ;  Judges ignorant of the Law, and perverting it--so

furiously do the Jesuits drive, and even compel Princes to violent
courses, and destruction of an excellent Government both in Church
and State. God of his infinite mercy open our eyes and turn our
hearts, and establish his truth with peace ! The Lord Jesus defend
his little Flock, and preserve this threaten'd Church and Nation.

  24. I saw the Queenes new apartment at White-ball, with her new

bed, the embrodery of which cost ,£3000. The carving about the

chimney-piece, by Gibbons, is incomparable.
  30. I heard the famous eunuch Cifaccio sing in the new Popish

Chapell this afternoone ; it was indeede very rare, and with greate
skill. He came over from Rome, esteemed one of the best voices
in Italy. Much crowding --little devotion.

   27 Feb. Mr. Chetwin preached at White-hall on I Rom. 18, a very
quaint neate discourse of moral righteousnesse.
2 March. Came out a Proclamation for universal liberty of con

science in Scotland, and dispensation from all tests and lawes to the
contrary, as also capacitating Papists to be chosen into all offices of
trust. The mysterie operates.

   3. Dr. Megot Deane   of Winchester preached   before the Princesse
of Denmark on 14 Matt.                           went out of towne to
                        23. In the afternoone I
meete my Lord Clarendon, returning from Ireland.
10. His Majesty sent for the Commissioners of the Privy Seale this

morning into his bed-chamber, and told us that tho' he had thought fit

to dispose of the seale into a single hand, yet he would so provide for

us as it should appeare how well he accepted our faithfull and byal

service, with many gracious expressions to this effect ; upon which we
               . THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                               507

deliver'd the seale into his hands. It was by all the world both hoped
and expected that he would have restored it to my Lord Clarendon ;
but they were astonish'd to see it given to Lord Arundel of Wardour,

a zealous Roman Catholic. Indeede it was very hard, and look'd very

unkindly, his Majesty (as my Lord Clarendon protested to me, on my
going to visite him and long discoursing with him about the affaires of

Ireland) finding not the least failure of duty in him during his govern
ment of that kingdom, so that his recall plainely appeared to be from

the stronger influence of the Papists, who now got all the preferments.
Most of the greate Officers, both in the Court and Country, Lords

and others, were dismiss'd, as they would not promise his Majesty

their consent to the repeal of the Test and penal Statutes against
Popish Recusants. To this end most of the Parliament men were
spoken to in his Majestys closset, and such as refus'd, if in any place

or office of trust, civil or military, were put out of their employments.
This was a time of greate trial, but hardly one of them assented, which

·put the Popish interest much backward. The English Cleargy every

where preach'd boldly against their superstition and errors, and were

wonderfully follow'd by the People. Not one considerable proselyte
was made in all this time. The party were exceedingly put to the

worst by the preaching and writing of the Protestants in many excellent

treatises, evincing the doctrine and discipline of the Reform'd Religion,
to the manifest disadvantage of their adversaries. To this did not a

little contribute the sermon preach'd at White-hall before the Princesse
of Denmark and a great croud of People, and at least 30 of the greatest
Nobility, by Dr. Ken, Bishop of Bath and Wells, on 8 John 46 (the
Gospel of the day) describing thro' his whole discourse the blasphemies,
perfidy, wresting of Scripture, preference of tradition before spirit of
I
                     I

                                     it
                                                   it

                                                                                                     ;

                                                                                                                      a

                                                                                                       it,

                                                                                    I
persecution, superstition, legends and fables of the Scribes and Phari
sees, so that all the auditory understood his meaning of a parallel
between them and the Romish Priests, and their new Trent Religion.

He exhorted his audience to adhere to the written Word, aud to perse

vere in the Faith taught in the Church of England, whose doctrine for

Catholic and soundness he preferr'd to all the Communities and

Churches of Christians in the world concluding with kind of pro

phesy, that whatever  suffer'd, should after a short trial emerge to
the confusion of her adversaries, and the glory of God.
went this evening to see the order of the boys and children at

Christ's Hospital. There were neere 800 boys and girls so decently

clad, cleanly lodg'd, so wholesomly fed, so admirably taught, some the
Mathematics, especialy the 40 of the late King's foundation, that was
delighted to see the progresse some little youths of 13 and 14 yeares of
age had made.  saw them at supper, visited their dormitories, and
much admirM the order, ceconomy, and excellent government of this

most charitable seminary. Some are taught for the Universities,
508 CHRIST'S HOSPITAL. TRIAL OF BOMBS ON BLACKHEATH.

others design'd for Seamen, all for Trades and Callings. The girles
are instructed in all such worke as becomes their sex and may fit them

for good wives, mistresses, and to be a blessing to their generation.
They sung a psalme before they sat downe to supper in the greate hall,

to an organ, which play'd all the time, with such cheerful! harmony

that it seem'd to me a vision of angels. I came from the place with

-infinite satisfaction, having never seene a more noble, pious and
admirable Charity. All these consisted of orphans onely. The
Foundation was of that pious Prince K. Edw. 6. whose picture (held to
be an original of Holbein) is in the Court where the Governors meete
to consult on the affaires of the Hospital, and his statue in white marble

stands in a nich of the wall below, as you go to the Church, which is a .
modem, noble, and ample fabric. This Foundation has had, and still

has, many Benefactors.
16 March. I saw a trial of those devilish murdering mischief-doing

engines called Bombs, shot out of the morter- piece on Black-heath.
The distance that they are cast, the destruction they make where they

fall, is prodigious.
20. The Bishop of Bath and Wells (Dr. Ken) preach'd at St. Mar-
tines to a crowd of people not to be express'd, nor the wonderful elo

quence of this admirable preacher ; the text was 26 Matt. 36 to verse
40. describing the bitterness of our Bl. Saviour's agony, the ardour of
Ws love, the infinite obligations we have to imitate his patience and

resignation : the means by watching against temptations, and over our.-

selves, with fervent prayer to attaine and the exceeding reward in the
                                                        I

                                                                  it,
end. Upon all which he made most patheticall discourses. The

Communion followed, at which was participant.                          afterwards din'd
                                                                       8I
at Dr. Tenison's with the Bishop and that young, most learned, pious        I
and excellent preacher, Mr. Wake.1 In the afternoone went to heare
Mr. Wake at the new-built church of St. Anne, on Mark 34. upon the
subject of taking-up the Crosse, and strenuously behaving ourselves in
time of persecution, as this now threaten'd to be.
His Majesty againe prorogu'd the Parliament, foreseeing would not
                                                                               it

rcmitt the Laws against Papists, by the extraordinary zeale and bravery
of its Members, and the free renunciation of the greate Officers both in

Court and State, who would not be prevail'd with for any temporal
                                                                                   _
concerne.

   25. Good Friday. Dr. Tenison preached at St. Martines, on
Peter 2. 24. During the service a man came into neere the middle of
                                                                                   ;

                                                                                          it ; 1
the church, with his sword drawne, with severall others in that posture
in this jealous time put the congregation into greate confusion but
8

          I

                          1 it

                                                     7
appeared to be one who fled for sanctuary, being pursued by Bayliffs.
April.     had a re-hearing of my great Cause at the Chancery in

Westminster Hall, having of the most learned Council, my adversary

                      Afterwards Archbishop of Canterbury.
           - THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  509
                                        ·
5, among which were the Attorney General and late Solicitor Finch, '
son to the Lord Chancellor Nottingham. The accompt was at last

brought to one article of the surcharge, and referred to a Master. The

Cause lasted two hours and more.

   10. In the last weeke there was issu'd a Dispensation from all obli

gations and tests, by which Dissenters and Papists especialy had publiq
liberty of exercising their severall ways of worship without incurring

the penalty of the many Laws and Acts of Parliament to the contrary.
This was purely obtain'd by the Papists, thinking thereby to ruine the

Church of England, being now the onely Church which so admirably
and strenuously oppos'd their superstition. There was a wonderful

concourse of people at the Dissenters' Meeting-house in this parish,
and the Parish Church [Deptford] left exceeding thin. What this will

end in, God Almighty onely knows, but it looks like confusion, which I

pray God avert.
   1 1. To London about my suit, some terms of accommodation being

propos'd.

   19. I heard the famous singer Cifaccio, esteem'd the best in Europe.
Indeed his holding out and delicatcncss in extending and looscing a

note with incomparable softnesse and sweetnesse was admirable ; for
the rest I found him a mere wanton, effeminate child, very coy, and

proudly conceited to my apprehension. He touch'd the harpsichord to
his voice rarely well. This was before a select number of particular
persons whom Mr. Pepys invited to his house ; and this was obtain'd by
particular favour and much difficulty, the Signor much disdaining to

shew his talent to any but princes.

   24. At Greenewich, at the conclusion of the Church service, there
was a French sermon preach'd after the use of the English Liturgy
translated into French, to a congregation of about 100 French Refu
gees, of whom Monsieur Ruvigny was the cheife, and had obtain'd the
use of the Church after the Parish service was ended. The Preacher

patheticaly exhorted to patience, constancy, and reliance on God amidst
all their sufferings, and the infinite rewards to come.

   2 May. I din'd with Mynheer Diskvelts, the Holland Ambassador,
a prudent and worthy person. There din"d Lord Middleton principal
Secretary of State, Lord Pembroke, Lord Lumley, Lord Preston, Col.
Fitz Patrick, and Sir John Chardin. After dinner the Ambassador dis
coursed of and dcplor'd the stupid folly of our politics, in suffering the

French to take Luxemburg, it being a place of the most concern to

have ben defended, for the interest not onely of the Netherlands, but
of England.

   12. To London. Lord Sunderland being Lord President and Sec
retary of State, was made Knight of the Garter and prime favorite. --
This day there was such a storme of wind as had seldome happen'd,
being a sort of hurricane. It kept the flood out of the Thames, so that
510 GOVERNMENT PAY THEIR DEBT TO ME. RECOVERY OF TREASURE.

people went on foote over several places above bridge. Also an earth
quake in severall places in England about the time of the storme.

   26. To London about my agreement with Mr. Pretyman after my

tedious suit.

   2 June. I went to London, it having pleas'd his Majesty to grant me
a Privy Seal for ,£.6000, for discharge of the debt I had ben so many

yeares persecuted for, it being indeede for mony drawne over by my
father in law Sir R. Browne, during his residence in the Court of France,
and so with a much greater sum due to Sir Richard from his Majesty ; 

and now this part of the arreare being paid, there remains yet due to
me, as executor of Sir Richard, above £6500 more ; but this deter
mining an expensive chancery suit has ben so great a mercy and provi
               (thro' the kindness and friendship   to me of Lord Godol-
dence to   me  the Lords Commissioners of the
phin, one                                            Treasury) that I do
           of

acknowledge it with all imaginable thanks to my gracious God.

  6 June. I visited my Lady Pierpoint, daughter to Sir John Evelyn,

of Deane [in Wilts], now widow of Mr. Pierpoint, and mother of the
Earl of Kingston. She was now engag'd in the marriage of my cousin

Evelyn Pierpoint, her second son.

There was about this time brought into the Downs a vast treasure,
which was sunk in a Spanish galloon about 4; years ago somewhere

neere Hispaniola or the Bahama islands, and was now weigh'd up by
some gentlemen, who were at the charge of divers, &c. to the enrich
ing them beyond all expectation. The Duke of Albemarle's ' share
[Governor of Jamaica] came to, I believe, £50,000. Some private
gentlemen who adventur'd .£100 gain'd from 8 to ,£10,000. His
Majesty's tenth was £10,000.

   The Camp was now againe pitch'd at Hounslow, the Commanders

profusely vying in the expence and magnificence of tents.
   12. Our Vicar preached on 2 Peter 2, 21, upon the danger of re
lapsing into sin. After this I went and heard M. Lamot, an eloquent

French preacher at Greenewich, on 30 Prov. 8, 9, a consolatory dis
course to the poore and religious refugees who escaped out of France

Iin the cruel persecution.

   16. went to Hampton Court to give his Majesty thanks for his

late gracious favor, tho' it was but granting what was due. Whilst I
was in the Council Chamber, came in some persons at the head of

whom was a formal man with a large roll of parchment in his hand,

being an Addresse (as he said, for he introduc'd it with a speech) of
the people of Coventry giving his Majesty their greate acknowledg
ments for his granting a liberty of conscience ; he added that this was
not the application of one party onely, but the unanimous addresse of

1 The Duke's share amounted to considerably more--it was said about £90,000. A medal
was struck on this occasion, which                  Mr. Evelyn's book on                 No.
                                    is engrav'd in                        that subject.
LXXX"ViVII.p. 151.
             THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                         5 11

Church of England men, Presbyterians, Independents and Anabaptists,

to shew how extensive his Majesty's grace was, as taking in all parties,

to his indulgence and protection, which had taken away all dissentions

and animosities, which would not onely unite them in bonds of Chris

tian charity, but exceedingly encourage their future industry, to the im

provement of trade, and spreading his Majesty's glory throughout the

world ; and that now he had given to God his empire, God would es

tablish his ; with expressions of greate loyaltie and submission : and

so he gave the roll to the King, which being returned to him againe his
Majesty caus'd him to read. The Addresse was short, but much to the

substance of the Speech of their foreman, to whom the King, pulling
off his hat, sayd, that what he had don in giving liberty of conscience,

was, what was ever his judgment ought to be don ; and that as he would

preserve them in their enjoyment of it during his reigne, so he would

indeavour to settle it by Law, that it should never be alter'd by his
successors. After this he gave them his hand to kisse. It was reported

the subscribers were above iooo.

   But this is not so remarkable as an Addresse of the weeke before (as

I was assur'd by one present) of some of the Family of Love. His
Majesty ask'd them what this worship consisted in, and how many

their party might consist of ; they told him their custom was to reade

the Scripture and then to preach, but did not give any farther account

onely sayd that for the rest they were a sort of refin'd Quakers, but

their number very small, not consisting, as they sayd, of above three
score in all, and those cheifly belonging to the Isle of Ely.
    18. I din'd at Mr. Blathwaite's (2 miles from Hampton). This
gentleman is Secretary of War, Clerk of the Counsel, &c. having
rais'd himselfe by his industry from very moderate circumstances. He
is a very proper, handsome person, and very dextrous in businesse, and
besides' all this, has married a greate fortune. His income by the
Army, Counsel, and Secretary to the Committee of forraine plantations,

brings him in above ^2000 per ann.
   23. The   privy seale for ,£6000 was pass'd to me, so that this tedious
affaire was   dispatch'd. -- Hitherto a very windy and tempestuous sum
mer. --The   French Sermons to the refugees were continu'd at Greene-

wich Church.                      In the way I din'd^at Ashsted with my
   19 July. I went to Wotton.

Lady Mordaunt.
   5 Aug. I went to see Albury, now purchas'd by Mr. Finch (the

King's Solicitor, and son to the late Lord Chancellor); I found the
garden which I first design'd for the Duke of Norfolk, nothing improved.
   15. I went to visite Lord Clarendon at Swallow-field, where was

my Lord Cornbery just ariv*d from Denmark, whither he had accom

panied the Prince of Denmark two months before, and now come back.
The miserable tyranny under which that nation lives he related to us ;
512      ·  MADE GOVERNOR OF ST. THOS. HOSPITAL.

the King keeps them' under by an army of 40,000 men, all Germans, he

not daring to trust his owne subjects. Notwithstanding this, the Danes

are exceeding proud, the country very poore and miserable.

22. Returned home to Sayes Court from Wotton, having ben five

weekes absent with my brother and friends, who entertained us very

nobly. God be praised for his goodnesse, and this refreshment after

my many troubles, and let his mercy and providence ever preserve me.

Amen.

   3 Sept. The Lord Mayor sent me an Officer with a Staff, to be one
of the Governors of St. Thomas's Hospital
Persecution raging in France; divers churches there firM by light
ning, Priests struck, consecrated hosts, &c. burnt and destroy'd, both

at St. Malo's and Paris, at the grand procession on Corpus Christi day.
   13. I went to Lambeth, and din'd with the Abp. Afterdinner I re
tired into the library, which I found exceedingly improv'd ; there are

also divers rare manuscripts in a roome apart.

  6 Oct. I was godfather to Sir John Chardin's sonn, christen'd at
Greenewich Church, nam'd John. The Earle of Bath and Countesse
of Carlisle, the other Sponsors.
         An Anabaptist, Sir J. Peake, a very odd ignorant person,
    29.                                                                                  a me
         I think, was Lord Mayor. The King and Queene, and                               Dadi '
chanic
the Pope's Nuncio, invited to feast at Guildhall. A strange tume of

affaires, that those who scandaliz'd the Church of England as favourers
of Popery, should publiqly invite an emissary from Rome, one who re
presented the very person of their Antichrist !
' 10 Dec. My son was return'd out of Devon, where he had ben on a

Commission from the Lords of the Treasury about a concealment of Land.
   20. I went with my Lord Cheife Justice Herbert to see his house
at Walton on Thames : * it is a barren place. To a very ordinary house

he had built a very handsome library, designing more building to it
than the place deserves in my opinion. He desir'd my advice about
laying out his gardens, &c. The next day we went to Weybridge to

see some pictures of the Dutchesse of Norfolk's, particularly the statue,
or child in gremio, said to be of Mich. Angelo, but there are reasons
to think it rather a copy, from some proportion in the figures ill taken.
It was now expos'd to sale.
1688. 12 Jan. Mr. Slingsby, Master of the Mint, being under very
deplorable circumstances on account of his creditors, and especialy

the King, I did my endeavor with the Lords of the Treasury to be

favourable to him.

1 Count D'Ada, made afterwards a Cardinal for his services in this embassy.
* This is a mistake ; the house was Oatlands in Weybridge. He followed the fortunes of
King James, who gave him his great seal. He was attainted, and Oatlands given to his
brother Herbert. He published an apology for the judgment he had given in favour of the
King's dispensing powers,  owfhSicuhrrewy,asIIa. n7sw86e.red           Atwood       Sir
Manning and Bray's Hist,                                      by  Mr.          and       Robert Atkins
                 . THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                 5 '3

   My Lord Arran, eldest son to the .Duke of Hamilton, being now
married to Lady Ann Spencer, eldest daughter ol the Earle of Sunder
land, Lord President of the Council, I and my family had most glorious
favours sent us, the wedding being celebrated with extraordinary

splendour.

13. There was a solemne and particular Office us'd at our, and all
the Churches of London and 10 miles round, for a thanksgiving, to

God, for her Majesty being with child.
  22. This afternoone I went not to Church, being employed
religious treatise I had undertaken.'                         on a

   Post annum 1588-- 1660 -- 1688, Annus Mirabilis Tertius.*
January 30. Being the Martyrdome day of K. Charles the First,
our Curate made a florid oration against the murder of that excellent
Prince, with an exhortation to obedience from the example of David,

1 Samuel 24, 6.

12 Feb. My daughter Evelyn going in the coach to visite in the

Citty, a jolt (the doore being not fast shut) flung her quite out in such
manner as the hind wheeles passed over her a little above her knees.
Yet it pleased God, besides the bruises of the wheeles, she had no other
harme. In two days she was able to walke, and soone after perfectly

well ; thro' God Almighty's greate mercy to an excellent wife and a

most dutiful and discreete daughter-in-law.
17. I receiv'd the sad news of my niece Mountague's death at
Woodcot
   15 Mar.  on  Ithgeav1e5thin.

                                 my  account  about  the  Sick and Wounded,  in

order to have my quietus.

23. Dr. Parker, Bishop of Oxford, who so lately publish'd his extra
vagant treatise about transubstantiation, and lor abrogating the Test
and Penal Laws, died. He was esteem'd a violent, passionate, haughty

man, but yet being press'd to declare for the Church ol Rome, he utterly
refus'd it. A remarkable end.
The French Tyrant now finding he could make no proselytes amongst

those Protestants' of quality, and others, whom he had caus'd to be

shut up in dungeons, and confln'd to nunneries and monasteries, gave

them, after so long trial, a general releasement, and leave to go out of

the kingdom, but utterly taking away their estates, and their children ;

so that greate numbers came daily into England and other places,

where they were receiv'd and relieved with very considerate Christian
charity. This Providence and goodnesse of God to those who thus

constantly held out, did so work upon those miserable poore soules,

who, to avoyd the persecution sign'd their renunciation, and to save
their estates went to masse, that reflecting on what they had don, they

*1

                                                                       ;

                                                                                                          it,
grew so affected in their conscience, that not being able to support

What this was does not appear but there are several of his composition remaining in MS,
This seems added alter the page was written*

                                                          33
514 CRUEL USAGE OF PROTESTANTS IN FRANCE. DR. STILLINGFLEET.

they in greate numbers thro' all the French provinces, acquainted the

Magistrates and Lieutenants that, being sorry for their apostacy, they

were resolved to return to their old religion ; that they would go no

more to masse, but peaceably assemble when they could, to beg pardon

and worship God, but so without weapons as not to give the least um

brage of rebellion or sedition, imploring their pity and commiseration ;

and accordingly meeting so from time to time, the dragoon missioners,

Popish officers and priests, fell upon them, murder"d and put them to

death, whoever they could lay hold on ; they without the least resist

ance embraced death, torture or hanging, with singing psalmes and

praying for their persecutors to the last breath, yet still continuing the

former assembling of themselves in desolate places, suffering with in

credible constancy, that thro' God's mercy they might obtain pardon

for this lapse. Such examples of Christian behaviour have not ben

seen since the primitive persecutions ; and doubtlesse God will do

some signal worke in the end, if we can with patience and resignation

hold out, and depend on his Providence.

   24 Mar. I went with Sir Charles Littleton to Sheene, an house and
estate given him by Lord Brouncker ; one who was ever noted for a
hard, covetous, vicious man, but for his worldly craft and skill in

gaming, few exceeded him. Coming to die, he bequeath'd all his land,
house, furniture, &c. to Sir Charles, to whom he had no manner of re

lation, but an ancient friendship contracted at the famous siege of Col

chester, 40 yeares before. It is a pretty place, with fine gardens, and
well planted, and given to one worthy of them, Sir Charles being an
honest gentleman and souldier. He is brother to Sir Henry Littleton
of Worcestershire, whose greate estate he is likely to inherit, his bro
ther being without children. They are descendants of the great lawyer
of that name, and give the same arras and motto. He is married

to one Mrs. Temple, who was formerly maide of honour to the late

Queene, a beautiful lady, and he has many fine children, so that none

envy his good fortune.

   After dinner we went to see Sir William Temple's neere to it ; the
most remarkable things are his orangerie and gardens, where the wall
fruit trees are most exquisitely nail'd and train'd, far better than I ever
noted elsewhere.
   There are many good pictures, especialy of Vandyke's in, both these

houses, and some few statues and small busts in the latter.  ..

From thence we went to Kew, to visite Sir Henry Capell's, whose

orangerie and myrtelum are most beautifull and perfectly well kept.
He was contriving very high palisados of reeds to shade his oranges
during the summer, and painting those reeds in oil.

   i April. In the morning the first sermon was by Dr. Stillingfleet
Dean of St. Paul's (at Whitehall) on 10 Luke 41, 42. The holy Com
munion follow'd but was so interrupted by the rude breaking in of mul
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  515

  titudes zealous to hear the second sermon, to be preach'd by the Bp. of
  Bath and Wells, that the latter part of that holy office could hardly be
  heard, or the sacred elements be distributed without greate trouble. The
  Princesse being come, he preach'd on 7 Mich. 8. 9. 10. describing the
  calamity of the Reform'd church of Judah under the Babylonian per
  secution, for her sins, and God's delivery of her on her repentance ;

  that as Judah emerg'd so should the now Reform'd Church, wherever
  insulted and persecuted. He preach'd with his accustom'd action,
  zeal, and energy, so that people flock'd from all quarters to heare him.

    1 5 April. A dry, cold, backward spring, easterly winds.
    The persecution still raging in France, multitudes of Protestants, and

 many very considerable and greate persons flying hither, produc'da se

 cond general contribution, the Papists, by God's Providence, as yet
 making small progress amongst us.

    29. The weather was, till now, so cold and sharp, by an almost per
 petual East wind which had continued many monthes, that there was
 little appearance of any Spring, and yet the Winter was very lavour-

 able as to frost and snow.

     2 May. Went to London about my petition for allowances upon
 the account of Commissioner for sick and wounded in the former war

 with Holland.
    8. His Majesty, alarm'd by the greate fleete of the Dutch (whilst we

 had a very inconsiderable one), went down to Chatham ; their fleete
 was well prepaid, and out, before we were in any readinesse, or had
 any considerable number to have encounter'd them had there ben occa
 sion- to the great reproch of the Nation ; whilst being in profound

 peace, there was a mighty land army, which there was no neede of, and
 no force at sea, where only was the apprehension ; but the army was
 doubtless kept and increas'd in order to bring in and countenance
 Popery, the King beginning to discover his intentions, by many in
 stances pursued by the Jesuits, against his first resolution to alter
 nothing in the Church establishment, so that it appear'd there can

 be no reliance on Popish promises.
    18. The King injoyning the ministers to read his Declaration for

giving liberty of conscience (as it was styl'd) in all the Churches 01
England, this evening 6 Bishops, Bath and Wells (Thos. Ken), Peter
borough (Thos. White), Ely (Fr. Turner), Chichester (John Lake), St.
Asaph (Wm. Lloyd), and Bristol (Sir John Trelawney, Bart.), in the
name of all the rest of the Bishops, came to his Majesty to petition
him that he would not impose the reading of it to the several congre
gations within their dioceses ; not that they were averse to the publish
ing of it for want of due tendernesse towards Dissenters, in relation to
whom they should be willing to come to such a temper as should be
thought fit, when that matter might be consider^ and settl'd in Parlia
ment and Convocation ; but that, the Declaration being founded on
516 REFUSAL OF THE BISHOPS TO HEED THE ROYAL INJUNCTIONS.

Such a dispensing power as might at pleasure set aside all Laws Eccle
siastical and Civil, it appear'd to them illegal, as it had done to the
Parliament in 1661 and 1672, and that it was a point of such conse
quence that they could not so far make themselves parties to as the
reading of in Church in time of divine service amounted to.       it
I                                                                   it,

      I it

                     it
The King was so far incens'd at this addresse, that he with threaten
ing expressions, commanded them to obey him in reading at their

perils, and so dismiss'd them.
20. went to White-hall Chapell, where, after the morning lessons,
the Declaration was read by one of the Choir who us'd to read the
           heare was read in the Abby Church, Westminster, but
chapters.
almost universaly forborne throughout all London the consequences
of which a little time will shew.                  It :

                                                              it
25. All the discourse now was about the Bishops refusing to read
the injunction for the abolition of the Test, &c.  seemes the injunc

tion came so crudely from the Secretary's office, that was neither

seal'd nor sign'd in forme, nor had any Lawyer ben consulted, so as the
Bishops, who took all imaginable advice, put the Court to greate diffi
culties how to proceede against them. Greate were the consults, and a
proclamation expected all this day, but nothing was don. The action
of the Bishops was universaly applauded, and reconcil'd many ad

verse parties, Papists only excepted, who were now exceedingly per-
plex'd, and violent courses were every moment expected. The report
was that the Protestant secular Lords and Nobility would abett the

Clergy.
   The Queene Dowager, hitherto bent on her returns into Portugal,

now on the sudden, on allegation of a greate debt oweing her by bis

Majesty disabling her, declares her resolution to stay.
  "News ariv'd of the most prodigious earthquake that was almost ever

heard of, subverting the Citty of Lima and country in Peru, with a

dreadfull inundation following it.
     June. This day the Archbishop of Canterbury, with the Bishops

of Ely, Chichester, St. Asaph, Bristol, Peterborough, and Bath and
Wells, were sent from the Privy Council prisoners to the Tower, for re
8
          it 2

                                                                                     ;

                                                                                                it
fusing to give baile for their appearance, on their not reading the

Declaration for liberty of conscience they refus'd to give baile, as
would have prejudie'd their Peerage. The concern of the people for
them was wonderfull, infinite crouds on their knees begging their bless
ing, and praying for them as they pass'd out of the barge along the
Tower-wharfe.

   10. Pi. young Prince borne, which will cause disputes.
   About o'clock we heard the Tower ordnance discharg'd, and the
bells ringing for the birth of a Prince of Wales. This was very sur
prising, having ben universally given out that her Majesty did not
look till the next moneth.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  5 17

   13. I went to the Tower to see the Bishops, visited the Abp. and

Bps. of Ely, St. Asaph, and Bath and Wells.
   14. Din'd with my Lord Chancellor.
   15 June. Being the first day of Term, the Bishops were brought to

Westminster on Habeas Corpus, when the Indictment was read, and
they were called on to plead ; their Council objected that the Warrant

was illegal, but after long debate it was over-ruled, and they pleaded.
The Court then offered to take bail for their appearance, but this they
refused, and at last were dismissed on their own recognizances to ap-

peare that day fortnight ; the Abp. in 200/. the Bishops 100/. each.
   29. They appeared ; the trial lasted from 9 in the morning to past

6 in the evening, when the Jury retired to consider of their verdict, and
the Court adjourned to 9 the next morning. The Jury were locked up
till that time, 1 1 of them being for an acquittal, but one (Arnold a
brewer) would not consent. At length he agreed with the others. The
Cheif Justice Wright behaved with great moderation and civility to the
Bishops. Alibone, a Papist, was strongly against them ; but Holloway
and Powell being of opinion in their favour, they were acquitted.
When this was heard, there was great rejoicing ; and there was a lane
of people from the King's Bench to the water side, on their knees, as
the Bishops pass'd and repass'd, to beg their blessing. Bonfires were
made that night, and bells rung, which was taken very ill at Court,
and an appearance of neere 60 Earls and Lords, &c. on the bench, did
not a little comfort them, but indeede they were all along full of comfort

and cheerfull.

   Note, they denied to pay the Lieutenant of the Tower (Hales, who

us'd them very surlily) any fees, alledging that none were due.
    17. Was a day of Thanksgiving in London and 10 miles about for

the young Prince's birth ; a form of prayer made for the purpose by the
Bp. of Rochester.

   The night was solemnized with bonfires and other fire-works, &c
   2 July. The two Judges Holloway and Powell were displaced.
   3. I went with Dr. Godolphin and his brother Sir William to St.
Alban's to see a library he would have bought of the widow of Dr.
Cartwrite, late Archdeacon of St. Alban's, a very good collection of

books, especialy in divinity ; he was to give ,£300 for them. Having
seen the greate Church, now newly repair'd by a public contribution,

we return'd home.

   8. One of the King's Chaplains preach'd before the Princess on
14 Exodus 13, 'Stand still and behold the salvation of the Lord,' which
he applied so boldly to the present conjuncture of the Church of

England, that more could scarce be said to encourage desponders.
The Popish Priests were not able to carry their cause against their
learned adversaries, who confounded them both by their disputes and
their writings.
518 DISCONTENT OF THE NATION. THE PRINCE OF ORANGE.

   12 July. The Camp now began at Hounslcw, but the Nation was
in high discontent.

   Col. Titus, Sir Hen. Vane (son of him who was executed for his
treason), and some other of the Presbyterians and Independent party,
were sworne of the Privy Council, from hopes of thereby diverting
that party from going over to the Bishops and Church of England,
which now they began to do, foreseeing the designe of the Papists to
descend and take in their most hateful of "heretics (as they at other
times expressed them to be), to effect their own ends, now evident ;
the utter extirpation of the Church of England first, and then the rest
would follow.

   17 July. This night the Fireworks were plaied off, that had -ben
prepaid for the Queene's up-sitting. We saw them to great advantage ;.
they were very fine, and cost some thousands of pounds, in the pyramids,
statues, &c but were spent too soone for so long a preparation.

  26. I went to Lambeth to visit the Archbishop whom I found

very cheerfull.
    10 August. Dr. Tenison now told me there would suddenly be some

greate thing discovert. This was the Prince of Orange intending to

come over.

   15. I went to Althorp in Northamptonshire, 70 miles. A coach

and 4 horses took up me and my sonn at White-hall, and carried us
to Dunstable, where we ariv'd and din'd at noone, and from thence
another coach and 6 horses carried us to Althorp, 4 miles beyond
Northampton, where we ariv'd by 7 o'clock that evening. Both these
coaches were hir'd for me by that noble Countesse of Sunderland, who
invited me to her house at Althorp, where she entertain'd me and my
sonn with extraordinary kindness ; I sta/d till the Thursday.

   18. Dr. Jeffryes, the minister of Althorp, who was my Lord's
chaplain when Ambassador in France, preach'd the shortest discourse

I ever heard ; but what was defective in the amplitude of his sermon, he

had supplied in thelargeness and convenience of the Parsonage house,
which the Dr. (who had at least ^600 a year in spiritual advancement) .
had new built, and made fit for a person of quality to live in, with
gardens and all accommodation according therewith.

   My Lady carried us to see Lord Northampton's seat, a very strong
large house, built with stone, not altogether modern. They were en
larging the garden, in which was nothing extraordinary, except the
iron gate opening into the Park, which indeede was very good work,
wrought in flowers, painted with blue and gilded. There is a noble
walke of elmes towards the front of the house, by the bowling greene.

I was not in any roome of the house besides a lobby looking into the

garden, where my Lord and his new Countesse (Sir Ste. Fox's daughter,
whom I had knowne from a child) entertain'd the Countesse and her
daughter the Countesse of Arran (newly married to the son of the
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.       519

Duke of Hamilton) with so little good grace, and so dully, that our
visite was very short, and so we return'd to Althorp, twelve miles

distant

   The house,   or  rather palace,  at Althorp, is  a noble uniform pile in  '
form of a half  H,  built of brick  and freestone,  ballustred and a la mo-

derne; the hall is well, the staircase excellent ; the roomes of state,

gallerys, offices and furniture, such as may become a greate Prince. ^It
is situate in the midst of a garden, exquisitely planted and kept, and all

this in a parke wall'd in with hewn stone, planted with rows and walkes
of trees, canals and fish ponds, and stored with game. And what is

above all this, govern'd by a lady, who without any shew of sollicitude,

keepes every thing in such admirable order, both within and without,

from the garret to the cellar, that I do not believe there is any in this

nation, or in any other, that exceedesher in such exact order, without'

ostentation, but substantially greate and noble. The meanest servant

is lodg'd so neat and cleanly ; the service at the several tables, the good
order and decency -- inaword,theintire oeconomy, is perfectly becoming

a wise and noble person. She is one who for her distinguish'd esteeme
of me from along and worthy friendship, I must ever honour and cele
brate. I wish from my soul the Lord her husband (whose parts and
abilities are othenvise conspicuous) was as worthy of her, as by a fatal
apostacy and court ambition he has made himself unworthy. This is
what she deplores, and it renders her as much affliction as a lady of
greate soul and much prudence is capable of. The Countesse of Bristol
her mother, a grave and honourable lady, has the comfort of seeing her
daughter and grandchildren under the same oeconomy, especialy Mr.
Charles Spencer,1 a youth of extraordinary hopes, very learned for his
age, and ingenious, and under a governor of greate worth. Happy
were it could as much be said of the elder brother, the Lord Spencer,
who, rambling about the world, dishonours both his name and his fa

mily, adding sorrow to sorrow to a mother who has taken all imagin
able care of his education. There is a daughter very young married to
the Earl of Clancartie, who has a greate and faire estate in Ireland,
but who yet gives no greate presage of worth,-- so universally contami
nated is the youth of this corrupt and abandon'd age ! But this is
againe recompenc'd by my Lord Arran, a sober and worthy gentleman,
who has espous'd the Lady Ann Spencer, a young lady of admirable

accomplishments and virtue.

   23. I left this noble place and conversation, my lady having pro

vided carriages to convey us back in the same manner as we went, and
a dinner being prepared at Dunstable against our arrival. Northamp
ton, having ben lately burnt and re-edified, is now become a town that

  * 1 The eldest son dying without issue, this Charles succeeded 10 the title and estate, and
marrying to his second wife one of the daughters and at length coheirs to John Duke of
Marlborough, his son by her succeeded to that title.
   520 ECCLESIASTICAL COMMISSION. THE COURT IN CONSTERNATION.

   for the beauty of the buildings, especialy the church and town-house,
. may compare with the neatest in Italy itselfe.

  . Dr. Sprat, Bishop of Rochester, wrote a very honest and handsome
   letter to the Commissioners Ecclesiastical, excusing himselfe from sit
   ting any longer among them, he by no meanes approving of their
   prosecuting the Cleargy who refus'd to reade the Declaration for liberty
   of conscience, in prejudice of the Church of England.

      The Dutch make extraordinary preparations both at sea and land,
   which with the very small progresse Popery makes among us, puts us to
   many difficulties. The Popish Irish soldiers commit many murders
   and insults ; the whole Nation disaffected, and in apprehensions.

      After long trials of the doctors to bring up the little Prince of Wales
   by hand (so many of her Majesty's children having died infants) not
   succeeding, a country nurse, the wife of a tile-maker, is taken to give
   the child suck.

      1 8 Sept. I went to London, where I found the Court in the utmost
   consternation on report of the Princeof Orange's landing, which put
   White-hall into so panic a feare, that I could hardly believe it possible

   to find such a change.
      Writs were issued in order to a Parliament, and a declaration to back

   the good order of elections, with greate professions of maintaining the
    Church of England, but without giving any sort of satisfaction to the

   people, who now shew'd their high discontent at several things in the

    Government.

       Earthquakes had utterly demolish'd the ancient Smyrna, and several
   other places in Greece, Italy, and even in the Spanish Indies, fore
   runners of greater calamities. God Almighty preserve his Church and
   all who put themselves under the shadow of his wings, till these things
   be over-past !

       30. The Court in so extraordinary a consternation on assurance of
   the Prince of Orange's intention to land, that the writs sent forth for a
    Parliament were recall'd.

      7 Oct. Dr. Tenison preach'd at St. Martines, on 2 Tim. 3. 16. shew
   ing the Scriptures to be our only rule of faith, and its perfection above
   all traditions. After which neere 1000 devout persons partook of the
   Communion. This sermon was cheifly occasion'd by a Jesuite, who in
   the Masse-house on the Sunday before had disparag'd the Scripture
   and rail'd at our translation, which some present contradicting, they
   pull'd him out of the Pulpit, and treated him very coarsely, insomuch
   that it was like to create a greate disturbance in the Citty.

       Hourly expectation of the Prince of Orange's invasion heighten'd to
   that degree that his Majesty thought fit to abrogate the Commission
    for the dispensing power (but retaining his own right still to dispense
    with all laws) and restore the ejected Fellows of Magdalen College,
   Oxford. In the mean time he call'd over 5000 Irish, and 4000 Scots,
.: 'THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                              . 52 L

and continued to remove Protestants and put in Papists at Portsmouth
and other places of trust, and retained the Jesuites about him, increas-

ing the universal discontent. It brought people to so desperate a passe,
that they seem'd passionately to long for and desire the landing of that

Prince whom they look'd on to be their deliverer from Popish tyranny,
praying incessantly for an East wind, which was said to be the only
hindrance of his expedition with a numerous army ready to make a
descent. To such a strange temper, and unheard-of in former times,

was thispoore Nation redue'd, and of which I was an eye-witness. The

apprehension was (and with reason) that his Majesty's forces would
neither at land or at sea oppose them with that vigour requisite to re
pel the invaders.

   The late imprison'd Bishops were now calTd to reconcile matters,
and the Jesuites hard at worke to foment confusion among the Pro
testants by their usual tricks. A letter was sent to the Abp. of Can
terbury ,, informing him, from good hands, of what was contriving by
them. A paper of what the Bishops advis'd his Majesty was published.
The Bishops were injoin'd to prepare a form of prayer against the

1 By Mr. Evelyn. The letter was as follows :
·My Lord. The honor and reputation which your Grace's piety, prudence, and signal
courage, have justly merited and obtain'd not onely from the Sons of the Church of England,

but even universaly from those Protestants amongst us who are Dissenters from her disci

epnlindeea;voGros dwAilllmnigothtysu'sffeprrotvoidbeencdeimanindisbhl'edssiinngthuispocnonyjouunrctGurrea.ce'sTvhiegilacnocnyverasnadtioenxtrIaonrodwinaarnyd
then have with some in place, who have the opportunity of knowing what is doing in the
most seacret recesses and cabals of our Churches adversaries, obliges me to acquaint you,
that the calling of your Grace and the rest of the Lords Bishops to Court, and what has there
of late ben require! of you, isoncly to create a jealousie and suspicion amongst well-meaning
people of such compliances as it is certaine they have no cause to apprehend. The Plan of
this and of all that which is to follow of seeming favour thence, is wholly drawn by the Je
suites, who are at this time more than ever buLsy to make divisions amongst us, all other arts
and mechanisms having hitherto failed them. They have, with other things, contriv'd that
your Lordships the Bishops should give his Majesty advice separately, without calling any of
Ithe rest of the Peeres, which, tho" maliciously suggested, spreads generaly about the Towne.
  do not at all question but your Grace will speedily prevent the operation of this venome, and
that you will thinke it highly necessary  so     to do, that your Grace  is also injoyn'd to compose
a form of prayer, wherein the Pr. of O.   is     expressly to be named
                                                                         the Invader: of this I pre
sume not to say any thing ; but for as much as in all the Declarations, &c, which have hitherto
been published in pretended favour of the Church of England, there is not once the least
mention of the Reformed or Protestant Religion, but oncly of the Church 0/ England as

by Law established, which Church the Papists tell us is the Church 0/ Rome, which is (say

they) the Catholic Church of England that onely is establish'd by Law : the C. of England
in the Reformed sense so established is but an usurp'd authority. The antiquity of that
                                            utterly defeate this false and    subdolous construction,
would by these   words be explained, and                                        upon these occasions,
md take off all  exceptions whatsoever ;    if in all extraordinary offices,
the words Reformed and Protestant were added to that of the Church of England by Law
established. And whosoever threatens to invade or come against us, to the prejudice of that
                                  Dutch or       Irish, let us heartily pray and fight against them.
Church, in God's   name, be they  bold, but
                                                 honest period ; and though I am well assured that
My Lord, this is,  I confesse, a
                                            all  this before, and therefore   may blame    my imperti
your Grace is   perfectly acquainted with        am confident you will not    reprove the  zeale of one
nence, as that  dos a\^vJpiot-woKonilf9yct   I
who most humbly beggs your Grace's pardon, with your blessing. Lend, to Oct. x668.
(From a copy in Mr. Evelyn's hand-writing)
522 TUMULT IN LONDON. BIRTH OF THE PRINCE OF WALES.

fear'd invasion. A pardon publish'd. Souldiers and mariners are

daily press'd.
   14 Oct. The King's birth-day. No gunns from the Tower as usual.

The sun eclips'd at its rising. This day signal for the victory of Wil
liam the Conqueror against Harold, near Battel in Sussex. The wind,

which had been hitherto West, was East all this day. Wonderfull ex

pectation of the Dutch fleet. Public prayers ordered to be read in the

Churches against invasion.

  28. A tumult in London on the rabble demolishing a Popish

Chapel that had ben set up in the Citty.
   29. Lady Sunderland acquainted me with his Majesty's taking away

the scales from Lord Sunderland, and of her being with the Queene
to intercede for him. It is conceiv'd that he had of late grown remisse

in pursuing the interest of the Jesuitical Counsells ; some reported one
thing, some another ; but there was doubtless some secret betray 'd

which time may discover.

There was a Counsel call'd, to which were summon'd the Archbp. of
Canterbury, the Judges, the Lord Maior, &c. The Queene Dowager,
and all the Ladies and Lords who were present at the Queene Con
sort's labour, were to give their testimony upon oath of the Prince of

Wales's birth, recorded both at the Counsel Board and at the Chan

cer)' a day or two after. This  procedure was  censured by some   as below
his Majesty to condescend to,    on the talke                      was re
                                               of the people. It

markable that on this occasion the Abp., Marquess of Halifax, the

Earles of Clarendon and Nottingham, refus'd to sit at the Counsel

table amongst Papists, and their bold telling his Majesty that whatever
was don whilst such sate amongst them was unlawfull and incurr'J

/premunire --at least if what I heard be true.

   32. I din'd with Lord Preston, made Secretary of State in the place
of the Earle of Sunderland.
Visited Mr. Boyle, when came in the Duke of Hamilton and Earle
of Burlington. The Duke told us many particulars of Mary Queene
of Scots, and her amours with the Italian favorite, &c.
          My birth-day, being the 68th
    31.  as I grow in yeares, so may I  year of my age.   O  blessed Lord,
                                        improve in grace     Be Thou my
grant                                                     !

protector this following year, and preserve me and mine from those

dangers and greate confusions that threaten a sad revolution to this
sinfull Nation ! Defend thy Church, our Holy religion, and just
Laws, disposing his Majesty to listen to sober and healing Counsels,

that if it be Thy blessed will we may still enjoy that happy tranquillity
 which hitherto Thou hast continued to us ! Amen, Amen !
    1 Nov. Din'd with Lord Preston with other company at Sir Stephen

'Fox's. Continual alarmes of the Prince of Orange, but no certainty.
 Reports of his greate losses of horse in the storme, but without any
 assurance. A man was taken wtth divers papers and printedTnani
              THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN. -                           523

festos, and carried to .Newgate after examination at the Cabinet

Council. There was likewise a Declaration of the States for satisfac

tion of all Public Ministers at the Hague, except to the English and
the French. -There was in that of the Prince's an expression as il the
Lords both Spiritual and Temporal had invited him over, with a de
duction of the causes of his enterprize. This made his Majesty con
vene my Lord of Canterbury and the other Bishops now in towne, to

give an account of what was in the Manifesto, and to enjoyne them to

clear themselves by some publiq writing of this disloyal charge.

  2. It was now certainly reported by some who saw the fleete, and

the Prince imbarke, that they sail'd from the Brill on Wednesday
morning, and that the Princesse of Orange was there to take leave 01

her husband.

   4. Fresh reports of the Prince being landed somewhere about
Portsmouth or the Isle of Wight, whereas it was thought it would

have ben Northward. The Court in greate hurry.
   5. I went to London ; heard the newesofthe Prince having landed

at Torbay, coming with a fleete of neere 700 saile, passing through
the Channell with so favourable a wind that our navy could not inter
cept or molest them. This put the King and Court into greate con
sternation ; they were now employ 'd in forming an army to stop their
further progresse, for they were got into Exeter, and the season and

ways very improper for his Majesty's forces to march so greate adistance.
The Abp. of Canterbury and some few of the other Bishops and
Lords in London were sent for to White-hall, and requir'd to set forth

their abhorrence of this invasion. They assurM his Majesty they had

                                                                    it

                                                                                               ;

                                                                                                   it,
never invited any of the Prince's party, or were in the least privy to

and would be ready to shew all testimonie of their loyalty but as to
a public Declaration, being so few, they desir'd that his Majesty would

call the rest of their brethren and Peeres that they might consult what

was fit to be don on this occasion, not thinking right to publish any

thing without them, and till they had themselves seen the Prince's
Manifesto, in which was pretended he was invited in by the Lords
Spiritual and Temporal This did not please the' King; and so
        I it
they departed.
                                 ! it
   A Declaration was publish'd prohibiting all persons to see or reade
the Prince's Manifesto, in which was set forth at large the cause of hisI

expedition, as there had ben one before from the States.
   These are the beginnings of sorrow, unlesse God in His mercy pre

vent by some happy reconciliation of all dissentions amongst us.        ;
This, in all likelihood, nothing can effect except a free Parliament
but this we cannot hope to see whilst there are any forces on either
          pray God to                protect and direct the  King   for the best and truest
side.     of his People              -- saw his Majesty             for the evil, Piten the
interest                                                     touch

Jesuit, and Warner officiating.
524 JAMES II. DESERTS HIS KINGDOM. THE PRINCE AT WINDSOR.

   14. Nov. The Prince increases every day in force. Several Lords go -
in to him. Lord Cornburry carries some regiments, marches to Honi-
ton, the Prirlce's head quarters. The Citty of London in disorder ; the
rabble pull'd down the Nunnery newly bought by the Papists of Lord

Berkeley at St John's. The Queene prepares to go to Portsmouth
for safety, to attend the issue of this national commotion, which has

a dreadfull aspect.

   18. It was now very hard frost. The King goes to Salisbury to
rendezvous the army, and returnes to London. Lord Delamere ap-
peares for the Prince in Cheshire. The Nobility mecte in Yorkshire.
The Archbishop of Canterbury and some Bishops, and such Peeres as
were in London, address his Majesty to call a Parliament. The King
invites all Forraine Nations to come over. The French take all the

Palatinate, and alarm the Germans more than ever.

   29. I went to the Royal Society. We adjourn'd the election of a
President to 23 April by reason of the public commotions, yet din'd

together as of costome this day.
   2 Dec. Dr. Tenison preached at St. Martines
                                                on 36 Psalm  5, 6, 7.
concerning Providence. I received the blessed    Sacrament.
                                                              After

wards visited my lord Godolphin, then going with the Marquess of
Halifax and Earle of Nottingham as Commissioners to the Prince of

Orange ; he told me they had little power. Plymouth declared for
the Prince. Bath, York, Hull, Bristol, and all the eminent Nobility

and Persons of Quality through England, declare for the Protestant

Religion and Laws, and go to meete the Prince, who every day sets
forth new Declarations against the Papists. The great favourites at

Court, Priests and Jesuits, fly or abscond. Every thing, till now con-

ceal'd, flies abroad in public print, and is cried about the streetes. Ex
pectation of the Prince coming to Oxford. The Prince of Wales and

greate treasure sent privily to Portsmouth, the Earle of Dover being
 Governor. Addresse from the Fleete not gratefull to-his Majesty.
NThe Papists in offices lay down their commissions, and fly. Uni

versal consternation amongst them ; it looks like a Revolution.

   7. My son went towards Oxford. I return'd home.
   9. Lord Sunderland meditates flight. The rabble demolish'd all

Popish Chapels, and severall Papist Lords and Gentlemen's houses,

especialy that of the Spanish Ambassador, which they pillag'd, and

burnt his Library.
   13. The King flies to sea, puts in at Faversham for ballast ; is
rudely treated by the people ; comes back to White-hall.

  The Pr. of Orange is advanc'd to Windsor, is invited by the King
to St James's, the messenger sent was the Earle of Faversham, the -
General of the Forces, who going without trumpet or passeport is
detain'd prisoner by the Prince, who accepts the invitation, but requires
his Majesty to retire to some distant place, that his owne guards maybe
         THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                         52$

quarter*d about the Palace and Citty. This U taken heinously, and
the King goes privately to Rochester ; is persuaded to come back ;
comes on the Sunday ; goes to masse, and dines in publiq, a Jesuit
saying grace (I was present).
   17. That night was a Council ; his Majesty refuses to assent to all

the proposals ; goes away again to Rochester.

  18. I saw the King take barge to Gravesend at 12 o'clock -- a sad
sight! The Prince comes to St. James's, and fills White hall with.
Dutch guards. A council of Peeres meete about an expedient to call
a Parliament ; adjourn to the House of Lords. The Chancellor, Earl
of Peterboro', and divers others taken. The Earle of Sunderland flies ;
Sir Edward Hales, Walker and others, taken and secur'd.
All the world go to see the Prince at St. James's, where there is a
greate Court. There I saw him, and severall of my acquaintance who
came over with him. He is very stately, serious and reserv'd. The
English soldiers sent out of towne to disband them ; not well pleas'd.
24. The King passes into France, whither the Queene and Child
were gon a few days before.
   26. The Peeres and such Commoners as were Members of the Parlia

ment at Oxford, being the last of Charles II. meeting, desire the Pr.
of Orange to take on him the disposal of the publiq revenue till a
Convention of Lords and Commons should meete in full body, ap
pointed by his circular letters to the Shires and Burroughs, 22 Jan. -- I
had now quarter'd upon me a Lieutenant Col. and 8 horses.
3a This day Prayers for the Prince of Wales were first left off in
our Church.
    1689. 7 January.  A long frost and deepe snow; the Thames

almost frozen over.
         I visited the Abp. of Canterbury, where I found the Bps. of St.
    15.  (Lloyd), Ely (Turner), Bath and Wells (Ken), Peterborough

Asaph

(White), and Chichester (Lake), the Earles of Ailesbury and Clarendon,
Sir Geo. Mackenzie Lord Advocate of Scotland, and then came in a
Scotch Abp. &c. After prayers and. dinner, divers serious matters were

discours'd, concerning the present state of the public, and sorry I was
to find there was as yet no accord in the judgments of those of the

Lords and Commons who were to convene ; some would have the
Princesse made Queene without any more dispute, others were for a
Regency ; there was a Tory party (as then so call'd) who were for
inviting his Majesty againe upon conditions ; and there were Republic-
arians who would make the Pr. of Orange like a Statholder. The
Romanists were busy among these several parties to bring them into
confusion ; most for ambition or other interest, few for conscience and

moderate resolutions. I found nothing of all this in this Assembly of
Bishops, who were pleased to admit me into their discourses ; they

were all for a Regency, thereby to salve their oathes, and so all public
526, SETTLEMENT OF WILtlAM AND MARY AS SOVEREIGNS.

matters to proceede in his Majesty's name, by that to facilitate the
calling of a Parliament, according to the Laws in being. Such was
the result of this meeting.

   My Lord of Canterbury gave me great thanks for the advertisement
I sent him in October, and assured me they took my counsell in that

particular, and that it came very seasonably.

   I found by the Lord Advocate that the Bishops of Scotland (who

were indeed little worthy of that character, and had done much mis
chief in that Church) were now coming about to the true interest, in
this conjuncture which threatened to abolish the whole Hierarchy in
that kingdom ; and therefore the Scottish Archbishop and Lord Advo
cate requested the Abp. of Canterbury to use his best endeavours with
the Prince to maintain the Church there in the same state as by Law
at present settled.

   It now growing late, after some private discourse with his Grace I
took my leave, most of the Lords being gone.

   The Trial of the Bishops was now printed.
   The greate Convention being assembled the day before, falling upon
the question about the Government, resolved that K. James having by
the advice of the Jesuits and other wicked persons endeavourd to sub
vert the Laws of Church and State, and deserted the Kingdom, carry
ing away the seals, &c. without any care for the management of the
Government, had by demise abdicated himself and wholly vacated his
right ; they did therefore desire the Lords concurrence to their vote, to
place the crown on the next heir, the Pr. of Orange, for his life, then to
the Princesse his wife, and if she died without issue, to the Princesse
of Denmark, and she failing, to the heirs of the Prince, excluding for
ever all possibility of admitting a Roman Catholic.
   27 Jan. I din'd at the Admiralty, where was brought in a child not
12 yeares old, the son of one Dr. Clench, of the most prodigious matu
rity of knowledge, for I cannot call it altogether memory, but some
thing more extraordinary.' Mr. Pepys and myselfe examined him, not
in any method, but with promiscuous questions, which required judg
ment and discernment to answer so readily and pertinently. There
was not any thing in- Chronology, History, Geography, the several
Systems of Astronomy, Courses of the Stars, Longitude, Latitude,
Doctrine of the Spheres, Courses and Sources of Rivers, Creeks, Har
bours, eminent Cities, Boundaries and Bearings of Countries, not only
in Europe but in any other part of the Earth, which he did not readily
resolve and demonstrate his knowledge of, readily drawing out with a
pen any thing he would describe. He was able not only to repeate the
most famous things which are left us in any of the Greek or Roman

   1 See a similar account of the afterwards celebrated Rev. William Wotton under the year
'679. July- Dr. Clench was murdered in a hackney-coach, and one Harrison executed for it.
                          THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  .- 527 .

Histories, Monarchies, Republics, Wars, Colonies, Exploits by Sea and
Land, but all the sacred Stories of the Old and New Testament ; the
Succession of all the Monarchies, Babylonian, Persian, Greek, Roman,

with all the lower Emperors, Popes, Heresiarchs, and Councils, what

they were called about, what they determined, or in the Controversy
about Easter, the Tenets of the Gnostics, Sabellians, Arians, Nesto-

rians ; the difference between St. Cyprian and Stephen about Rebapti-
zation ; the Schisms. We leap'd from that to other things totally dif

ferent, to Olympic years, and Synochronismes ; we ask'd him questions

which could not be resolved without considerable meditation and judg
ment, nay of some particulars of the Civil Laws, of the Digest and
Code. He gave a stupendous account of both Natural and Moral Phi

losophy, and even in Metaphysics. Having thus exhausted ourselves,

rather than this wonderfull child, or angel rather, for he was as beau-

tifull and lovely in countenance as in knowledge, we concluded with

asking him if in all he had read, or heard of, he had ever met with
any thing which was like this expedition of the Pr. of Orange, with so

small a force to obtain 3 greate Kingdoms without any contest. After
a little thought he told us that he knew of nothing which did more
resemble it than the coming of Constantine the Great out of Great

Britain, thro' France and Italy, so tedious a march, to meet Max-

entius, whom he overthrew at Pons Milvius with very little conflict, and

at the very gates of Rome, which he enter'd and was received with

triumph, and obtain'd the empire, not of 3 kingdoms only, but of all
the then known world. He was perfect in the Latine Authors, spake

French naturaly, and gave us a description of France, Italy, Savoy,
Spain, ancient and modernly divided ; as also of ancient Greece,

Scythia, and Northern Countries and Tracts : we left questioning fur
ther. He did this without any set or formal repetitions, as one who
had learn'd things without book, but as if he minded other things,                     .

going about the room, and toying with a parrot there, and as he was
at dinner (tanquam aliud agens, as it were) seeming to be full of play,
of a lively, sprightly temper, allways smiling, and exceeding pleasant,
without the least levity, rudeness or childishness. His father assur'd

us he never impos'd any thing to charge his memory by causing him
to get things by heart, not even the rules of grammar ; but his tutor
(who was a Frenchman) read to him, first in French, then in Latine ;
that he usually play'd amongst other boys 4 or 5 hours every day, and
that he was as earnest at his play as at his study. He was perfect in
Arithmetic, and now newly enter'd into Greek. In sum (horresco
rIefhcarveens)knIowhand,         of divers  forward and precoce youths, and some
                          read   never did  either heare or read of any thing like to

                          but I
this sweete child, if it be right to call him child who has more know
ledge than most men in the world. I counsell'd his father not' to set

his heart too much on this Jewell, Immodicis brevis est a/as, et
528 IRELAND IN AN ILL POSTURE, AS WELL AS SCOTLAND.

rara senectus, as I myself learn'd by sad experience in my most deare

child Richard,' many yeares since, who dying before he was 6 yeares
old, was both in shape and countenance and pregnancy of learning
next to a prodigy.

   29 Jan. The Votes of the House of Commons being carried up by
Mr. Hampden their chairman to the Lords, I got a station by the
Prince's lodgings at the doore of the lobby to the House, and heard
much of the debate, which lasted very long. Lord Derby was in the
chair (for the House was resolv'd into a grand Committee of the whole
House) j after all had spoken, it came to the question, which was car
ried but by 3 voices against a Regency, which 51 were for, 54 against ;
the minority alledging the danger of dethroning Kings, and scrupling
many passages and expressions in the Vote of the Commons, too long
to set down particularly. Some were for sending to his Majesty with
conditions ; others that the King could do no wrong, and that the mal
administration was chargeable on his Ministers. There were not more
than 8 or 9 Bishops, and but two against the Regency ; the Abp. was
absent, and the Cleargy now began to change their note, both in pulpit
and discourse, on their old passive obedience, so as people began to
talke of the Bishops being cast out of the House. In short, things
tended to dissatisfaction on both sides ; add to this the morose temper
of the Pr. of Orange, who shew'd little countenance to the Noblemen
and others, who expected a more gracious and cherefull reception when
they made their Court. The English Army also was not so in order,
and firme to his interest, nor so weaken'd but that it might give inter
ruption. Ireland was in an ill posture as well as Scotland. Nothing
was yet done towards a settlement. God of his infinite mercy com
pose these things, that we may be at last a Nation and a Church under
some fixt and sober establishment !

   3a The anniversary of K. Cha. I. martyrdom; but in all the publiq
offices and pulpit prayers, the collects, and litany for the King and

Queene were curtail'd and mutilated. Dr. Sharp preach'd before the
Commons, but was disliked, and not thank'd for his sermon.

   31. At our church (the next day being appointed a Thanksgiving for
deliverance by the Pr. of Orange, with prayers purposely compos'd),
our Lecturer preach'd in the afternoone a very honest sermon, shewing
our duty to God for the many signal deliverances of our Church, with
out touching on politics.

   6 February. The King's coronation day was ordered not to be ob-
seiVd, as hitherto it had been.

   The Convention of the Lords and Commons now declare the
Prince and Princess of Orange King and Queene of England, France,
and Ireland (Scotland being an independent kingdom), the Pr. and
Princesse being to enjoy it jointly during their lives, but the executive

                                        1 See under the year 1658, January.
       .- THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                     .529

   authority to be vested in the Prince during life, tho* all proceedings

   to run in both names, and that it should descend to their issue, and
   for want of such, to the Princesse Anne of Denmark and her issue,

   and in want of such, to the heirs of the body of the Prince if he sur

   vive, and that failing, to devolve to the Parliament as they should

   think fit. These produc'd a conference with the Lords, when also
   there was presented heads of such new laws as were to be enacted. It
   is thought that on these conditions they will be proclaim'd.

       There was much contest about the King's abdication, and whether
   he had vacated the government. The Earle of Nottingham and about

   20 Lords and many Bps. enter'd their protests, but the concurrence

   was greate against them.
       The Princess hourly expected. Forces sending to Ireland, that
   kingdom being in greate danger by the Farle of Tyrconnell's army,

   and expectations from France coming to assist them, but that King

   is busy in invading Flanders, and encountering the German Princes.

   It is likely that this will be the most remarkable summer for action,

   which has happen'd in many yeares.

       21 February. Dr. Burnett preach'd at St. James's, on the obliga
   tion to walke worthy of God's particular and signal deliverance of

   the Nation and Church.

      I saw the new Queene and King proclaim'd the very next day after

   her coming to Whitehall, Wed. 13 Feb., with greate acclamation

   and generall good reception. Bonfires, bells, guns, &c. It was

   believ'd that both, especialy the Princesse, would have shewed some

   (seeming) reluctance at least, of assuming her father's Crown, and

   made some apology, testifying by her regret, that he should by his

   mismanagement necessitate the Nation to so extraordinary a pro

   ceeding, which would have shew'd very handsomely to the world, and
   according to the character given of her piety ; consonant also to her

   husband's first declaration, that there was no intention of deposing
   the King, but of succouring the Nation; but nothing of all this

   appeared ; she came into Whitehall laughing and jolly, as to a wed

   ding, so as to seem quite transported. She rose early the next

   morning, and in her undresse, as it was reported, before her women

   were up, went about from roome to roome to see the convenience of
   Whitehall ; lay in the same bed and apartment where the late

   Queene lay, and within a night or two sate down to play at basset,
   as  the Queene   her  predecessor used to do.   She smil'd upon and  talk'd
'  to  every body,   so  that no change seem'd to  have taken place at  Court

   since her last going away, save that infinite crouds of people throng'd
   to see her, and that she went to our prayers. This carriage was cen
   sured by many. She seems to be of a good nature, and that she takes
   nothing to heart ; whilst the Prince her husband has a thoughtful

   countenance, is wonderfull serious and silent, and seems to treate all

                                                   34
 530 DISCONTENT OF THE NOBILITY. PROTESTS OF THE CLERGT.

 persons alike gravely, and to be very intent on affaires ; Holland, Ire
 land, and France calling for his care.

     Divers Bishops and Noblemen are not at all satisfied with this so
 sudden an assumption of the Crown, without any previous sending, and
 offering some conditions to the absent King : or, on his not returning,
 or not assenting to those conditions, to have proclaim'd him Regent ;
 but the major part of both Houses prevail'd to make them King and
 Queene immediately, and a Crowne was tempting. This was oppos'd
 and spoken against with such vehemence by Lord Clarendon (her own
  uncle), that it put him by all preferment, which must doubtlessc have
 ben as great as could have ben given him. My Lord of Rochester, his
 brother, overshot himselfe by the same carriage and stiffnesse, which
. their friends thought they might have well spared when they saw how
  it was like to be over-rul'd, and that it had ben sufficient to have de
  clared their dissent with lesse passion, acquiescing in due time.

     The Abp. of Canterbury and some of the rest, on scruple of con
 science and to salve the oathes they had taken, enter'd their Protests

 and hung off, especialy the Abp. who had not all this while so much
 as appeared out of Lambeth. This occasion'd .the wonder of many who
 observ'd with what zcale they contributed to the Prince's expedition,
 and all the while also rejecting any proposals of sending againe to the
 absent King ; that they should now raise scruples, and such as created
 much division among the people, greatly rejoicing the old Courtiers,
 and especialy the Papists.

    Another objection was, the invalidity of what was don by a Conven
 tion onely, and the, as yet, unabrogated laws ; this drew them to make
 themselves on the 22nd [Feb.] a Parliament, the new King passing the
 Act with the Crowne on his head. The lawyers disputed, but neces
 sity prevail'd, the government requiring a speedy settlement.

     Innumerable were the crouds, who solicited for, and expected offices,
 most of the old ones were turn'd out. Two or three white staves were
 disposed of some days before, as, Lord Steward, to the Earl of Devon
 shire ; Treasurer of the Household, to Lord Newport ; Lord Chamber-
 laine to the King, to my Lord of Dorset ; but there were as yet none
 in offices of the Civil Government save the Marquiss of Halifax as

 Privy Seal. A Council of 30 was chosen, Lord Derby President, but

 neither Chancellor nor Judges were yet declartt, the new Greate Scale
 not yet finish'd.

    8 Mar. Dr. Tillotson, Dean of Canterbury, made an excellent dis

 Icourse on 5 Matt. 44, exhorting to charity and forgiveness of enemies.

    suppose purposely, the new Parliament being furious about impeach
 ing those who were obnoxious, and as their custom has ever ben, going
 on violently without reserve or moderation, whilst wise men were of
 opinion the most notorious offenders being nam'd and excepted, an
 Act of Amnesty would be more seasonable, to pacify the minds of men
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                                                                                         53 1

in so general a discontent of the nation, especialy of those who did not

expect to see the government assum'd without any regard to the absent
King, or proving a spontaneous abdication, or that the birth 01 the

Prince of Wales was an imposture ; five of the Bishops also still refusing

to take the new oath.

   In the mean time to gratify the people, the Hearth Tax was remitted

for ever, but what was intended to supply besides present great taxes
1
on land not nam'd.
                 is
                        is

                                                                   it,

                                                                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;
   The King abroad was now furnish'd by the French King with money
and officers for an expedition to Ireland. The greate neglect in not

more timely preventing that from hence, and the* disturbances in Scot

land, give apprehensions of greate difficulties before any settlement can
be perfected here, whilst the Parliament dispose of the greate offices

amongst themselves. The Greate Seal, Treasury, and Admiralty put
into Commission of many unexpected persons, to gratify the more so

that by the present appearance of things (unless God Almighty gra
ciously interpose and give success in Ireland and settle Scotland) more
trouble seems to threaten the nation than could be expected. In the

interim the new King refers all to the Parliament in the most popular
manner, but very slow in providing against all these menaces, besides

finding difficulties in raiseing men to send abroad the lormer army

which had never seen any service hitherto, receiving their pay, and

passing their summer in an idle scene of a camp at Hounslow, unwill
ing to engage, and many disaffected, and scarce to be trusted.
   29. The new King much blam'd for neglecting Ireland, now like to
be ruin'd by the Lord Tyrconnell and his Popish party, too strong for
the Protestants. Wonderfull uncertainty where King James was,
whether in France or Ireland. The Scots seem as yet to favour K.

.William, rejecting K. James's letter to them, yet declaring nothing posi
tively. Soldiers in England discontented. Parliament preparing the
Coronation oath. Presbyterians and Dissenters displeas'd at the Vote

for preserving the Protestant Religion as established by law, without

mentioning what they were to have as to indulgence.

The Abp. of Canterbury and foure' other Bps. refusing to come to
Parliament, was deliberated whether they should incur Premunire
   it                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;
                it
but was thought fit to let this fall, and be connived at, for feare ot
the people, to whom those Prelates were very deare, for the opposition

they had given to- Popery.
   Court offices distributed amongst Parliament men. No consider

able fleete as yet sent forth. Things far from settled as was expected,
by reason of the slothfull, sickly temper of the new King, and the

1  Burnet names only three besides the Alp. viz. Thomas of Worcester, Lake of Chichester.

Ken of Bath and Wells. He says that at the first landing of the Prince, Ken declared heartily
for him, and advised all to go to him, but went with great heat into the notion of a Regent.
II.After this he changed his mind, came to town with intent to take the oaths, but again changed,
and sever did take them. Burnet's Own Times, vol.  p. 6".
532 CORONATION OF WILLIAM AND MARY. AT LAMBETH PALACE.

Pomarilsisaimone.nt''s unmindfullness of Ireland, which is likely to prove a sad
The Confederates beat the French out of the Palatinate, which they

IIhad most barbarously ruined.

       April. I saw the Procession to and from the Abby Church of
Westminster, with the greate Feast in Westminster Hall, at the Coro
nation of K. William and Queen Mary. What was different from
former Coronations was some alteration in the Coronation oath. Dr.

Burnet, now made Bishop of Sarum, preach'd with greate applause.
The Parliament men had scaffolds and places which took up one whole
side of the Hall. When the King and Queen had din'd, the ceremonie
of the Champion, and other services by tenure were perform'd. The
Parliament men were feasted in the Exchequer chamber, and had each
of them a gold [Coronation] medal given them, worth five and forty
shillings. On one side were the effigies of the King and Queene
inclining one to the other ; on the reverse was Jupiter throwing a bolt
at Phaeton, the words 'Ne totus absumatur;' which was but dull,

seeing they might have had out of the poet something as apposite.
The sculpture was very meane.

Much of the splendor of the proceeding was abated by the absence
of divers who should have contributed to
                                ;                           there being but five

                                                       it,
Bishops, foure Judges (no more being yet sworn), and severall noble
men and greate ladys wanting the feast, however, was magnificent.
The next day the House of Commons went and kiss'd their new

Majesties' hands in the Banquetting House.
12. went with the Bp. of St. Asaph to visit my Lord of Canterbury
I
               .1at Lambeth, who had excus'd himselfe from officiating at the Corona

                          ;tion, which was perform'd by the Bp. of London, assisted by the Abp.
of York. We had much private and free discourse with his Grace

concerning severall things relating to the Church, there being now a

Bill of Comprehension to be brought from the Lords to the Commons.
urgtt that when they went about to reform some particulars in the

Liturgy, Church discipline, Canons, &c. the baptizing in private houses
without necessity might be reform'd, as likewise so frequent burials in
Churches the one proceeding much from the pride of women, bring
ing that into custom which was only indulg'd in case of imminent dan
ger, and out of necessity during the Rebellion, and persecution of the
Clergy in our late civil wars the other from the avarice of ministers,
                             ;

who, in some opulent parishes, made almost as much of permission to

bury in the chancel and the church, as of their livings, and were paid
with considerable advantage and gifts for baptizing in chambers. To

this they heartily assented, and promis'd their endeavour to get re
                                                                 it
form'd, utterly disliking both practices as novel and indecent.       it
We discours'd likewise of the greate disturbance and prejudice
might cause, should the new oath, now on the anvil, be impos'd on any,
         THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                        533

 save such as were in new office, without any retrospect to such as either '
' had no office, or had ben long in office, who it was likely would have

some scruples about taking a new oath, having already sworn fidelity
to the government as establish'd by law. This we all knew to be the
case of my Lord Abp. of Canterbury, and some other persons who were
not so fully satisfied with the Convention making it an abdication of K.

James, to whom they had sworn allegiance.
   King James was now certainly in Ireland with the Marshall d'Es-

trades whom he made a Privy Counsellor ; and who caus'd the King to

remove the Protestant Counsellors, some whereof, it seems, had conti

nued to sit, telling him that the King of France his master would never
assist him if he did not immediately do by which
         is                                                 it      apparent how
                                                                is
                       ;

                             I

                                                   a
                                                       it,
the poor Prince manag'd by the French.
   Scotland declares for K. William and Qu. Mary, with the reasons of
their setting aside K. James, not as abdicating, but forfeiting his right

by mal-administration they proceeded with much more caution and

prudence than we did, who precipitated all things to the greate reproch

of the Nation, all which had ben manag'd by some crafty ill-principled

men. The new Privy Council have Republican spirit, manifestly

undermining all future succession of the Crown and prosperity of the
Church of England, which yet hope they will not be able to accom
plish so soonc as they expect, tho' they get into all the places of trust
and of profit.

   21 April. This was one of the most seasonable Springs, free from

the usual sharp East winds, that have observ'd since the year 1660
       I
           I

                                            I
(the year of the Restoration) which was much such an one.
   26. heard the lawyers plead before the Lords the writ of error in

the judgment of Oates, as to the charge against him of perjurie, which

after debate they refcrr'd to the answer of Holloway, &c. who were his
         then went with the Bp. of St. Asaph to the Abp. at Lam
Judges.

beth, where theyenter'd into discourse concerning the final destruction

of Antichrist, both concluding that the third trumpet and vial were now
pouring out My Lord St. Asaph considered the killing of the two

witnesses, to be the utter destruction of the Cevennes Protestants by

the French and Duke of Savoy, and the other the Waldenses and Py-

rencan Christians, who by all appearance from good history had kept
the primitive faith from the very Apostles' time till now. The doubt

- his Grace suggested was, whether could be made evident that the
         it
                  it
present persecution had made so great an havoc of those faithfull peo

ple as of the other, and whether there were not yet some among them

in being, who met together, being stated from the text Apoc. that
                                                                    1
                                                                       1

they should both be slain together. They both much approval of Mr.
Mede's way of interpretation, and that he only fail'd in resolving too

hastily on the K. of Sweden's (Gustavus Adolphus) success in Ger
many. They agreed that would be good to employ some intelligent
         it
 534 KING JAMES IN IRELAND. THE SIEGE OF LONDONDERRY.

 French minister to travel as far as the Pyrenees to understand the
present state of the Church there, it being a country where hardly any
 one travels.

    26 April. There now came certain news that K. James had not only
landed in Ireland, but that he had surpriz'd Londonderry, and was
become master of that kingdom, to the greate shame of our Govern
 ment, who had ben so often solicited to provide against it by timely
succour, and which they might so easily have don. This is a terrible
 beginning of more troubles, especialy should an army come thence
 into Scotland, people being generally disaffected here and every
 where else, so that the sea and land men would scarce serve without
 compulsion.

   A new oath was now fabricating for all the Cleargy to take, of obe

 dience to the present Government, in abrogation of the former oaths
 of allegiance, which it is foreseene many of the Bishops and others of
 the Cleargy will not take. The penalty is to be the losse of their dig- -
 nitie and spiritual preferment. This is thought to have ben driven on
 by the Presbyterians, our new governors. God in mercy send us help,
 and direct the counsels to his glory and good of his Church !

    Public matters went very ill in Ireland ; confusion and dissention
 amongst ourselves, stupidity, inconstancy, emulation, the governors
 employing unskilfull men in greatest offices, no person ot public
 spirit and ability appearing, threaten us with a very sad prospect of
 what may be the conclusion, without God's infinite mercy.

   A fight by Admiral Herbert with the French, he imprudently setting

 on them in a creek as they were landing men in Ireland, by which we
 came off with greate slaughter and little honour. So strangely negli
gent and remisse were we in preparing a timely and sufficient fleete.
 The Scots Commissioners offer the Crowne to the new King and
 Queene on conditions. -- Act of Poll-money came forth, sparing none. --
 Now came forth the act of Indulgence for the Dissenters, but not
 exempting them paying dues to the Church of England Cleargy, or
 serving in office according to law, with severall other clauses. -- A most
 splendid Ambassy from Holland to congratulate the K. and Queene on
 their accession to the Crowne.

   4 June. A solemn Fast for success of the Fleete, &c.
    6. I din'd with the Bishop of Asaph ; Monseur Capellus, the

 learned son of the most learned Ludovicus, presented to him his
 Father's works not publish'd till now.

   7. I visited the Abp. of Canterbury, and sta/d with him till about

 seven o'clock. He read to me the Pope's excommunication of the
 French King.

    9. Visited Dr. Burnet, now Bishop of Sarum ; got him to let Mr.
 Kneller draw his picture.

    16. King James's Declaration was now dispers'd, offering pardon to
*HE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN                                                         53$

all, if on his landing, or within 20 days after, they should return to

 their obedience.
    Our fleete not yet at sea, thro' some prodigious sloth, and men mind

 ing onely their present interest ; the French riding masters at sea,
taking many greate prizes to our wonderfull reproch. No certaine
 newes from Ireland ; various reports of Scotland ; discontents at home.
 The King of Denmark at last joins with the confederates, and the two
 Northern Powers are reconcil'd. The East India Company likely to
 be dissolv'd by Parliament for many arbitrary actions. Oates acquited
t)f pcrjurie, to all honest men's admiration.

   20. Newes of a Plot discovered, on which divers were sent to the

 Tower and secured.
    23. An extraordinary drowth, to the threatening of greate wants as

 to the fruits of the earth.

   8. I sat for my picture to Mr. Kneller, for Mr. Pepys, late Secretary
to the Admiralty, holding my ' Sylva' in my right hand '. It was on
his long and earnest request, and is plac'd in his library. Kneller

never painted in a more masterly manner.

    11. I din'd at Lord Clarendon's, it being his lady's wedding-day,

 when about 3 in the afternoone, there was an unusual and violent storm
of thunder, rain, and wind ; many boats on the Thames were over-

 whelm'd, and such was the impetuosity of the wind as to carry up the
waves in billows and spouts most dreadfull to behold, rooting up trees
and ruining some houses. The Countess of Sunderland afterwards
told me that it extended as far as Althorp at the very time, which is

70 miles from London. It did no harm at Deptford, but at Greenwich
it did much mischeife.

   16 July. I went to Hampton Court about buisinesse, the Council
being there. A greate apartment and spacious garden with fountaines

was beginning in the parke at the head of the canal.
    19. The Marshall de Schomberg went now as General towards

Ireland, to the reliefe of Londonderry. Our fleete lie before Brest.
The Confederates passing the Rhine, besiege Bonn and Mayence, to
obtain a passage into France. A greate victory got by the Muscovites,
taking and burning Precop. A new rebel against the Turks threatens
the destruction of that tyranny. All Europe in armes against France,
and hardly to be found in history so universal a face of war.

   The Convention (or Parliament as some call'd sitting, exempt the
Duke of Hanover from the succession to the Crowne, which they seeme
to confine to the present new King, his wife, and Princesse Ann of
Denmark, who so monstrously swollen that its doubted whether her
being thought with child may prove tympany onely, so that the un
happy family of the Stuarts seems to be extinguishing, and then what

     Now at Wotton. A espy of wit given by the tat* Sir Frederick Evelyn to the Earl of
Harcourr few years ago.
1
              a

                         is
                                             it

                                                            a
                                                                            it)
536 THE SCOTS VOTE DOWN EPISCOPACY. I LIVE IN SOHO SQUARE.O
                                        it,
government is likely to be next set up is unknown, whether regal and
1by election, or otherwise, the ·Republicans and Dissenters from thea
  5Church of England evidently looking that way.a

      I-The Scots have now againe voted down Episcopacy there. -- Create
discontents thro' this nation at the slow proceedings of the King, and

the incompetent instruments and officers he advances to the greatest
and most necessary charges.

   23 August. Came to visite me Mr. Firmin '.
   25. Hitherto it has ben a most seasonable summer. -- Londonderry
reliev'd after a brave and wondcrfull holding out.
   21 September. I went to visit the Abp. of Canterbury since his

suspension, and was receiv'd with greate kindness. -- A dreadful fire

happen'd in Southwark.
   2 Oct. Came to visite us the Marquiss de Ruvigne", and one Monsieur

le Coque, a French refugee, who left greate riches for his religion; a
very learned, civil person ; he married the sister of the Dutchess de la
Force. -- Ottobone, a Venetian Cardinal, 80 yeares old, made Pope *.

   31. My birth-day, being now 69 years old. Blessed Father, who
hast prolonged my years to this great age, and given me to see so great
and wonderfull revolutions, and preserv'd me amidst them to this
moment, accept I beseech thee the continuance of my prayers and
thankfull acknowledgments, and grant me grace to be working out
my salvation, and redeeming the time, that thou mayest be glorified by
me here, and my immortal soul sav'd whenever thou shalt call for to
perpetuate thy praises to all eternity, in that heavenly kingdom where
there are no more changes or vicissitudes, but rest and peace, and joy
and consummate felicity for ever. Grant this, heavenly Father, for
the sake of Jesus thine only Son and our Saviour. Amen.

      Nov. The Bishop of St. Asaph, Lord Almoner, preach'd before
the King and Queene, the whole discourse being an historical narrative
of the Church of England's severall deliverances, especialy that ol this
anniversary, signaliz'd by being also the birth-day of the Pr. of Orange,
his marriage (which was on the 4th) and his landing at Torbay this day.
There was a splendid ball and other rejoicings.

   10. After a very wet season, the Winter came on severely.

   17. Much wet, without frost, yet the wind North and Easterly. -- A

Convocation of the Cieargy meet about a Reformation of our
Liturgy, Canons, &c. obstructed by others of the Cieargy.

   27. went to London with my family to winter at Soho in the
great square.

     He was a man of the most amiable character and most unbounded charity. He was
great friend of Sir Robert Clayton, who after his death erected a monument for him in walk
which he had formed at Sir Robert's seat at Marden in Surrey. He was very fond of gar
dens, and so farof congenial spirit with Mr. Evelyn. He was an Unitarian, but lived in inti
macy with many of the most eminent clergy. His life was printed in a sm/ill volume.

  'Peter Otthobonus succeeded Innocent XI. as Pope in 16S9, by the title ofAlexander VIII.
                'THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                 537

   1690. 1 1 Jan. This night there was a most extraordinary storme
of wind, accompanied with snow and sharp weather ; it did greate
harme in many places, blowing down houses, trees, &c. killing many

people. It began about 2 in the morning, and lasted till 5, being a

kind of hurricane, which mariners observe have begun of late yeares to
come Northward. This Winter has ben hitherto extremely wet, warm,
and windy.

   12. There was read at St. Ann's Church an exhortatory letter to the.
Cleargy of London from the Bishop, together with a Brief for reliev

ing the distress'd Protestants, the Vaudois, who fled from the persecu
tion of the French and Duke of Savoy, to the Protestant Cantons of
Swisserland.

The Parliament was unexpectedly prorogued to 2d April, to the dis

content and surprise of many members, who being exceeding averse to

the settling of any thing, proceeding with animosities, multiplying ex

ceptions against those whom they pronounc'd obnoxious, and pro
ducing as universal a discontent against K. William and themselves,
                                 KpienrsgonJa. m--eAsb. o--uTt he150neowf
as  there was   before against                                              King resolv'd on
    expedition  into Ireland in
an                                                                         the members who

were more of the Royal party, meeting at a feast at the Apollo Tavern

near St. Dunstan's, sent some of their company to the King, to assure
him of their service ; he return'd his thanks, advising them to repairs
to their severall counties and preserve the peace during his absence, and

assuring them that he would be steady to his resolution of defending
the Laws and Religion establish'd. --The great Lords suspected to have,

counsell'd this prorogation, universally denied it. However, it was

believ'd the cheife adviser was the Marquiss of Carmarthen,1 who now

seem'd to be most in favor.

   2 Feb. The Parliament was dissolv'd by proclamation, and another
call'd to meet the 20 of March. This was a second surprize to the

former Members ; and now the Court Party, or, as they call themselves,
Church ot England, are making their interests in the country. The
Marquiss of Halifax lays down his office of Privy Seal, and pretends

to retire.

   16. The Dutchess of Monmouth's Chaplain preach'd at St. Martin's
an excellent discourse, exhorting to peace and sanctity, it being now '
the time of very great division and dissention in the nation ; first,

amongst the Churchmen, amongst whom the moderate and sober part
were for a speedy reformation of divers things, which it was thought
might be made in our Liturgy, for the inviting of Dissenters ; others,
more stiff and rigid, were for no condescension at all. Books and pam
        were publish'd every day pro and con; the Convocation were
phlets  for the present to suspend any further progress. -- There was
fore'd

                .' Osborne, Lord Danby, afterwards Duke of Leeds.
538 KING WILLIAM GOES TO IRELAND. KENSINGTON. PEPYS.

fierce and greate carousing about being elected in the new Parliament;
-- The King persists in his intention of going in person for Ireland,
whither the French are sending supplies to K. James, and we the Dan
ish horse to Schomberg.

   19. I din'd with the Marquiss of Carmarthen (late Lord Danby),

where was Lieutenant General Douglas, a very considerate and sober
commander, going for Ireland. He related to us the exceeding neglect
of the English souldiers, suffering severely for want of cloaths and ne

cessaries this Winter, exceedingly magnifying their courage and bravery
during all their hardships. There din'd also Lord Lucas, Lieutenant of
the Tower, and the Bp. of St. Asaph. --The privy seale was againe put
into commission, Mr. Cheny (who married          kinswoman Mrs.    Pier-
point), Sir Thomas Knatchbull, and Sir P.  my                     impu
                                            \V.  Poultney. --The

dence of both sexes was now become so greate and so universal, per
sons of all ranks keeping their courtesans publicly, that the King had

lately directed a letter to the Bishops to order their Cleargy to preach
against that sin, swearing, &c. and to put the Ecclesiastical Laws in

execution without any indulgence.

  25 Feb. I went to Kensington, which King William had bought of

Lord Nottingham, and alterd, but was yet a patch'd building, but with
the garden, however, it is a very sweete villa, having to it the Park and

a straight new way through this Park.

  7 March. I din'd with Mr. Pepys, late Secretary to the Admiralty,

where was that excellent Shipwright and Seaman (for so he had ben
and also a Commissioner of the Navy) Sir Anthony Deane. Amongst

other discourse, and deploring the sad condition of our Navy, as now

govern'd by unexperiene'd men since this Revolution, he mention'd

what exceeding advantage we of this nation had by being the first who
built Fregats, the first of which ever built was that vessell which was
afterwards call'd The Constant Warwick, and was the work of Pet of
Chatham, for a trial of making a vessell that would sail swiftly ; it was '

built with low decks, the guns lying neere the water, and was so light
and swift of sailing, that in a short time he told us she had, ere the
Dutch war was ended, taken as much money from privateers as would

have laden her ; and that more such being built did in a yeare or two
scour the Channel from those of Dunkirk and others which had ex

ceedingly infested it He added that it would be the best and onely
infallible expedient to be masters of the sea, and able to destroy the"
greatest navy of any enemy, if instead of building huge greate ships

and second and third rates, they would leave off building such high

decks, which were for nothing but to gratify Gentlemen Commanders,
who must have all their effeminate accommodations, and for pomp ; that

it would be the ruin of our fleets if such persons were -continued in com
mand, they neither having experience nor being capable of learning,
because they would not submit to the fatigue and inconvenience which
                      THE DIARY JOHN EVELYN.                                           539

those who were bred seamen would undergo, in those so otherwise use-
full swift frcgats. These being to encounter the greatest ships would

be able to protect, set on, and bring off, those who should manage the

fire-ships ; and the Prince who should first store himsclfc with num
bers of such fire-ships would, thro' the help and countenance of such

fregats, be able to ruin the greatest force of such vast ships that could

be sent to sea, by the dexterity of working those light, swift ships to
guard the fire-ships. He concluded there would shortly be no other

method of sea-fight, and that great ships and men of war, however

stor'd with guns and men, must submit to those who should encounter
them with far less number. He represented to us the dreadfull effect

of these fire-ships ; that he continually observ'd in our late maritime

war with the Dutch, that when an enemy's fire-ship approach'd, the
most valiant commander and common sailors were in such consterna

tion that tho' then, of all times, there was most need of the guns

boomes, &c. to keep the mischeif off, they grew pale and astonish'd, as

if of a quite other mean soul, that they slunk about, forsook their guns
and work as if in despair, every one looking about to see which way
they might get out of their ship, tho' sure to be drown'd if they did so.

This he said was likely to prove hereafter the method of sea-fight,

likely to be the misfortune of England if they continued to put Gentle

men Commanders over experiene'd Seamen, on account of their igno

rance, effeminacy and insolence.

  9 March. I din'd at the Bp. of St. Asaph's, Almoner to the new
Queene, with the famous Lawyer Sir George Mackenzie (late Lord

Advocate of Scotland), against whom both the Bishop and myselfe had
written and publish'd books, both now most friendly reconcil'd '. He
related to us many particulars of Scotland, the present sad condition of

   the inveterate hatred which the Presbyterians shew to the Family of
1 1 it,
the Stewarts, and the exceeding tyranny of those bigots who acknow1a;
ledge no superior on earth, in civil or divine matters, maintaining thatI
the people onely have the right of government their implacable hatred
to the Episcopal Order and Church of England. He observ'd that the
first Presbyter dissents from our discipline were introdue'd by the
Jesuites order, about the 20. of Queene Eliz., famous Jesuite amongst
them faining himselfe a Protestant, and who was the first who began to
pray extempory, and brought in that which they since call'd, and are
still so fond of, praying by the Spirit. This Jesuite remained many
yeares before he was discovered, afterwards died in Scotland, where he
                      having yet on his monument, Rosa inter spinas.
was buried at                                       ;

                                                                             '

                                                                                       I.
                                                                                                                         a
March.                went againe to see Mr. Charleton's curiosities both of

art and nature, and his full and rare collection of medails, which taken

Sir George had written in praise of a Private Life, which Mr. Evelyn answered by book
in praise  of Public  Life and Active Employment        see the Introduction  to vol.  As to the
Bishop's   Book, tee  Biog. Brit, articles Lloyd and  Mackenzie.
 54° THE CITY CHARTER RESTORED. THE VAUDOIS PROTESTANTS. -

 altogether, in all kinds, is doubtless one of the most perfect assemblage'
 of rarities that can be any where seene. I much admir'd the contor-
 sions of the Tftea roote, which was so perplex'd, large, and intricate,
 and withall hard as box, that it was wonderfull to consider. --The
 French have landed in Ireland.

    16. A public Fast.

     24 May. Citty Charter restor"d. Divers exempted from pardon. -
    4 June. King William set forth on his Irish expedition, leaving the
 Queene Regent.
    10. Mr. Pepys read to me his remonstrance, shewing with what
 malice and injustice he was suspected with Sir Anth. Deane about the
 timber of which the 30 ships were built by a late Act of Parliament,
 with the exceeding danger which the fleete would shortly be in, by rea
 son of the tyranny and incompetency of those who now manag'd the
 Admiralty and affaires of the Navy, of which he gave an accurate state,
 and shew*d his greate ability.
     18. Fast-day. Visited the Bp. of St. Asaph ; he and his comp.
 conversation was on the Vaudois in Savoy, who had ben thought so
 neere destruction and final extirpation by the French, being totally

 given up to slaughter, so that there were no hopes for them ; but now it

 plcas'd God that the Duke of Savoy, who had hitherto join'd with the
 French in their persecution, was now press'd by the French to deliver
 up (Saluce) and Turin as cautionary towns, on suspicion that he might
 at last come into the Confederacy of the German Princes, did seacretly
 concert measures with, and afterwards declar'd for them. He then
 invited these poore people from their dispersion amongst the moun
 tains whither .they had fled, and restorM them to their country, their
 dwellings, and the exercise of their religion, and begg'd pardon for the

- ill usage they had receivM, charging it on the cruelty of the French
 who forc'd him to it. These being the remainder of those persecuted

 Christians which the Bishop of St. Asaph had so long affirm'd to be the
 2 witnesses spoken of in the Revelation, who should be kill'd and
 brought to life againe, it was look'd on as an extraordinary thing that
 this prophesying Bishop should persuade two fugitive Ministers of the
 Vaudois to returne to their country, and furnish them with' £10
 towards their journey, at that very time when nothing but universal
 destruction was to be expected, assuring them and shewing them lrom
 the Apocalypse that their countrymen should be return'd safely to their
 country before they arriv'd. This happening contrary to all expecta
 tion and appearance, did exceedingly credit the Bishop's confidence how
 that prophecy of the witnesses should so come to pass, just at the time,

 and the very month he had spoken of some yeares before. I after
 wards went with him to Mr. Boyle and Lady Ranelagh his sister, to

 whom he explain'd the necessity of it so fully and learnedly made out,
 with what events were immediately to follow, viz. the French King's
                       THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                     541

mine, the calling of the Jews to be neare at hand, but that the king
dom of Antichrist would not yet be utterly destroy'd, till 30 years, when
Christ should begin the Millenium, not as personally and visibly reign
ing on earth, but that the true religion and universal peace should
obtain thro' all the world. He shewed how Mr. Brightman, Mr. Mede

and other interpreters of these events fail'd, by mistaking and reckon
ing the yeare as the Latines and others did, to consist of the present

calculation, so many days to the yeare, whereas the Apocalypse reckons

after the Persian account, as Daniel did, whose visions St. John all
along explains as meaning only the Christian Church.

   24 June. Din'd with Mr. Pepys, who the next day was sent to the
Gate-house,1 and severall great persons to the Tower, on suspicion of
being affected to King James ; amongst them was the Earl of Claren
don, the Queene's uncle. -- King William having vanquish'd K. James
in Ireland, there was much public rejoicing. It seemes the Irish in
K. James's army would not stand, but the English-Irish and French
made greate resistance. Schomberg was slain, and Dr. Walker who
so bravely defended Londonderry. King William receiv'd a slight

wound by the grazing of a cannon-bullet on his shoulder, which he

indur'd with very little interruption of his pursuit. Hamilton, who

broke his word about Tyrconnell, was taken. It is reported that K.

JiafmKe.sWisillgiaomn  back to France.     Droghedaand Dublin surrenderd, and
                         be returning, we  may say of him as Caesar said, ' Veni,
vidi, vici.' But to alloy much of this, the French fleete rides in our

Channell, ours not daring to interpose, and the enemy threatening to

land.
   27. I went to visite some friends in the Tower, when asking for
Lord Clarendon, they by mistake directed me to the Earl of Torring-

ton, who about three days before had ben sent for from the fleete, and

put into the Tower for cowardice and not fighting the French fleete,
which having beaten a squadron of the Hollanders, whilst Torrington
did nothing, did now ride masters of the sea, threatening a descent.
   20 July. This afternoone a Camp of about 4000 men was begun to
be form'd on Blackheath.

  3a I din'd with Mr. Pepys, now suffer'd to return to his house, on

account of indisposition.
1 August. The young Duke of Grafton came to visite me, going
to his ship at the mouth of the river, in his way to Ireland (where
he was slain).
        The French landed some souldiers at Teinemouth in Devon,
    3.  some poore houses. --The French fleete still hovering about  and
                                                                     the
burnt

Western coast, and we having 300 sail of rich merchant ships in the
bay of Plymouth, our fleete begin to move towards them, under three

   I By Grey's Paliamentary Debates it appears that he was accused of having sent informa
tion to the French Court of the state of the English Navy.
542 DEFEAT OF JAMES. CORK AND KINSALE SURRENDERED.

Admirals. The country in the West all on their guard. --A very ex
traordinary fine season, but on the 12th was a very greate storm of

thunder and lightning,       and         on the    15th the  season much changdtowet
and cold.-- The militia-     and          train'd   bands,   horse and foote, which were

up, thro' England, were dismiss'd. The French King having newes
that K. William was slaine, and his army defeated in Ireland, caus'd

such a triumph at Paris, and all over France, as was never heard of,
when in the midst of the unhappy King James being vanquish'd,
a

    I

                                    it,
by speedy flight and escape, himselfe brought the newes of bis own

defeate, and the ruin of his cause.
   15. was desired to be one of the bail of the- Earl of Clarendon,
for his release from the Tower, with divers noblemen.-- The Bp. of St.
Asaph expounds his prophesies to me and Mr. Pepys, &c. The troops
from Blackheath march to Portsmouth. --That sweete and hopefull
youth, Sir Cha. Tuke, died of the wounds he receiv'd in the fight of the
Boyne, to the greate sorrow of all his friends, being
                                         ;                              A  think) the last
                                                                           more virtuous
                                                          is

                                                                      (I
male of that family, to which my wife                        related.

young gentleman never knew he was learned for his age, having had
the advantage of the choicest breeding abroad, both as to arts and3;

arms he had much travell'd, but was so unhappy as to fall in the sideis I
of the unfortunate King.

The unseasonable and most tempestuous weather happening, the

naval expedition hindered, and the extremity of wet causes the siege
of Limerick to be rais'd. K. William returned to England. -- Lord

Sydney was left Governor of what conquer'd in Ireland, whichis                      : is

neere      parts [in   4.]   --  An      extraordinary  sharp,  cold,   East wind.
                      Fast.
     17.  A public
12 Oct. The French General, with Tyrconnell and their forces gon
back to France, beaten out by K. William.-- Cork deliver'd on discre
tion. The Duke of Grafton was there mortally wounded and dies.--
Very greate storms of wind. The 8th of this month Lord Spencer

wrote me word from Althorp, that there happen'd an Earthquake the

day before in the morning, which tho* short, sensibly shook the house.

The Gazette acquainted us that the like happen'd at the same time,
half past 7; at Barnstaple, Holyhead, and Dublin. We were not sen
sible of here.
   26. Kinsale at last surrender^, mean time K. James's party burn3
all the houses they have in their power, and amongst them that stately
         it

                         ;

                         it
palace of Lord Ossory's which lately cost, as reported, ,£40,000. By a
disastrous accident a third rate ship, the Breda, blew up and destroy'd
all on board in were 25 prisoners of war. She was to have sail'd
for England the next day.
Nov. Went to the Countess of Clancarty to condole with her con

cerning her debauch'd and dissolute son, who had done so much mis-
chiefe in Ireland, now taken and brought prisoner to the Tower.
               . THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                               ' $43

1 6. " Exceeding greate storms, yet a warm season.
   23. Carried Mr. Pepys's memorials to Lord Godolphin, now resum
ing the commission of the Treasury to the wonder of all his friends.

. 1 Dec. Having ben chosen President of the Royal Society I desired

to decline and with greate difficulty devolv'd the election on Sir
4Robert Southwell, Secretary of State to King William in Ireland.
    it,
20. Dr. Hough, President of Magdalen Coll. Oxford, who was dis-

plac'd with severall of the Fellows for not taking the oath impos'd by
K. James, now made a Bishop. -- Most of this month cold and frost.--

One Johnson, a knight, was executed at Tyburn for being an accomplice

with Campbell, brother to Lord Argyle, in stealing a young heiress.
   1691. Jan. This weeke a Plot was discover'd for a generall rising
against the new .Government for which Lord Clarendon and others
were sent to the Tower. The next day went to see Lord Clarendon.
                                      I

The Bishop of Ely1 search'd for. -- Trial of Lord Preston, as not being

an English Peer, hasten'd at the Old Bailey.
   18 Jan. Lord Preston condemn'd about a design to bring in K.
James by the French. Ashton executed. The Bp. of Ely, Mr.

Graham, &c. absconded.

13 Mar.  I     went to visitc Monsieur Justell and the Library at

St. James's, in which that learned man had put the MSS. (which were
in good number) into excellent order, they having laid neglected for
many yeares. Divers medails had ben stolen and embezzled.

21. Din'd at Sir William Fermor's, who shew'd me many good pic
tures. After dinner a French servant play'd rarely on the lute. Sir
William had now bought all the remaining statues collected with so

much expence by the famous Tho. Earle of Arundel, and sent them to

his seat at Easton neere Towcester.'

   25. Lord Sidney, principal Secretary of State, gave me letter to
Lord Lucas, Lieutenant of the Tower, to permit me to visit Lord Cla
                                                              3
rendon, which this day did and din'd with him.
               2,                                                                 a
10 April. This night sudden and terrible fire burnt down all the
                        aI
buildings over the stone gallery at Whitehall to the water-side, begin

ning at the apartment of the late Dutchesse of Portsmouth (which
had ben pull'd down and rebuilt no lesse than times to" please her),

and consuming other lodgings of such lewd creatures, who debauch'd
-both K. Cha.  and others, and were his destruction. -- The King
return'd out of Holland just as this accident happen'd.-- Proclamation

against Papists, &c.
16. went to see Dr. Sloane's curiosities, being an universal col
2'
lection of the natural productions of Jamaica, consisting of plants,
      I
Dr. Turner, who though one of the Bishops sent to the Tower for the petition to the
                            6

King, declined taking the oaths to King William and Queen Mary.          by
They are now at Oxford, having been presented to the University in 1755              Henrietta
Countess-dowager of Tomfret, widow of Thomas the first Earl.
544 THE SLOANE COLLECTION. FUNERAL OF MY NEPHEW. .

fruits, corals, minerals, stones, earth, shells, animals, insects, &c col
lected with greate judgment ; severall folios of dried plants, and one
which had about 80 severall sorts of ferns, and another of grasses ;
the Jamaica pepper, in branch, leaves, flower, fruit, &c. This collec
tion,' with his Journal and other philosophical and natural discourses
and observations, is indeede very copious and extraordinary, sufficient

to furnish a history of that island, to which I encourag'd him.
19. The Abp. of Canterbury, and Bps. of Ely, Bath and Wells,
Peterboro', Gloucester, and the rest who would not take the oaths to
K. William, were now displaced, and in their rooms, Dr. Tillotson,
Dean of St. Paul's, was made Abp. ; Patrick remov'd from Chichester
to Ely, Cumberland 3 to Gloucester.

  22 April. I din'd with Lord Clarendon in the Tower.
  24. I visited the Earl and Countess of Sunderland, now come to
kiss the King's hand, after his returne from Holland. This is a mys
tery. The King is preparing to return to the army.

  7 May. I went to visite the Archbp. of Canterbury [Sancroft] yet
at Lambeth. I found him alone, and discoursing of the times, espe-
cialy of the new design'd Bishops ; he told me that by no canon or

divine law they could justifie the removing the present incumbents ;

that Dr. Beveridge, designed Bishop of^Bath and Wells, came to ask
his advice ; that the Abp. told him, tho' he should give he believM
                                                                         it,
he would not take                                 the Dr. said he would why then, says the Abp.
       is                                                                         it it
                     it                                                                 if ;

                                   ;

                                   is
                                                it

                                                                  it ;

                                                      I is
when they come to aske, say Nolo, and say from the heart, there's
nothing easier than to resolve your selfe what to be don in the case
the Dr. seem'd to deliberate. What he will do know not, but Bishop
Ken, who to be put out, exceedingly beloved in his diocese, and

he and the rest should insist on and plead their interest as free

holders, 'tisbeliev'd there would be difficulty in their case, and may

indanger a schisme and much disturbance, so as wise men think had
ben better to have let them alone, than to have proceeded with this ri-

gourto turne them out for refusing to sweare. against their consciences.
asked at parting, when his Grace removed he sayd that he had not
I                                                    ;

          1

                 I
yet receiv'd any summons, but found the house altogether disfur-
                                                  I

nish'd, and his books packing up.
                    went with my son, and brother-in-law Glanvill and his
June.
son, to Wotton, to solemnize the funeral of my Nephew, which was

perform'd the next day very decently and orderly by the Herauld, in the
afternoon, a very great appearance of the country being there.
                                                                         I  was

the cheife mourner the pall was held by Sir Francis Vincent, Sir
*l

                                               ;
tRhiechKairndg'sOnGsuloawrd, ,MMr.r.THhoy.ldiHaordw,arMd r.(soJanmteos,  Sir Robert) and Capt.  of
                                                                          Mr. Herbert nephew    to

    It now forms part of the splendid collections in the British Museum.
     A mistake. Dr. Edward Fowler was made Bishop of Gloucester in the place of Dr.

Robert Frampton, deprived for not taking the oaths.
           . : THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                              545

Lord Herbert of Cherbury and cousin-german to my deceas'd nephew.
He was laid in the vault at Wotton church, in the burying-place of the
Family. A greate concourse of coaches and of people accompanied

the solemnity.

   10. I went to visite Lord Clarendon, still prisoner in the Tower,
tho' Lord Preston being pardon'd was releas'd.

   17 June. A Fast
   11 July. I din'd with Mr. Pepys, where was Dr. Cumberland the

new Bishop of Norwich,1 Dr. Lloyd having been put out for not ac

knowledging the Government. Cumberland is a very learned, excellent
man. -- Possession was now given to Dr. Tillotson at Lambeth, by the

Sheriff; Abp. Sancroft was gon, but had left his nephew to keepe

possession ; and he refusing to deliver it up on the Queene's message,

was dispossess'd by the Sheriff and imprison'd. This stout demeanor
of the few Bishops who refus'd to take the oathes to K. William, ani

mated a greate party to forsake the Churches, so as to threaten a

schisme ; tho' those who look'd further into the ancient practice, found

that when (as formerly) there were Bishops displac'd on secular ac
counts, the people never refus'd to acknowledge the new Bishops, pro
vided they were not heretics. The truth is, the whole Cleargy had till

now stretch'd the duty of passive obedience, so that the proceedings

against these Bishops gave no little occasion of exceptions ; but this
not amounting to heresy, there was a necessity of receiving the new
Bishops, to prevent a failure of that order in the Church. -- I went to
visit Lord Clarendon in the Tower, but he was gon into the
country for aire by the Queene's permission, and under the care of
his warden.

   18 July. I went to London to hear Mr. Stringfellow preach his first

sermon in the new erected Church of Trinity, in Conduit Street ; to
which I did recommend him to Dr. Tenison for the constant preacher
and lecturer. This Church being formerly built of timber on Hounslow
Heath by K. James for the Mass Priests, being begg'd by Dr. Tenison
rector of St. Martin's, was set up by that publiq minded, charitable
                          son's dwelling in            Dover Streete, cheifly at the
and pious  man neere my   know him to be               an excellent preacher and a
charge of
           the Doctor. I
fit person. This Church, tho' erected in St. Martin's, which is the
Doctor's parish, he was not onely content, but was the sole industrious
mover, that it should be made a separate parish, in regard of the neigh
bourhood having become so populous. Wherefore to countenance and

introduce the new Minister, and take possession of a gallery design'd

for my son's family, I went to London, where,
   19 July, in the morning Dr.                         preach'd the first sermon
taking his text from 26 Psalm 8.            Tenison
                                              ' Lord,  I have loved the habitation

   > A mistake. Dr. Cumberland was made     Bishop  of Peterborough,  and Dr. John Moore
succeeded Dr. Lloyd in the see of Norwich.
                                                                      *
                                                                               35
546 ERECTION OF TRINITY CHURCH. LIBRARY OF ST. MARTIN'S.

of thy house, and the place where thine honour dwelleth.' In con
cluding he gave notice that this should be made a Parish Church so
soone as the Parliament sate, and was to be dedicated to the Holy .
Trinity ', in honor of the three undivided persons in the Deity ; and
he minded them to attend to that faith of the Church, now especially
that Arianism, Socinianism, and Atheism began to spread amongst
us. -- In the afternoonc Mr. Stringfellow preach'd on 7 Luke 5, 'the
 Centurion who had built a Synagogue.' He proceeded to the due

 praise of persons of such public spirit, and thence to such a character ·
 of pious benefactors in the person of the generous Centurion, as was
 comprehensive of all the virtues of an accomplish'd Christian, in a style

 so full, eloquent and moving, that I never heard a sermon more
 apposite to the occasion. He modestly insinuated the obligation they

 had to that person who should be the author and promoter of such

 publiq works for the benefit of mankind, especialy to the advantage of

 Religion, such as building and endowing churches, hospitals, libraries,
 and schools, procuring the best editions of usefull books, &c. by which
 he handsomely intimated who it was that had ben so exemplary for his
 benefaction to that place. Indeed that excellent person Dr. Tcnison
 bad also erected and furnish'd a public library [in St. Martin's] ; and
 set up two or three free schools at his own charges. Besides this he
 was of an exemplary holy life, took greate pains in constantly preaching,
 and incessantly employing himselfe to promote the service of God
 both in publiq and private. I never knew a man of a more universal
 and generous spirit, with so much modesty, prudence and piety.

     The greate victory of K. William's army in Ireland was look'd on
  as decisive of that war. The French General Saint Ruth, who had
  ben so cruel to the poore Protestants in France, was slain, with divers
. of the best Commanders ; nor was it cheape to us, having 1000 kill'd,
  but of the enemy 4 or 5000.

     26 July; An extraordinary hot season, yet refreshed by some thunder

showers.                                                                            --

  28. I went to Wotton.
2 August. No sermon in the church in the afternoone, and the

curacy ill-served.
16. A sermon by the curate ; an honest discourse, but read without

any spirit or seeming concern ; a greate fault in the education of young
preachers. -- Great thunder and lightning on Thursday [20], but the
wind and rain very violent.-- Our fleete come in to lay up the greate

ships ; nothing done at sea, pretending that we cannot meete the

French.

1 This was never made a Palish Church, but still remains a Chapel, and is private property.
But under the Act for building jo new Churches, one was built in the street between Conduit
Street and Hanover
George, and part of   Square, the  first stone   being laid so June 171a ; it  was  dedicated to St.
                     St. Martin's  was made     a separate Parish, now called  St.  George Hanover
Square.
               THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                       - 547

13 Sept. A greate storm at sea, we lost the Coronation and Har
wich, above 600 men perishing.

   14 October. A most pleasant autumn. -- Our navy come in without

having perform'd any thing, yet there has ben great loss of ships

by negligence, and unskilfull men governing the fleete and the navy

board.

7 Nov. I visited the Earl of Dover, who having made his peace
with the King, was now come home. The relation he gave of the

strength of the French King, and the difficulty of our forceing him to
fight, and any way making impression into Frauce, was very wide from

what we fancied.
   8-- 30 Nov. An extraordinary dry and warm season, without frost,

and like a new Spring ; such as had not been known for many yeares.

Part of the King's house at Kensington was burnt.

   6 December. Discourse of another Plot, in which severall greate
persons were nam'd, but believM to be a sham. --A proposal in the

House of Commons that every officer in the whole nation who received

a salary above .£500 or otherwise by virtue of his office should con
tribute it wholly to the support of the war with France, and this upon

their oathes.
25. My daughter-in-law was brought to bed of a daughter.
28. Din'd at Lambeth with the new Archbishop. Saw the effect of

my green-house furnace, set up by the Archbishop's son-in-law.

   30. I againe saw Mr. Charlton's collection of spiders, birds, scor

pions and other serpents, &c.
1692. 1 Jan. This last weeke died that pious admirable Christian,
excellent  philosopher, and my worthy friend, Mr. Boyle,                                       about
           losse to all that knew him, and to the publiq.                                aged         65.
A greate

6. At the funeral of Mr. Boyle at Saint Martin's, Dr. Burnet, Bp.
of Salisbury, preach'd on 2 Eccles. 26. He concluded with an eulogy

due to the deceas'd, who made God and Religion the scope of all his
excellent tallents in the knowledge of nature, and who had arriv'd to

so high a degree in accompanied with such zeale and extraordinary
           a             in  the whole course of his life, particularly                        in     his
piety, which he shew'd     ; it,all                                                            to     the
exemplary charity on         occasions --that he gave ,£1000 yearly
                                                                 ;
                                                                                      ;
distress'd refugees of France and Ireland was at the charge of trans

lating the Scriptures into the Irish and Indian tongues, and was now
promoting Turkish translation, as he had formerly don of Grotius or*

the Truth of the Christian Religion into Arabic, which he caus'd to be

"dispers'd in the Eastern countries that he had settled a fund for
preachers who should preach expressly against Atheists, Libertines,
Socinians, and Jews that he had in his will given ^8000 to charitable
uses, but that his private charities were extraordinary. He dilated on
his learning in Hebrew and Greek, his reading of the Fathers, and

solid knowledge in theology, once deliberating about taking holy orders^,
548 MURDER OF DR. CLENCH. DISMISSAL OF MARLBOROUGH. *

and that at the time of the Restoration of K Cha. 2. when he might
have made a greate figure in the nation as to secular honour and titles,
his fear of not being able to discharge so weighty a duty as the first,
made him decline that, and his humility the other. He spake of his
wonderfull civility to strangers, the greate good which he did by his ex
perience in medicine and chemistry, and to what noble ends he applied
himselfe to his darling studies ; the works both pious and usefull which

he publish'd ; the exact life he led, and the happy end he made. Some
thing was touch 'd of his sister the Lady Ranelagh, who died but a few
days before him. And truly all this was but his due, and without any

grain of flattery.
   This week a most execrable murder was committed on Dr. Clench,

father of that extraordinary learned child whom I have before notic'd.
Under pretence of carrying him in a coach to see a patient, they stran

    '.

            it,
gled him in and sending away the coachman under some pretence,

they left his dead body in the coach, and escap'd in the dusk of the

evening

   12 Jan. My grandaughter was christen'd by Dr. Tenison, now Bp.
of Lincoln, in Trinity Church, being the first that was christen'd there.

Sh2e4.wasAnafrmo'sdtyJaanned. dry  season   continued many persons                                         die of apo
                                             Marlborough, Lieutenant                                       General of
plexies, more than usual.          -- Lord              ;

                                                                                         K
the King's army in England, Gentleman of the bed-chamber, &c. dis-

miss'd from all his charges, military and other, for his excessive taking
of bribes, covetousness and extortion on all occasions from his inferior
officers. -- Note, this was the Lord who was entirely advanc'd by
James, and was the first who betra/d and forsooke his master. He
was son of Sir Winston Churchill of the Greencloth.
    Feb. An extraordinary snow fell in most parts.
7

              aI

                                4
   13. Mr. Boyle having made me one of the trustees for his charit
able bequests, went to a meeting of the Bp. of Lincoln, Sir Rob.
                    wood and Serjeant Rotheram, to settle that clause in
the will which related to charitable uses, and especialy the appointing
and electing minister to preach one sermon the first Sunday in the

month, during the                  Summer months, expressly against Atheists,

Deists, Libertines, Jews, &c. without descending to any other contro

versy whatever, for which £50 per aim. to be paid quarterly to the
preacher, and at the end of three yeares to proceed to new election
of some other able Divine, or to continue the same, as the Trustees
                                                        is
                                                                                a

                                                                                                        ;
should judge convenient. We made choice of one Mr. Bentley,' chap
lain to the Bp. of Worcester (Dr. Stillingfleet). The first sermon was

       One Henry Harrison was tried for this murder,*1  convicted, and hanged                               but he left a
  paper which was printed, denying his guilt.                                                              and Master of
                                                        Librarian to the Kiaj,
        Afterwards the celebrated scholar and critick,
Trinity College, Cambridge.
THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                   549

 appointed for the first Sunday in March, at St. Martin's ; the second
 Monday in April at Bow Church, and so alternately.

    28. Lord Marlborough having us'd words against the King, and ben
- discharg'd from all his greate places, his wife was forbid the Court,

 and the Princesse of Denmark was desir'd by the Queene to dismiss
 her from her service, but she refusing to do so, goes away from Court
 to Sion house. -- Divers new Lords made ; Sir H. Capel,1 Sir William
 Fermor,' &c. -- Change of Commissioners in the Treasury. -- The Par
 liament adjourn'd, not well satisfied with affairs. The business of the
 East India Company, which they would have reform'd, let fall. -- The
 Duke of Norfolk does not succeed in his endeavour to be divore'd.

    20 March. My son was made one of the Commissioners of the
 Revenue and Treasury of Ireland, to which imployment he had a
 mind, far from my wishes. -- I visited the Earle of Peterborough, who

 shew'd me the picture of the Pr. of Wales, newly brought out of France,
 seeming in my opinion very much to resemble the Queene his mother,
 and of a most vivacious countenance.

    April. No Spring yet appearing. The Queene Dowager went out
 of England towards Portugal, as pretended, against the advice of all

 her friends.

    4 April. Mr. Bentley preach'd Mr. Boyle's lecture at St. Mary le
 Bow. So excellent a discourse against the Epicurean system is not to

 be recapitulated in a few words. He came to me to ask whether I
 thought it should be printed, or that there was any thing in it which I

 desired to be alter"d. I tooke this as a civility, and earnestly desir'd it
 should be printed, as one of the most learned and convincing dis
 courses I had ever heard.

   6. A Fast. -- K. James sends a letter written and directed by his

 own hand to severall of the Privy Council, and one to his daughter the
 Queene Regent, informing them of the Queene being ready to be
 brought to bed, and summoning them to be at the birth by the middle
 of May, promising as from the French King, permission to come and
 returne in safety.

    24. Much apprehension of a French invasion, and of an universal
 rising. Our fleete begins to join with the Dutch. Unkindness be-
tweene the Queene and her sister. Very cold and unseasonable
 weather, scarce a leaf on the trees.

    5 May. Reports of an Invasion were very hot, and alarm'd the
 Citty, Court, and People; nothing but securing suspected persons,
 sending forces to the sea-side, and hastening out the fleete. Con
tinued discourse of the French invasion, and of ours in France. The
 Eastern wind so constantly blowing, gave our fleete time to unite, which
 had been so tardy in preparation, that, had not God thus wonderfully

1 Lord Capel of Tewlubury.  8 Lord Lempiier ; afterwards Earl of Porafret.
55° MY GRANDSON AT ETON. INACTIVITY OF OUR FLEET. f

favor'd, the enemy would in all probability have fallen upon us. Many
daily secur'd, and Proclamations out for more conspirators.

   8. My kinsman Sir Edward Evelyn of Long Ditton died suddenly.
   12. A Fast.
   13. I din'd at my cousin Cheny's, son to my Lord Cheny, who mar

ried my cousin Pierpoint.

   15. My niece M. Evelyn was now married to Sir Cyril Wyche,
Secretary of State for Ireland. -- After all our apprehensions of being

invaded, and doubts of our successe by sea, it pleas'd God to give us a

greate victory at sea, to the utter mine of the French fleete, their ad
miral and all their best men of war, transport ships, &c.
          Tho' this day was
    29.  birth, returne, and  set apart expressly for celebrating the memo

rable                         restauration of the late King Cha. II. there

was no notice taken of nor any part of the Office annext to the
Common Prayer Book made use of, which think was ill don, in regard
9

     I
           I

                                         it,
                                                    it

                                                        I
his restauration not onely redeem'd us from anarchy and confusion, but

restor'd the Church of England, as were miraculously.
                went to Windsor to carry my grandson to Eton School,
June.
where met my Lady Stonehouse and other of my daughter in-law's

relations, who came on purpose to see her before her journey into Ire
land. We went to see the Castle, which we found furnish'd and very

neatly kept, as formerly, only that the armes in the Guard Chamber
and Keep were remov'd and carried away. --An exceeding greate storm
of wind and rain, in some places stripping the trees of their fruit and
                  had ben Winter and an extraordinary wet season, with
leaves as  if                 ;

              it

greate floods.
23 July.
           I      went with my wife, son and daughter, to Eton to see my

grandson, and thence to my Lord Godolphin's at Cranburn, where we
lay, and were most honorably entertain'd. The next day to St. George's

Chapel, and return'd to London late in the evening.
   25. We went to Mr. Hewer's at Clapham, where he has an excel
lent, usefull and capacious house on the Common, built by Sir Den.
Gauden, and by him sold to Mr. Hewer, who got a very considerable

estate in the Navy, in which, from being Mr. Pepys's clerk, he came to
be one of the principal officers, but was put out of all employment on

the Revolution, as were all the best officers, on suspicion of being no

friends to the change such were put in their places as were most
                  ;
                                                               ;
                                                                                                       )
shamefully ignorant and unfit. Mr. Hewer lives very handsomely and
friendly to every body. -- Our fleete was now sailing on their long pre
tence of a descent on the French coast but after having sail'd 100
leagues, return'd, the Admiral and Officers disagreeing as to the place
where they were to land, and the time of yeare being so far spent To .
the greate dishonor of those at the helm, who concerted their matters

so indiscreetly, or, as some thought, designedly.
   This whole Summer was exceeding wet and rainy the like had net
/ THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                     55 1

ben known since the year 1648 ; whilst in Ireland they had not known

so greate a drowth.
    16. I went to visite the Bp. of Lincoln, when amongst other things
he told me that one Dr. Chaplin of University Coll. in Oxford was the

person who wrote the ' Whole Duty of Man/ that he us'd to read it to

his pupils, and communicated it to Dr. Stern, afterwards Abp. of York, .
but would never suffer any of his pupils to have a copy of it.

   10 August. A Fast. Came the sad news of the Hurricane and
Earthquake, which has destroy'd almost the whole Island of Jamaica,

many thousands having perish'd.
    11 August. My son, his wife, and little daughter, went for Ireland,

there to reside as one of the Commissioners of the Revenue.

   14. Still an exceeding wet season.
   15 Sept. There happen'd an Earthquake, which tho' not so great
as to do any harm in England, was universal in all these parts of
Europe. It shook the house at Wotton, but was not perceived by any

save a servant or two, who were making my bed, and another in a

garret. I and the rest being at dinner below in the parlour were not

sensible of it. The dreadful one in Jamaica this Summer was profanely
and ludicrously represented in a puppet-play, or some such lewd pas

time, in the Fair at Southward, which caus'd the Queene to put downe

that idle and vicious mock shew.

    1 Oct. The season was so exceedingly cold, by reason of a very

long and tempestuous North-east wind, that this usually pleasant sea
son was very uncomfortable. No fruit ripened kindly. -- Harbord dies
at Belgrade ; Lord Paget sent Ambassador in his roome.

    6 Nov. There was a Vestry call'd about repairing or new building
         Church [at Deptford], which I thought unseasonable in
of  the  heavy taxes, and other improper circumstances, which   regard
of  the
                                                                I there

declared.

   10. A solemn Thanksgiving for our victory at sea, the safe return of

the King, &c.
    20. Dr. Lancaster, the new Vicar of St. Martin's preach'd.
    A signal robbery in Hertfordshire of the Tax money bringing out of
the North towards London. They were set upon by severall desperate

persons, who dismounted and stopt all travellers on the road, and

guarding them in a field, when the exploit was don, and the treasure
taken, tbey kill'd all the horses of those whom they had stay'd to hinder

pursuit, being 16 horses. They then dismiss'd those that they had dis

mounted.

   14 Dec. With much reluctance we gratified Sir Jo. Rotheram, one
of Mr. Boyle's trustees, by admitting the Bp. of Bath and Wells

(Kidder) to be Lecturer for the nextyeare, instead of Mr. Bentley, who
had so worthily acquitted himselfei We intended to take him in

ogaine the next yearei
552 THE SELF-DENYING ACT. BURNING OF DR. BURNET'S BOOK.

     1693.. Jan. Contest in Parliament about a selfe-denying Act, that
. no Parliament man should have any office ; it wanted only 2 or 3
 voices to have ben carried. The Duke of Norfolk's Bill for a Divorce

thrown out, he having manag'd it very indiscreetly. The quarrell be-
tweene Admiral Russell and Lord Nottingham yet undetermin'd.

   4 Feb. After five days' trial and extraordinary contest, the Lord
Mohun was acquitted by the Lords of the murder of Montford the

player, notwithstanding the Judges, from the pregnant witnesses of

the fact, had declar'd him guilty ; but whether in commiseration of
his youth, being not 18 years old, tho' exceeding dissolute, or upon
whatever other reason, the K. himselfe present some part of the trial,

and satisfied, as they report, that he  was culpable,   69 acquitted him,
                                                        universal increase
only 14 condemn'd him. -- Unheard-of    stories of the
of Witches in New England ; men, women and children devoting
themselves to the devil, so as to threaten the subversion of the govern
ment.1 At the same time there was a conspiracy amongst the negroes

in Barbadoes to , murder all their masters, discovered by overhearing
a discourse of two of the slaves, and so preventing the execution of the

designe. Hitherto an exceeding mild Winter. France in the utmost

misery and poverty for want of corn and subsistence, whilst the am
bitious King is intent to pursue his conquests on the rest of his
neighbours both by sea and land. Our Admiral Russell laid aside for

not pursueing the advantage he had obtain'd over the French in the

past Summer ; three others chosen in his place. Dr. Burnet Bishop
of Salisbury's book burnt by the hangman for an expression of the
King's title by conquest, on a complaint of Jo. How a Member of
Parliament, little better than a madman.

    19.   The Bp. of Lincoln preach'd in the afternoon at the Tabernacle
neere    Golden Square, set up by him. -- Proposals of a marriage between
Mr. Draper and my daughter Susanna. -- Hitherto an exceeding warme

Winter (such as has seldom ben known, and portending an unpros-
perous Spring as to the fruits of the earth ; our climate requires more
cold and winterly weather. -- The dreadfull and astonishing Earth q uake

swallowing up Catanea and other famous and ancient cities, with more

than 100,000 persons, in Sicily, on 11 Jan. last, came now to be re
ported amongst us.

   26. An extraordinary deep snow, after almost no Winter, and a
sudden gentle thaw. A deplorable Earthquake at Malta, since that

of Sicily, nearly as greate.
   19 March. A new Secretary of State, Sir Jo. Trenchard ; the At

torney General Somers made Lord Keeper, a young lawyer of extraor-

  1 Some account of these unfortunate persons is given in the History of Surrey, II. 714, from

the papers of the Rev. Mr. Miller, vicar of Effingham in that county, who was Chaplain to
the King's forces there from 169a to 1695. Some of these poor people were convicted and
exectted, but Sir Wm. Phipps the Governor had the good sense to reprieve, and afterwards
pardon, several, and the Queen approved his conduct.
              THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                     .  553

. dinary merit. -- King William goes towards Flanders, but returns, the

wind being contrary. 

  31. I met the King going to Gravesend to imbark in his yatcht for

Holland.

   23 April. An extraordinary wet Spring.
   27. My daughter Susanna was married to William Draper Esq. in
the chapel of Ely House, by Dr. Tenison, By. of Lincoln (since Arch
bishop). I gave her in portion ^4000, her jointure is £500 per aim.
I pray Almighty God to give his blessing to this marriage. She is a

good child, religious, discreet, ingenious and qualified with all the

ornaments of her sex. She has a peculiar talent in designe, as painting
in oil and miniature, and an extraordinary genius for whatever hands
can do with a needle. She has the French tongue, has read most of

the Greek and Roman Authors and Poets, using her talents with

greate modesty ; exquisitely shap'd, and of an agreeable countenance.
This character is due to her, tho' coming from her father. Much of

this week spent in ceremonies, receiving visites and entertaining rela

tions, and a greate part of the next in returning visites.
1 1 May. We accompanied my daughter to her husband's house,

Adscomb, near Croydon, where with many of his and our relations we

were magnificently treated. There we left her in an apartment very

richly adorn'd and furnish'd, and I hope in as happy a condition as
could be wish'd, and with the greate satisfaction of all our friends ; for

which God be prais'd !
   14. Nothing yet of action from abroad. Muttering of a design to
bring forces under colour of an expected descent, to be a standing army
for other purposes. Talk of a declaration of the French King, offering
mighty advantages to the Confederates, exclusive of K. William, and
another of K. James, with an universal pardon, and referring the com

posing of all differences to a Parliament. These were yet but dis

courses ; but something is certainly under it. A declaration or
manifesto from K. James, so written that many thought it reasonable,

and much more to the purpose than any of his former.

  June. Whitsunday. I went to my Lord Griffith's chapel ; the
common Church office was us'd for the King without naming the

person, with some other, apposite to the necessity and circumstances

of the time.  >

 11. I din'd at Sir William Godolphin's, and after evening prayer
visited the Dutchess of Grafton.

  21. I saw a great auction of Pictures in the Banquetting House,
WhitehalL They had ben my Lord Melford's, now Ambassador from
 K. James at Rome, and engag'd to his creditors here. Lord Mulgrave
- and Sir Edward Seymour came to my house, and desird me to go with
them to the sale. Divers more of the greate Lords, &c. were there and

bought pictures dear enough. There were some very excellent of Van«
554 RARE PICTURES; THE QUEEN'S CABINET; THE LOTTERY.

dyke, Rubens, and Bassan. Lord Godolphiri bought the picture of the
Boys by Morillio the "Spaniard for 80 guineas, deare enough ; my

nephew Glanville, the old Earl of ArundelCs Head by Rubens for 10I.
Growing late, I did not stay till all were sold.

   24. A very wet hay harvest, and little Summer as yet
· 9 July. Mr. Tippin, successor of Dr. Parr at Camberwell, preach'd

an excellent sermon.

   13. I saw the Queen's rare cabinets and collection of china ; which

was wonderfully rich and plentifull, but especialy a large cabinet, look-

ing-glasse frame and stands, all of amber, much of it white, with histo

rical bas-reliefs and statues, with medals carved in them, esteem'd worth

^.4000, sent by the Duke of Brandenburg, whose country, Prussia,

abounds with amber, cast up by the sea ; divers other china and Indian
cabinets, screens and hangings. In her library were many bookes in

English, French, and Dutch, of all sorts ; a cupboard of gold plate ; a

cabinet of silver fillagree, which I think was our Queene Mary's ', and

which in my opinion should have ben generously sent to her.

   18. I din'd with Lord Mulgrave, with the Earl of Devonshire, Mr.
Hampden (a scholar and fine gentleman), Dr. Davenant, Sir Henry
Vane and others, and saw and admir'd the Venus of Corregio, which
Lord Mulgrave had newly bought of Mr. Daun for £230, one of the
best paintings I ever saw.
1 August. Lord Capel, Sir Cyril Wyche and Mr. Duncomb made
Lords Justices in Ireland ; Lord Sydney recall'd and made Master of
the Ordnance.

. 6. Very lovely harvest weather, and a wholesome season, but no

garden fruit.                                               the

   31 Oct. A very wet and. uncomfortable season.
   12 Nov. Lord Nottingham resign'd as Secretary of State;
Commissioners of the Admiralty outed, and Russell restor'd to his
office. -- The season continued very wet, as it had nearly all the Sum
mer, if one might call it Summer, in which there was no fruit, but corn

was very plentifull.
   14. In the Lottery set up after the Venetian manner by Mr. Neale,
Sir R. Haddock one of the Commissioners of the Navy had the

greatest lot, ,£.3000 ; my coachman .£.40.
 - 17. Was the funeral of Capt. Young, who died of the stone and

greate age. I think he was the first who in the first war with Crom
well against Spain took the Governor of the Havanna, and another

rich prize, and struck the first stroke against the Dutch fleete in the first
war with Holland in the time of the Rebellion ; a sober man and an

excellent seaman.

3a Much importun'd to take the office of President of the Royal

' Mary of Eitf, King Jam»i'» Quetn, now with him in Frnnwi
         THE "DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.  - 555

Society, but I again declin'd it. Sir Robert Southwell was continued.

Wc all din'd at Pontac's as usual.

I  3 Dec. Mr. Bentley preach'd at the Tabernacle neere Golden Square.
   gave my voice for him to proceed on his former subject the following
yeare in Mr. Boyle's lecture, in which he had ben interrupted by the

importunity of Sir J. Rotheram that the Bishop of Chichester might be

chosen the yeare before, to the great dissatisfaction of the Bishop
of Lincoln and myselfe. We chose Mr. Bentley againe. --The
Dutchesse of Grafton's Appeal to the House of Lords for the Pro-

thonotaries place given to the late Duke and to her son by K. Cha. II.

now challcng'd by the Lord Cheife Justice. The Judges were severely
reprov'd on something they said.

   10. A very greate storm with thunder and lightning.

    1694. 1 January. Prince Lewis of Baden came to London, and
was much feasted. Danish ships arrested carrying corn and naval

, stores to France.

. 11. Supp'd at Mr. Edward Sheldon's, where was Mr. Dryden the

  Poet, who now intended to write no more Plays, being intent on his

Translation of Virgil. He read to us his Prologue and Epilogue to his

valedictory Play, now shortly to be acted.
   21. Lord Macclesfield, Lord Warrington and Lord Westmoreland

all died within about one week. Severall persons shot, hang"d and

made away with themselves.
   1 1 February. Now was the greate trial of the Appeal of Lord Bath

and Lord Montagu before the Lords, for the estate of the late Duke of

Albemarle.
   10 March. Mr. Stringfellow preach'd at Trinity Parish, being re-
stor'd to that place, after the contest betweene the Queen and the
Bishop of London who had displac'd him.

   22. Came the dismal news of the disaster befallen our Turkey fleet
by tempest, to the almost utter ruin of that trade, the convoy of 3 or
4 men of war and divers merchant-ships with all their man and lading

having perish'd.
. 25. Dr. Goode Minister of St. Martin's preach'd ; he was likewise
put in by the Queene, on the issue of her process with the Bishop of

London.
· 30. I went to the Duke of Norfolk to desire him to make my cousin
Evelyn of Nutfield one of the Deputy Lieutenants of Surrey, and in-
treat him to dismiss my brother, now unable to serve by reason of age

and infirmity. The Duke granted the one, but would not suffer my
brother to resign his commission, desiring he should keepe the honour
of it during his life, tho' he could not act. He profess'd greate kind-

kindnesse to our family.
   1 April. Dr. Sharp, Archbishop of York, preach'd in the afternoon*

ftt the Tabarnackby .Snliii ,
55^ HIGHLAND DRAGOONS ( ? THE SCOTS GREYS). MR. WALLER.

   13. Mr. Bentley, our Boyle Lecturer, Chaplain to the Bishop of ,
Worcester, came to see me.
15, One Mr. Stanhope ' preach'd a most excellent sermon.

22. A fiery exhalation rising out of the sea spread itselfe in Mont

gomeryshire a furlong broad, and many miles in length, burning all straw,

hay, thatch and grass, but doing no harm to trees, timber, or any solid

things, onely firing barns or thatch'd houses. It left such a taint on
the grasse as to kill all the cattle that eate of it. I saw the attestations
in the hands of the sufferers. It lasted many moneths. -- ' The Berke
ley Castle ' sunk by the French coming from the East Indies, worth
,£.200,000. The French took our Castle of Gamboo in Guinea, so that
the Africa Actions fell to £30, and the India to £80. -- Some Regiments
of Highland Dragoons were on their march through England ; they

were of large stature, well appointed and disciplin'd. One of them

having reproch'd a Dutchman for cowardice in our late fight, was

attack'd by two Dutchmen, when with his sword he struck off the head
of one, and cleft the skull of the other down to his chin.

  A very young gentleman nam'd Wilson, the younger son of one who

had not above £.200 a yeare estate, livM in the garb and equipage of
the richest nobleman, for house, furniture, coaches, saddle horses, and

kept a table and all things accordingly, redeem'd his father's estate,
and gave portions to his sisters, being challeng'd by one Laws a Scotch
man, was killed in a duel, not fairly. The quarrel arose from his taking

away his owne sister from lodging in a house where this Laws had a

mistress, which the mistress of the house thinking a disparagement to                                        ; it,
and looseing by instigated Laws to this duel. He was taken and
          if it,

                                           is

                                                                                           ;

                                                                               a
condemn'd for murder. The mystery how this so young gentleman

very sober and of good fame, could live in such an expensive manner
could not be discover'd by all possible industry, or intreaty of his
itfriends to make him reveal it. It did not appear that he was kept by

       Iwomen, play, coining, padding, or dealing in chemistry but he would

sometimes say that he should live ever so long, he had wherewith to

maintaine himselfe in the same manner. He was very civil and well
naturM, but of no greate. force of understanding. This was a subject
of much discourse.
   24. went to visit Mr. Waller, an extraordinary young gentleman of
greate accomplishments, skill'd in mathematics, anatomy, music, paint

ing both in oil and miniature to greate perfection, an excellent botanist,
a rare ingraver on brass, writer in Latin, and a poet and with all this
                                  ;

                                    a

                                        is

                                                                         a

                                                                                                          ;

                                                                        I
exceeding modest. His house an Academy of itselfe.                                                           carried him
to see Brompton Park [by Knightsbridge], where he was in admira
tion at the store of rare plants, and the method he found in that noble

'  Afterwards Dean of Canterbury  most respectable and worthy Divine, who made a*

scruple to publish what he found truly pious in the works of Reman Catholic Priest.
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                  557

nursery, and how well it was cultivated. --A public Bank of £. 140,000
set  up by  Act of  Parliament            other Acts,  and Lotteries for money
to   carry           war. --The  among     month of
            on the                 whole               April without rain.-- A

greate rising of people in Buckinghamshire, on the declaration of a
famous preacher, till now reputed a sober and religious man, that our
Lord Christ appearing to him on the 1 6th of this month, told him he
was now come down, and would appeare publickly at Pentecost, and

gather all the Saints, jews and Gentiles, and lead them to Jerusalem,
and begin the Millenium, and destroying and judging the wicked de
liver the government of the world to the Saints. Greate multitudes fol-

low'd this preacher, divers of the most zealous brought their goods and
considerable sums of money, and began to live in imitation of the pri
mitive Saints, minding no private concerns, continually dancing and
singing Hallelujah night and day. This brings to mind what I lately

happen'd to find in Alstedius, that the thousand yeares should begin

this very yeare 1694; it is in his Encyclopaedia Biblica. My copy of

the book printed neere 60 yeares ago.

   4 May. I went this day with my wife and four servants from Sayes
Court, removing much furniture of all sorts, books, pictures, hangings,

bedding, &c. to furnish the apartment my brother assign'd me, and now,
after more than 40 years, to spend the rest of my dayes with him at
Wolton, where I was born ; leaving my house at Deptford full furnish'd,

and 3 servants to my son-in-law Draper, to pass the summer in, and such
longer time as he should think fit to make use of it.
6 May. This being the first Sunday in the month, the blessed Sa
crament of the Lord's Supper ought to have ben celebrated at Wotton

Church, but in this parish it is exceedingly neglected, so that unlesse at

the 4 greate feasts, there is no communion hereabouts, which is a greate
fault both in   ministers and   people. I    haabvoeutspiot.k--enSctaorcmeyly  brother who
is the patron,  to discourse                                                    one shower
                               the Minister

has fallen since the beginning of April.
   13. Some refreshing showers.-- Lord Falkland (grandson to the
learned Lord Falkland, Secretary of State to K. Cha. I. and slain in

his service) died now of the small pox. He was a pretty, brisk, under
standing, industrious young gentleman ; had formerly ben faulty, but
much reclaim'd. He married a greate fortune, besides being intitled

to a vast sum as his share of the Spanish Wreck, taken up at the expence
of divers adventurers. From a Scotch Viscount he was made an Eng
lish Baron, design'd Ambassador to Holland ; had ben Treasurer of the
Navy, and advancing in the new Court. All now gone in a moment,
and I think the title is extinct. I know not whether the estate devolves
to my cousin Carew. It was at Lord Falkland's, whose lady impor-

tun'd us to let our daughter be with her some time, that that deare
child took the same infection, which kill'd her some yeares ago.
3 June. Mr. Edwards, minister of Denton in Sussex, a living in
558 FOUNDATION OF THE BANK. ST. PAUL'S. THE SEVEN DIALS.

-m--ySebarsoothnearb'lse  gift, came  to  see  him.  He had suffer'd much by a fire.
                          showers.

14 June. The public Fast. Mr. Wotton, that extraordinary leam'd
young man, preach'd excellently.
1 July. Mr. Duncomb, minister of Aubury, preach'd at Wotton, a

very religious and exact discourse.
July. The first greate Bank for a fund of money being now esta-
blish'd by Act of Parliament was fill'd and compleated to the sum of

£. 1 20,000, and put under the Government of the most able and wealthy
citizens of London. All who adventured any sum had 4 per cent, so
long as it lay in the Bank, and had power either to take it out at plea
sure, or transfer it. -- Glorious steady weather, corn and all fruits in

extraordinary plenty generally.
   1 5. Lord Berkeley burnt Dieppe and Havre de Grace with bombs
in revenge for the defeat at Brest. This manner of destructive war

was begun by the French, is exceedingly ruinous, especially falling on

the poorer people, and does not seem to tend to make a more speedy

end of the war, but rather to exasperate and incite to revenge.-- Many

executed at London for clipping money, now don to that intolerable

extent, that there was hardly any money that was worth above halfe

the nominal value.
4 Aug. I went to visit my cousin G. Evelyn of Nuffield, where I
found a family            of 10 children, 5 sons and 5   daughters. All
women grown,              and extreamly well fashion'd.    All painted in  beautifull
                                                                           one piece,
very well by Mr. Lutterell in crayon on copper, and seeming to be as
finely painted as the best miniature. They are the children of 2

extraordinary beautifull wives. The boys were at school.

5.     Stormy and         unseasonable         wet weather this week.
5                         to St. Paul's        to see the choir, now finish'd as to the
    Oct. I went

stone work, and the scaffolds struck both without and within, in that

part. Some exceptions might perhaps be taken as to the placing
columns on pilasters at the East tribunal. As to the rest, it is a
piece of architecture without reproch. The pulling out the formes,

like drawers, from under the stalls is ingenious. I went also to see the

building beginning neere St. Giles's, where 7 streets make a star from

a Doric pillar plac'd in the middle of a circular area ; said to be built
by Mr. Neale1, introducer of the late Lotteries in imitation of those at

Venice, now set up here, for himselfe twice, and now one for the state.
28. Mr. Stringfellow preach'd at Trinity Church.
   22 Nov. Visited the Bishop of Lincoln [Tenison] newly come on
the death of the Abp. of Canterbury, who a few days before had a
paralytic stroke. The same day and month that Abp. Sancroft was

   x This Mr. Neale took a large piece of ground on the north side of Piccadilly of Sir Walter
Clarges, agreeing to lay out £ . 15,000 in building ; but he did not do so, and Sir Walter having
after great trouble, got the lease out of his hands, built what is now called Clarges street.
                        THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                             5 59

put out. --A very sickly time, especialy the small pox, of which divers
considerable persons died. The State Lottery drawing, Mr. Cock, a
French Refugee and a President in the Parliament of Paris for the
cRocn2fo9c.remrn'Idin,vgidsKirte.ewdChtaah.eLIoMIt.aobrefqiu£nig.siospooooisf opNne'ordr.ma--maAin. lbsyo
                                                                                                           and had much discourse
                                                                                                           concerning the Quinquina
which the physicians would not give to the King, at a time when in a

dangerous ague it was the only thing that could cure him (out of envy
because it had ben brought into vogue by Mr. Tudor an apothecary),
till Dr. Short, to whom the King sent to know his opinion of it privately,

he being reputed a Papist, (but who was in truth a very honest good
Christian) sent word to the King that it was the only thing which
could save his life, and then the King injoin'd his physicians to give

it to him, which they did, and he recover'd. Being asked by this
Lord why they would not prescribe
                                   it,  Dr. Lower said would spoil
                                                                                                           it
                                                                                                                   it
                                                                                                                                a
their practice, or some such expression, and at last confessed was
remedy fit only for Kings. -- Exception was taken that the late Arch

bishop did not cause any of his Chaplains to use any office for the sick

during his illness.

December.               had newes that my deare and worthy friend Dr.
9
Tenison, Dp. of Lincoln, was made Abp. of Canterbury, for which
     I                                                                                                     it,
                  it I
                                                                                                                                 I
thank God and rejoice, he being most worthy of for his learning,

piety and prudence.

   13. went to London to congratulate him. He being my proxy
gave my vote for Dr. Williams to succeed Mr. Bentley in Mr. Boyle's

lectures.

29. The small pox increas'd exceedingly, and was very mortal. The
Queene died of on the 28th.
   1695. 13 Jan. The Thames was frozen over.                                                                 The deaths by small
pox increas'd to 500 more than in the preceding                                                            week. -- The King and
Princesse Ann reconcil'd, and she was invited to keepe her Court at

Whitehall, having hitherto liv'd privately at Berkeley house she was
                                                                                                           ;
                                                                                                                         ;
desirtt to take into her family divers servants of the late Queene to
maintain them the King has assign'd her ^.5000 a quarter.                                                  5

   20 Jan. The frost and continual snow has now lasted neere weekes.
   Feb. Lord Spencer married the Duke of Newcastle's daughter, and
our neighbour Mr. Hussey married a daughter of my cousin Geo.
Evelyn of Nuffield.

3.       The long frost intermitted, but not gone.
   17. Call'd to London by Lord Godolphin, one of the Lords of the
    ITreasury, offering me the Treasureship of the Hospital design'd to be
built at Greenwich for worn-out seamen.

   24. saw the Queene lie in state.
   27. The Marquiss of Normanby told me K. Cha. had designe to
buy all King street, and build nobly, being the streete leading to
                             it
                                          it

                                                                            a
560 ' DEATH AND CHARACTER OF QUEEN MARY.

Westminster. This might have been don for the expence of the

Queene' s funeral, which was ,£.50,000, against her desire.
   5 March: I went to see the ceremonie. Never was so universal a

mourning, all the Parliament men had cloaks given them, and 400 poore
women ; all the streetes hung, and the middle of the streete boarded

and cover'd with Mack cloth. There were all the nobility, Mayor,

Aldermen, Judges, &c.
8. I supp'd at the Bp. of Lichfield and Coventry's, who related to

me the pious behaviour of the Queene in all her sicknesse, which was
admirable. She never enquir'd of what opinion psrsons were, who were

objects of charity ; that on opening a cabinet a paper was found,

wherein she had desir'd that her body might not be open'd, or any ex
traordinary expence at her funeral, whenever she should die. This

paper was not found in time to be observ'd. There were other excel

lent things under her owne hand, to the very least of her debts, which

were very small, and every thing in that exact method as seldom is
found in any private person. In sum she was an admirable woman,
abating for taking the Crown without a more due apology, as does, if

possible,  outdo  the renown'd   Queene Elizabeth.    Lord Spencer.  My
           din'd                of Sunderland's with
  10. I           at the Earl

Lord shewed me his Library, now again improvM by many books
bought at the sale of Sir Charles Scarborough, an eminent physician,
which was the very best collection, especially of mathematical books,
that was I believe in Europe, once design'd for the King's Library at
St. James's, but the Queene's dying, who was the greate patroness of
that designe, it was let fall, and the books were miserably dissipated.
   The new edition of Camden's Britannia was now publish'd, with
greate additions ; those to Surrey were mine, so that I had one pre
sented to me. Dr. Gale shew'd me a MS. of some parts of the New
Testament in vulgar Latin, that had belong'd to a monastery in the
North of Scotland, which he esteem'd to be above 800 yeares old:

there were some considerable various readings observeable, as in 1

John, and genealogy of St. Luke.
   24. Easter day. Mr. Duncomb, parson of this parish, preach 'd,
which he hardly comes to above once a yeare, tho' but 7 or 8 miles off;
a florid discourse read out of his notes. The Holy Sacrament follow'd,

which he administer'd with very little reverence, leaving out many
prayers and exhortation, nor was there any oblation. This ought to be,
reform'd, but my good brother did not well consider when he gave away
this living and the next [Abinger],
March. The latter end of the month sharp and severe cold, with
much snow, and hard frost ; no appearance of Spring.
   31. Mr. Lucas preach'd in the afternoon at Wotton.

  7. April. Lord Halifax died suddenly at London, the day his

daughter was married to the Earl of Nottingham's son at Burleigh.
                   THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                        561

Lord H. was a very rich man, very witty, in his younger days some
what positive.

14. After a most severe cold and snowy winter, without almost
any shower for many months, the wind continuing N. and E. and not
a leafe appearing : the weather and wind now change, some showers

fell, and there was a remission of cold.
21. The Spring begins to appeare, yet the trees hardly leaf d.-- Sir
T. Cooke discovers what prodigious bribes have been given by some of
the E. India Company out  of the
-- Never were so many     private  stock,   which makes   a greate clamour.
                                             pass'd for  unsettling estates,
                                     Bills

shewing the wonderfull prodigality and decay of families.
   5 May. I came to Deptford from Wotton, in order to the first

meeting of the Commissioners for endowing an Hospital for Seamen
t/ Greenwich : it was at the Guildhall, London. Present, the Abp.
of Canterbury, Lord Keeper, Lord Privy Seal, Lord Godolphin, Duke
of Shrewsbury, Duke of Leeds, Earls of Dorset and Monmouth, Com
missioners of the Admiralty and Navy, Sir Robert Clayton, Sir Chris

topher Wren, and severall more. The Commission was read by Mr.

Lowndes, Secretary to the Lords of the Treasury, surveyor general.

   17 May. Second meeting of the Commissioners, and a Committee

appointed to go to Greenwich to survey the place, I being one of them.
   ai. We went to survey Greenwich, Sir Robert Clayton, Sir Chris
topher Wren, Mr. Travers, the King's Surveyor ; Capt. Sanders and

myselfe.

24. We made report of the state of Greenwich House, and how

the standing part might be made serviceable at present for ^.6oco,
and what ground would be requisite for the whole designe. -- My
Lord Keeper order'd me to prepare a book for subscriptions, and a

preamble to it.

   31. Met again. Mr. Vanburgh was made Secretary to the Com
mission, by my nomination of him to the Lords, which was all don

that day.

   7 June. The Commissioners met at Guildhall, when there were
scruples and contests of the Lord Mayor (Sir W. Ashurst), who would
not meet, not being nam'd as one of the Quorum, so that a new Com
mission was requir'd, tho' the Lord Keeper and the rest thought it too
nice a punctilio.

   14. Met at Guildhall, but could do nothing for want of a Quorum.
   5 July. At Guildhall; account of subscriptions, about seven
or ,£8000.

  6. I din'd at Lambeth, making my first visite to the Archbishop,
where there was much company and greate cheere. After prayers in

the evening, my Lord made me stay to shew me his house, furniture
and garden, which were all very fine, and far beyond the usual Arch

bishops, not as affected by this, but being bought ready furnish'd by

                                                                                                                                       *

                                                                                                  36
562 BOMBARDMENT OF CADIZ-- CRUEL. CAPT. GIFFORD.

his predecessor. We discours'd of severall public matters, particularly

of the Princesse of Denmark, who made so little figure.

11 July. Met at Guildhall : not a full Committee, so nothing don.
   14. No sermon at Church, but after prayers the names of all the
parishioners were read, in order to gathering the tax of 4s. for mar
riages, burials, &c. A very imprudent tax, especially this reading the

names, so that most went out of the Church.

  19. I din'd at Sir Purbeck Temple's neere Croydon ; his lady is

aunt to my son-in-law Draper ; the house exactly furnish'd. Went
thence with my son and daughter to Wotton. -- At Wotton, Mr. Dun-
comb, parson of Albury, prcach'd excellently.
. 28. A very wet season.
   1 1 August. The weather now so cold that greater frosts were .not
always seene in the midst of Winter ; this succeeded much wet, and

set harvest extremely back.

25. Mr. Offley preach'd at Abinger ; too much of controversy on a
point of no consequence, for the country people here. This was the
;first time I had

brutish way of
              heard him preach."    -- Bombarding  ForfenCcahd.iz--Tahecruseelaasnond
              making war, first     begun by the
wet, greate storms, unseasonable harvest weather. -- My good and

worthy friend Capt. Gilford, who that he might get some competence

to live decently, adventurM all he had in a voyage of two yeares to
the East Indies, was, with another greate ship, taken by some French

men of war, almost within sight of England, to the losse of neere

^.70,000, to my great sorrow, and pity of his wife, he being also a
valiant and industrious man. The losses of this sort to the Nation

have been immense, and all through negligence and little care to secure
the same neere our own coasts ; of infinitely more concern to the pub
lic than spending their time in bombarding and ruining 2 or 3 paltry
towns, without any benefit, or weakening our enemys, who tho' they

began, ought not to be imitated in an action totally adverse to hu

manity or Christianity.
              cold weather. -- Sir
   29. Very                         Purbeck Temple, uncle to my son
Draper, died  suddenly. A greate    funeral at Adscomb. His lady being

owne aunt to my son Draper, he hopes for a good fortune, there being
no heir. There had ben a new meeting of the Commissioners about

Greenwich Hospital, on the new Commission, where the Lord Mayor,

<ic. appear"d, but I was prevented by indisposition from attending.
The weather very sharp, Winter approching apace. -- The King went a

progresse into the North, to shew himselfe to the people against the

elections, and was every where complimented, except at Oxford, where

   1 This gentleman gave good farms in Sussex for the better endowment of Oakwood Chapel,
which is a Chapel of ease for the lower parts of Abinger and Wotton, both of which livings
are in the gift of the owner of Wotton, and many of the inhabitants thereabouts being distant
5 miles from their parish churches, besides the extreme badness uf the roads in winter.
                   THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN. -                       563

it was not as he expected, so that he hardly stopp'd an hour there, and
                   Theatre, did not receive the banquet propos'd. --
having scene  the  Gale at St. Paul's School, who shew'd me many
              Dr.
I din'd with

curious passages out of some ancient Platonists MSS. concerning
the Trinity, which this great and learned person would publish, with
many other rare things, if he was encourag'd, and eas'd 01 the burden
of teaching.
   25 Oct. The Abp. and myselfe went to Hammersmith, to visite Sir
Sam. Morland, who was entirely blind ; a very mortifying sight. He
shew'd us his invention of writing, which was very ingenious ; also his
wooden Kalender, which instructed him all by feeling; and other pretty
and useful inventions of mills, pumps, &c. and the pump he had erected
that serves water to his garden, and to passengers, with an inscription,
and brings from a filthy part of the Thames neere it a most perfect and
pure water. He had newly buried ,£.200 worth of music books 6 feet

under ground, being, as he said, love songs and vanity. He plays him-
selfe Psalms and religious hymns on the Theorbo. -- Very mild weather
the whole of October.

to Nov. Mr. Stanhope, Vicar of Lewisham, preach'd at Whitehall.
He is one of the most accomplish'd preachers I ever heard, for matter,
eloquence, action, voice, and I am told, of excellent conversation.
   13. Famous fireworks and very chargeable, the King being return'd
from his progresse. He stay'd 7 or 8 days at Lord Sunderland's at

Althorp, where he was mightily entertain'd. These fireworks were

shew'd before Lord Romney, master of the ordnance, in St. James's
greate square where the King stood.

   17. I spoke to the Abp. of Canterbury to interest himself for

restoring a roome belonging to St. James's Library, where the books
want place.

   31. I went to see Mr. Churchill's collection of rarities.
   23. I went to Lambeth to get Mr. Williams continued in Boyle's

lectures another year. Amongst others who din'd there was Dr. Covel'

the greate Oriental traveller.
1 Dec. I din'd at Lord Sunderland's, now the greate favorite and
underhand politician, but not adventuring on any character, being ob

noxious to the people for having twice chang'd his religion.
   23. The Parliament wondrous intent on ways to reform the coin;
setting out a proclamation prohibiting the currency of half crowns, &c.

which made much confusion among the people.
   25. Hitherto mild, dark, misty weather. Now snow and frost.
   1696. 12 January. Great confusion and distraction by reason 6T
the clipp'd money, and the difficulty found in reforming it.
   2 Feb. An extraordinary wet season, tho' temperate as to cold. --

   1 Dr. John Covel, Master of Christ's College Cambridge, Chancellor of York, &c. Ha
wrote an Account of the Greek Church, and died in 1733 in his B5U1 year.
- 564 A JACOBITE CONSPIRACY; THREATENED LANDING OF FRENCH.

    The Royal Sovereign man of war was burnt at Chatham. It was built

    in 1637, and having given occasion to the levy of Ship-money was per
    haps the cause of all the after-troubles to this day. -- An Earthquake in
     Dorsetshire by Portland, or rather a sinking of the ground suddenly
    for a large space, neere the quarries of stone, hindering the conveyance
    of that material for the finishing St. Paul's.

        23. They now began to coin new money.
        26 Feb. There was now a Conspiracy of about 30 Knights, Gentle
    men, Captains, many of them Irish and English Papists and Nonjurors
    or Jacobites (so call'd), to murder K. William on the first opportunity
     of his going either from Kensington or to hunting, or to the Chapel ;
    and upon signal of fire to be given from Dover Cliff to Calais, an Inva

    sion was design'd. In order to it there was a greate army in readi-
    nesse, men of war, and transports, to join a general insurrection here,

     the Duke of Berwick having secretly come to London to head them,

    K. James attending at Calais with the French army. It was discovert
    by some of their owne party. ;£. 1000 reward was offerM to whoever

     could apprehend any of the 30 nam'd. Most of those who were engag*d
     in it were taken and secur'd. The Parliament, Citty, and all the Nation,

     congratulate the discovery ; and votes and resolutions were pass'd that

    if K. William should ever be assassinated, it should be reveng'd on the
    Papists and Party through the nation. An Act of Association drawing

    up to impower the Parliament to sit on any such accident, till the
   . Crowne should be dispos'd of according to the late Settlement at the

    Revolution. All Papists in the meane time to be banish'd 10 miles
    from London. This put the nation into an incredible disturbance and
    generall animosity against the French King and King James. The
    Militia of the nation was rais'd, severall regiments were sent for out of
    Flanders, and all things put in a posture to encounter a descent. This

    was so tim'd by the enemy, that whilst we were already much discon
    tented on the greatnesse of the taxes, and corruption of the money, &c.
    we had like to have had very few men of war neere our coasts ; but so it
    pleas'd God that Admiral Rooke wanting a wind to pursue his voyage
    to the Straits, that squadron, with others at Portsmouth and other
    places, were still in the Channell, and were soon brought up to join
    with the rest of the ships which could be got together, so that there is

   hope this plot may be broken. I look on it as a very greate deliverance

    and prevention by the Providence of God. Tho' many did formerly
    pity King James's condition, this designe of assassination and bringing
    over a French army, alienated many of his friends, and was like to
   produce a more perfect establishment of King William.

       I Mar. The wind continuing N. and E. all this weeke, brought so
   many of our men of war together, that tho' most of the French finding
    their designe detected and prevented, made a shift to get into Calais
   M»d Dunkirk roads, we wanting fire ships and bombs to. disturb them.:
                                             THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.       565

yet they were so engag*d among the sands and flats, that 'tis said they
cut their masts and flung their greate guns overboard to lighten their
vessells. We are yet upon them. This deliverance is due solely to

God. The French were to have invaded at once England, Scotland
                                                                                       '
and Ireland.
   8. Divers of the Conspirators tried and condemn'd.                        .j

    Vesuvius breaking out terrified Naples.

    Three of the unhappy wretches, whereof one was a Priest, were exe
cuted ' for intending to assassinate the King ; they acknowledged their
intention, but acquitted K. James of inciting them to and died very
penitent. Divers more in danger, and some very considerable persons.;

    Great frost and cold.                                       it, I
    April. visited Mr. Graham in the Fleete.                        I a it,
a
    6

              I

                                         *.
    10. The quarters of Sir William Perkins and Sir John Friend, lately
executed on the Plot, with Perkins's head, were set up at Temple Bar
                                                                             ;

dismal sight, which many pitied.                             think there never was such at
                                                3

                                                       I
Temple Bar till now, except once in the time of K. Cha. II. viz. of Sir

Tho. Armstrong
   Greate offence taken at the ministers* who absolv'd Sir William

Perkins and Friend at Tyburn. One of them (Snatt) was a son of my
old schoolmaster. This produc'd much altercation as to the canoni-

calness of the action.
   21. We had meeting at Guildhall of the Grand Committee about
    I

                      a
settling the draught of Greenwich Hospital.

   23. went to Eton, and din'd with Dr. Godolphin, the Provost.
The schoolmaster assur'd me there had not been for 20 years a more

pregnant youth in that place than my Grandson.-- went to see the

King's house at Kensington. It very noble, tho' not greate. The
  gallery furnish'd with the best pictures [from] all the houses, of Titian,it
  Raphael, Corregio, Holbein, Julio Romano, Bassan, Vandyke, Tin-is
" toret and others greate collection of Porcelain and pretty private
             ;

               a

library. The gardens about very delicious.

    26 April. Dr. Sharp preached at the Temple. His prayer before
the sermon was one of the most excellent compositions ever heard.

28. The Venetian Ambassador made a stately entry, with 50 foot
men, many on horseback, rich coaches,                        aanssdasasinnusm. --eroOuastestradinediocfatgeadl
                                             4
lants. --More executions this weeke of the
a most villainous reviling book against K. James, which he presum'd
to present K. William, who could not but abhor speaking so infa
mously and untruly of his late beloved Queene's own father.
    May.     din'd at Lambeth, being summon'd to meete my co
2         I

trustees, the Abp., Sir Hen. Ashurst, and Mr. Serjeant Rotheram, to

31     Robert Charnock, Edward King, and Thomas Keys.
      He was concerned in the Rye House Plot, fled into Holland, was given up and executed
in his own country, 1684.
      Mr. Collier, Mr. Snatt, and Mr. Cook, all nonjuring clergymen.
1
                                                                                                  I

   566 SIR CHRISTOPHER WREN AND GREENWICH HOSPITAL.

   consult about settling Mr. Boyle's lecture for a perpetuity ; which we

   concluded upon, by buying a rent-charge of ,£.50 per aim. with the

   stock in our hands.
   6. I went to Lambeth to meete at dinner the Countess of Sunder

   land and divers ladies. We din'd in the Abp's wife's apartment with
   his Grace, and staid late ; yet I return'd to Deptford at night.
            May. I went to London to meet my Son, newly come from
        13  indispos'd. --Money still continuing exceeding scarce, so that                            Ire
                                                                                                     none
   land

   was paid or receiv'd, but all was on trust, the Mint not supplying for

   common necessities. The association with an oath required of all

   Lawyers and Officers, on pain of Premunire, whereby men were oblig'd

   to renounce King James as no rightfull King, and to revenge K. Wil
   liam's death if happening by assassination. This to be taken by all
   the Council by a day limited, so that the Courts of Chancery and King's

   Bench hardly heard any cause in Eastern Term, so many crowded to
   take the oath. This was censur*d as a very intangling contrivance of

   the Parliament in expectation that many in high office would lay down,

   and others surrender. Many gentleman taken up on suspicion of the

   late plot, were now discharged out of prison.
      29. We settled divers officers and other matters relating to work
   men for the beginning of Greenwich Hospital.

      1 June. I went to Deptford to dispose of our goods in order to

   letting the house for three years to Vice Admiral Benbow, with con
   dition to keepe up the garden. This was done soon after.
     4. A Committee met at Whitehall about Greenwich Hospital, at

   Sir Christopher Wren's, his Majesty's Surveyor General. We made

   the first agreement with divers workmen, and for materials ; and gave

   the first order for proceeding on the foundation, and for weekly pay

   ments to the workmen, and a generall account to be monthly.
   1 1. Din'd at Lord Pembroke's, Lord Privy Seal, a very worthy gen
   tleman. He shew'd me divers rare Pictures of very many of the old

   and best masters, especialy one of M. Angelo of a man gathering fruit

   to give to a woman, and a large book of the best drawings of the old
   masters. -- Sir                                             taken.1 -- Greate
.                   J. Fenwick, one of the conspirators was    --Want of cur -
   subscriptions                                               daily provisions
[  rent money to    in Scotland to their East India Company.
|                    carry on the smallest concerns, even for

j 'in the markets. Guineas lowerM to 22 shillings, and great sums daily
' transported to Holland where it yields more, with other treasure sent to

   pay the armies, and nothing considerable coin'd of the new and now

   onely current stamp, cause such a scarcity that tumults are every day

   fear'd, no body paying or receiving money ; so imprudent was the late
   Parliament, to condemn the old, tho' dipt, and corrupted, till they had
   provided supplies. To this add the fraud of the bankers and gold*

   I» He vaa taken at a house by the side of the road front Creat Bockham to Stoke Dabcmofl
      'rrer, near Sly-field mill, m was Hd bv the oreat grnnHxMt «f Mn fivflyn.-- W, ti,
                     THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                5^7

smiths, who having gotten immense riches by extortion, keepe up their
treasure in expectation of enhancing its value. Duncomb not long
since a mean goldsmith, having made a purchase of the late Duke of
Buckingham's estate1 at neere ,£90,000, and reputed to have neere as
much in cash. Banks and Lotteries every day set up.
18. The famous trial betweene my Lord Bath and Lord Montagu
                            a year, left by the Duke of Albermarle, wherein
for  an estate of £11,000  been spent £20,000 between them. The E. of
on   severall trials have

Bath was cast on evident forger)'.

  20. I made my Lord Cheney a visit at Chelsea, and saw those
ingenious water-works invented by Mr. Winstanley,' wherein were

some things very surprizing and extraordinary.
   31. An exceeding rainy, cold, unseasonable Summer, yet the citty

was very healthy.
  25. A               in the Common Pleas between the Lady Purbeck Tem
              trial  Temple, a nephew of Sir Purbeck, concerning a deed set
ple and       Mr.
up to take place of severall wills. This deed was prov"d to be forg'd.
The cause went on my lady's side. This concerning my son-in-law
Draper, I staid almost all day at Court. A greate supper was given
to the Jury, being persons of the best condition in Buckinghamshire.
                   I went with   awsitehlecStirCComhrmisittotepeheor fWthreenC, owmhmeriesswiointherhsimfoIr
   30 June.
Greenwich         Hospital, and
laid the first stone of the intended foundation, precisely at 5 o'clock in
the evening, after we had din'd together. Mr. Flamstead, the K.'s
astronomical Professor, observing the punctual time by instruments.
     4 July. Note that my Lord Godolphin was the first of the subscri
bers who paid any money to this noble fabric.'
     7. A Northern wind altering the weather with a continual and
impetuous raine of 3 days and nights, chang*d it into perfect Winter.

1 At Helmiley In Y"orAknsdhiHree.linsley, once proud Buckingham's delight.
                     Slides to a Scrivener or a City Knight."-- Poph.
> Mr. Winstanley was the ingenious architect who built the Eddystone light house, and
                  when blown down by the        great    GstRorEmEiNn W170I3C. H
perished  in  it                                                                  HOSPITAL,
                    » SUBSCRIPTIONS             TO
                                          from  Mr Evelyn's Pa/ert,
                                 £                                                                   £ *. A
The King                         sooo o

Abp. Canterbury                  500 o                   Mr. Montague, Chan. Excheq. ... zoo o o

Lord Keeper Summers              500 o                   Mr. Smith, Ccmmiss. Treasury ... 100 o o

Duke of Leeds.Pres.of the Council 500 o                  Lord Ch. Justice Holt                       100 o o

E. of Pembroke, Lord Privy Seal 500 o                    Sir Ste. Fox                                800 o o

D. of Devonshire                 500 o                   E. of Jtanelagh                             loo o o

Duke of Shrewsbury               500 o                   Sir John Lowther                            100 o o

Earl of Romncy                   200 o                   Mr. Pricstman                               zoo o o

E of Dorset                                       5co o  Sir Ceo Rook*                               .1. 100 o o
Lor.l Montague
                                           joo o         JSir John Iicublon       Triby           1  n. ico   o    o
imrU Godolpiiia      n> in in in ·--> t                                                         mi   ... too  0
                                                         LerdChUf ustiea                                           0

                                                                                  Carried ever       «C.7ii«4  *
568 SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR ERECTION OF GREENWICH HOSPITAL

12. Very unseasonable and uncertain weather.

> 26. So little money in the nation that Exchequer Tallies, of which

1 I had for ,£.2000 on the best fund in England, the Post Office, nobody
.would take at 30 per cent, discount.
    3 Aug. The Bank lending the £200,000 to pay the army in
Flanders, that had don nothing against the enemy, had so exhausted
 the treasure of the nation, that one could not have borrow'd money
 under 14 or 15 p.c. on bills, or on Exchequer Tallies under 30/. cent. --
 Reasonable good harvest weather. -- I went to Lambeth and din'd
' with the Abp. who had ben at Court on the complaint against Dr. Tho

mas Watson, Bp. of St. David's, who was suspended for simony. The
Abp. told me how unsatisfied he was with the Canon Law, and how
exceedingly unreasonable all their pleadings appear'd to him.
Sept. Fine seasonable weather, and a greate harvest after a cold

wet Summer. Scarcity in Scotland.
6. I went to congratulate the marriage of a daughter of Mr. Bos-
cawen to the son of Sir Philip Meadows ; she is niece to my Lord Go-

dolphin, married at Lambeth by the Abp. 30 August.                          After above 6
months' stay in London about Greenwich Hospital,
                                                                            I return'd to

Wotton.

24 Oct. Unseasonable stormy weather, and an ill-seed time.
Nov. Lord Godolphin retir'd from the Treasury, who was the first
Commissioner and the most skillful manager of all.
   8. The first frost began fiercely, but lasted not long. -- More plots

talk'd of.     Search for Jacobites so call'd.
   15 -- 23.    Very stormy weather, rain and inundations.

1 3 Dec. Continuance of extreme frost and snow.
1697. Jan. 17. The severe frost and weather relented, but againe

                Brought over ^7,300     o                                       t s. d
                                        o
Sir Wm. Trumball, Pr. Sec. Stale 100    o  Mr. Justice Powell                   . ... 50 0 0
                                        o  Mr. Justice Eyre                     . ... jo 0 0
Sir Robt. Rich                    100   o
                                        o
 Sir Hen Goodrick                   50  o  Lord Ch. Baron Ward ... .            66 M 4
' Col. Austen ...                 100   o  Mr. Justice Gregory ... . . ... 50 0 O
                                        o
Sir Tho. Lane                     100   o  Mr. Baron Powell                     . ... 50 0 O

Sir Patience Ward                 xoo      E. of Portland                       . ... 500 0 0
                                           Mr. Baron Powis                      . ... 40 0 O
Sir Wm. Ashurst                   100

Sir J. Trevor, Master of the Rolls 100     Sir Richard Onslow ... . . ... 100 0 O
Mr. Justice Rokeby
                                  50       Mr. Baron Lechmore ... . . ... 40 0 O

Ky the committee for the fabrick  of Greenwich  Hospital,  Nov.  4,  1696.  --     £.9,046   i] 4
                                                                                Expence
                                                                                            of the

work already done, j&Sooo and upwards, towards which the Treasurer had not received
above £8oo, so that they must be obliged to stop the work unless there can be a supply of
money both fiom the tallies that have been assigned for payment of his Majesty's £3000, and

the money subscribed by several noblemen and gentlemen ; the Secretary was ordered to
attend Mr. Lowndes, Secretary to the Lords of the Treasury, to move for an order that the
tallies may be fixt on such fund as may be ready money, or that the Treasurer of the
Hospital may be directed to dispose of them on the best terms he can ; and that the Solicitor
with the Treasurer s clerk do attend the noblemen and gentlemen that have subscribed, to
acquaint them herewith.
                                         THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                 569

froze with snow.-- Conspiracies continue against K. William. Sir I.
Fenwick was beheaded.

   7 Feb. Severe frost continued with snow. S'ouldiers in the armies
and garrison towns frozen to death on their posts.

       I17 Aug.         (Here a leaf of the MS. is lost.) 1                                               My son
                 came to Wotton after three months absence.
       Sept. Very bright weather, but with sharp East wind.
came from London in his melancholy indisposition.

    J  In a letter to Dr    Bohun,          dated Wotton 18th Jan. 169 }, Mr. Evelyn says :                                                      friends cf
                          that you          have lately inquir'd what is become of your now old
       Having1 ben told

ISayes-Court, the date
they do and think. I
                          hereof will acquaint you where they are, and the sequel, much of what
                          believe neede not tell you that after the marriage of my daughter,
and the so kind offer of my good brother here, my then circumstances and times considered,

I Ihad reason to embrace it, not merely out of inclination to the place where was bom and
have now an   interest.
   * Amongst  other things               I  Ihahdoldpafirdom/30th0e  for the renewing of my Lease [at  Deptford] with
                                                                     Crowne, which the Duke of Leeds    was supplant-
some augmentation of what
        of                               I am not here on free cost.
ing me  Lord             but                                          steady friend,  now retir'd      from                                        a fati-
              Godolphin                  (my ever noble patron and
  'My

gueing station) got me to be named Treasurer to the Marine Colledge erecting at Greenwich,

with the sallary of £200 per arm. of which I have never yet receiv'd one penny of the Tallies
  *

                   1 it,
                                is

                            II
                                                   I

                                                         I
assign'd for now two years at our Lady-day--my son-in-law Draper                               my substitute.--
                                                                                           is                                                            I

have only had this opportunity to place my old (indeed faithfull) servant                      I J.       Sir4* in an

employment at Greenwich, which with my other businesse, not small, among so many beg
garly tenants ax you know have at Deptford [is some provision for him].                                have let my

house to Capt. Benbow, and have the mortification of seeing every day much of my former
labours and expense
                     there impairing for want of a                   more polite tennant.  is  to him the greatest
     My grandson     so delighted in books that he                    professes a library

recreation, so give him free scope here, where have neare upon 22,000 [qu. 2000] with
my brother's), and whither would bring the rest had any roome, which have not, to my

grcate regrett, having here so little conversation with the Learn'd, unlesse be when Mr.
                                                                                               I

                                                                                                   it

Wotton (the learned gentleman before mentioned, the friend of Dr. Benttey) comes now and
then to visit me, he being tutor to Mr. Finch's son at Albury, but which he now leaving to
                                                                                               is

go to his living, that without books, and the best wife and bro. in the world, were to be
                                                                                                       I

pitied but with these subsidiaries, and the revising some of my old impertinences, to which
I

      1
            ;

                    I
                            I

                                                                     a

                                                       I
                                                         iIf
    am adding a Discourse made on Medals (lying by me long before Obadiah Walker's
Treatise appear'd), passe some of my Attic nights,                    may be so vaine as to name them with
the Author of those Criticisms. For the rest, am planting an ever-green grove here to an
old house ready to drop, the oeconomy and hospitality of which my good old brother will not
depart from, but more veterum kept Christmas in which we had not fewer than 300 bumkins
every holy-day.
       We have here a very convenient appartment of five roomes together, besides pretty
                                                                                      is
                                                                                                                   a
closet, which we have fumish'd with the spoiles of Sayes Court, and the raree-shew of the

whole neighbourhood, and in truth we live very easy as to all domestic cares. Wednesday

and Saturday nights we call Lecture Nights, when my wife and myselfe take our turn es to
read the packets of all the newes sent constantly from London, which serves us for discourse

till fresh newes comes and so you have the history of a very old man and his no young com
  *

                     in I ;
                                                                            I

                                                                                                                                                a

                                                                                                I
panion, whose society have enjoy'd more to my satisfaction these three yeares here, than

in  aMlmyosdta5u0ghbteefor reD,rabpuetr  am now every day trussing up to be gon, hope          to a    better                                    place.
                                          being brought to bed in the Christmas holidays               a fine                                     boy,
                                                                                                of                                                       has
given an heireto her most deserving husband, a prudent, well-natur'd Gent, man of busi
nesse, like to be very rich, and deserving to be so, among the happiest paires think in

England, and to my daughter's and our heart's desir. She has also a fine girle, and a mother-
in-law exceedingly fond of my daughter, and a most excellent woman, charitable and of a

very sweete disposition. They all live together, keepe each their coach, and with as suitable
aa equipage ai any townc*
S70 BURNET ; BENTLEY ; ST. JAMES' LIBRARY. WHITEHALL BURNT.

12. Mr. Duncombe the rector came and preach'd after an absence
of 2 yeares, tho' only living 7 or 8 miles off [at Ashted].-- Welcome
tidings of the Peace.
   3 Oct. So greate were the storms all this week, that neere a 1000
people were lost going into the Texel.
   Nov. 16.. The King's entry very pompous, but in nothing approach

ing that of K. Cha. II.
2 Dec. Thanksgiving day for the Peace. The King and a greate
Court at Whitehall The Bp. of Salisbury (Burnet) preach'd, orrather
made a florid panegyric on 2 Chron. 9. 7, 8.-- The evening concluded
with fire-works and illuminations of greate expence.

   5. Was the first Sunday that St. Paul's had service perform'd in
it since it was burnt in 1666.

  6. I went to Kensington with the Sherif, Knights and cheife gen

tlemen of Surrey, to present their Address to the King. The Duke of
Norfolk promis'd to introduce but came so late, that was pre
                                          it it,

                                                                I
                                                                                    it
sented before he came. This insignificant ceremony was brought-in in

Cromwell's time, and has ever since continu'd with offers of life and
                                                 din'd at Sir Richard
fortune to whoever happen'd to have the power.
Onslow's, who treated almost all the gentlemen in Surrey. When we
had half din'd, the D. of Norfolk came in to make his excuse.
         12. At the Temple Church, was very long before the service be

gan, staying for the Comptroler of the Inner Temple, where was to be

kept a riotous and revelling Christmas according to custom.
         18. At Lambeth, to Dr. Bentley about the Library at St. James's.
             return'd to Wotton.
    23.
             A greate Christmas kept at Wotton, open house, much com
    1698.    presented my booke of medails, &c to divers Noblemen, be
pany.    2

          I
             II

                     a
                           it
fore expos'd to sale.

      Jan. Dr. Fulham, who lately married my niece, preach'd against
Atheism, very eloquent discourse, somewhat improper for most of the

audience [at Wotton], but fitted for some other place, and very appo
site to the profane temper of the age.
         Whitehall burnt, nothing but walls and ruins left.
   3a The imprisonment of the greate banker Duncombe censur'd
by Parliament acquitted by the Lords sent again to the Tower by
1                                                ;
                                 ;
                                                                                                        :

the Commons.'
     35 Jan. 1697-8. Charles Duncombe, Esq. M.P. was charged with making false indorse
ments on Exchequer bills, and was committed close prisoner to the Tower. 39. Being ill,
his apothecary and his brother Anthony Duncombe were permitted to see him. He confessed
his guilt, and was expelled the House. A bill was brought in for seizure of his estate, which
was passed 26 Feb. after great opposition, 138 against 103. It was intitled 'An Act for punish-
in? C. Duncombe, Esq. for contriving and advising the making false Indorsements of several
Bills made forth at Receipt of the Exchequer, commonly called Exchequer Bills.' This being

h.ls"ent to  the Lords, they desired  a conference with the Commons, and not  being  satisfied,            though
             acknowledged, the fact,  they discharged him from the Tower.
     had
rs       to31 March, the Commons re-comniitt«d him, \V'« do nol find in lh« Journali of the Kn<M
         Commons, that any thin; further  dene,
                      THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                               57 1

   The Czar of Muscovy being come to England, and having a mind
to sec the building of ships, hir'd my house at Saves Court, and made

it his Court and Palace, new furnished for him by the King.1
   21 April. The Czar went from my house to return home. --An

exceeding sharp and cold season.
   8 May. An extraordinary greate snow and frost, nipping the corn

and other fruits. Corn at gs. a bushel. [j£i8a load.]

  30. I din'dat Mr. Pepys, where I heard the rare voice of Mr. Pule,

who was lately come from Italy, reputed the most excellent singer we
had ever had. He sung severall compositions of the late Dr. Purcel.

    5 June. Dr. White, late Bishop of Nonvich, who had been ejected

for not complying with Government, was buried in St Gregory's
Churchyard or Vault at St. Paul's. His hersc was accompanied by
2 other Non-juror Bishops, Dr. Turner of Ely, and Dr. Lloyd, with

40 other Nonjuror Clergymen, who would not stay the office of the
burial, because the Dean of St. Paul's had appointed a Conforming

Minister to read the office, at which all much wondered, there being

nothing in that office which mentioned the present King.
                      I went to congratulate the            of Mr. Godolphin
    8  JEuinrel.                                  marriage                    with
the                    Marlborough's daughter.
                  of
  9. I went to Deptford to see how miserably the Czar had left my
house after 3 months making it his Court. I got Sir Christopher Wren
the King's surveyor, and Mr. London his gardener, to go and estimate

the    repairs, for which they allowed 1  50/.    in their report to the Lords of
the                                        the
       Treasury. -- I then went to see             foundation of the Hall and

Chapel at Greenwich Hospital.
   6 August. I dined with Mr. Pepys, where was Capt. Dampier, who

had been a famous Buccaneer, had brought hither the painted Prince
Job,J and printed a relation of his very strange adventure, and his
observations. He was now going abroad again by the King's encou
ragement, who furnished a ship of 290 tons. He seemed a more modest
man than one would imagine by the relation of the crew he had
assorted with. He brought a map of his observations of the course of
the Winds in the South Sea, and assured us that the maps hitherto ex
tant were all false as to the Pacific Sea, which he makes on the South
of the Line, that on the North and running by the coast of Peru being

extremely tempestuous.

   25 Sept. Dr. Foy came to me to use my interest with Lord Sun-

   1 Whilst the Czar was in his house, Mr. Evelyn's servant writes to him : ' There is a house
full of people, and right nasty. The Czar lies next your Library, and dines in the parlour
next your study. He dines at 10 o'clock and 6 at night, is very seldom at home a whole day.
Very often in the King's Yard, or by water, dressed in several dresses. The King is expected
there this day, the best parlour is pretty clean for him to be entertained in. The King pay
for all he has.'

   1 Gio'.o, of whsm there is a very curio'ts engraved portrait, by Sax-age ; also a smaller one,
from tha above, which is prefixed to n Mm em eeomni of his life. Mr. Evelyn mentions him
In hit ' W«mi»m»t».'
572 DEATH, CHARACTER, SERVICES AND FUNERAL OF MY SON.

derland for his being made Professor of Physic at Oxford, in the King's

gift. I went also to the Abp. in his behalf.
  7 Dec. Being one of the Council of the Royal Society, I was named

to be of the Committee to wait on our new President, the Lord Chan
cellor Lord Somers, our Secretary Dr. Sloane and Sir R. Southwell

last Vice President carrying our book of Statues : the office of the

President being read, his Lordship subscribed his name, and took the
oaths according to our Statutes as a Corporation for the improvement

of natural knowledge. Then his Lordship made a short compliment
concerning the honour the Society had done him,~ and how ready he
would be to promote so noble a design, and come himself among us as

often as his attendance on the public would permit ; and so we took

our leave.
   1 8 December. Very warm, but exceeding stormy.
   1699. Jan. My cousin Pierrepoint died. She was daughter to Sir -
John Evelyn of Wilts, my father's nephew ; she was widow of William
Pierrepoint, brother to the Marquiss of Dorchester, and mother to
Evelyn Pierrepoint, Earl of Kingston ; a most excellent and prudent lady.
   The House of Commons persist in refusing more than 7000 men to
be a standing army, and no strangers to be in the number. This dis
pleased the Court party. Our County member Sir O. Onslow opposed
jit also, which might reconcile him to the people, who began to suspect

him.
     7 Feb. My Grandson went to Oxford with Dr. Mander, the Mas

ter of Baliol College, where he was entered a Fellow Commoner.

   19. A most furious wind, such as has not happened for many years,

doing great damage to houses and trees, by the fall of which several

persons were killed.
   5 March. The old E. India Company lost their business against the

new Company, by 10 votes in Parliament, so many of their friends

being absent, going to see a tyger baited by dogs.

The persecuted Vaudois who were banished out of Savoy were re
ceived by the German Protestant Princes.
24 March. My only remaining Son died after a tedious languishing
                        in Ireland  and increased  here;
sickness, contracted   leaving me   one Grandson,  now at  tOo xmfoyrde, xwceheodmingI
grief and affliction,
pray God to prosper and be the support of the Wotton family. He

was aged 44 years and about 3 months. He had been 6 years one of the
Commissioners of the Revenue in Ireland, with great ability and repu
tation.

26. After an extraordinary storm, there came up the Thames a

·whale 56 feet long. Such, and a larger of the Spout kind, was killed
there    40 years ago (June  1658). That year   died Cromwell.
    30.                      was buried in the  vault at Wotton,  according
           My deceased Son
to his desire.
          ·THE" DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                      573

  The Duke of Devon lost £1900 at a horse-race at Newmarket.
  The King -preferring his young favorite Earl of Albemarle1 to be first
Commander of his Guard, the Duke of Ormond laid down his Com

mission. This of the Dutch Lord passing over his head, was exceed

ingly resented by every body.      an  incomparable         Library '  of  '.  .
  April. Lord Spencer purchased

          wherein among other rare books were several that

were printed at the first invention of that wonderful art, as particularly
'Tully's Offices,' &c. There was a Homer and a Suidas in a very,
good Greek character and good paper, almost as ancient. This gen
tleman is a very fine scholar, whom from a child I have known. His

tutor was one Florival of Geneva.

  29 April. I dined with the Archbishop, but my business was to get

him to persuade the King to purchase the late Bishop of Worcester's
Library, and build a place for his own Library at St. James's, in the

Park, the present one being too small.

  3 May. At a meeting of the Royal Society I was nominated to be
of the Committee to wait on the Lord Chancellor to move the King

to purchase the Bp. of Worcester's Library (Dr. Edward Stillingfleet.)
          The Court party have little influence in this Session.
4.        The Duke of Ormond restored to his Commission. --All Lotte
7.
ries, till now cheating the people, to be no longer permitted than to
Christmas, except that for the benefit of Greenwich Hospital. Mr.
Bridgman, chairman of the Committee for that charitable work, died ;
a great loss to it. He was Clerk of the Couucil, a very industrious
useful man. I saw the library of Dr. John Moore ', Bp. of Norwich,
one of the best and most ample collection of all sorts of good bookes

in England, and he, one of the most learned men.

   1 1 June. After a long drowth we had a refreshing shower. The
day before there was a dreadfull fire at Rotherhithe, neere the Thames
side, which burnt divers ships, and consum'd neere 300 houses. -- Now
died the famous Dutchess of Mazarine, she had ben the richest lady in

Europe. She was niece of Cardinal Mazarine, and was married to the

richest subject in Europe, as is said. She was born at Rome, educated
in France, and was an extraordinary beauty and wit, but dissolute and

impatient of matrimonial restraint, so as to be abandon'd by her hus

band, and banish'd, when she came into England for shelter, liv'd on a

KG.1Arnold Joost Van Keppcl, created Earl of Albemarle, Viscount Bury, &c. in Feb. 1695-6,

         1700, died in 1718, at the Hague, set. 48.
' \i* The foundation of the noble Library now at Blenheim.
Afterwards Bishop of Ely. He died  July, 1714. King George the First purchased
this Library after the Bishop's death, for £6000, and presented it to the University of
Cambridge, where it now is. This gift occasioned two most witty Epigrams on the
Diversities of Oxford and Cambridge : a Troop of horse being at this time sent to the
former holding high Tory opinions ; the Books to the latter holding those of the Whigs and
strong attachment to the Hanover family. They may be seen in Noble's Continuation of

Granger.
574 DEATH OF MY BROTHER OF WOTTON.

pension given her here, and is reported to have hasten'd her death by
intemperate drinking strong spirits. She has written her own story

and adventures, and so has her other extravagant sister, wife to the
noble family of Colonna.
   15. This week died Conyers Seymour, son of Sir Edw. Seymour,
kill'd in a duel caus'd by a slight affront in St James's Park, given him
by one who was envious of his gallantries, for he was a vain foppish

young man, who made a greate eclat about town by his splendid
equipage and boundless expence. He was about 23 yeares old ; his
brother, now at Oxford, inherited an estate of £7000 a year, which
had fallen to him not 2 yeares before.
    19 June. My cousin Geo. Evelyn of Nuffield died suddenly.
    25. The heat has ben so great almost all this month, that I do not
remember to have felt much greater in Italy, and this after a Winter the

wettest, tho' not the coldest, that I remember for 50 yeares last past.
   28. Finding my occasions called me so often to London, I took the
remainder of the lease my Son had in a house in Dover Street, to
which I now remov'd, not taking my goods from Wotton.
    23 July. Seasonable showers after a continuance of excessive drowth

and heat.
    Aug. I drank the Shooters Hill waters. At Deptford they had
                afoprresitmtyonnye.w--CThhuercchit.y--oTfheMoBscisohwopbuorfntSt.byDtahveidt'shro[Wwiangt
ben   building
son]  depriv'd
of squibs.

   3 Sept. There was in this weeke an eclipse of the sun, at which

many were frighten'd by the predictions of the astrologers. I remember
            ago that many were so terrified by Lilly that
50  yeares  their houses. --A strange Earthquake at New    they durst not
go                                                         Batavia in the
    out of

East Indies.

    4 Oct. My worthy Brother died at Wotton in the 83rd year of his
- age, of perfect memory and understanding. He was religious, sober,

and temperate, and of so hospitable a nature, that no family in the

county maintain'd that ancient custom of keeping, as it were, open

house the whole yeare in the same manner, or gave more noble or free

entertainment to the county on all occasions, so that his house was
never free. There were sometimes 20 persons more than his family,

and some that staid there all the Summer, to his no small expence; by
this he gain'd the universal love of the county. He was born at Wot
ton, went from the free school at Guildford to Trinity ColL Oxford,

thence to the Middle Temple, as gentlemen of the best quality did, but
without intention to study the law as a profession. He married the
daughter of Colwall, of a, worthy and ancient family in Leicestershire,
by whom he had one son; she dying in 1643, left Geo. her son, an

infant, who being educated liberally, after travelling abroad \ return'd

> Mr, Evelyn, 30 Mar. 1664, in a letter to his nephew George Evelyn, then on his travels in
                    THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.        575

and married one Mrs. Gore, by whom he had several children, but only

three daughters surviv'd : he was a young man of good understanding,

but over indulging his case and pleasure, grew so very corpulent, con
trary to the constitution of the rest of his father's relations, that he
died. My Brother afterwards married a noble and honourable lady,
relict of Sir John Cotton, she being an Ofiley, a worthy and ancient
Staffordshire family, by whom he had several children of both sexes.
This lady died leaving only two daughters and a son. The younger
....Wych, a noble and learned gentleman (son of Sir
daughter died before marriage ; the other afterwards married Sir Cyril
                                                     Wych),

who had ben Ambassador at Constantinople, and was afterwards made

one of the Lords Justices of Ireland. Before this marriage, her only
brother married the daughter of  Eversfield of Sussex, of an

honourable family, but left a widow without any child living : he died

about 1691, and his wife not many yeares after, and my Brother re
settled the whole estate on me. His sister Wych had a portion of

,£6000, to which was added about ,£300 more ; the three other daugh
ters, with what I added, had about ^5000 each. My Brother died on
5 Oct. in a good old a;;e and grcate reputation, making his beloved
daughter Lady Wych sole Executrix, leaving me only his library and
some pictures of my father, mother, &c. She buried him with extra

ordinary solemnity, rather as a nobleman than as a private gentleman.
There were, as I computed, above 2000 persons at the funerall, all the
gentlemen of the county doing him the last honours. I returned to
London, till my lady should dispose of herselfe and family.

   21 October. After an unusual warm and pleasant season, we were
surpriz'd with a very sharp frost. -- I presented my Acetaria dedicated
to my Lord Chancellor, who return'd me thanks in an extraordinary

civil letter.

   25 Nov. There happen'd this weeke so thick a mist and fog that
people lost their way in the streetes, it being so intense that no light of

candles or torches yielded any (or but very little) direction. I was in
it and in danger. Robberies were committed between the very lights

which were rix'd between London and Kensington on both sides, and

whilst coaches and travellers were passing. It began about four

in the afternoone, and was quite gon by eight, without any wind to

disperse it. At the Thames they beat drums to direct the watermen

to make the shore.
   19 Nov. At our Chapell in the evening there was a sermon preach 'd
by young Mr. Horneck, chaplain to Lord Guildford, whose lady's

Italy, tells him that bis father complained of hit expences, as much exceeding those of his
own, which were known to the young gentleman's father, as all the money passed through his
hands. He says that when ha travelled he kept a servant, sometimes two, entertained
several matters, and made no inconsiderable col cc: ion of curiosities, all within £%zo
ptrann. -- He desires seeds of the ilea, phyllera, mmic, jessamine, which he says are rate
in England.
it,       '

   3576 KIDD, THE ARCH PIRATE. SCOTCH BOOK ON DARIEN BURNT.

funeral had been celebrated magnificently the Thursday before. A    ;

panegyric was now pronounc'd, describing the extraordinary piety and
excellently imploy'd life of this amiable young lady. She died in child
bed a few days before, to the excessive sorrow of her husband, who
order'd the preacher to declare that it was on her exemplary life,
exhortations and persuasions, that he totally chang'd the course of his
life, which was before in greate danger of being perverted, following
the mode of this dissolute age. Her devotion, early piety, charity, fast
ings, oeconomy, disposition of her time in reading, praying, recollections
in her own hand- writing of what she heard and read, and her conversa
tion, were most exemplary.

  24 November. I sign'd Dr. Blackwall's election to be the next

yeares Boyle's Lecturer.
   Such horrible robberies and murders were committed, as had not ben

known in this nation ; atheism, profaneness, blasphemy, amongst all

sorts, portended some judgment if not amended, on which a Society

was set on foot, who obliged themselves to endeavour the reforming of
    in London and other places, and began to punish offenders and put

the laws in more strict execution, which God Almighty prosper. -- A
gentle, calm, dry, temperate weather all this season of the yeare, but

now came sharp, hard frost, and mist, but calm.
      December. Calm, bright, and warm as in the middle of ApriL So

continu'don 21 January.-- A great earthquake in Portugal.

   The Parliament reverse the prodigious donations of the Irish for
feitures, which were intended to be set apart for discharging the vast
national debt. They call'd some greate persons in the highest offices
in question for setting the Greate Seale to the pardon of an arch pirate1
who had turn'd pirate againe, and brought prizes into the West Indies,
suspected to be coniuVd at on sharing the prey but the prevailing
part in the House call'd Courtiers, out-voted the complaints, not by
being more in number, but by the country party being negligent in

attendance.

   1700. 14 Jan. Dr. Lancaster, Vicar of St. Martin's, dismiss'd Mr.
Stringfellow, who had ben made the first preacher at our Chapell by
the Bishop of Lincoln [Dr. Tenison, now Archbp.] whilst he held St.
Martin's by dispensation, and put in one Mr. Sandys, much against
the inclination of those who frequented the Chapel. --The Scotch book
about Darien was burnt by the hangman by vote of Parliament.'

   25. went to Wotton the first time after my brother's funerall, to
furnish the house with necessaries, Lady Wych and my nephew Glan

      Captain Kidd he was hanged about two years afterwards with some of his accomplices.
This was one of the charges brought by the Commons against Lord Somers.

      The volume alluded to was An Enquiry into the causes of the Miscarriage of the Scots

Colony at Darien Or an Answer to a Libel, entituled, A Defence of the Scots abdicating

Darien/ See Votes of the House of Commons, 15 January, 1609.1700.
21

    I

                                 ::
                                                                 '
                     THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                               577

ville the executors having sold and dispos'd                                       of what   goods were there
of my brother's. --The weather was now                                             altering  into sharp and

hard frost.

   One Stephens ' who preach'd before the House of Commons on K.
Charles's martyrdom, told them that the observation of that day was

not intended out of any detestation of his murder, but to be a lesson

to other Kings and Rulers, how they ought to behave themselves to
wards their subjects, lest they should come to the same end. This was

so resented that tho' it was usual to desire these anniversary sermons

to be printed, they refus'd thanks to him, and order'd that in luture no

one should preach before them who was not either a Dean or a Doctor

of Divinity.

   4 Feb. The Parliament voted against the Scots settling in Darien
as being prejudicial to our trade with Spain. They also voted that the

exorbitant number of Attornies be lessen'd (now indeede swarming, and
evidently causing law-suits and disturbance, eating out the estates of

people, provoking them to go to law).-- Died the Duke of Beautort, a
person of greate honour, prudence and estate.

   18. Mild and calm season, with gentle frost, and little misling rain
The Vicar of St. Martin's frequently preach'd at Trinity Chapel in the

afternoone.

   8. The season was like April for warmth and mildnesse. -- 1 1. On

Wednesday was a sermon at our Chapell, to be continu'd during Lent.
13. I was at the lunerall of my Lady Temple, who was buried at
Islington, brought from Adscomb neere Croydon. She left my son-in-
law Draper (her nephew) the mansion house of Adscomb, very nobly
and completely furnish'd, with the estate about                                              with plate and
                                                                                   a5
jewels, to the value in all of about ,£.20,000. She was a very prudent                            6.
lady, gave many greate legacies, with ^.500 to the poore of Islington,                                it,
where her husband Sir Purbeck Temple was buried, both dying with
                                                                                                                '
out issue.
   24 March.                                                                                                                     is
                     The season warm, gentle and exceeding pleasant. --

Divers persons ol quality entered into the Society for reformation 01
Manners and some Lectures were set up, particularly in the City ot
        ;
                                           ;
London. The most eminent of the Clergy preach'd at Bow Church,
after reading a Declaration set forth by the King to suppresse the

growing wickednesse this began already to take some effect, as to
common swearing, and oathes in the mouths of people of all

ranks.

25. Dr. Burnet preach'd to-day before the Lord Mayor and a very
greate congregation on 27 Proverbs v. and                                                    Open rebuke

better than secret love the wounds of friend are better than the
I
                                                                 ;

                                                    it
William Stephens, rector of Suttoo in Surrey.                                       After the censure of his sermon by the
House of Commons,                                                                  See more of this and of him in Manning
and Bray's Hist, of  he published ms                                in  defiance.
                                                                                                                   37
                     Surrey, II. 487.
578 PARLIAMENTARY COMMISSION ON FORFEITED ESTATES.

kisses of an enemy.' He made a very pathetic discourse concerning
the necessity and advantage of friendly correction.

   April. The Duke of Norfolk now succeeded in obtaining a divorce
from his wife by the Parliament for adultery with Sir John Germaine,
a Dutch gamester of mean extraction, who had got much by gaming ;
the Duke had leave to marry againe, so that if he should have children,
the Dukedom will go from the late Lord Thomas's children, Papists
indeede, but very hopefull and virtuous gentlemen, as was their father.
The now Duke their uncle is a Protestant.

   The Parliament nominated 14 persons to go into Ireland as Com
missioners to dispose of the forfeited estates there, towards payment
of the debts incurrM by the late war, but which the King had in greate
measure given to some of his favourites of both sexes, Dutch and
others of little merit, and very unseasonably. That this might be don
without suspicion of interest in the Parliament, it was ordered that
no member of either House should be in the Commission. --The greate
contest betweene the Lords and Commons concerning the Lords power
of amendments and rejecting bills tack'd to the money bill, carried for
the Commons. However this tacking of bills is a novel practice,

suffered by K. Cha. II. who being continually in want of money, let

any thing pass rather than not have wherewith to feed his extravagance.
This was carried but by one voice in the Lords, all the Bishops follow
ing the Court, save one ; so that neere 60 bills pass'd, to the greate
triumph of the Commons and country party, but high regret of the
Court, and those to whom the King had given large estates in
Ireland. Pity it is that things should be brought to this extremity, the
government of this nation being so equally poiz'd between King and
Subject, but we are satisfied with nothing, and whilst there is no per
fection on this side Heaven, methinks both might be contented with
out straining things too far. -- Amongst the rest there pass'd a law as

to Papists estates, that if one turn'd not Protestant before 18 yeares

of age, it should passe to his next Protestant heire. This indeede
seem'd a hard law, but not only the usage of the French King to his
 Protestant subjects, but the indiscreete insolence of the Papists here,

going in triumphant and public processions with their Bishops, with

banners and trumpets in divers places (as is said) in the Northern
 counties, has brought it on their party.

  --24 April. This weeke there was a greate change of State Officers.

The Duke of Shrewsbury resign'd his Lord Chamberlainship to the
Earl of Jersey, the Duke's indisposition requiring his retreat. Mr.
Vernon, Secretary of State, was put out. --The Seale was taken from

the Lord Chancellor Somers, tho' he had ben acquitted by a gTeate

majority of votes for what was charg'd against him in the House of

 Commons. This being in term time put some stop to business, many

eminent lawyers refusing to accept the office, considering the uncer
                THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                        579

tainty of things in this fluctuating conjuncture. It is certaine that this

Chancellor was a most excellent lawyer, very learned in all polite lite
rature, a superior pen, master of a handsome style, and of easy con

versation ; but he is said to make too much haste to be rich, as his pre

decessor, and most in place in this age did, to a more prodigious ex-

cesse than was ever known. But the Commons had now so mortified

the Court party, and property and liberty were so much invaded in all

the neighbouring kingdoms, that their jealousy made them cautious, and
every day strengthen'd the law which protected the people from tyranny.

  A most glorious Spring, with hope of abundance of fruite of all

kinds, and a propitious yearc.
   10 May. The greate trial between Sir Walter Clarges and Mr.
Sherwin concerning the legitimacy of the late Duke ot Albermarle, on

which depended an estate of .£1500 a year ; the verdict was given for
Sir Walter.-- 19. Serjeant Wright ' at last accepted the Greate Seale.
24. I went from Dover street to Wotton for the rest ol the Sum
mer, and remov'd thither the rest of my goods from Sayes Court.
                A sweete season, with a mixture of refreshing showers.
2  --Ju1n6e. .  In the afternoonc our Clergyman had a Catechism, which
9
was continu'd for some time.
July. I was visited with illness, but it pleas'd God that I recovcr'd,
for which praise be ascrib'd to Him by me, and that He has again so

graciously advertiz'd me of my duty to prepare for my latter end,
which at my greate age cannot be far off.
The Duke of Gloucester, son of the Princess Anne of Denmark,
died of the small pox.
   13. I went to Marden, which was originally a barren warren bought
by Sir Robert Clayton, who built there a pretty house, and made such
alteration by planting not only an infinite store of the best fruite, but

so chang'd the natural situation of the hill, valleys and solitary moun-

'.ains about that rather represented some foreign country which
   ;

           it,
               it

                      it
would produce spontaneously pines, firs, cypress, yew, holly, and

juniper they were come to their perfect growth, with walks, mazes,
&c. amongst them, and were preserv'd with the utmost care, so that
                                           7

                                                                      I
who had seen some yeares before in its naked and barren condition,
was in admiration of it. The land was bought of Sir John Evelyn of
Godstonc, and was thus improv'd for pleasure and retirement by the
vast charge and industry of this opulent citizen. He and his lady re-
ceiv'd us with greate civility. --The tombs in the Church at Croydon of

Abps. Grindal, Whitgrift and other Abps. are fine and venerable, but

none comparable to that of the late Abp. Sheldon, which being all of
white marble, and of stately ordnance and carvings, far surpass'd
                II

                                    1

                                  a
the rest, and judge could not cost lesse than or j£8oo.
                went to Beddington, the ancient seate of the Carews, in
20 Sept.

                Sir Nathan Wrighte, appointed Lord Keeper.
580 VISIT MR. PEPYS AT CLAPHAM. ILLNESS OF MY GRANDSON.

my remembrance a noble old structure, capacious, and in form of the

buildings of the age of Hen. VIII. and Qu. Eliz. and proper for the old

English hospitality, but now decaying with the house itselfe, heretofore
adorn'd with ample gardens, and the first orange trees' that had ben
seen in England, planted in the open ground, and securM in Winter

onely by a tabernacle of boards and stoves removable in Summer,

· that standing 120 yeares, large and goodly trees, and laden with fruite,

were now in decay, as well as the Grotto, fountaines, cabinets and other

curiosities in the house and abroad, it being now fallen to a child under

age, and only kept by a servant or two from utter dilapidation. The

estate and park about it also in decay.

. 23. I went to visite Mr. Pepys at Clapham where he has a very

noble and wonderfully well furnish'd house, especially with India and

Chinese curiosities. The offices and gardens well accommodated for

pleasure and retirement.

  31 Oct. My birth day now compleated the 80th year of my age. I

with my soul render thanks to God, who, of his infinite mercy, not

onely brought me out of many troubles, but this yeare restort me to

health, after an ague and other infirmities of so greate an age, my
sight, hearing and other senses and faculties tolerable, which I implore
him to continue, with the pardon of my sins past, and grace to acknow

ledge by my improvement of his goodnesse the ensuing yeare, if it be
his pleasure to protract my life, that I may be the better prepaid for
my last day, thro' the infinite merits of my blessed Saviour, the Lord

Jesus, Amen.

   5 Nov.   Came the    news of my deare Grandson (the      only male   of my
family now  remaining)                                      at Oxford,  which
                         being fallen ill of the small-pox

after the dire effects of it in my family, exceedingly afflicted me, but so

it pleas'd my most mercifull God that being let blood at his first com
plaint, and by the extraordinary care of Dr. Mander (head of the Col
lege and now Vice Chancellor), who caused him to be brought ar^
lodged in his own bed and bed-chamber, with the advice of his phy
sician and care of his tutor, there were all faire hopes of his recovery,
to our infinite comfort. We had a letter every day either from the Vice-
Chancellor himselfe or his tutor. -- 17. Assurance of his recovery by a

letter from himselfe.

   There was a change of Greate Officers at Court. Lord Godolphin
return'd to his former station of first Commissioner of the Treasury ;
Sir Cha. Hedges Secretary of State.
30 Nov. At the Royal Society, Lord Somers, the late Chancellor,
was continu'd President.
   8 Dec. Greate alterations  of Officers  at Court and elsewhere -- Lord

Cheif Justice Treby died ; he was a learned man in his protession, of

    Oranges were eaten in this kingdom in the time of K . James I. if not earlier, as appears by
the accounts of a Student in the Temple, which the Editor has seen.
                           THE DIARY OP JOHN EVELYN.                                      581

which we have now few, never fewer ; the Chancery requiring so little
skill in deep law learning, if                                                            eloquently in that
                                the practiser can                   talk                  to any purpose. --
Court, so that probably few.    care to study the                   law

Lord Marlborough Master of the Ordnance, in place of Lord Rofnney
made Groom of the Stole. The Earl of Rochester goes Lord Lieu

tenant to Ireland.

   1701. Jan. ' I finished the sale of North Stoake in Sussex to Robert

Michell, Esq. appointed by my brother to be sold lor payment of por

tions to my nieces, and other incumbrances on the estate.
  4. An exceeding deepe snow and melted away as suddenly.
   19. Severe frost, and such a tempest as threw down many chimnies,
and did greate spoile at sea, and blew down above twenty trees of mine

at VVotton.

   9. The old Speaker laid aside, and Mr. Harley, an able gentleman,
chosen. Our countryman Sir Richard Onslow, had a party for him.

   27. By an order of the House of Commons, I laid before the Speaker
the state of what had ben received and paid towards the building of

Greenwich Hospital '.

  Mr. Wye, rector of Wotton, died, a very worthy good man. I gave

it to Dr. Bohun, a learned person and excellent preacher, who had ben

my son's tutor, and liv'd long in my family.

   18 March. I lett Sayes Court to Lord Carmarthen, son to the Duke
of Leeds. -- 28. I went to the funeral of my sister Draper *, who was

buried at Edmonton in greate state. Dr. Davenant displeas'd the
Clergy now met in Convocation by a passage in his book, p. 40'.
1 John Evelyn, Esq. Dr. to Greenwich Hospital.
                           £ s. d.                                  Per Contra Creditor.
                                          By the Accompt in
Received in the year                                                                      £ s. d.

            1696 . . . 3.416 o o                                    1696                  5-9t5 18 7

            1697  . · . 6,836 16 3                                  1697                   8,971 10 4
            1698  . . . 14,567 8 4                                  1698
                                                                                          ",585 15 1
                           . 14,034 13 4
            1699  ..       . 19,341 t 3                             1699                  19,614 9 8
            1700  ..                                                1700                  18,013 8 5

            1701, June x6  . 10,834 3 3                             1701                  3,000 o o
                                                                                             "9 1 4
                                          Remaine in Cash
Remaine in Lottery Tickets to69b,3e2p0aitdx #in5 ten years £11,434                        69,390 5 5
More in Malt Tickets                                                                      69,320 ,3 5
                                                                                   1,000
        In all
                           .... 69,310
Beside his Majesty                                        "43»

                                                          81,752
                                                        6,000 and Subscriptions.
* Mother of the gentleman who married Mr. Evelyn's daughter.
s Cha. Davenant, LL.D. (son of Sir William). The Book was ' Essays upon the Ballance
of Power,' in which he says that many of those lately in play, have used their utmost endea
vours to discountenance all revealed Religion. ' Are not many of us able to point to several
persons, whom nothing has recommended to places of the highest trust, and often to rich

benefices and dignities, but the open enmity which they huve, almost from their cradles, pro
fessed to the Divinity of Christ ? ' The Convocation on reading the book, ordered papers to
be fixed on several doors in Westminster Abbey, inviting the author, whoever he be, or any
one of the many, to point out these persons, that they may be proceeded against. Biog. Brit,

last edit.
583 . THE DUTCH BOY. TRIAL OF LORD SOMERS. LORD C-ALWAY.

  April. A Dutch boy of about 8 or 9 years old was carried about by

his parents to shewc, who had about the iris of one eye, the letters of
Deus mens, and of the other Elohim in the Hebrew character. How
this was don by artifice none conld imagine ; his parents affirming that

he was so born. It did not prejudice his sight, and he seem'd to be a

lively playing boy. Every body went to see him ; physicians and phi
losophers examin'd it with greate accuracy, some considered it as arti
ficial, others as almost supernatural.

   4 April. The Duke of Norfolk died of an apoplexy, and Mr. Tho.
Howard of complicated disease since his being cut for the stone ; he
was one of the Tellers of the Exchequer. Mr. How made a baron.

   May. Some Kentish men delivering a petition to the House of

Commons, were imprison'd '

   A greate dearth, no considerable raine having fallen for some months.

    17. Very plentifull showers, the wind coming West and South. --
The Bishops and Convocation at difference concerning the right 01
calling the Assembly and dissolving. Atterbury * and Dr. Wake1 wri

ting one against the other.
   20 June. The Commons demanded a conference with the Lords on

the trial of Lord Somers, which the Lords refus'd, and proceeding on

the trial, the Commons would not attend, and he was acquitted.

   22. I went to congratulate the arrival of that worthy and excellent

person my Lord Gal way, newly come out of Ireland, where he had

behav'd himselfe so honestly, and to the exceeding satisfaction of the
people ; but he was remov'd thence for being a Frenchman*, tho' they
had not a more worthy, valiant, discreet, and trusty person in the two
kingdoms, on whom they could have relied for his conduct and fitnesse.

He was one who had deeply suffered, as well as the Marquiss his lather,
for being Protestants.

   Aug. The weather changtt from heate not much lesse than in Italy
or Spain for some few days, to wet, dripping and cold with intermis
sions of faire.

   July. My Lord Treasurer made my Grandson one of the Commis
sioners of the prizes, salary £500 per ann.

   8. My Grandson went with Sir Simon Harcourt, the Solicitor
General, to Windsor to wait on my Lord Treasurer. There had ben

1 There were five of them, all gentlemen of considerable property and family in the county.
There is a very good print of them, all on one plate. They desired the Parliament to mind
the Fublick more and their private heats less. They were confined till the prorogation, and
were much visited. Burnet, V. 53a.
- 1 Afterwards Bishop of Rochester.
s Afterwards Archbishop of Canterbury.
fro«mHFernarnyceRotouvCighnaer,lesEaIIr.l  of Galway in Ireland, son of the Marquis who was Ambassador
                                             He was created a Peer by King William, for his gallantry at ths
battle of the Boyne, where his brother also fought and was killed. He commanded after
wards both in Italy and Spain, where the fatal battle of Almanza. put an end to his military
"lory. There is a mezzotinto portrait of him by Simon.
                   THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                          . 583

for some time a proposal of marrying my grandson to a daughter of
Mrs. Boscawen, sister of my Lord Treasurer, which was now far

advanced.

   14. I subscrib'd towards rebuilding Oakwood Chapel (Wotton

Parish), now after 200 years almost fallen down.

   2 Sept. I went to Kensington and saw the house, plantations and

gardens, the work of Mr. Wise, who was there to receive me.
   The death of K. James happening on the 15th of this month N. S.

after 2 or 3 days indisposition, put an end to that unhappy Prince's
troubles, after a short and unprosperous reign, indiscreetly attempting
to bring in Popery and make himselfe absolute in imitation of the

French, hurried on by the impatience of the Jesuits, which the Nation

would not indurc.

   Died the Earl of Bath, whose contest with Lord Montague about
the Duke of Albemarle's estate, claiming under a Will suppos'd to

have been forg'd, is said to have ben worth ,£10,000 to the lawyers.

His eldest son shot himselfe a few days after his father's death, for
what cause is not cleare. He was a most hopefull young man, and had
bchav'd so bravely against the Turks at the siege of Vienna, that the

Emperor made him a Count of the Empire. -- It was falsely reported
that Sir Edw. Seymour was dead, a great man ; he had often been

Speaker, Treasurer of the Navy, and in many other lucrative offices.
He was of a hasty spirit, not thought at all sincere, but head of the

party at any time prevailing in Parliament.

   29 Sept. I kept my first Courts in Surrey, which tooke up the
whole weeke. My Steward was Mr. Hervey, a Counsellor, Justice of
Peace and Member of Parliament, and my neighbour. I gave him

6 guineas, which was a galla a day, and to Mr. Martin his clerk,

3 guineas.

   31 October. I was this day 81 complete, in tolerable health con
sidering my greate age.

  Dec Great contentions about elections. I gave my vote and inte

rest to Sir R. Onslow and Mr. Weston.
2177.AM. y21graJandnsuoanry.quittAedt
                                       Oxford.    Society there  was  read  and
                                       the Royal
apprivd the delineation and description of my Tables of Veins
and Arteries, by Mr. Cooper the chirurgeon, in order to their being

engrav'd

   8 March. The King had a fall from his horse and broke his collar

bone, and having ben much indispos'd before, and anguish, with a

long cough and other weaknesse, died this Sunday morning about
four o'clock.

  I carried my accounts of Greenwich Hospital to the Committee.

   12 April. My Brother-in-law Glanville departed this life this morn

ing after a long languishing illnesse, leaving a son by my lister, and
584 -GREENWICH HOSPITAL ACCOUNTS PUSHED. QUEEN ANNE.

two grand-daughters .' Our relation and friendship had ben long and
greate. He was a man of excellent parts. He died in the 84th year
of his age, and will'd his body to be wrapp'd in lead and carried downe
to Greenwich, put on board a-ship and buried in the sea betweene

Dover and Calais, about the Goodwin sands, which was don on the
Tuesday or Wednesday after. This occasioned much discourse, he "
having no relation at all to the sea. He was a gentleman ol an ancient
family in Devonshire, and married my sister Jane. By his prudent
parsimony he much improv'd his fortune. He had a place in the

Alienation Office, and might have ben an extraordinary man had he

cultivated his parts.
My Steward at Wotton gave a very honest account of what he had

laid out on repairs, amounting to ^.1900.
   3 May. The Report of the Committee sent to examine the state of
Greenwich Hospital was deliver'd to the House of Commons, much to
their satisfaction. -- Lord Godolphin made Lord High Treasurer.
Being elected a member of the Society lately incorporated for the
Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, I subscrib'd 10/. per aim.

towards the carrying it on. We agreed that every Missioner, besides
the 20/. to set him forth, should have 50/. per ami. out of the Stock ot
the Corporation till his settlement was worth to him 100I. per aim.
We sent a young Divine to New York.
   22 June. I din'd at the Abp's. with the new-made Bishop of Car

Ilisle, Dr. Nicholson, my worthy and learned correspondent.

   27. went to Wotton with my family for the rest of the Summer,
and my son-in-law Draper with his family came to stay with us, his

house at Adscomb being new building, so that my family was above
30. -- Most  of the new Parliament were chosen of Church of England
principles,  against the peevish party. -- The Queene was magnificently
entertain'd at Oxford and at all the townes she pass'd through on her

way to Bath.
  ^31 Oct. Arriv'd now to                          age, having read over
all that pass'd since this  the 82nd year of  my
                            day twelvemonth    in  these notes, I render

solemn thanks to the Lord, imploring the pardon of my past sins, and
the assistance of His grace ; making new resolutions, and imploring
that He will continue His assistance, and prepare me for my blessed
Saviour's coming, that I may obtain a comfortable departure, after so
long a term as has ben hitherto indulged me. I find by many infirmities

   1 One of these daughters became heiress of the family, and married William Evelyn oS
St. Cleer in Kent, son of George of Nulfield. He assumed the name of Glanville, but there
being only daughters by this marriage, he had two sons by a second wife, and they resumed
the name of Evelyn. The first of those sons left a son who died unmarried before he came of
age, and a daughter who married Col. Hume, who has taken the name of Evelyn, but has
no child ; the second son of Mr. Glanville Evelyn married Lady Jane Leslie, who became
Countess of Rothes in her own right, and left a son, George William, who became Earl of
Rothes in right of his motherland died in 1817, leaving no issue male.
THE DIARY OP JOHN EVELYN. .  - ·  585

this yeare (especially nephritic pains) that I much decline ; and yet of
His infinite mercy retain my intellects and senses in greate measure
above most. of my age. I have this yeare repaired much of the man
sion-house and severall tenants' houses, and paid some of my debts and
ingagements. My wife, children and family in health : for all which

1 most sincerely beseech Almighty God to accept of these my acknow

ledgments, and that if it he His holy will to continue me yet longer, it
may be to the praise of His infinite grace, and salvation of my soul. Amen.

   8 Nov. My kinsman John Evelyn of Nuffield, a young and very
hopeful gentleman, and Member of Parliament, after having come to
Wotton to see me, about 1 5 days past, went to London and there died
of the small pox. He left a brother, a commander in the army in
Holland, to inherit a faire estate.

    Our affaires in so prosperous a condition both by sea and land that
there has not ben so great an union in Parliament, Court and People,
in memory of man, which God in mercy make us thankfull for ana con

tinue. The Bp. of Exeter preach'd before the Queene and both Houses
of Parliament at St. Paul's ; they were wonderfully huzza'd in their
passage, and splendidly entertain'd in the Citty.

    Dec. The expectation now is what treasure will be found on break
ing bulk of the Galleon brought from Vigo by Sir Geo. Rooke, which
being made up in an extraordinary manner in the hold, was not begun
to be open'd till the 5th of this month before 2 of the Privy Council,
2 of the chiefe Magistrates of the Citty, and the Lord Treasurer.

   After the excesse of honour conferred by the Queene on the Earl
of Marlborough, by making him a Knight of the Garter, and a Duke,
for the successe of but one campaign, that he should desire ,£5000
a yeare to be settled on him by Parliament out of the Post Office,
was thought a bold and unadvis'd request, as he had, besides his
own considerable estate, above ,£30,000 a yeare in places and em
ployments, with ,£50,000 at interest. He had married one daughter
to the son of my Lord Treasurer Godolphin, another to the Earl of
Sunderland, and a third to the Earl of Bridgewater. He is a very
handsome person, well-spoken and affable, and supports his want

of acquir'd knowledge by keeping good company.
    1703. News of Vice Adm. Benbow's conflict with the French fleete

in the West Indies, in which he gallantly behav'd himselfe and was
wounded, and would have had extraordinary successe, had not 4 of his
men of war stood spectators without coming to his assistance ; for this
2 of their commanders were tried by a Council of War and executed ;'
a third was condemn'd to perpetual imprisonment, loss of pay and in
capacity to serve in future. The fourth died.

   1 The Captains Kirby and Wade were tried and condemned to die by a Court Martial held
on them in the West Indies-- they were sent home in the Bristol, and on its arrival at Ports
mouth were both shut on board, not being suficr'd to land on English ground.
586 AN ITALIAN SINGER. DEATH OF SAMUEL PEPYS.

   Sir Richard Onslow and Mr. Oglethorpe (son of the late Sir Theo. 0.)
fought on occasion of some words which passed at a Committee of the
House. Mr. Oglethorpe was disarm'd.-- The Bill against occasional
Conformity was lost by one vote. -- Corn and provisions so cheape that

the farmers are unable to pay their rents.

   Feb. A famous cause at the King's Bench betweene Mr. Fenwick
and his wife,1 which went for him with a greate estate.-- The Duke of
Marlborough lost his only son at Cambridge by the small pox.--k

greate Earthquake at Rome, &c. --A famous young woman, an Italian,

was hir'd by our Comedians to sing on the stage, during so many plays,
for which they gave her ^500 ; which part by her voice alone at the
end of 3 scenes she perform'd with such modesty and grace, and above
all, with such skill, that there was never any who did anything com

parable with their voices. She was to go home to the Court of the

King of Prussia, and I believe carried with her out of this vain nation

above ^1000,3 every body covetting to hear her at their private houses.
26 May. This day died Mr. Sam. Pepys, a very worthy, industrious

and curious person, none in England exceeding him in knowledge of

the Navy, in which he had passed thro' all the most considerable offices,
Clerk of the Acts and Secretary of the Admiralty, all which he per

formed with greate integrity. When K. James II. went out of Eng

land, he laid down his office, and would serve no more, but withdrawing

himselfe from all public affaires, he liv'd at Clapham with his partner
Mr. Hewer, formerly his clerk, in a very noble house and sweete place,
where he enjoy'd the fruite of his labours in greate prosperity. He

was universally belov'd, hospitable, generous, learned in many things,
skill'd in music, a very greate cherisher of learned men of whom he
had the conversation. His library * and collection of other curiosities

were of the most considerable, the models of ships especially. Besides

what he publish'd of an Account of the Navy, as he found and left
                                                             a
                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                                     1

                                                                                                          it,
he had for divers yeares under his hand the History of the Navy, or
Navalia as he call'd                                         but how far advane'd, and what will follow of
      is

             I

                               it

                                                          ;
his, left, suppose, to his sister's son Mr. Jackson, a young gentle
man whom Mr. Pepys had educated in all sorts of usefull learning,
sending to travel abroad, from whence he return'd with extraordinary
accomplishments, and worthy to be heir. Mr. Pepys had ben for neere
40 yeares so much my particular friend that Mr. Jackson sent me com

** 1  She was daughter and heir of Sir Adam Brown of Betchworth Castle in Dorking, and
married Mr. Fenwick. This suit probably related to settlement which she had consented to
make, by which the estate was limited to them and their issue, and the heir of the survivor.
They had one son, who died without issue, and she survived hex husband, thereby becoming
entitled to dispose of it.
      What would Madame Mara or Catalani in these days think of such paltry sum
     His valuable library he gave                                                              together with his fine col
lection of prints, where they now                            to Magdalen College, Cambridge,   and are to this day among
the vidtnda of that University.                              remain in a. very handsome room,
                   THE DIARY OF JOHN EVLEYN.                 587

pleat mourning* desiring me to be one to hold up the pall at his mag
nificent obsequies, but my indisposition hinder'd me from doing him

this last office.

13 June. Rains have ben greate and continual, and now neere
Midsummer, cold and wet.

  11 July. I went to Adscomb, 16 miles from Wotton, to see my son-

in law's new house, the outside, to the coveing, being such excellent

brick work, bas'd with Portland stone, with the pilasters, windows and
within, that I pronoune'd it in all the points of good and solid archi

tecture to be one of the very best gentleman's houses in Surrey, when

finish'd. I returned to Wotton in the evening tho' weary.

   25 July. The last week in this month an uncommon long-continued
rain, and the Sunday following thunder and lightning.

   12 Aug. The new Commission for Greenwich Hospital was scal'd

and open'd, at which my son-in-law Draper was present, to whom I

resign'd my office of Treasurer. From August 1696 there had been
expended in building ^89,364. 14J. id.

   31 Oct. This day, being 83 years of age, upon examining what
concern'd me more particularly the past year, with the greate mercies

of God preserving me, and in some measure making my infirmities
tolerable, I gave God most hearty and humble thanks, beseeching

Him to confirm to me the pardon of my sins past, and to prepare me
for a better life by the virtue of His grace and mercy, for the sake of

my blessed Saviour.
21 Nov. The wet and uncomfortable weather staying us from
church this morning, our Dr. officiated in my family, at which were
present above 20 domestics. He made an excellent discourse on 1
Cor. 15, v. 55, 56, of the vanity of this world and uncertainty of life,
and the inexpressible happiness and satisfaction of a holy life, with

pertinent inferences to prepare us for death and a future state. I gave
him thanks, and told him I tooke it kindly as my funeral sermon.
   26, 27. The effects of the hurricane and tempest of wind, rain and
lightning thro' all the nation, especialy London, were very dismal. -
Many houses demolish'd and people kill d. As to my own losses, the

subversion of woods and timber, both ornamental and valuable,
through my whole estate, and about my house the woods crowning the
garden mount, and growing along the park meadow, the damage to
my own dwelling, farms and outhouses, is almost tragical, not to be

parallel'd with any thing happening in our age. I am not able to
describe but submit to the pleasure of Almighty God.
7               remov'd to Dover street, where       found all well, but

         I it,
Dec.                                            I

house, trees, garden, &c. at Sayes Court sufferM very much.
    31. made up my accounts, paid wages, gave rewards and new
Iyears gifts according to custom.

                     1  A curious circumstance thuk
588  "       THE KING OF SPAIN AT WINDSOR.

1704. Ja.i. The King of Spain ' landing at Portsmouth, came to
Windsor, where he was magnificently entertain'd by the Qucene, and

behav'd himselfe so nobly that every body was taken with his graceful

deportment. After 2 days, having presented the greate Ladies and
others with very valuable Jewells, he went back to Portsmouth and

immediately imbark'd for Spain.
16. The Lord Treasurer gave my grandson the office of Treasurer

of the Stamp duties, with a salary of ,£.300 a year.
30. The Fast on the martydom of King Cha. I. was observed with
more than usual solemnity.
May. Dr. Bathurst, President of Trin. Coll. Oxford, now died", I

think the oldest acquaintance now left me in the world. He was 86
years of age, stark blind, deafe, and memory lost, after having ben a
person of admirable parts and learning. This is a serious alarm to
me. God grant that I may profit by it. He built a very handsome

Chapel to the College, and his own tomb. He gave a legacy of money,

and the third part of his library, to his nephew Dr. Bohun, who went

hence to his funeral.

   7 Sept. This day was celebrated the thanksgiving for the late greate
victory ', with the utmost pomp and splendour by the Queene, Court,
greate Officers, Lord Mayor, Sheriffs, Companies, &c. The streets
were scaffolded from Temple bar, where the Lord Mayor presented her

Majesty with the Sword, which she return'd. Every Company was
rang'd under its banners, the Citty Militia without the rails, which were
all hung with cloth suitable to the colour of the banner. The Lord
Mayor, Sheriffs and Aldermen were in their scarlet robes, with

caparison'd horses ; the Knight Marshall on horseback ; the Foot
Guards ; the Queene in a rich coach with 8 horses, none with her but
the Dutchess of Marlborough in a very plain garment, the Queene full
of Jewells. Music and trumpets at every Citty Company. The greate
Officers of the Crown, Nobility and Bishops, all in coaches with 6 horses,

besides innumerable servants, went to St. Paul's where the Deane

preach'd. After this the Queene went back in the same order to St.
James's. The Citty Companies feasted all the nobility and Bishops,
and illuminated at night. Music for the Church and Anthems compos'd
')y the best Masters. The day before was wet and stormy, but this was

one of the most serene and calm days that had been all the yeare.

October. The year has been very plentifulL
   December. Lord Clarendon presented me with the 3 volumes of his
Father's History of the Rebellion.

   31 Oct    Being  my birth-day and 84th year of  my life,   after  particular
             on my   concerns and passages of the  yeare,            some con
reflections                                                  I set

   1 Charles the Third, afterwards Emperor of Germany, by the title of Charles, the Sixth.
  2 There is a very good life of him, with his portrait prefixed, by Mr. Thomas Warton,
Fellow of Trinity College, and Poetry Professor at Oxford.
   s Over the French and Bavarians at Blenheim, August 13, 1704.
         " THE DIARY OF JOHN EVELYN.                                          ,  589

siderable time of this day apart to recollect and examine my state and
condition, giving God thanks, and acknowledging his infinite mercys
to me and mine, begging his blessing, and imploring his protection for

the year following.
   Dec. My Lord of Canterbury wrote to me for suffrage for Mr.

Clarke's continuance this yeare in the Boyle Lecture, which I willingly

gave for his excellent performance of this year.

   1705. 4 January. I din'd at Lambeth with the Abp. of Dublin, Dr.

King, a sharp ready man in politics, as well as very learned.
   June. The season very dry and hot. -- I went to see Dr. Dickinson1

the famous chymist. We had long conversation about the Philoso
pher's Elixir, which he believ'd attainable, and had seen projection him-
selfe by one who went under the name of Mundanus, who sometimes
came among the adepts, but was unknown as to his country or abode ;
of this the Doctor has written a treatise in Latin, full of very astonishing
relations. He is a very learned person, formerly a fellow of St. John's
Coll. Oxford ', in which citty he practised physic, but has now alto
gether given it over, and lives retir'd, being very old and infirm, yet
continuing chymistry.

   I went to Greenwich Hospital 1 where they now began to take in

wounded and worn-out seamen, who are exceeding well provided for.
The buildings now going on are very magnificent.

  9 Feb. I went to wait on my Lord Treasurer, where was the vic

torious Duke of Marlborough, who came to me and tooke me by the
hand with extraordinary familiarity and civility, as formerly he was us'd
to do, without any alteration of his good nature. He had a most rich
George in a Sardonyx set with diamonds of very greate value ; for the

rest, very plain. I had not seen him for some yeares, and believ'd he

might have forgotten me.
   21. Remarkable fine weather. Agues and smallpox prevail much in

every place.

   I I Mar. An exceeding dry season. -- Greate loss by fire, burning the
outhouses and famous stable of the Earl of Nottingham at Burleigh

[Rutlandshire], full of rich goods and furniture, by the carelessness of

a servant. A little before, the same happen'd at Lord Pembroke's at
"Wilton. -- The old Countess of Northumberland, dowager of Algernon
Percy, Admiral of the Fleete to K. Cha. I. died in the 83d yeare of her

1 Edmund Dickinson of Merton College, Oxford, took the degree of batchelor of arts aa
June, 1647. He was living in Westminster in 169a, in good repute for his practice in the faculty
of physic. He published several things. Wood's Fasti Oxon. p. 741.
   2 He  was afterwards a Fellow    of Merton. He died in                      Dr. Campbell, in his
edition  of the Biog. Brit, speaks  very highly of him ; but  1707, aged 84.  the new edition of that

                                                              Dr. Kippis, in

work, differs much from the Doctor, though he allows him to have been a very learned man.
Mr Evelyn must have mistaken Dr. Dickinson as to his not knowing who Mundanus was, as
in 1686 the Doctor printed a letter to him with his answer from Paris ; in the latter, Mundanus

faid he made two projections in his presence. Biog. Brit. art. Dickenson.
590"     FEBRUARY 2J, 1706 --DIED JOHN EVELYN, XT. 85.

age. She was sister to the Earl of Suffolk, and left a greate estate her

jointure to descend to the Duke of Somerset.1
May. The Bailiff of Westminster hangM himself. He had an ill report.
On the death of the Emperor there was no mourning worn at Court

because there was none at the Imperial Court on the death of our
King William.

  18. I went to see Sir John Chardine at Turnham Green, the gar
dens being very fine, and exceeding well planted with fruite.

   20. Most extravagant expence to debauch and corrupt votes for

Parliament members. I sent my grandson with his party of my free
holders to vote for Mr. Harvey of Combe.
Oct. Mr. Cowper3 made Lord Keeper. Observing how uncertain
greate officers are of continuing long in their places, he would not ac

cept it unless ^2000 a yeare were given him in reversion when he was
put out, in consideration of his losse of practice. His predecessors,
how little time
made themselves  soever they had the Seal,  usually got  ,£100,000, and
                                            of State.--  Lord Abington,
                 Barons. --A new Secretary
Lieutenant of the Tower, displac'd, and General Churchill, brother to
the Duke of Marlborough, put in. An indication of great unsteadiness

somewhere, but thus the crafty Whig-party (as call'd) begin to change
the face of the Court, in opposition to the High Churchmen, which
was another distinction of a party from the Low Churchmen. The

Parliament chose one Mr. Smith Speaker. There had never ben so
greate an assembly of members on the first day of sitting, being more
than 450. The votes both of the old, as well as the new, fell to those
call'd Low Churchmen, contrary to all expectation.

   31 October. I am this day arriv'd to the 85th year of my age. Lord
teach me so to number my days to come that I may apply them to

wisdom.
   1706. I January.' Making up my accounts for the past year, paid
bills, wages, and new year's gifts according to custom. Tho' much in
disposed and in so far advanc'd a stage,' I went to our Chapel [in

London] to give God public thanks, beseeching Almighty God to assist
me and my family the ensuing yeare, if he should yet continue my pil
grimage here, and bring me at last to a better life with him in his
heavenly kingdom. Divers of our friends and relations din'd with us

this day.

   27. My indisposition increasing, I was exceeding ill this whole week.

   3 February. Notes of the sermons at the Chapel in the morning and
afternoon, written with his own hand, conclude this Diary.

   John Evelyn died on the 27th of this month.

   1 This Duke had married Eliz. Percy, widow of Lord Cole, only daughter and heir to
Juceline Percy, the nth and last Earl of Northumberland.

   3 William Cowper, created a Baron in 1706, and Lord Chancellor, afterwards Viscount
Fordwich and Earl Cowper, by George the First.
EPISTOLARY CORRESPONDENCE.

The following Letters are taken from Copies kept by Mr. Evelyn, and

  arc given as Specimens of his Epistolary Correspondence. In those

   on serious subjects, there appears the most ardent piety : in those of
   friendship, the most sincere attachment, and gratitude : in those to

  Ladies, the most polite gallantry, expressed in easy language. In

   one to Mr. Thurland, a Barrister, whom he consulted in his legal
   affairs, he shews himselfe able to write with humour.

                          To my Lady Garret.
It had not ben now that the gratefull resentiments of your Ladyship's
favour remained so long for a faire gale on this side, if the least oppor

tunity had presented itselfc before the returne of this noble gentleman ;

and howcucr Fortune (who esteemed it too greate a favour for me) has
otherwise disposed of the Present which you sent me, I thinke myselfc
to have received it as effectually in your Ladyship's designe and purpose,

as if it were now glistening upon my finger. I am onely sorry, that
because I missed that, I did not receiue your Com'ands, and that an

obligation of so much vallue seemes to haue ben tbrowne away, whilst

I remaine in another Country uselesse to you. I will not say, that
the way to find what is lost, is to fling another after it ; but if any ser

vices of your Ladyship perished with that Jewell, there can be no

danger in reinforcing your com'ands, and repairing the greater losse,
seeing there is nothing in the world which with more passion I pre

tend to, then to continue, Madame,         Your Ladyships, &c.

Paris, 9th Octob: 1651.

                          To Mr. Thurland.
(Since Sir Edward Thurland, and Baron of the Exchequer.)
   Sir,
Nemo habet tarn     certain  manum ut non  stzpe fallatur ; and yet I

hope my memory shall seme me for the subscribing this Epistle, which
is more then yours (deare Lawyer could, it seemes, doe, when you
sent me your Sum'ons for my Court at Warley, with all those sigillary
formalities of a perfect Instrument. But this is a trifling a+aXpa ; and
I easily supplied
                    by taking the boldnesse to write new Warrant
                    ;

                     & it,
                                it
                                  if

                                       I
                                                      I

                                                                   it
                                                                                  a

                                                                          I

                                                                                                   it
in the most illfavourM character could, that might be the more like

to your fayre hand  so was dispatch'd, onely the day altered to be

the next before the Terme, since otherwise could not haue appeared,

and for which praesumption you thinke fit to amerce me, desire
592 THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.

may be by the delegation of Mr. Jo. Barton pro Vicario; since whilst
I thus indulge my noble Tennant, I may not neglect to reduce my Vas-

salls, cum ita stiggerent Chartce stent optimi noveris, &c. it being the
advice of a greate Philosopher, and part of my Litanie, Libera tt pri-
mmn metit mortis (ilia enim nobis primum jiigum imponit), deinde
paitpertatis : The first I endeavor to secure by Physick, the latter by
your learned counsell, the effects whereoff I much more desire to resent

by the favour which (I am assured) you may do your servant in pro
moting his singular inclynations for Albury,1 in case (as I am confident
it will) that Seate be exposed to sale. I know you are potent, and may
do much,herein : and I shall eternally acknowledg to have derived
from you all the favour and successe, which I augure to my selfe from

your friendship and assistance : it being now in your power to fix a
wanderer, oblige all my Relations, and by one integral cause, render
me yours for ever. I suppose the place will invite many Candidates,

but my Money is good, and it will be the sole and greatest obligation
that it shall ever be in your power to doe for, Deare Lawyer,
London : 25 : April, 1652.
                                           Your, &c.

                 To Dr. (Jeremy) Taylor.'

   The calamitie which lately arrived you, came to me so late, and with
so much incertitude during my long absence from these parts, that 'till
my returne, and earnest inquisition, I could not be cured of my very
greate impatience to be satisfied concerning your condition. But so it
pleased God, that when I had prepared to receive that sad newes, and
deplore your restraint, I was assured of your release, and delivered of
much sorrow. It were imprudent, and a character of much ignorance,
to inquire into the cause of any good man's suffering in these sad tymes ;
yet if I have learned it out, 'twas not of my curiosity, but the discourse
of some with whom I have had some habitudes since my coming home.
I had read the Preface long since to your Golden Grove; remember, and
infinitely justifie all that you haue there asserted. 'Tis true vallor or
dare to be undon, and the consequent of truth hath euer ben in danger

of his teeth, but it is a blessing if men escape so in these dayes, when,
not the safties onely, but the Soules of men are betrayed : whilst such

as you, & such excellent assistances as they afford us, are rendered
criminal & suffer. But you, Sir, who haue furnished the world with so

rare praecepts against the efforts of all secular disasters whatsoeuer,
                 destitute of those consolations which ybu haue so cha
could neuer  be  piously prescribed unto others : Yea rather, this has                          "
ritably and  so

   1 Albury, in Surrey, a seat of Mr. Howard. Mr. Thin land was one of the Trustees ap
pointed for the sale of it.

  ·1 The cause of this imprisonment does not appear, unless it were for the sentiments con
tained in his ' Twenty-five Sermons/ published in the preceding winter --or perhaps upon
political suspicion, as he actually suffered incarceration in Chepstowe Castle in 1656 (during
his well-known controversy with Bishop Warner), being suspected as an instigator of the
insurrection at Salisbury.
              THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                             593

turned to our im'ense advantage, nor lesse to your glory, whilst men

behold you living your owne Institutions, and preaching to us as
effectually in your Chaines as in the Chaire, in the prison as in the
                           Sir, I heare
pulpit : for

act --
it                                                                                       as indeede you
                                                                                    it,
              methinkes,                 you pronounce

              Aude aliquid brevibus gyaris et carcere dignum

              Si vis esse aliquis

that your example might shame such as betray any truth for feare of

Men, whose mission and com'ission                                     from God. You, Sir, know in
Si I
             aI

                                                         :

                                          I
                                                       is
the general, and must justific in particular with infinite cognition, the

benefit haue received from the truths you haue delivered.                                    haue
                                                                      it

                                                                                       I
perused that excellent Unum nccessarium of yours to my very greate

satisfaction and direction and do not doubt but shall in tyme gaine

upon all those exceptions, which know you are not ignorant appeare
against it. 'Tis greate deale of courage, and a greate deale of perill,

but to attempt the assault of an errour so inveterate.

At Kiivai xplanQ t'ov airiparov iS6v. false opinion knows no bottome,

and reason and prescription meet in so few instances but certainely
                                                                      ;

you greately vindicate the Diuine goodnesse, which the ignorance of

men and popular mistakes haue so long charged with injustice. But,

Sir, you must expect with patience the event, and the fruites you con

tend for as shall be my dayly devotions for your successe, who
          :
remaine,
                 it

                        9
Sayes Court, Feb. 1654.                                               Reverend Sir, &c.

                           To Dr. Jeremy Taylor.

   Reverend Sir,

It was another extraordinary charity which you did me, when you
lately relieved my apprehensions of your danger, but that which just
now received and though the general persecution re-inforce yet                           is j
II
     I                                                                                       I

                  :                                                                               it
                                                                                                       is
           I
                                   ;
                                              ?
                        I
                                                                   :
                                               it
                                                   a
your particular which most concernes me in this sad catalysis and

declension of piety to which we are reduced. But Sir, what now to

be don that the Starrs of our once bright hemisphere are every where

pulling from their orbs    remember where you haue sayd was the
                                                                                         it

Harbinger of the Greate Day and very sober and learned person,

my worthy friend, the greate Oughtred, did the other day seriously
perswade me parare in occursum, and will needes haue the following
yeares productiue of wonderfull, and universal changes. What to say
of that know not but certaine
                                                                    is, we are brought to a sad con

dition. speak concerning Secular yet religious Persons whose glory
                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                             ·
.it will only be to lye buried in your ruines, a Monument too illustrious
for such as am.
For my part, haue learned -from your excellent assistances, to
humble myselfe, and to adore the inscrutable pathes of the Most High

                                                                                         38
594 TO DR. JEREMY TAYLOR.

God and his Truth are still the same though the foundations of the

world be shaken. Julianus Rcdivivus can shut the Schooles indeede
& the Temples ; but he cannot hinder our private intercourses and
devotions, where the Breast is the Chappell and our Heart is the Altar.

Obedience founded in the understanding will be the onely cure and re-

traite. God will accept what remaines, and supply what is necessary.
He is not obliged to externals, the purest ages passed under the crud

est persecutions ; it is sometymes necessary ; & this and the fulfilling
of prophecy, are all instruments of greate advantage (even whilst they
presse, and are incumbent) to those who can make a sanctified use of
them. But as the thoughts of many hearts will be discovered, and
multitudes scandaliz'd ; so are there diuers well disposed persons who

will not know how to guide themsclues, unlesse some such good men

as you did discouer the secret, and instruct them how they may secure

their greatest interest, & stsere their course in this darke and uncom

fortable weather. Some such discourse would be highly seasonable

now that the daily sacrifice is ceasing, and that all the exercise of your
Functions is made criminal, that the Light of Israel is quenched.

Where shall we now receive the Viaticum with safety ? How shall we

be baptiz'd ? For to this passe it is come, Sir. The comfort is, the
Captivity had no Temple, no Altar, no King. But did they not ob-

serue the Passover, nor circumcise ? had they no Priests & Prophets

amongst them ? Many are weake in the Faith, and know not how to
answer, nor whither to fly : and if upon the Apotheosis of that excel
lent person, under a malicious representation of his Martyrdome,

engrauen  in copper, & sent me by a friend from  Bruxelles,             the        Jesuite
could so  bitterly sarcasme upon the embleme --

          Projicis inventum caput, Anglia Ecclesia ! Caesum
             Si caput est, salvum corpus an esse potest ?--
how thinke you will they now insult, ravage, and breake in upon the
Flock ; for the Shephards are smitten, and the Sheepe must of neces
sity be scattered, unlesse the greate Shepheard of Soules oppose, or
some of his delegates reduce and direct us. Deare Sir, we are now
                                                                        of God's
preparing to    take our last farewell  (apsubthliqeyue.threIatmenu)st             service
in this Citty,  or any where else in                                     confesse   it is a

sad consideration ; but it is what God sees best, & to what we must
submitt. The comfort Deus providebit. Sir, have not yet been
so happy as to see those papers which Mr. Royston tells me areit, is,it a
printing, but greately rejoyce that you haue so happily fortified that
          II                                  I
batterie and doubt not but you will maintaine the seige for you
:                                                                       is :

must not be discouraged for the passions of few. Reason reason

to me where euer find much more where conduces to a designe
                   I

, so salutary necessary. At least, wonder that those who are not
          &                    I

convinced by your Arguments, can possibly resist your Charity, &:
your Modesty but as you haue greatly subdued my education in that
      THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                   595

particular, and Controversy ; so am I confident tyme will render you
many more Proselytes. And if all doe not come so freely in with their

suffrages at first, you must with your accustomed patience attend

the event.

   Sir. I beseech God to conduct all your Labours, those of Religion to

others, and of Loue and Affection to me, who rcmayne
                                                                            Sir your, &c,

   London: 18 March: 1655.

      To Dr. Jeremy Taylor.

             (Since Bishop of Down and Connor in Ireland.)
Nothing but an affaire very greate and of consequence could stay

me thus long from rendering you a personal acknowledgment for your

late kind visite, and I trouble you with this because I feare I shall not be
able to performe that 'till the later end of the weeke, but I shall, after

this buisinessc is over (which concernes an accompt with a kindsman
of mine), importune you with frequent visits, aud, I hope, prevaile with
you that I may haue the honour to see you againe at my poore Villa,
when my respects are lesse diverted, and that I may treatc you with
out ceremonie or constraint. For it were fitting you did see how I live

when I am by my selfe, who cannot but pronounce me guilty of many
vanities, deprehending me (as you did) at a tyme when I was to gratifie
so many curious persons, ta whom I had ben greatly obliged, and for

whom I have much vallue. I suppose you thinke me very happy in
these outward things ; realy, I take so little satissfaction in them, that
the censure of singularity would no way affright me from embracing
an Hermitage, if I found that they did in the least distract my thoughts
from better things ; or that I did not take more pleasure and incom

parable felicity in that intercourse which it pleases God to permitt me,
in vouchsafing so unworthy a person to prostrate himselfe before Him,
and contemplate his goodnesse. These are indeede gay things, & men

esteeme me happy, Ego autem, peccatorum sordibus inquinatus, diebus

ac noctibus opperior cum timore reddere novissimum quadrantetn .~
Whilst that accompt is in suspence, who can truely enjoy any thing in
this life sine verme t Omnia enim tula timeo : My condition is too
well ; and I do as often wonder at as suspect feare
      it,                                            and yet
                     :        &
                                           it
              I
                  I it it,                                :

                          II                       a

                                                     I
thinke am not to do any rash or indiscreete action, to make the world
is I
take notice of my singularity though do with all my heart wish for

more solitude, who was euer most auerse from being neere greate

Citty, designed against and yet was my fortune to pitch here, more
out of necessity, and for the benefit of others, then choyce, or the least
inclynation of my owne. But Sir, will trouble you no farther with

these trifles, though as to my Confessor speake them. There are yet
more behind. My Essay upon Lucretius, which told you was en
gaged, now printing, and (as understand) neere finished my Ani
                              I

                                                        :
596 ,             TO MY BROTHER G. EVELYN.

madversions upon it will I hope prouide against all the ill consequences,
and totaly acquit me either of glory or impiety. The Captiue Woman
was in the old Law to haue ben head-shauen, and her excraescencies
pared off, before she was brought as a bride to the bed of her Lord. I
hope I haue so done with this Author, as far as I have penetrated, and
for the rest I shall proceede with caution, and take your counselL But,
Sir, I detaine you too long, though with promises to render you a better
account hereafter, both of mv tyme and my studies, when I shall haue
beged of you to impose some taske upon me, that may be usefull to the
greate designe of Virtue and a holy Life, who am,

                                                              Sir, your &c.

      Saycs-Court, 27 April : 1656.

                  To my Brother G. Evelyn.1

I  Deare Bro:     sensible  of the   Sayes-Court, 15 Decern. 1666.      I
   am so deepely                    affliction which presses you, that
cannot forbeare to let you understand how greate a share I have in the
losse, and how reciprocal it is to us. For your part, I consider that

your sex and your knowledge do better fortifie you against the com'on

calamities and vicissitudes of these sublunary things : so that precepts

to you were but impertinencys : though I also find that the Physitian

himselfe has some times neede of the Physitian ; and that to condole
and to counsell those who want nothing to support them but their owne
virtue, is to relieue them of a considerable part of their affliction : But

the feare which I haue that the tendernesse of so indulgent a Mother's

affection (as is that of my deare Lady) may insensibly transgresse its
bounds, to so huge a prejudice as we should all receive by (if her
im'oderate griefe should continue) makes me choose rather, being
absent, to contribute what aydes can towards its remedy, then, being
present, to renew her sorrows by such expressions of resentiment as of
                               I    :

course use to fall from friends, but can add little to the cure, because&
but compliment. Nor do hereby extenuate her prudence, whose ;
                            I                                  :
                                                       I
virtue able to oppose the rudest assaults of fortune but present myit,
arguments as an instance of my care, not of my diffidence.is is
                                                                    confesse
there cause of sadnesse but all who are not stoicks know by expe
rience, that in these lugubrous encounters our affections do sometymes:

                        it
outrun our reason. Nature herselfe has assigned places and instru

ments to the passions and were as well impiety as stupidity to be:
totaly aiopyoj and without natural affection but we must remember
withall that we grieve not as persons without hope least whilst we1
sacrifice to our passions, we be found to offend against God, and by in
dulging an over kind nature redouble the losse, loose our recompence.
Children are such blossomes as every trifling wind defloweres, and to be
disordered at their fall, were to be fond of certaine troubles, but the

                                             On the death of his son Richard.
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  597

most uncertaine comforts ; whilst the store of the more mature, which

God has yet left you, invite both your resignation and your gratitude.
So extraordinary prosperity as you have hitherto ben encircled with,

was indeede to be suspected ; nor may he thinke to beare all his sailes,
whose vessell (like yours) has been driven by the highest gale of feli
city. We give hostages to fortune when we bring Children into the
World : and how unstable this is we know, & must therefore hazard

the adventure. God has suffcr'd this for your exercise : seeke then as

well your consolation in his rod, as in his staff. Are you offended that
it has pleased Him to snatch your pretty Babes from the infinite con
tingencies of so perverse an age, in which there is so little temptation
to live ? At least consider, that your Pledges are but gon a little be
fore you : and that a part of you has taken possession of the Inheri

tance which you must one day enter, if ever you will be happy. Brother,
when I reflect on the losse as it concernes our Family in general, I
could recall my owne, and mingle my teares with you (for I have also
lost some very deare to me) ; but when I consider the necessity of sub
mitting to the divine arests, I am ready to dry them againe and be
silent. There is nothing of us perished, but deposited : And say not
that they might haue come later to their destiny : Magna est felicitas,
citb esse felicem : 'tis no small hapynesse to be happy quickly. That

which may fortune to all, we ought not to accuse for a few : and it is

but reason to support that patiently, which cannot be prevented
possibly. But I haue now don with the Philosopher, and will dismisse
you with the Divine. Brother, be not ignorant concerning them which
arc asleepe, that you sorrow not euen as others which haue no hope :

for if webelieue that Jesus died and rose againe ; euen so them also

which sleepe in Jesus, will God bring with him. They are the words
of St. Paul, and I can add nothing to them. In the meane tyme Aux-

illiarys against this enemy cannot render it the more formidable ; and
though all griefe of this nature haue a just rise : yet it may end in a
dangerous fall : our dear Mother is a sad instance of it : and I conjure
you to use all the art, and all the interest you arc able, to compose
your selfe, & consolate your excellent Lady, which (after I haue pre

sented my particular resentiments) is what I would haue hereby

assisted you in, who am,
                                                 Dear Brother, &c.

                Et consolamini alij alios is/is sermonibus.

   From Mr. Barlow ', a Painter, on dedicating a Plate of Titian's

                           Venus, engraven, to Mr. Evelyn.
      Worthy Sir,

   I haue beene boold to present you with a small peece of my endea

vours. I hope your goodnes will pardon my confidence in that I have

   1 He was a native of Lincolnshire, and placed under Sheppard, a portrait painter ; but bis
598 FROM JOHN EVELYN TO MR. BARLOW.

presumed to dedicate it        vnto you, conceaving no                                     one to be more woor-
                               more obliged for those
thy, or to whom I am                                                                       sivill favours I have
receaved from you. It may seeme strange that I owne that an others

name is to, but my occasions not permiting me so much spare time to
           Mr.
finish              Gawood     my freind                               did, which [who] desyeres his       name
might   be to         for his  advantage                               in his practice, soe consented
        it,                                                                                I               to it
                  it

The drawing after the originall paynting did, and the drawing and
                         I
                                     I
                                        I

                                                 I
outlines of this plate.                                                finished the heads of both the figures, and the
hands and feet, and likewise the doge and the landskape. As Eaching
[etching] not my profeshion, hope you will not exspect much from
         if is
me. Sir, you shall be pleased to honner my weake (yet willing)
endeavours with your exseptation, shall ever rest obliged for this and
                                                                       Your servant to command,
former favours.
                                                                                              Francis Barlow.
From the Black-boy over agaynst St. Dunstan's, Fleat-street,
                      this 22d of December, 1656.

I                From Mr. Evelyn to Mr. Barlow, in reply.              :
      I                                                                  a
        Sir,
I       had no opportunity by the hand which convey'd to returne you                    I
 my acknowledgments for the present you lately sent me, and the ho
 nour which you haue conferred upon me, in no respect meriting either                                               ;
 so greate a testimony of your affection, or the glorious Inscription,
 which might better haue become some greate and eminent Maecenas                                              in

 Ifto patronise, than a person so incompetent as you haue made choyce                                                          1

 of. had ben acquainted with your designe, you should on my                                                              it
 advice have nuncupated this handsome monument of your skill and
 dexterity to some Great one, whose relation might have been more                                                        I;
. considerable, both as to the encouragement, and the honour which you
 deserve. From me you can onely expect a reinforcement of that vallue
 and good esteeme which before your merites had justly acquired, and
 would haue perpetuated of another you had purchased a new friend
 nor lesse obliged the old, because lesse exposed him to envy; since by
 this you ascribe so much to me, that those who know me better, will
 on the one side be ready to censure your judgment, and on the other
 you put me out of all capacity of making you requitall. But since your
 affection has vanquished your reason so much to my advantage, though

   wish the election were to make, yet cannot but be very sensible of

 the signal honour, and the obligation which you haue put upon me.
 should now extoll your courage in pursuing so noble an original, exe

ffenius led him to design after nature every spscies of animals, which he drew with great
exactness, though his colouring '.van not equal to his designs. There are six books of Animals
engraven from his drawings, and set of cuts for /Esop'a Fables. Some ceilings of birds he
painted for noblemen   and gentlemen                                   In the Country and  at Clandon, In
Lard Outlaw, art five  pieces from his                                 pencil, He died     see. Wnlpole'i  Surrey, the teat  »i"
                                                                                                            Antedate*
            . THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                599

cuted with so much judgment and art : but I forbeare to provoke
your modesty, and shall in the meane tyme that I can giue you personal
thankes, receiue your present as an instance of your great civility, and

a memorial of my no lesse obligation to you, who remaine, Sir,
                                                                         Your &c.

       Sayes-Court 23 Decemb. 1656.

                        To Mr. Maddox.
(In behalfe of Dr. Needham, to assist him on the Charge of his
                                         com'encement at Camb.)
       Sir,

  I perceive by the successe of my Letter, & your most civil Reply,
that I was not mistaken when I thought so nobly of you, and spake
those little things neither in diffidence of your bounty or to instruct
I
  I

                       I

                                         it
                                                                                                             it,
but to give you notice when would arrive most seasonably, and be

cause found the modesty of the person might injure his fortune, as
wel as the greatnesse of your kindnesse. -- You are pleased to informe

me of your course, and cannot but infinitely approve of your motions,

because find they are designed to Places in order to things of greater

advantage than the Vanity of the Eye onely, which to other Travalers
has usually ben the temptation of making Tours. For at Marseilles and

Toulon you will informe your selfe of the strength and furniture of the

French on the Mediterranean Seas you will see the Gallys, the Slaves,
                                  is,
and in fine, a very map of the Levant for should you trauell as far as:

Constantinople selfe, or to the bottome of the Straites, you would findI;
                    it                        if

but still the same thing: and the Maritime townes of Italy are no
other. Nismes dos so much abound with Antiquities, that the dif

ference 'twixt  it      and Rome  that thinke the latter has very few

things more worth the visiting: and therefore may as well presentit
you with an idea of that greate Citty, as you were an ocular spectator
of it: for                                                      is
            it      a   perfect Epitome of it. Montpelier  ;             *the next in
                is
                                                            is
order, where suppose you will make some longer stay because there
            I

are Schollars and Students, and many rarities about it. There one

Peter Borell a Physitian, who hath lately published Centuries His'

torical and Medico-Physical.' Montpelier was wont to be a place of
rare opportunitie for the learning the many excellent receipts to make

Perfumes, sweete Pouders, Pomamders, Antidots, and divers such curio

sities, which know you will not omitt for though they are indeede but
            I

                                                                                       ;

                                                         if

                                                                                                        is
trifles in comparison of more solid things, yet, ever you should affect

to live a retired life hereafter, you will take more pleasure in those Re
creations then you can now imagine. And realy Gentlemens despising
those vulgar things, deprive themselves of many advantages to improve
their tyme, and do service to the desiderats of Philosophy, which the

onely part of learning best illustrated by Experiments, and after the study
of Religion, c?rtaine!y the most noble and virtuous. Every body hath
COO FROM JOHN EVELYN TO MR. MADDOX.

Book-learning, which verily is of much ostentation, but of small fruit
unlesse this also be super-added to it. I therefore conjure you that you
do not lett passe, what ever offers it selfe to you in this nature, from
whomsoeuer they come. Com'ortly indeede persons of meane condition
possesse them, because their necessity renders them industrious: but if
men of qualitie made it their delight also, Arts could not but receiue
infinite advantages, because they haue both meanes and leasure to im-
proue & cultivate them: and as I said before there is nothing by which
a good man may more sweetely passe his tyme. Such a person I look
upon as a breathing treasure, a blessing to his friends, and an in
comparable ornament to his country. -- This is to you the true secde-
tyme, and wherein the foundations of all noble things must be layed.
Make it not the field of repentance: For what can be more glorious
then to be ignorant of nothing but of Vice, which indeede has no solid
existence, and therefore is nothing ? Seeke therefore after Nature, and
contemplate that greate Volume of the Creatures whilst you haue no
other distractions: procure to see Experiments, furnish your selfe
with Receipts, Models, and things which are rare. In fine, neglect
nothing, that at your returnc, you may bring home other things then
Talke, Feather, & Ribbon, the ordinary traffiq of vaine and fantastiq
persons. -- I must belieue that when you are in those parts of France
you will not passe Bcattgensicr* without a visit ; for certainely, though
the Curiosities may be much dispersed since the tyme of the most noble
Peireskius, yet the very genius of that place cannot but infuse admir

able thoughts into you. But I suppose you carry the Life of that

illustrious & incomparable Virtuoso always about you in your motions ;
not onely because it is so portable ; but for that it is written in such
excellent language by the pen of the greate Gassendus, and will be a
fit Itinerary with you. When you returne to Paris againe, it will be
good to refresh your Gymnastiq Exercises, to frequent the Court, the
Barr, and the Schooles sometymes ; but aboue all, procure acquaint
ances and settle a correspondence with Learned Men, by whom there
are so many advantages to be made & experiments gotten. And I
beseeche you forget not to informe your selfe as dilligently as may be,
in things that belong to Gardening, for that will serue both yourselfe
and your friends for an infinite diversion : and so will you haue nothing
to add to your accomplishment when you come home, but to looke ouer
the Municipal Lawes of your owne Country, which your interest and
your necessities will prompt you to : And then you may sweetely pass:
the rest of your dayes in reaping the harvest of all your paines, either
by seruing your Country in some publiq employment (if the integrity ·
of the tymes invite you) or by securing your owne felicity, and indeede
the greatest upon earth, in a private unenvied condition, with those

    1 Belgenscr, or Beaugensier, a town near Touton, the birth-place of the celebrated Nicolaas
 CUudius Fabricus, Lord of Peireslc, Senator of the Parliament at Aijt.
      THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                   6ol

advantages which you will bring it of piety and knowledge. Oh the
delice and reward of thus employing our youth ! What a beauty and

satisfaction to haue spent ones youth innocently and virtuously ! What
a calme & serenity to the Mind ! What a glory to your Country, to
your Friends, a contentment to your Instructors : in sum'e, how grcate
a recompence & advantage to all your concernements ! And all this,
Sir, I foresee and augure of Mr. Maddox, of whom may this be the
least portion of his pancgyriq, whilst it serues me onely to testifie how
greate a part I take in all your prosperity, and how grcate an honour
I shall euer csteeme it to be accounted,

                                                                  Sir, Your, &c.

     Sayes-Court, iojan. 1657.

                          To the Lieutenant of the Tower '.*1is
       Sir
   I should begin with the greater Apologie for this Addresse, did notI;
the consideration of the nature of your greate employment and my
feares to importune them carry with them an excuse which I haue hopeI
to beleiue you will easily admitt. But as it is an errour to be trouble
some to grcate persons upon trifling affaires, so were it no lesse a crimeis,
to be silent in an occassion, wherein I may do an act of. Charity, and

reconcile a person to your good opinion, who has deserved so well,

and I thinke is so innocent. Sir, I speake in behalfe of Dr. Taylor,
of whom I understand you have conceived some displeasure lor the
mistake of his Printer , ; and the readiest way that I can thinke ot to
do him honour & bring him into esteeme with you, to beg of you,
that you will please to giue him leaue to waite upon you, that you may
learne from his owne mouth, as well as the world has done from his
writings, how averse he from any thing that he may be charged
withall to his prejudice, and how greate an adversary he has euer ben
in particular to the Popish Religion, against which he has employed
his pen so signally, and with such successe. And when by this favour
you shall haue don justice to all interests, am not without fair hopes,
that shall have mutually obliged you both, by doing my endeavour to
serve my worthy and pious Friend, and by bringing so innocent and
deserving person into your protection who am

                                                                      Sir, &c.
   From Greenwich, 14 Jany. 1656-7.

    " This was written for another Gentleman, an acquaintance with the villain who was now

Lieut, of the Tower, Baxter by name, for never had the least knowledge of him."
     Dr. Jeremy Taylor had been committed prisoner to the Tower, for setting the picture of

Christ praying before his collection of Offices, contrary to new act concerning scandalous
pictures, as they called them.
      I

                                    a

                                                                                             <
602 FROM JOHN EVELYN TO MR. E. THURLAND.

 To Mr. E. Thurland, afterwards Sir Edward Thurland, one of

            the Barons of the Exchequer, and an eminent Lawyer.

       Sir,

  I have ready your learned Diatriba concerning Prayer, & do exceed

ingly prayse your Method, nor lesse admire your Learning and Reason,
which by so rare an artifice has made notions that are very difficult &
abstracted in themselves, so apt and perspicuous : Besides your Argu
ments are drawne from the most irresistible and convincing topicks,
and the designe not onely full of learning, but usefull also to a good

life, which is indeede the right application of it. Sir, I am so much
taken with your piece, and thinke it so excellent a Homily against that

abounding ingredient now in the world, that I presume you shall not
neede my perswasions to induce you to make it publique ; being a
thing which may so grcately contribute to the cure of that epidemical
madnesse, and the vindication of God's glory: since what Trismegistus
so long tyme sayd is most true in our age, 'H fiiyaXt) v&aov rfji ypvxvc >?
deeorijs. and Silius Italicus has interpreted with a complaint

              Heu prima scelerum canssce mortalibus agris,
               Naturam nescire Deutn

But because you have not onely don me the honour to com'unicate so
freely your thoughts to me : but have also laid your com'ands that I
should returne you my opinion of it ; Truely, I should both greately
injure the intrinsiq value of the Worke, as well as my greate esteeme

of the Author, if I should say lesse then I have don : so that if I am

bold, or impertinent in what followes, it will serve onely to make you
the more admire your owne : when you shall find how little can be
added to it. And you must onely blame the liberty you have given me,

if my silence would have become more acceptable.

   First then your Distribution is most methodical and logical, the
Minor produced to assert the Thesis very closely and skillfully handled:
but because your conclusion comes in so long after, whither may it not

a little irXtovaZttv, considering that your argument is Prayer : I would

therefore at the end of some of those Chapters, before you arrive to the
maine Assumption, upon enumeration of the former Syllogismes, men
tion something of it (by way of enumeration) that so the thoughts of
your Reader might not stray from the subject, which is to enforce the
necessity of Prayer : or else alter the Title, and make it comprehensive
of both the parts, as of God, and of Prayer, or something equivalent.

I doe greately approve the reasons you have given for that long digres

sion, to convince those who doubted Democritus, Leucippus, Diogenes,
Epicurus, and the late Pseudo-Politicks, with those who faintly as
sented, as Pythagoras, Anaxagoras, Plato, the Stoicks, Polititians, and

Legislators : But I suppose that since Sextus Empiricus was but a

dilligent collector of the placits and opinions of other Philosophers,
yeu shall do more honour to your Book by omitting the so frequent
        THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELVN.                                                             603

*'%    citing of him : It will sufficiently gratifie the Reader to see his scruples

        satisfied, and their errors convinced, without so particular an account;
        whether you deduced the opinions from the Fountaine or from the
        Streame. And therefore you shall better cite Diogenes Laertius orI
        Cicero then Campanella, for that passage concerning the qualities of
                                                                              :
(Atomcs : and it is more proper to alledge Basil de legendis Ethnico-
        rum scriptis, Augustin de Doctrinfl, Christiana, or Socrates Scholasti-:;

\ cus, to prove the lawfullnesse and benefit of asserting your opinions by:I
        examples out of Heathen Poets, &c. then Sir W. Raleigh's History of:
        the World, who was but of yesterday. Neither would mention Sel-
                          it it
        den, where you might cite Lactantius, Clemens, Josephus, or Eusebius:
        because they are authors which every man will judge you might reade.itI                        :
        And rather Fonseca, or indeede Molin, then Pinellus, who brought that
        opinion from them. --And here, by the way, touching what you affirme5.:
        concerning the fallen Angels intuitive knowledg there be that will                          :
        replye that Lucifer was never in patriA but in viA onely for so St.I
        August, in those excellent treatises De Corruptione et Gratia and De       '
         Dono Perseverantiae. That the fallen Angels never saw God as
        it
       Aitthorem gratia but as cultortm natural, enigmatically and not in;

        tuitively, being then in probation oncly, as was Man, and had the samei

        use of their will God onely at that moment confirming Michael

        and his fellows who refused to come into the rebellious party, what

        tyme as he condemned the Dragon, and the rest of those lapsed

         Spirits.
           Touching the Eternity of the World, suppose you meane de Eter-

        nitate absolute for were else hard to say which was first, the Sun,
        or the Light which projects since they are not onely inseperable
        but simul tempore. God created the World in his mind from eternity,
        say they or as others, Dens fecit aternitatem, atcrnitas fecit mun-
        dum. So Mercurius in Pimander.

           In that passage where you prove the existence of a Deity from the

        wonderfull structure of the Microcosme, Lactantius his booke de opi-
        ficio Dei would extreamely delight and furnish you And so, in all
        that Scala visibilium ad invisibilia, Dr. Charletons Darknesse of
        Atheisme,' C. 4. 1. p. 130, which therefore mention to you, because
        one would not say much of that which has already ben sayd in English
        Would not do also well to speake something of natural Conscience?
        -- suppose where you speake of the Pismire, and other Insects, you
        meane they have not an intellectual Memory for a sensitive doubt-

        lesse they have and here you might appositely have sayd something
       concerning that Animalis Religio, of which St. Ambrose speakes, dis
        tinguishing from Aquinas Religio rationalis.

            Concerning the Lenity of God, upon which you have most rationally
        dilated, the loth Chapt. of the Booke of Proems would extreamely
        delight you, Te>.t?hlng ths Kno'vkdgo of God, you must by all
604 FROM JOHN EVELYN TO MR. E. THURLAND.

meanes, consult that admirable little Treatise of M. Felix his Octa-
vius ; and St. Aug: de Concubitu Angelorum, about our prayers to
them, in which you have so imitated the Divine St. Hierom, by your
constant assertion of the Paradise deduced from Scripture, that more
cannot be wished : yet something which St. Paul has sayd 2: Chapt.
Epist. and Coloss. and in the 9th of Ecclesiast: may be applyed.

    They affirme that the Devill may be an Aerial Body, and by that
meanes enter into mens bodys without our perception : but 1 will not
importune you further with these trifles : onely I will mind you of one
passage of Jamblicus, speaking of the natural sense of God in Man.
Ante omiiem (saith he) usum rationis inest naturaliter insita Dcontm
notio : imb tactus qtiidem divinitatis melior quam notitia : and to that
purpose Cicero de Nat. Deor: Seneca de Providentia, the Golden
Verses of Pythagoras, and more expressely Lactantius, L. 3. C. 9.
where he proves cultum Dei to be naturally in Man, making it a

formal part of its definition, Animal Rationale Religiosum. To con
clude, Augustine, Clemens, Lactantius, Cyrill, Arnobius, Justin Martyr
of oldj -- of the neoteriq, Aquinas, Plaessis Morney, Dr. Andrews,
Grotius, Dr. Hammond in a particular opusculum, I. L. Vives, Brad-
wardine de Causa Dei, Valesius de Sacri Philosophia, Campanella,

and our most ingenious Mr. Moore in his Antidote against Atheisme,
have all treated on this subject : but in so different a manner, and with
so much confusion and prolixity, some few of them excepted, that it
will greately add to the worth and lustre of your piece, who have com

prehended so much in so little and to so excellent purpose. I wish you

had as perfectly made good your promise in what remaines, as in what
you have begun, I meane, touching the forme, matter, posture, place,
and other circumstances of Prayer, in which you would do wonders
upon second thoughts. -- Sir, I have ben bold to note some places with
my black-leade where your Amanuensis has com'itted some sphal-
matas, and peradventure some expressions may be advantageously
altered at your leasure. But there is nothing in all this by which you
will more assert your owne judgment, then in leaving out the Eulogie
which you are pleased to honour mc withall, in citing me as an Author
of any vallue. By this, Sir, you see how bold I am, both to trouble
you with my follys, and then to beg pardon for them ; but as I sayd at
first, you must blame your selfe, partly for enjoyning me, and partly for
allowing me no more tyme. But he that has the perusal of any of

your discourses, cannot but emerge with the greatest advantages. It
was the saying of the greate Salmasius and shall be myne, Nihil

moror Libras, et combustos omnes velim, si doctiores tan turn, non etiam
meliores, qui dant Hit's operant, reddere idonei sunt. But such, Sir, is

your excellent Booke, & such is your Conversation, from which I do
allwayes returne both more learned and better, who am, Sir, your &c

   Sayes-Court 20 Jan: 1656-7
        THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                     60S

        To Mr. Boyle, Son of the Earle of Corke.
       Sir

    I should infinitely blush at the slownesse of this Adresse, if a greate

    indisposition of body, and since, an unexpected Journey (from both
    which I am but lately delivered), had not im'ediately intervened,
/   since you were pleased to com'and these trifles of me. I have omitted
*   those of Brasse, &c. because they properly belonge to Etching and In-

    graving : which treatise, together with five others (viz : Paynting in
    -Oyle, Miniature, Anealing in Glasse, Enamiling, and Marble Paper) I
_,  was once minded to publish for the benefit of the ingenious : but I have
"i
* since ben put off from that designe, not knowing whether I should do
    well to gratifie so barbarous an Age, as I feare is approaching, with
    Curiosities of that nature, delivered with so much integrity as I intended

    them : and least by  : it,

                           I
                                                I
                            should dissoblige some who made those
    professions their living or at least debase so much of their esteeme by

    prostituting them to the vulgar. Rather, conceived that a true and

    ingenuous discovery of these and the like arts would to better purpose
    be compiled for the use of that Mathematico-Chymico-Mechanical

    School* designed by our noble friend Dr. VVilkins, where they might

    be taught to those that either affected or deserved any of them and
                                                                        a
    from them, as from another Solomans house, so much of them onely        :

    made publique as should from tyme to tyme be judged convenient by
    the superintendent of that Schoole, for the reputation of Learning and
    benefit of the Nation. And upon this score there would be most
    willing contribution of what ingenious persons know of this kind, &
    to which should most freely dedicate what have. In the mean
    II                   I
                                                        I
                 9tyme, Sir, transmitt you this Varnish, and shall esteeme my selfe
    extreamely honoured, that you will farther com'and whatsoever else of
    this, or any other kinde possesse, who am Sir, Your &c.

    Sayes-Court, May 1657.

                                To Dr. Jeremy Taylor.;     I                   it it,
                                         ;
         Sir,                                                        :
                                         I
         Amongst the rest that are Tributaries to your worth, make bold to
     present you with this small toaken and though beares no proportionit
     either with my obligation or your merit yet hope you will accept
    as the product of what haue employed for this purpose and whichI
    you shall yearely receive so long as God makes me able, and that
    rnay be useful to you. What can handsomely doe for you by other
    friends, as occasions present themselves, may, hope, in tyme supplie

   that which would myselfe do. In order to which, have already
   made one of my Brothers sensible of this opportunity to do God and

   bis Church an acceptable seruice thinke shall prevaile as much on
   the other the effects whereoff will shew themselues, and care shall be

   taken that you have an accompt of all this in due tyme, and as you
                            I
                                                    I

    :                                                      I

     I                      :I
                                        I
606 FROM DR. j. TAYLOR TO JOHN EVELYN. -

shall "youre selfe desire it. I, will not add, that by bringing you
acquainted with persons of so much virtue (though I speake it of my
neerest Relatiues) I do at all reinforce the kindnesse : since by it I

oblige you mutualy (for so Seneficium dare socialis res est), and be
cause it is infinitely short of his respects who (with Philemon) owes

you euen himselfe, and which, if I haue not sooner payed, I appeale to

Philosophy, and the sentences of that wise man who, as some affirme,
held intercourse with the Apostle him selfe : Qui festinat utique rcd-

dere, noil habet animum grati hominis, sed debitoris : ct qui minis
cito cupit solvere, invitus debet: qui invitus debet, Ingratus est : and

Sir, you haue too far obliged me to be euer guilty of that crime who
am, Reverend Sir, &c.

   Sayes-Court, 9 May, 1657.

               From Dr. Jeremy Taylor.

   Honour'd and Deare Sir,

A Stranger came two nights since from you with a letter and a token:

full of humanity & sweetnesse that was, and this, of charity. 1 know
it is more blessed to give then to receive ; and yet as I no wayes repine
at that Providence that forces me to receive, so neither can I envy that

felicity of yours, not onely that you can, but that you doe give ; and as

I rejoice in that mercy which daily makes decrees in Heaven for my
support & comfort, so I doe most thankfully adore the goodnesse of

God to you, whom he consign es to greater glories by the ministeries of

these graces. But Sir, what am I, or what can I doe, or what have I
done that you can thinke I have or can oblige you ? Sir, you are too

kind to mee, and oblige mee not onely beyond my merit, but beyond

my modesty. I onely can love you, & honour you, and pray for you :
and in all this I can not say but that I am behind hand with you,
for I have found so great effluxes of all your worthinesses & charities,
that I am a debtor for your prayers, for the comfort of your letters, for

the charity of your hand, and the affections of your heart. Sir, though

you are beyond the reach of my returnes, & my services are very short

of touching you, yet if it were possible for mee to receive any commands,
the obeying of which might signify my great regards of you, I could
with some more confidence converse with a person so obliging ; but I
am oblig'd and asham'd, and unable to say so much as I should doe to

represent my selfe to be
                      Honour'd & Deare Sir
               Your most affectionate & most obliged

               freind & Servant             Taylor.

May 15, 1657.                    Jer.
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN. _  607

                           To Dr. Jeremy Taylor,

                      to come and Christen my Son George.

   Sir,

   I heartily acknowlcdg the Divine mercys to me, both in this, and
many other instances of his goodncsse to me ; but for no earthly con-'

cernement more then for what He has conveyed me by your charity
and ministration towards my eternal and better interest ; and for which

I wish that any new gradations of duty to God, or acknowledgments

to you from me, may in the least proportion second my greate obliga
tions, and which you continue to reinforce by new and indelible
favours, which I know my selfe to be so much the more unworthy
off, as I am infinitely short of the least perfection that you ascribe to

me. And because you best know how much a truth that is, I haue not

reason to looke upon that part of your Letter but as upon your owne
emanations, which like the beames of the Sun on darke and opake

bodys make them shine indcede faintly and by reflection. Every one

knows from whence they are derived, and where is there native foun-

taine. And since this is all the Tribute which such dim lights repay.
tu an Ik -Qv adv aoi lrpoopipovuiv, I must never hope to oblige you ; but
what I am able, that I will doe. Sir, I had forgotten to tell you, and it
did indeede extreamely trouble me, that you are to expect my Coach

to waite on you presently after dinner, that you are not to expose your
selfe to the casualty of the Tydes in repairing to doe so Christian an
office for Sir

                                                            Your &c.

       Sayes Court, 9 June, 1657.

                         From Dr. Jeremy Taylor.

      HonourM & Deare Sir
  Your messinger prevented mine but an houre. But I am much
pleased at the repitition of the Divine favour to you in the like in
stances ; that God hath given you another testimony of his love to
your person, & of care of your family ; it is an engagement to you of
new degrees of duty, which you cannot but superadde to the former,
because the principle is genuine and prolific, and all the emanations of
grace are univocal & alike. Sir, your kind letter hath so abundantly
rewarded and crown'd my innocent indeavours in my descriptions of

Friendship, that I perceive there is a friendship beyond what I have

fancied, and a real material worthinesse beyond the heights of the most
perfect ideas : and I know now where to make my booke perfect, and
by an appendix to outdoe the first essay ; for when any thing shall be
obserVd to be wanting in my character, I can tell them where to

see the substance, more beauteous than the picture, and by sending the
readers of my booke to be spectators of your life & worthinesse, they

shall see what I would faine have taught them, by what you really are.
608 -  TO SIR R. BROWNE FROM JOHN EVELYN. '

-- Sir, I shall by the Grace of God waite upon you to-morrow, and doe

the office you require ; and shall hope that your litle one may receive

blessings according to the heartinesse of the prayers which I shall then
& after make for him : that then also I shall wayte upon your worthy
Brothers, I see it is a desyne both of your kindnesse & of the Divine

Providence.

                          Sir, I am your
  June 9, 1657. Most affectionate & most faithfull friendJe&r.STeravyalnotr.

                     To Sir Richard Browne.

       Sir,

  IBy the reverse of this Medall, you will perceive how much reason

had to be affraid of my felicity, and how greately it did import me to
do all that I could to prevent what I have apprehended, what I de
served, and what I now feele. God has taken from us that deare

Childe, your Grandson, your Godsonn, and with him all the joy and

satisfaction that could be derived from the greatest hopes. A losse, so

much the more to be deplored, as our contentments were extraordinary,

and the indications of his future perfections as faire & legible as, yet,

I ever saw, or read off in one so very young : You have, Sir, heard so
much of this, that I may say it with the lesse crime & suspicion. And

indeede his whole life was from the beginning so greate a miracle, that
it were hard to exceede in the description of and which should
here yet attempt, by sum'ing up all the prodigies of it, and what a child
                                        is
                                                   it, it,
                                                             it

                                                               I
                                                                  I

                                                                      ; I it

                                                                   II
at yeares old (for he was little more) capable off, had not given
you so many minute and particular accounts of by several expresses,
5

  I
when then mentioned those things with the greatest joy, which now

write with as much sorrow and amasement. But so is, that has

pleased God to dispose of him, and that Blossome (Fruit, rather mayis;
say) fallen a six days Quotidian having deprived us of him an
accident that has made so greate a breach in all my contentments, as
do never hope to see repaired because we are not in this life to be
                     I
                                 :
fed with wonders and that know you will hardly be able to support:
the affliction &the losse, who beare so greate part in everything that
concernes me. But thus we must be reduced when God sees good,a

and submitt since had, therefore, this blessing for a punishment,

    that might feele the effects of my great unworthynesse. But
have begged of God that might pay the fine heare, and to such
&                                                    it

     I                                                    :
        I                                                          :

                                   ;                              if

                              I                                       I
                                     I

belonged the Kingdome of Heaven, have one depositum there.
                                        :

                                               I
Dominus dedit, Dominus abstulit blessed be his name since without
                                                     for the stroke is
that consideration were impossible to support
       it, I

                 it
so severe, that find nothing in all Philosophy capable to allay the im
pression of beyond that of cutting the channell and dividing with
our friends, who really sigh on our behalfe, and mingle with out
                THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                           609

greater sorrows in accents of piety and compassion, which is all that
can yet any ways alleviate the sadnesse of, Deare Sir, Your &c.

   Sayes-Court, 14 Feb: 1657-8.

                        From Dr. JEREMY TAYLOR.
      Deare Sir,

  If dividing and sharing greifes were like the cutting of rivers, I dare
say to you, you would find your stream much abated ; for I account

my selfe to have a great cause of sorrow not onely in the diminution of

the numbers of your joyes & hopes, but in the losse of that pretty per

son, your strangely hopeful Boy. I cannot tell all my owne sorrowes

without adding to yours ; & the causes of my real sadnesse in your
losse are so just and so reasonable, that I can no othenvise comfort

you but by telling you, that you have very great cause to mourne : So

certaine it that greife does propagate as fire does. You have enkina is,

dled my funeral torch, & by joyning mine to yours, doe but encrease
                                                             I

the flame. Hoc me male ttrit, the best signification of my appre
                              is

hension of your sad story. But Sir, cannot choose but must hold
                                          I                            ;I

another  &&     brighter flame to you --it     already burning in your breast                                                ;
                                           is

&          can but remoove the darke side of the lanthorne, you haue
   if
enough within you to warme your selfe, to shine to others. Remem
     &I                                        &

ber, Sir, your two boyes are two bright starres, and their innocence                                                         is is
securM, you shall never heare evil of them agayne. Their state

safe, Heaven            given to them upon very easy termes nothing but
                   is
to be borne die.           will cost you more trouble to get where they are
             &         It                                                                                                    ;

and amongst other things one of the hardnesses will be, that you must

overcome even this just reasonable greife and indeed, though the
                           &  a
                                                   it
                                                      is ;  much more reasonable
greife hath but too reasonable cause, yet
that you master it. For besides that they are no loosers, but you are

the person that complaines, doe but consider what you would have

suffer'd for their interest you haue suffered them to goe from you, to
                           :

be great Princes in a strange Country and you can be content to
                                          ;       : if

suffer your own inconvenience for their interest, you command yourit is
worthiest love, the question of mourning at an end. But you
           &
                     &
have said done well, when you looke upon as a rod of God and
                                                                           ;

                                                                                 &
He that so smites here, will spare hereafter and you by patience
submission imprint the discipline upon your owne flesh, you kill theif it if
                                                                       in some sense
cause,     make the effect very tolerable because
it,                                            ;
      &&
                                                      &
chosen, therefore in no sense unsufferable. Sir, you do not looke

to time will snatch your honour from you, reproach you for not
effecting that by Christian philosophy which time will doe alone. And

if you consider that of the bravest men in the world we find the scl-
domest stories of their children, the Apostles had none, thousands

of the worthiest persons that sound most in story died childlesse you
                              &
                                                                     &

                                                                                                                          :

will find  it      a rare act of Providence so to impose upon worthy men
               is

                                                                       39
6lO TO E. THURLAND FROM JOHN EVELYN.

a necessity of perpetuating their                                         Names by worthy      actions & dis
courses, gouernments & reasonings.
                                                                          -- If the breach be  neuer repair'd,
it is because God does not see it fitt to be ; & if you will be of his mind,
it will be much the better. But Sir, if you will pardon my zeale &
passion for your comfort, I will readily confesse that you have no need
of any discourse from me to comfort you. Sir, now you have an oppor
tunity of serving God by passive graces : strive to be an example &, a

comfort to your Lady, and by your wise counsel & comfort stand in

the breaches of your owne family, and make it appearc that you arc

more to her then ten sons. Sir, by the assistance of Almighty God I
purpose to wait on you some time next weeke, that I may be a witnesse

of your Christian courage & bravery ; & that I may see, that God neuer
displeases you, as long as the maine stake is preserv'd, I meane your
hopes & confidences of Heaven. Sir, I shal pray for all that you can

            is,
                           it
                               is
                                                    &

                                                        &
                                                                                     &

                                                                                  if

                                                                                                    it
want, that  some degrees of comfort a present mind; and shal

alwayes doe you honour, and faine also would doe you seruice,

were in the power, as  in the affections and desires of,

                       Deare Sir,

                  Your most affectionate                                  obliged freindJer.sTeravaynlot.r.
   Feb. 17, 1657-8.

            To Edward Thurland, Esq.

   Sir,

I  understand that my Lord of Northumberland has some thoughts of

sending his son, my Lord Percy, abroad to travaile, and withall to
allow him an appoyntment so noble and considerable, as dos become
his grcatnessc, and the accomplishment of his education to the best
improvement. My many yeares conversation abroad and relations there
to persons of merite and qualitie, having afforded me severall oppor
tunities to consider of effects of this nature by the successes, when
Gentlemen of qualitie have ben sent beyond the Seas, resigned and
concredited to the conduct of such as they call Governours, being for
the greatest ingredient pedantique sort of Schollars infinitely unin-
            I

                              a
                                       a

                                                                       :
structed for such an employment My ambition to serve you, by con
tributing to the designes of person so illustrious, and worthy of the
honour which find you alwayes beare towards his Lo'p, hath created
in me the confidence to request your advice and returne upon these
particulars. Whether my Lord persist still in his resolution                                           What
                                                                                                  ?
equipage and honorarium my Lord dos allow and whether he has not          ?                           ?

yet pitched upon any man to accompanye my young Lord, &c                                                 Be
cause would, through your mediation, recom'end to his Lo'p a person
of honour, addresse in Court, rare erudition, languages and crediteII
                                                                                                                :

who, thinke, would upon my representing of the proposition, be
ready to serve my lord in an affaire of this importance.
                                                                                               I  shall add
                   THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                 6l I

no more of the person, quum habeat in se, qua; quit m tibi nota flierint

ovQttZiKoiripa imant sirisoXrjs esse judicaberis : and because, in truth, all

that I can say will be infinitely inferior to his merite: being a person
of integrity, greate experience and discretion ; in a word, without re

proach, and such as becomes my Lord to seeke out, that he may

render his Sonne those honourable and decent advantages of the most

refined conversations, things not to be encountered in a pension with
a Pedant-- the education of most of our Nobility abroad, which makes

them returne (I pronounce it with a blushe) insolent and ignorant,
debauched, and without the least tincture of those advantages to be

hoped for through the prudent conduct of some brave man of parts,
sober, active, and of universall addressc -- in fine, such as the person

I would recom'end, and the greatest Prince in Europe might emulate '
upon the like occasion : and therefore such a one, as I cannot presume

would descend to my proposition for any person of our Nation ex
cepting my Lord of Northumberland alone, whose education of his

Sonne, I heare, has ben of another streine and alloy, then that wc

have mentioned : and such as will giue countenance and honour to a

person of his merite, character, and abilities. It is not enough that

persons of my L. Percy's qualitie be taught to daunce, and to ride, to

speake languages and wear his cloathes with a good grace (which arc
the veric shells of travail), but, besides all these, that he know men,

customes, courts, and disciplines, and whatsoever superiour excellencys

the places afford, befitting a person of birth and noble impressions.
This Sir, the fruite of travail thus our incomparable Sidney was
;                  a

  is,                                                       :
bred and this, tanquam Minerva Phidias, sets the crowne upon his

perfections, when gallant man shall returne with religion and courage,

knowledge and modestie, without pedantry, without affectation, ma-

teriall and serious, to the contentment of his relations, the glory of
his family, the star and ornament of his age. This truely to give a
                                                               is

Citizen to his Country. Youth the seede-tyme in which the founda
                   is
                                is

                                                    :

                                                 it
                                                         is
tion of all noble things to be layd but                        made the field of Repent
ance. For what can become more glorious then to be ignorant of no

thing but of Vice, which indeede has no solid existency, and therefore
nothing? And unlesse we thus cultivate our youth, and noblemen
is
make wiser provisions for their educations abroad, above the vanity pf
                ;
Talke, Feather, and Ribbon, the ordinary com'erce and import of their
wild pererrations, despayre of ever living to see a man truely noble
                   I
                            I

                                      '
                                                           is ;'
                                                                                  it

                                                                        I
indeede: they may be called My Lord titles are sounds and inferior

trifles but when Virtue and blood are coincidents, they both add

lustre and mutual excellencys. This what my Lord takes care to

secure to his Sonne, what foresee and augure of my noble lord Percy,

and of whom (though to me no otherwise known then by fame) may
this be the least portion of his panegyrick, whilst concernes me

pnely to testifie without designe, my zeale for one whom know you
6l2 TO G. TUKE AND DR. WILKINS FROM JOHN EVELYN.

so highly vallue ; quanto enim mihi carior est amicitia tint, tanto
antiquior mihi esse debet cura, Mam omnibus officiis testandi; which,
Sir, is the product of this impertinency, and sole ambition of, Sir,
your, &c.

   Sayes Court, 8 Nov. 1658.

      . To my Co: Geo. Tuke of Cressing Temple in Essex.

                                                                                       Jan. 1658-9.
   Speaking of his brother having been made a proselyte to the Church

of Rome: --'For the rest, we must com'itt to Providence the suc-

cesse of tymes & mitigation of Proselytical fervours ; having for my
owne p'ticular a very greate Charity for all who sincerely adore the
blessed Jesus, our com'on & dcare Saviour, as being full of hope that
God (however the present zeale of some & the scandels taken by others
at the instant afflictions of the Church of England may transport them)
will at last compassionate our infirmities, clarilie our judgments and
make abatement for our ignorances, superstructures, passions & errours
of corrupt tymes & interests, of which the Roman persuasion can no
way acquit herself, whatever the present prosperity & secular polity
may pretend. But God will make all things manifest in his own
tyme ; onely let us possess ourselves in patience & charity ; this will
cover a multitude of imperfections.'

                               To Dr. Wilkins.

                   President df our Society at Gressham Coll:
             (afterwards Dean of Ripon and Bishop of Chester.)
       Sir,

  Though I suppose it might be a mistake that there was a Meeting

appoynted to-morrow (being a day of publique solemnity and devotion),

yet because I am uncertaine, and would not disobey your com'ands, I

here send you my trifling observations concerning the Anatomy of
Trees, and their vegetative motion. It is certaine, as Dr. Goddard has
shewed, that a section of any tree made parallel to the Horizon, will

by the closenesse of the circles point to the North, and so consequently,

if a perpendicular be drawne through them for the Meridian, the rest
of the Cardinals, &c. found out ; but this is not so universall, but that '

where strong reflections are made, as from walls, the warme fumes of

dunghills, & especialy if the southern side be shaded, &c. those elip-
ticall and hyperbolicall circles are sometimes very irregular ; and I

1 See Mrs. Evelyn's character of him in a letter to Lady Tuke on his death. Sir Sam.
Tuke of Cressing Temple in Essex, Bart, was a Colonel in the King's service during the civil
war, and afterwards being one of those that attempted to form a body in Essex for King
Charles, he narrowly escaped with his life. He married Mary Sheldon, one of Queen Cathe
III.rine's dressers, and died at Somerset House, Jan. a6, 1673. Dodd's Church History,
                                                                                        151.
His accomplished ton followed the fortune of King James, and was killed at the Battle of the

Boyne.
                  THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                  613

doubt not but by some art might be made to have their circles as
orderly, as those which we find in Brasile, Ebene, &c. which, within a
very little concenter by reason of the uniforme course of the Sun
about them ; which is doubtlesse the cause of their greater dilatation
on the south part onely with us, when the pores are more open, & lesse

constipated. The consideration whereof (though no where mention'd

that I know) made the Poet, giving advice concerning transplantations
to caution thus,

Quin etiam Coeli regionem in cortice signant,
Ut quo quzeque modo steterit, qua parte calorcs

Austrinos tulerit, quas terga obvertcrit axi,

             Restituant : adco in teneris consuescere multum est.
And though Pliny neglect it as an unnecessary curiosity, I can by

much experience confirmc that not one Tree in 100 would miscarry
it

                                              :

                        :I

                                   it, it,

                                        II

                                                      is
were duly observed for in some have made tria.ll of even at
                                                                    it
                                                                                   is
Midsommer. But what would add touching the Graine of many

woods, and the reason of which take to be the descent, as well as

the ascent of moysture for what else becomes of that water which

frequently found in the cavities where many branches spread them

selves at the topps of greate trees, especialy pollards, unlesse (accord
ing to its natural appetite)        sinke into the very body of the stem
                  ?

                                  is it
                                                                 :
through the pores For example in the Wallnut, you shall find

when 'tis old, that the wood rarely figur'd and marbled as were,
                                                                    ;

                                                                             it
                                                                                 is

                                                                                        it
                                                                                                   &
therefore much more esteemed by Joyners, <fcc. than the young, which

whiter without any grains for the raine distilling along the
is                                  is :
         it                                (a

               &
branches, where many of them come out in clusters together from the

stem, sinkes in, and the cause of these markes for                  exceedingly
full of pores. Do but plane a thin chipp off from one of these oldit is
                            is
Trees, and interpose 'twixt your eye and the light, and you shall per
ceive full of innumerable holes. But above all conspicuous for these

workes and damaskings, the Maple finer sort whereof the Germans
call Air, and therefore much sought after by the Instrument makers)
'tis notorious that this tree full of branches from the very roote to                 :

                                is

the su'mite, by reason bears no considerable fruite. These branches
                     it

being frequently cutt, the head                                   the more surcharged with them,

which spreading like so many raies from the center, forme that cavity

at the top of the stem whence they shoote, as contains a good quantity
of water every time  raines This sinking into the pores, as we
                  is
                             it

                                                               :

                                                    it
hinted before, compelled to diverte its course as passes through
                                                                    :finds the knott of any of these
the body of the tree, wherever
                                                                      it
                                                                                  &;
branches which were cutt off from the stem of the tree because

their rootes not onely deeply penetrate towards the heart, but are

likewise of themselves very hard and impervious and the frequent

obliquity of this course of the subsiding waters, by reason of these

obstacles, the cause of those curious and rare undulations workes
is
614 TO T. CHIFFING AND LADY COTTON -FROM JOHN EVELYN.

which we find remarkable in this and other woods, whose branches

grow thick from the stem.

   Sir, I know not whether I have well explain'd my conception, but
              is,
such as it
                I

                                 it,

                                                   ;

                                          it

                                             I
                             offer  and was your com'ands should do so,
                                                             &

                                                                  I
                                                                     I

                                                                          it I
together with that Treatise or History of Chalcography, as part of the

taske you have impos'd but with this hope humble request, that

knowing upon what other subject was engaged before had the

honour to be elected one of this august Society, may obtaine its

indulgence, not to expect many other things from me 'till be accom

plished rather that you will take all occasions which may contribute

to my designe. It there, Sir, that have at large discoursed of the
Vegetation of Plants, and upon that argument which Sir K. Digby
        ;                                                                                                                                             &

                            is                                           shall not be so
                               is

                                              I
the rest so long discours'd at our last encounter, but               it
in this paper, which now at an end, &c.

                                                             Your &c.

Sayes Court, 17 Feb. 1660.

To Tho. Chiffing, Esq. Page of the back stairs to his Majesty

                              and Keeper of his Closet.

In answer to the laudable design of his Majesty for fit reposi
tories of those precious Treasures
                                    ;                 Curiosities com'itted to your

                                            it
                                               is &
charge        conceive you may compleately martial them in a Catalogue
        ;

         &I
                          ;
(as there set forth). This were in truth a noble way to preserve his
treasure intire so as upon occasion to permit a sight of to greate
                                                                 it
Princes curious Strangers for                                             &

                                                                                 it
                                                      great pity should not be made
as famous as the Cabinet of the Duke of Florence, other foraign

princes, which are onely celebrated for [by] being more universally

known, not because his Majesties collection not altogether as
           &                                                     is

worthy, His Majestie being likewise himself so exquisite a judge, as
well as possessor, of so many rare things as might render not onely
Whitehall, but the whole Nation, famous for abroad.
                                                             it
  If be his Majesty's pleasure, shall whenever you call upon me

that may least importune his privacy, make the inventory of par
it it                               I                                                &

ticulars.I                                                                                   &
To this would have added, in another Register, the names por
traitures of all the exotic & rare Beasts Fowls which have at any
                                                      &
time been presented to his Majesty,                       &which are daily sent to bis

Paradise at St. James's Parke.

                               To my Lady Cotton,
                Wife to his brother George Evelyn of Wotton.

       Madame,

  It was by a Visite which was made us this afternoon, that we heard

how had pleased God to dispose of the little sweete Babe and,
withall, how much the losse of does yet afflict you. Whatsoever
it
                                           it

                                                                                                                                                   ;
            THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                  615

    concemes you in this kind                       is,
                                                                       it

                                                                                         ;
                                                    Madame, a com'on diminution to the

    Familie, and touches every particular of                                                but so as our resentiments

    hold proportion to the cause, and that tile losse of one dos not take

    away the comfort and the contentment which we ought to have in

    those who are left since we must pretend to nothing here, but uponis                                     ;
    the conditions of Mortalitie, and ten thousand other accidents and
                       ;
    that we may lcarne to place our felicities in our obedience to the Will

    of God, which allways the best, and to sacrifice our affections upon

    that Altar, which can consecrate our very losses, and turne them to

    our greatest advantage. Madame, have heard with infinite satisfac1

    tion how graciously God had restorM you your health Why should
                                                                                            it,
    you now impairc againc by an excessc of Gricfe, which can rccalle                           &:
            ?                                                                                            it

                      it
    nothing that God has taken to himselfe in exchange without a kind of

    ingratitude There be some may happly sooth your Ladyship in this
    sensible part (which was the destruction of my deare Mother) but
    your Ladyship's discretion ought to fortifie you against                                                 ;before
                                                                                                                     ; is it
    become habitual and dangerous. Remember that you have an Hus                                              it ;
    band who loves you intirely that you have other Children who will
                           ;

                               is

                                                 ;
    needc your conduct that you have many Friends, and a prosperous

    Family. Pluck up your spirits then, and at once vanquish these hurt-
    full tendernesses. It
                                     the vote of all that honor love you

    what God requires of you, and what conjure you to resolve uponI
    and beseech your Lap., let this expresse bring us some fairer confi
    I

    dences of then the com'on report dos represent to the gricfe of
            it,
                        9                              Madame, Your, &c.

      Sayes Court, Sept. 1662.

                           To Mr. Vander Douse,
               Grandson to the greate Janus Dousa.
      Sir,

      have to the best of my skill translated your Relation of China
it I                                                                                        it
    you find the Argument omitted,                     for that thought
                                                                                                                       ;

                                                                                                             if
                                                    it                                      superfluous,
                                                       is

                                                                 ;

                                                                 II
    being almost as large as the Text but have yet left a sufficient
    space where you may (if you thinke good) insert it. In the meane time,
       would be considered, whether this whole piece will be to the purpose,
there having ben of late so many accurate descriptions of those

    Countries in particular, as what Father Alvarez Semedo has publish'd
in the Italian Vincent Le Blanc in French and Mandelslo in High
            ;                                          &
                                                                       ;
Dutch not omitting the Adventures Travels of Pinto in Spanish
       ;                                                                                    I

                                                                                                     is

                                                                                                                   ;
all of them now speaking the English language. At least conceive,

that you might not do amisse to peruse their workes, and upon corn-

pairing of them with this piece of yours, to observe what there more

accurate and instructive lest you otherwise seeme actum agcre, as the
                           I
                                  ;
word is: But this, Sir, remit to your better judgement, who am
                                                                                            Sir, Your, &c
      Sayes Court 13: Sept: 1662.
6l6 TO DRS. CROONE AND PIERCE FROM JOHN EVELYN.

To Mr. (afterwards Dr.) Croone, Professor of Rhetoriq, at Gresham
                                          College, London.

Sir,
It has neither proceeded from the unmindfullnesse of your desires,
or your deserts, that I had not long before this gratified your incli

nations, in finding you out a condition, which it might become you to
embrace, if you still continue your laudable curiosity, by wishing for

some opportunity to travell, and see the World. There have pass'd

occasions  (and some which did  neerely concerne my Relations) when
           happly have engag'd  you ; but having long had a greate
I might

ambition to serve you, since I had this in prospect, I rather choose to
dispence with my owne advantages, that I might comply with yours.
My worthy and most noble Friend Mr. Henry Howard, has by my Co:
Tuke signified to me his desires of some fit person to instruct, and
travell with his two incomparable children ; and I im'ediately sug
gested Mr. Croone to them, with such recco'mendations and civilities

as were due to his merits, and as became me. This being cherefully
embrac'd on their part, it will now be yours to second it. All I shall

say for your present encouragement, is but this : England shall never

present you with an equal opportunity j nor were it the least diminution

that Mr. Croone, or indecde one of the best Gentlemen of the nation,

should have the Tuition of an heire to the Duke of Norfolke, (after
the Royal Family) the greatest Prince in it. But the Title is not the
thinge I would invite you to, in an age so universally deprav'd amongst

our wretched Nobility. You will here come into a most opulent worthy
family, and in which I prognosticate (and I have it assur'd me) you shall
make your fortune, without any further dependances : For the persons

who governe there, have both the meanes to be very gratefull, and as

generous a propensity to it as any family in England: Sir, if you thinke
fit to lay hold on this occasion, I shall take a tyme to discourse to you of

some other particulars which the limits of an hasty Letter will not permitt

me to insert. I have ben bold to leave this for you at the Colledge ;
because I was uncertaine of seeing you, and that I have promis'd to

give my Friends an account of its reception. If your affaires could so

far dispense with you, as to afford me an afternoones visite at my

poore Villa, I should with more liberty conferr with you about and
           I
in hope of that favour remaine,I

Sayes Court n: July: 1663.                                                            ;Sir, Your, Ac.

                                                                              it,
To Dr. Pierce, President of Magdalen Coll. in Oxford and one of

                          his Majesty's Chaplaines in Ordinary.
        Reverend Sir,
   Being not long since at Somersett-house, to do my duty to her
Majesty the Queene Mother, fortun'd to encounter Dr. Goffee. One
                 THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                        617

of the first things he ask'd me was, whither I had scene Mr. Cress/s '
Reply to Dr. Pierce's so much celebrated Sermon ? I told him, I had
heard much of but not as yet scene
I                                   upon which he made me an

            it,

                                                   ;
                                                                               :

                                             it
                                            I:
                                                                              (a
offer to present me with one of the bookes, but being in hast, and. with
a friend, easily excus'd his civility, that could not well stay 'till he
should come back from his lodging In the meane time he gave no
ordinary encomiums of your rare piece, which he exceedingly magni
fied, as beyond all answer and to reinforce the triumph, he told me

that you had written a Letter to some friend of yours copy whereof
he believed he should shortly produce) wherein (after you had express'd
your greate resentiment that some of the Bishops had made you their
property, in putting you upon that ungratefull argument) you totaly
declin'd to engage any farther in the controversy intimating that you
it

      :

                     it
                                                                                                                                        ;

                                                                                   I
would leave at the Bishops dorcs, and trouble yourselfe no more with
This (or words to this efiect) being spoken to myselfe, and to some
others who stood by, would have weigh'd more with me, had not

been as well acquainted with these kind of artifices to gaine Proselytes
by, as of your greater discretion never to have written such a letter,

and abilities to vindicate what you have publish'd, when you should seeII; it,

your time. Nor had likely thought more of had not my Lord of
Canterbury, the Bp. of Winchester, together with my Lord Chancelor

(to whom upon some occasion of private discourse, recounted the
passage) expressly injoyned me to give you notice of  it I

                                                            ;

                                                                      it
                                                                                  because they

thought did highly concerne you and that you would take civily
I it                          it ;
        ;; Ifrom me. And, Sir, have don faithfully but with this humble

request, that (unlesse there be very greate cause forit                           you will be
                                                       it)
               I
                                                                 ;
tender of mentioning by what hand your intelligence comes because

   may do me some injur)'.

   Sir, am perfectly assurM, that you will do both yourselfe and the
Church of England that right, which becomes you upon this occasion.

will not say that the burthen ought to be cast upon your shoulders
alone but will pronounce
                           it    greater marke of your charity, and
                              a

zeale and such as intitles you to the universal obligation which all
men haue to you upon confidence whereof satisfie myselfe you will
                    ;               is I
                                                    &

                                                                           ; it
soone dismantle this douty Battery, and assert what you haue gain'd so

gloriously:
   Thus discharge my duty, in obedience to their com'ands. But
is
           I
    upon another account that was not displeas'd with having anI
opportunity by this occasion to expresse my thankes great acknow
ledgements to you, for the present you made me of that your incom
parable Sermon, and which in my opinion sufficiently impregnable
But something must be don by these buisy men, to support their
credit, though at the irreparable expence of truth, and ingenuity. The
Epistle before Mr. Cressy's papers dos not want confidence: and we

              1     For an acenmt of Crcssy see Wood's Athena: Oxonicnses.
6l8 TO DOCTOR PIERCE FROM JOHN EVELYK.

are very tame whiles we suffer our Church to be thus treated by such
as being once her Sons did so unworthily desert her. But pardon this

indignation. I am
                                      Reverend Sir
                                                   your most &c

   Sayes-Court, 20th Aug: 1663.

Sir                  To Doctor Pierce, &c.

I receiv'd your favour of the first of this moneth with very different

passions, whiles in some periods you giue me reasons so convincing,

why you should rather consult your health, and gratifie your charge, &

personal concernements, than reply to impertinent bookes ; and in
others againe make such generous and noble offers, that the Church of
England, and the Cause which is now dishonor^, should not suffer
through your silence: And I had (according to your com'ands) made
my addresses to those honourable persons with something of what you
had instructed me: had either my Lord of Winchester, or my L: Chan
cellor been in towne: Since I received your letter my L: of Winchester
is indeede gone to Farnham some few days past: but I was detain'd

by speciall buisinesse in the Country 'til this very moment, when coming
to London on purpose to waite on him I miss'd him unfortunately, and
unexpectedly: In the meane time, I was not a little rejoye'd at some
thing my Ld: of Salisbury did assure me, of some late kind intercourse
betweene you and your Visitor, to the no small satisfaction of all those

that love and honor you here.

  In pursuance of your farther injunction, I was this very morning
with Doctor Goff : after a short ceremony we touched upon Cressy's
pamphlet: He tells me there are eight sheetes more printing (by
a Reverend Father of the Society, as he nam'd him) who has put Mr.
Cressy's Rhapsody into mode and figure, that so it might do the worke

amongst Scholars, as it was like to do it with his illiterate Proselytes:

Upon this I tooke occasion to remind him of the Letter which he lately

pretended you had written, intimating your resolution not to reply:
After some pause he told me, that was a mistake, and yet he heard it

Iwas onely a friend of yours which writt so: Whither he suspected

came a birding, or no, I cannot be satisfied, but he now blench'd what

before (I do assure you) he affirm'd to me concerning your owne writing
that Letter. This is the infelicity (and I haue obserVd it in more then
one) that when Men abandon their Religion to God, they take their
leave also of all ingenuity towards men. And what could I make of
this shuffling, and caution, now turn'd to a mistake, & an heare-say?
but so it seemes was not that of your being offended with the Bishops
for the ingratefull  taske they             you, which
and the difference   'twixt you  put  upon  Visitor: --so  he often repeated ;
                                 and  your                 after a short velita
           THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.        619

tion, we parted. Sir, I have nothing more to add to your trouble, then

that I still persist in my supplication, and that you would at last breake
through all these discouragements and objections for the publiq benefit.
It is true, men deserve it not ; but the Church, which is dearer to you
then all their contradictions can be grievous, requires it. You can (in
the interim) govern a dissorderly College which calls for your assiduous
care j but so dos no lesse the needes of a despis'd Church ; nor ought
any in it concerne themselves so much as to this particular, without
being uncivill to you: Though (I confesse) after you have once chas-
tis'd this insolence, no barking of the Currs should provoke you for the
future: Sir, I do not use a quarter of those arguments which your
friends here suggest, why you ought to gratifie the Church by standing
in this gapp ; because I am confident you perfectly discerne them ;

and that though some particular persons may have unjustly injured
you, yet she has been kind, and indulgent ; and in a Cause which con-
ccrnes either her honor or veracity, it will be glorious (not to say
gratefull) you should vindicate her wrongs. You are not the onely

subject which that Academiq Jack-pudding has reproch'd more bitterly
personally: The Drunkards made a song of holy David, yet still he
daune'd before the Arke of God, and would be more vile. What are

we Christians for ? I do assure you, there is nothing I have a greater
scome & indignation against, then these wretched Scoffers, and I looke

upon our neglect of severely punishing them as an high defect in our

politiques, and a forerunner of something very funeste. I would to God

Vertue and Sobriety were more in reputation: but we shall turne

plainely Barbarians, if all good men be discourag'd. Sir, you are of a
greater mind then not to despise this. Fa pkr bene e lascia dire. But
I run into extravagances, and I beseech you to pardon my zeale, and

all other the impertinences of Sir,

                                                           Your, &c.

    Lond: 17th: September, 1663.

To Mr. Sprat, Chaplaine to the Duke of Buckinghame,

           afterwards Bishop of Rochester.'
   Upon receipt of the Doctor's Letter: and the hint of your designe,

which I received at Oxford on my returne from Cornebery, I su'moned
such scatter*d notices as I had, & which I thought might possibly serve

you in some particulars relating to the person and condition of Sorbiere.
His birth was in Orange, where he was the sonn of a Protestant,

a very indigent and poore man ; but however making a shift to give
him some education as to letters, he design'd him for a Minister, and
"
           him to be pedagogue to a Cadet of Monsieur le Comte de la
 procur"d
Suze, in whose family he liv'd easily enough, till being at length

   1 This letter alludes to Mom. Sorbiere's 'Voyage to England,' then just published : and
also to Observations on the same Voyage by Dr. Sprat.
620 TO MR. SPRAT FROM JOHN EVELYN.

discover'd to be a rampant Socinian he was dischargM of employment,
but in revenge whereof ('tis reported) he turn'd Apostat, & renounc'd

his Religion, which had been hitherto Hugenot ; I forgot to tell you
that before this he obtain'd to be made a Schoolemaster to one of the

Classes in that Citty ; but that promotion was likewise quickly taken
from him upon the former suspition. He has pass'd through a thou
sand shapes to ingratiat himselfe in the World, & after having been an
Aristarchus, Physitian (or rather Mountebanq) Philosopher, Critic, &
Polititian (to which last he thought himselfe worthily ariv'd by a ver
sion of some heterodox pieces of Mr. Hobbes) the late Cardinal
Mazarin bestow'd on him a pittifull Canonical at Avignon worth about
200 crownes per ann, which being of our money almost 50 pounds,
is hardly the sallary of an ordinary Curat : but for this yet he under
went the basest drudgery of a Sycophant in flattering the Cardinal

upon all occasions the most sordidly to be imagin'd, as where I can

shew you him speaking of this fourb for one of the most learned
persons of the age. He styles himself Historiograph du Roy, the
mighty mecde of the co'monest Gazetiere, as that of Conseiller du Roy
is of every trifling petifogcr, which is in France a very despicable
qualification. It is certaine that by some servile intelligences he made
a shift to skrew him selfe into the acquaintance of many persons of
quality, at whose tables he fed, & where he entertain'd them with his
impertinencies. A greate favourite of our late Republiq he was, or
rather the vilany of Cromwell, whose expedition at Sea against Hol
land he infinitely extolls, with a prediction of his future glorious
atchievements, to be seene in an Epistle of his to Mons: de Courcelles,
1652, and upon other occasions, not to omitt his inciting of our Roman
Catholiques to improve their condition under his Majestie by some
effort, which smells of a Rebell spirit, even in this relation which he
presumes to dedicat to the French King.

   Thus as to the person of that man and his co'munications : For the

rest in which this audacious Delator sufficiently exposes himselfe to

your mercy, I forebeare to add ; unlesse it be to put you in mind of
what occurs to me in relation to your vindicating my L: Chancelor,

whom all the world knows he has most injuriously vilified : and you
haue an ample field to proceede on, by comparing his birth and educa
tion with that of his Cardinal Patron, whom he so excessively magni
 fies, and even makes a demi-god.

    My L: Chancelor (Ed. Hyde, Earl Clarendon) is a branch of that
antient & honorable family of Norbery in Cheshire as it is celebrated by
 Mr. Camden in his Britannia, and so famous for the long robe, that an
 Uncle's Son of his present Lordship came to be no lesse a man than L:
 Chiefe Justice of England not long since, which dignity runs parallel with
 their premier President de Paris, one of the most considerable charges
 of that Kingdome. Nor has this person ascended to this deserved
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  62 1

   eminency without greate and signal merits, having pass'd through so
   many superior Offices ; as Chancellor of the Exchequer : Privie Coun
   sellor, Ambassador Extraordinary &c. not to mention his early engage
  ment with his Majestic- Charles the I. in a period of so greate defec
   tion ; the divers weighty affaires he has successfully managed, fidelity

   to the present King, his eloquent tongue, dextrous and happy pen,
  facetious conversation and obliging nature, all of Ihem the products of
  a free and ingenious education, which was both at the University &
   Inns of Court, now crown'd with an experience & addrcsse so con-
  sum't, that it were impossible this Satyrist should have hit on a more
  unreasonable mistake, than when he refin'd upon the qualifications of
  this illustrious Minister. You will meete in a certaine Letter of the old

  Kings to his Consort the Q: Mother, that his Majestie long since had
  him in his thoughts for Secretary of State. But these topics were
  infinite, and 'tis no wonder that he should thus defame a Chancelor, who
  has been so bold as to dare to censure a Crown'd head, and to call in
  question the procedure of the K. of Denmark about the affaire of Corn-
  litz Ulefield ', for which Monsieur l'Abbe de Paulmyr has perstringM
  him to the purpose, and publish'd it in French, together with some
  observations of an English Gent: upon the relation of Sorbiere, in
  which those unworthy and malicious imputations of lashete & bas-
  sessc in the Nation is perfectly vindicated, even by citations cnely of
  their owne French authors, as namely Andre- du Chesne, du Verdier,
  Philippe de Commines, and others of no meane name & estimation
 amongst their most impartial Historians, sufficient to assert the Cou-
- rage & Gallantry of the English, without mentioning the brave impres
  sions the Nation has made even into the very bowells of their Country,
.which after the winning of severall signal battails, they kept in subjec
 tion some hundreds of yeares.
 - You cannot escape the likely choice which he made by which to
 judge & pronounce of the worth of English Bookes, by the learned col
 lection he carried over with him of the workes of that thrice noble
 Marchionesse ', no more then of his experience of the English Dyet by
 the Pottage he eate at my L: of Devonshires : But it is much after the
 rate of his other observations ; or else he had not pass'd so desultorily
 our Universities & the Navy, with a thousand other particulars worthy
 the notice, & not to be excus'd in one pretending to make relations ; to
 omitt his subtil reflexions on matters of State, and medling with things
 he had nothing to do with : such as were those false & presumptuous
 suggestions of his that the Presbyterians were forsooth the sole restorers

of the King to his Throne, and the palpable ignorance of our Historio

graph Royal, where he pretends to render an accompt of divers antient

     1 Count Cornelius Ulefield Oxenstciern , Danish Prime Minister.
    9 Margaret Cavendish, Marchioness, afterwards Duchess of Newcastle, a very voluminous

writer, both in verse and prose. There are ten or eleven volumes of her works in thin foiios.
623 -      TO VISCOUNT CORNEBERY.FROM JOHN EVELYN.

passages relating to the English Chronicle : the jurisdiction and Legis
lative power of Parliaments, which he mingles and compares with that
of the Kings to celebrate & qualific his Politicks : upon all which you
have infinite advantages. It is true he was civily receiv'd by the Royal
Society, as a Person who had reco'mended him selfe to them by pre
tending he was Secretary to an Assembly of Learned men formerly

meeting at Monsieur Monmors at Paris ; so as he had been plainely

barbarous not to have acknowledged it by the mention he makes ;

whiles those who better know whose principles the Mushroom (Mr.
           is addicted to, must needes  suspect his integrity ;  since
Hobbes)    on the Earth a person who                                    there
lives not                               has more disoblig'd it
                                        Sir, I am, &c.

P.SS.ayeIs-kCnoouwrt,no3t1sht oOwcty.ou16m64a.y have design'd to publish your reflex
ions upon this disingenuous Traveller ; but it would certainely be most

co'municative & effectual in Latine, the other particular of his relation

co'ming onely to those who understand the French, in which language
it is already going to be printed.

                       To my Lord Viscount Cornebery.
      My Lord,

   Being late come home, imagine me turning over your close printed
memoires, and shrinking up my shoulders ; yet with a resolution of
surmounting the difficulty, animated with my Lord Chancelors & your

Lordships com'ands, whom I am perfectly dispos'd to serve, even in the

greatest of drudgeries, the Translation of Bookes' : Eut why call I this

a drudgery ? who would not be proud of the service ? By the slight

tast of it I find God & the King concern'd, and I will in due tyme endea
vour to p'sent your Lordship & the world with the fruites of my obe
dience, cherefully, & with all due reguards : Nor is it small in my esteeme

that God directs you to make use of me in any thing which relates to

the Church, though in my Secular station. I began indeede (as your

Lordship well remembers) with that Essay on St. Chrysostome some
yeares since upon that consideration, though prompted by a lugubrous

occasion, such a one (though in no respect so greate a one) as what I
but too sensibly perceive afflicts my Lord your Father ; for as I last

beheld his countenance, in thought I saw the very shaft transfixing him ;
though the greatnesse of his minde, and pious resignation * suffer him
to do nothing weakely, and with passion.

  Besides the Divine precepts, & his Lordships greate example, I could

never receive any thing from Philosophy that was able to add a graine
to my courage upon these irremedilesse assaults like that Enchiridion

I 1 Mysterie of Jesuitisme, & its pernicious consequences as it relates to Kings & States, w*h
  published thisyeare.
  * Upon th» death of his Sonne Edward, a very brave & hopefull young man.
        .THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                            523

& little Weapon of Epictetus, Nunqnam te quicquam perdidisse dicito

sed reddidisse says he : Filius obijlt rcdditus est; it is in his 15th.
chap : Repeate it all to ray Lord, and to your selfe ; You cannot
imagine what that little target will encounter ; I never go abroad with

out it in my pocket. What an incomparable guard is that ra fa 1//1I v,

cap. 1. where he discourses of the things which arc, are not in our
                                                                    &.
                                                                                       ;

                                                                                           i*p
power:  know, my Lord, you employ your retirements nobly weare
it, I

          'd

             I
                I

                        ;I
                                 I

                                      I
                                                       &&

                                                           I
this defensive for my sake, had almost sayd this Christian Office.
But, my Lord, am told, we shall have no Lent indicted this ycare.

acknowledge, for all Doctor Gunning, that much doubt of its apos

tolical institution but should be heartily sorry a practise so neere to

so agreeable to Antiquity, so usefull to Devotion, and in sum so con

firm by our Laws, should now faile sinke, that his Majestie his Laws
                                                                    &

                                                                                          :

                                                                                    it
aTe restored. know not what subtile political reasons there may be

were better, flesh shoultl be given away for a moneth or two to the poore

in some greate proportion, and that particular men should suffer,* than

a sanction a costomc so decent should be weaken'd, not to say ab
        ;

             &
rogated believe 'twill not be so easy a thing to rcasume a liberty of

this nature, which gratifies so  many humours of all sorts.          Because
God gives us plenty, must we                                        sit at the
                                 always riot? If those who

hclmc hearken to the murmurs of impertinent                         avaritious men, pray
                                                                    &

                                                                                                            :

                                                                                        I
God they never have cause to repent of the facility when 'tis too late.

know religious fasting dos not so much consist in the species and
I

            it
                                 ;
                                          ;

                                        is is ;

                                              (I
quality as the quantity nor in the duration, as the devotion                                                           have

always, esteemed abstainance a tanto beyond the fullfilling of periods &

quadragessimas nor this of ours every where observ'd alike by
Christians but since all who are under that appellation do generaly

keepe where Christ nam'd                                         do not meane among the Romanists

alone) a few imperfect reformers excepted methinkes a reverend
antient costome should not so easily be cancel'd for so looke on
                                                                    ;
                                                                                  ;

                                                                                     I
                                                                                                           it, &

once we neglect the Indiction. But were that for one fortnight, with
if
                          lesse indulgence to the faulty (as they call
              it

                                                         :

                                    &

                                  I

                                                  it
                                                             is
a strict proclamation,
that shop of iniquity) and some other pretenders to liberty in my
                                                                    it
                                                                           &

                                                                                                                    ;
opinion would greately become the sollemn, approching station of
the Passion Weeke And would to God were reduced but to that,

that the irksomenesse might not deterr the more delicat, ndr the pro
                                                                 to sell flesh. We in this Island have
hibition those whose interest
so natural a pretence to mingle this concerne of Devotion into that of

the State, that they might be both preserv'd without the least shadow
of Superstition and once our Fishery were well rctriev'd (than which

nothing could be more popular, nor indeare the person who should
        it)

                   ;

                      if
establish the profit of that alone would soone create proselytes of the
most zealous of our carnivorous Samaritans. Why should there be an
interruption of our Laws forayeare, to the infinite disadvantage of t!ie?
£hurch of England in many reguards
624 TO. VISCOUNT CORNEBERY FROM JOHN EVELYN.

   My L: You are a pious person, and the Lenten abstinence mindsrae

of another incongruity that you Parliament-men will I hope reforme,

& that is the frequency of our Theatrical Pastimes during that Indic-

tion. It is not allow'd in any City of Christendom so much as in this
one Towne of London, where there are more wretched & obscene

plays permitted than in all the World besides. At Paris 3 days, at
Rome 2 weekely, and at the other Cittys of Florence, Venice Arc. but

at certaine jolly periods of the yeare, and that not without some con

siderable emolument to the publique ; whiles our Enterludes here are

every day alike ; so as the Ladys and the Gallants come rcaking from

the Play late on Saturday night, to their Sonday Devotions ; the ideas

of the Farce possesses their fantsies to the infinite prejudice of Devo

tion, besides the advantages it gives to our reprochfull blasphemers.

Could not Friday, & Saturday be spar'd ; or if indulged, might they

not be employ'd for the support of the poore, or as well the main
 tenance of some Worke-house, as a few debauch'd Comedians ! What
. if they had an hundred pound per ann. lesse com'ing in ; this were but

policy in them ; more than they were borne too, & the onely meanes to
            If(ifmyI
consecrate            may   use the tearme) their scarse allowable imperti
nences :              Lord  Chancelor would be but instrumental in reform

ing this one exorbitancy, it would gaine both the King and his Lord
ship, multitudes of blessings. You know, my Lord, that I (who have
written a Play' & am a scurvy Poet too some times) am far from Puri-
tanisme ; but I would have no reproch left our Adversaries in a thing

which -may so conveniently be reform'd. Plays are now with us be-
' come a licentious excesse, & a vice, & neede severe censors that should

looke as well to their morality, as to their lines and numbers. Pardon
this invective, my L: nothing but my perfect affection for your person
& your vertue could have made me so intemperate ; & nothing but my
hopes that you will do the best you can to promote the greate interest
of Piety, & things worthy your excellent opportunities, could have
render'd me thus prodigal of my confidence : Season my Lord your
Father with these desiderata to our consu'mat felicity ; but still with
submission & under protection for the liberty I assume ; nor let it
appeare presumption irremissable, if I add, that as I owne my Lord
our illustrious Chancelor for my Patron & Benefactor ; so I pay him as

tender & awfull respect (abstracted from his greatnesse & the circum
stances of that) as if he had a natural as he has a virtual & just domi
nion over me ; so as my gratitude to him as his Beneficiary, is even
adopted into my religion, and 'till I renounce that, I shall never lessen
of my duty ; for I am ready to professe  have found more tender-
is

  &

                                                      is
                                                                    ;

                                                 if

                                            iIt,

                                                                                it

                                                                                                            is

                                                                                j
nesse, greater humanity from the influences of his Lordship than

· It not recollected that there any reference or allusion to this Play in any other part
of Mr. Evelyn's Memoirs or Writings and, really written,
impulse he purposely destroyed it.                        most likely that from
              THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.      625

from all the Relations I have now in the World, wherein yet I have

many deare & worthy friends. My L: pardon againe this execsse,
which I sweare to you, proceedes from the honest, & inartificial gra
                       My Lord
titude of

                                your &c.

Lond. 9 Feb. 1664-65.

it,                        To Sir Tho. Clifford,

     2                       (afterwards Lord High Treasurer.)
        Sir,

    Upon receipt of yours of the 17th instant, I repair'dtomy L: Arling

 ton, and from him to his Majestie, who on sight of your Letter added
 his particular com'ands, that upon arrival of the Prisoner I should
 im'ediately bring young Everse to him, and that then he would instruct
 me farther how he would have him treated ; which I perceive will be

 with greate respect, and some thinke with Liberty : for the other

 Captaine, that I should pursue his R: Highnesses directions : and in
 order to this, I haue com'anded my Martial to be ready. I am sorry
 we are like to haue so many wounded men in their company, but I
 have taken all the care I can for their accomodation : I pray send me a

 list of the names & qualities of our Prisoners, they being so apt to con
 trive & forme stories of themselves, that they may passe for Embde-
 ners or Danes : I thanke God all our affaires here are in good order :

I did yesterday repaire to the Commissioners of the Navy to remove

the obstruction which hindered our Receiver from touching the effects

of our Privy Seale, they pretending a defect in the Order, which I

have been faine to carry back to the Councill : Coll : Reymes writes for

£,700: Sir, here haue ben an host of women, making moane for their

losse in the unfortunat London*: I have with much artifice appeas'd
them for the present ; but they are really objects of much pitty ; and
I have counsel'd them to make choyce of some discreete person to

represent to us their respective losses, & expectations, that we may

consider their cases without clamor & disturbance. Sir, I am ravish'd
to heare our Fleet is in so flourishing a condition, I pray God to con
tinue and give you all successe. would beg the presentment of my

most humble duty to his Royall Highness, and that you will grace
with your more particular com'ands,

                                                            Sir, your &c:
   Lond. Apr. 1665.
                       :

                         I

                               is

                                                   I
              To Dr. (afterwards Sir) Christopher Wren, &c.
       Sir,1
   You may please to remember that some tyme since begg'd a favour

of you in behalfe of my little Boy he now susceptible of instruction,

                       The London Frigate, blown up by accident, with above aco men.

                                                                                                  40
626 TO SIR CHRISTOPHER WREN FROM JOHN EVELYN.                                                                  ,

a pleasant, and (though I speake                       a most ingenious and pregnant
      I
                          ;
                           is
                                   I
                                   I
                                                : it)
child. My designe to give him good education he past many
                                                                    ;

                                                                            is

                                                                                                   :
initial difficulties, and conquers all things with incredible industry Do
me that eternal obligation, as to enquire out and recom'end me some
                                     will give him ,£20 per annum Sallary,
young man for a preceptor.

and such other accom'odations as shall be no ways disagreeable to an

ingenuous spirit and possibly may do him other advantages In all
                                                                             if
                                                                                               :
                                                                                                 &
cases he will find his condition with us easy, his scholar a delight,

the conversation not to be despised This obliges me to wish he may
not be a morose, or severe person, but of an agreeable temper. The

qualities require are, that he be a perfect Grecian, and more than

vulgarly Mathematical, so much the more accomplish'd for my designe:

myne owne defects in the Greeke tongue and knowledge of its useful-

nesse, obliges me to mention that particular with an extraordinary

note in sum would have him as well furnish'd as might be for the
      :
                     ;

                 I
                     if

                                  &
laying of a permanent solid foundation The Boy capable beyond
                                                       I            I
                                                                 :     I is
his yeares and you encounter one thus qualified, shall receive
                                                                                                               it
                                                                                                                           it
amongst the greate good fortunes of my life that obtain'd by the
benefit of your friendship, for which have ever had so perfect an
esteemc. There no more to be said, but that when you have found
            is

the person, you direct him im'ediately to me, that may receive, and
                                                                    I

value him.

   Sir, am told by Sir Jo: Denham that you looke towards France this
somer be assur'd will charge you with some addresses to Friends of
      :I
                      I

mine there, that shall exceedingly cherish you and though you will
                                                       a

                                                          I
                                                               I
                                                                    I;

                                                                                                            '
stand in no neede of my reccom'endations, yet am confident you will
not refuse the offer of those civilities which shall bespeake you.
   There has layne at Dr. Needham's copy of the Parallel bound up
for you, long since design'd you, which shall intreate you to accept
      a                                                                                                           ;
        &
not as recompence of your many favours to mee, much lesse a thing
in the least assistant to you (who are yourselfe a Master), but as a
toaken of my respect, as the Booke itselfe                          of the affection beare
to an Art which you so hapily cultivate.                            is

                                                                              I

                                                                                     I
                                                                    Deare Sir, am
                                                                             Your Ac.

      SayesrCourt, Apr. 1665.
      it
                    4
                   To His Grace the Duke of Albemarle.
      May please your Grace,
   Being here at Douer for the examining auditing my accoumpts, as
one of his Majesties Commissioners in this Kentish district and find
ing that other prisoners at the Castle here, since their late attempt to
escape through the Magazine (over which till then they had a very spa

      A Parallel of the Ancient Architecture with the Modern,' written by Roland
«ieur de Chambray, and translated by Mr. Evelyn.
                                                       &

                                                                                             ;

1
   '
      THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                        "

                                                                                          v 627

cious & convenient roome to lodge in) are now for want of accomoda
tion necessitated to be kept in a very straite place ; by meanes whereof
they grow miserably sick ; and are indeede reduced to a sad condition,
which cannot be remedyed without extraordinary inconvenience to the
Lieutennant: My most humble suite to your Grace is, that you will be

pleas'd to give order they may be conveyed to Chelsea Colledge ; and
the rather, that there being no greate number of them, it will be hardly
worth the while & charge to maintaine Officers for them here & parti
cular Guards: The condition of the poore men (who suffer for the
attempt of their more daring fellowes) is very deplorable, nor can it be
prevented without enlargement of their quarters ; which the Governor

cannot spare them without danger. I have already inform'd your Grace

how much we suffer by the scruples of those Vcssells, who refuse to

transport our recover'd men to the Fleete ; which makes me againe to

supplicate your Graces fresh orders ; it would infinitely conduce to his
Majesties service: But of this, as of severall other particulars 1 shall
render your Grace a more ample accoumpt at my returne to London ;

where I shall not faile to do my duty as becomes,

                                                May it please your Grace,
                                                                   Your Graces, &c.

      Dover, 30 May 1665.

      To Sir Thomas Clifford.

Sir,
I was in precinct for my journey when your letter ariv'd, which im
parted to us that most glorious Victory, in which you have had the
honor to be a signal achievrs : I pray God we may improve it as becomes
us: His Royall Highness being safe becomes a double instancy of re-
joyceing to us; and I do not know that ever I beheld a greater and

more sollemn expression of     it it,  unlesse were that on his Majesties
                                           it
Restauration, than this whole City testified the last night, and which                    I
                                             I
cannot figure to you without hyperbolies.       am heartily sorry for those

Heros that are fallen, though          could not have been on more tran-
                                                                                       a

scendaut occasion. Sir, com'unicated your Letter to my Lord Arling
ton, and to his Majestie who read greedily. My greatest solicitudeI
                                       it
        &
is now how to dispose of the Prisoners in case you should be neces
sitated to put them in at the Downes, in order to which my Lord Duke
of Albemarle has furnished me with 400 foote and troop of horse, to
be com'anded by me for Guards neede require                                            am just going
                                       if

                                                                                    ;

                                                                I&

to put all things in order. His Grace concludes with me that Dover
Castle would be the most convenient place for their custody, but would
by no,means invade his R: Highnesses particular province there without
his Highnesses consent, therefore advises me to write his Highness
for positive co'mands to the Lieutennant.                    therefore my humble
                                           it

                                                 It

                                                         is
request that you will move him therein, being ot so greate importance
623 TO SIR PETER WYCHE FROM JOHN EVELYN. ' -

at this time, & not onely for his Castle of Dover, but the Forts likewise

neere it ; and that (besides my owne Guards) he would be pleas'd that
a competent number of Land Souldiers might be sent with them from
on board, to prevent all accidents, till they come safe to me ; for it was
so likewise suggested by his Grace, who dismiss'd me with this expe
dient: ' Mr. Evelyn,' says he, ' when we have fill'd all the Goailes in
1 the Country with our Prisoners ; if they be not sufficient to containe
' them, as they sent our men to the East Indies last yeare, we will send
' them to the West this yeare by a just retaliation.' Sir, I thinke fit to
let you understand that I have 3 days since obtayn'd of the Councill a
Privy Seale, which I moved might be ^20,000, in reguard of the occa
sion ; together with the use & disposal of the Savoy-Hospitall (which
I am now   repairing & fitting up, having given order    fIoar ls5o0  beds to
           & other utensils) all which was graunted.                  obtain'd  be
new made,                                                                       an

Order of Councill for power both to add to our Servants, & to reward them
as we should see cause. His Majestie has sent me 3 chests of Linnen,
which he was pleas'd to tell me of himselfe before I knew they were
gon ; so mindfull, & obliging he is, that nothing may be wanting. Sir,

I have no more to add, but the addresses of my most humble duty to
his Royal Highness & my service to Mr. Coventry from
                                         Sir, yours, &c
Paynters Hall Lond. 16 June 1665.

                               To Sir Peter Wyche, Km.'

       Sir,

   This crude Paper (which beggs your pardon) I should not have pre
sumed to transmit in this manner, but to obey your com'ands, and to
save the imputation of being thought unwilling to labour, though it
be but in gathering straw. My greate infelicity that the meeting
being on Tuesdays in the afternoone, am in a kind of despaire of ever
                               it                        ; is,
                                   I
                                                              I
gratifying myne inclinations, in a conversation which so infinitelyI

honor, that would be so much to mine advantage because the very
Ihoure interferes with an employment, which being of publiq concerne-
  &
ment, can in no way dispense with: mention this to deplore myne
                               can signifie to any losse of yours
owne misfortune onely, not as                                                   ;

which cannot be sensible of so inconsiderable member.                 send you
                                         a

                                                       I

notwithstanding these indigested thoughts, and that attempt upon

Cicero, which you enjoin'd me.

    conceive the reason both of additions to, and the corruption of the
1I
                            ;
English Language, as of most other tongues, has proceeded from the
same causes namely from Victories, Plantations, Frontieres, Staples

of Com'erce, pedantry of Schooles, Affectation of Travellers, Transla

     Ch.itrcman of a Committee appoynted by the Royall Society to consider cf the improve
ment of the English tongue.
            THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                               629

tions, Fancy and style of Court, Vernility & mincing of Citizens, Pul
pits, Political Remonstrances, Theaters, Shopps. &c.

   The parts affected with it we find to be the Accent, Analogy, direct

Interpretation, Tropes, Phrases, and the like.
1. I would therefore humbly propose, that there might first be com-
pil'd a Gram'ar for the Praccpts ; which (as it did the Roman, when
Crates transferred the art to that city, follow'd by Diomedcs, Priscianus

and others who undcrtooke might onely insist on the Rules, the sole
                                                            it)
                                                               &

                                                                                     :

                                                                                                     0
ineanes to render a learned, learnable tongue:

   2. That with this a more ccrtaine Orthography were introdue'd, as
            it
by leaving out superfluous letters, &c. such as in Woomcn, People                                                            ;
              A
u in Honour: a in Reproach, ugh in Though, Ac.
        That there might be invented some new Periods, and Accents,
3.

besides such as our Gram'arians                                           Critics use, to assist, inspirit, and
                                                            is

                                                                   A
                                                                               'd A

                                                                                                    ;
modi tie the Pronunciation of Sentences, to stand as markes before

hand how the voice tone to be govern                                                                   as in reciting of Playes,
reading of Verses, Ac. for the varying the tone of the voyce, and

affections, 4c
  4. To this might follow a Lexicon or Collection of all the pure
English-Words by themselves then those which are derivative from
            :
                                                                    ;
others, with their prime, ccrtaine and natural signification then, the
                                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                                ;

                                                                                                                                         A
symbolical so as no innovation might be us'd or favour'd at least
'till there should arise some necessity of providing a new Edition,

of amplifying the old upon mature advice.
    That in order to this, some were appointed to collect all the
5.
                                  ;
                                 '
technical Words especialy those of the more generous employments                                                             :

as the Author of the Essaies des Merveilles de Nature, et des plus
                                                                          ;

                                                                                      le
nobles Artifices,' has don for the French Francis Junius and others
have endcavour'd for the Latine but this must be gleaned from Shops,
                                                                       :

not Dookes  has ben of late attempted by Mr. Moxon.1
6.
       it

          A
                         ;
               A
                                                         ;
    That things difficult to be translated or express'd, and such as

are as were, inco'mensurable one to another as determinations of
                                                                                                       ;
                                                                                                                          ;
Weights     Measures Coincs, Honors, National Habits, Armes,
Dishes, Drinkes, Municipal Constitutions of Courts old and abro

gated Costomes, Ac. were better interpreted than as yet we find them

in Dictionaries, Glossaries, noted in the Lexicon.
7.
               a

                                   A
    That full Catalogue of exotic Words, such as are daily minted by
our Logodadali, were exhibited, and that were resolved on what should
                                                                          it

                                                                                 :
                                                                                                        ;

                                                                                                ;

                                                                                                                       it
be sufficient to render them currant, ut Civitate donentur Since

without restraining that same indomitam novandi verba licentiain,
will in time quite disguise the Language There are some elegant

words introdue'd by Physitians chicfely and Philosophers, worthy to be

retained others, may be, filter to be abrogated since there ought
    a
            ;
                            *

                         it
                                    a
to be Uw, as well as liberty in this particular. And in this choyce,

            MrIn th« Mcood volume of his '*                               hanirk Exercuc*."
630 TO SIR PETER WYCHE FROM JOHN EVELYK.

there would be some reguard had to the well sounding, and more har
monious words, and such" as are numerous, and apt to fall gracefully
into their cadences and periods, and so reccom'end themselves at the
very first sight as it were ; others, which (like false stones) will never
shine, in whatever light they be placed ; but embase the rest. And

here I note, that such as have lived long in Universities doe greately
affect words and expressions no where in use besides, as may be ob
served in Clcaveland's Poems for Cambridg : and there are also some
Oxford words us'd by others, as I might instance in severall.
   8. Previous to this it would be enquir'd .what particular Dialects,
Idiomes and Proverbs were in use in every several Country of England ;

for the Words of the present age being properly the Vernacitla, or
Classic rather, special reguard is to be had of them, and this consi
deration admits of infinite improvements.

   9. And happly it were not amisse, that we had a Collection of the
most quaint and Courtly expressions, by way of Florilegium, or Phrases
distinct from the Proverbs : for we are infinitely defective as to civil

addresses, excuses & formes upon suddaine and unpremeditated

(though ordinary) encounters : in which the French, Italian & Spa-
nyards have a kind of natural grace & talent, which furnishes the con
versation, and renders it very agreeable : here may come in Synonimes,

Homoinymes, &c.
10. And since there is likewise a manifest rotation and circling of

Words, which goe in & out like the mode & fashion ; Bookes would
;be consulted for the reduction of some of the old layd-aside words and

expressions had formerly in delicijs for our Language is in some

places sterile and barren, by reason of this depopulation, as I may call
it ; and therefore such places should be new cultivated, and enrich'd
either with the former (if significant) or some other : For example, we
have hardly any words that do so fully expresse the French clin

quant, naivctS, ennuy, bizarre, concert, faconiere, chicaneries, con-

jsumme, emotion, defer, effort, chocq, entours, dlbouche or the Italian
vaghezza,garbato, svelto, &c. Let us therefore (as the Romans did the
Greeke), make as many of these do homage as are like to prove good

citizens.

11. Something might likewise be well translated out of the best
Orators & Poets, Greek and Latin, and even out of the Moderne Lan
guages ; that so some judgement might be made concerning the Ele
gancy of the style, and so a laudable & unaffected imitation of the best

reco'mended to Writers.

12. Finaly, There must be a stock of reputation gaind by some
publiq Writings and Compositions of the Members of this Assembly,
that so others may not thinke it dishonor to come under the test, or
accept     them for judges and      approbators : And if the designe were
arriv'd                            very small matter would dispat ch the art
           thus far, I conceive a
                   THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.            63 1

of Rhetoric, which the French propos'd as one of the first things they

reco'mended to their late Academitians.
                                   I am Sir,
                   *
                                              Your most &c

       Sayes-Court, 20 June 1665.                                          >

       My Lord,    To my Lord Viscount Cornebery.

       Those who defin'd History to be Disciplina composite d* bono prac-

tico oblinendo pointed us to that use to of it which every wise man is

to make of it by his reading of Authors. But as it is the Narration

Rcriim gestanim (for whatever is matter of fact, is the subject of His
tory), your Lordship cannot expect I should at this distance from

my study, & bookes of that kind, be able to present you with so com-

plcatc a series of Authors as you require of me ; much lesse such a

method, as your affection for so noble a resolution, and so becoming a

greate person, dos truely "merit. However that this may not be looked
on as an excuse, and that I may in some measure obey your Lordship's
com'ands, I shall as far as my talent, and my faithlesse memory serves

me at present, give your Lordship the names of those Authors which
haue deservedly been esteemed the most worthy and instructive of

those greate and memorable Actions of the Ages past.

  A Recention of the Greeke Historians from the reigne of Cyrus
(before which we have nothing of credible in any prophane history) 'til
after Justinian, and the confusion of the Roman Empire by the Goths

and Vandals :
'
   1.  Herodotus.  6. Dionysius Halicarnassus. 11. Herodian.

2. Thucydides.     7. Josephus.                    12. Zosimus.

3. Xenophon.       8. Arrianus.                    13. Procopius.

4. Polybius.       9. Appianus.                    14. Agathias, &c.
5. Diodorus Siculus. 10. Dion-Cassius.
       The Latine Historians from the foundation of Rome to the death of

the Emperor Valens : Sallust, Caesar, Titus Livius, Vellejus Pater-

culus, Quintus Curtius, Tacitus, Florus, Suetonius, Justinus, Ammi-
anus Marcellinus, &c.

       To these may be superadded, Plutarch, Diogenes Laertius, Philo-
stratus, and Eunapius, among the Greekes ; Cornelius Nepos, iEmi-

lius Probus, Spartianus, Lampridius, and the Augustae Scriptores, of

the Latine &c. : but for being more mixed and lesse methodical, they
would haply be read in another order ; and if the Greekes have happly

written more even of the Roman story than the Romans themselves,

it is what is universaly knowne and acknowledge by the learned ;

which has made the enumeration of the one to exceede the mention

of "the latter. These are, my Lord, sufficient to afford your Lordship

a fairer and more ample course, then any of your quali'y usualy
632 TO VISCOUNT CORNEBEBV FROM JOHN EVELYN.

pretend to ; being the best, & most worthy consideration both as to

the grandeur of Examples, and politure of the Language. As to the

later periods, from Valens and the Gotic Emperors to our times ; I
shall furnish your curiosity, when you have inish'd this stage ; for it

were now, my Lord, to discourage you, the very calling over the
names of so many ; how much more, should I add (what your Lord
ship's curiosity will desire to dip into, to emerge a compleate Histo
rian) the Biographi, or Writers of particular Lives, Relations, Nego
tiations, Memories, &c. which are things apart, and that properly come
within the series of the more solid and illustrious Historians: onely as
to that of chronologic, I conceive it of absolute necessity, that your
Lordship joyne it with all your readings together with some Geo

graphical Author & guide, whose Tables, Mapps & discoveries both for

theantient & modern names, situations & boundaries of the places, you
shall with incredible advantage consult, to fix and make it your owne.

Scaliger's Emendatio Temporum, Petavii Rationarium, Calvisius,
Helvicus, or our Isaacson', may suffice to assist you, with Cluverius,

our Peter Heylin, and the late accurate Atlasses set forth by Bleau.
To these may be added as necessary subsidiaries ; H. Stephen's His
torical Dictionary set lately fourth in London ; and if your Lordship

thinke fit to pursue the Cycle with more expedition, which were like

wise to gratifie your curiosity by a preparation that will furnish you

with a very usefull prospect, before you engage yourselfe on the more
particulars, there is in English one Howel (not James) who has pub
lished a very profitable Compendium of Universall History, so far as
he has brought it ; to which you may joyne what Bp. Usher has set
forth in two volumes, containing the Annales of all the memorable

actions & passages which have happened in the Church from the

Creation, mingled with divers secular passages of rare remarke, and
which may serve you instead of Baronius, or any of his voluminous
epitomizers, Spondanus, Peruginus, &c. And by that time your Lord
ship is arrived thus far, you will have perform'd more than any man of

your quality can pretend to in Court, by im'ense degrees, according to
my weake observation, who sometimes passe my time at the circle
where the Gallants produce themselves with all their advantages, 4
(God knows) small furniture. Nor will it be difficult for you to goe
through the rest with delight & ease, whether you would begin at the
present age, and reade upwards, 'till you meete with the period where
you left off (which is Grotius's advise to Monseiur Maureriq),or proceede
in that order in which you began: but my Lord, of this, as of what
ever else you shall judge me worthy to serve you in, I shall endeavour

to p'sent your Lordship with something more material, & better digested,
when you please to command, My Lord,
                                      Your Lordship's, <fcc.
Cornebery, 21 June, 1665.

I Hen. Isaacson, author of the ' Chronolog. Series of the 4 Monarchies.' Fo. London, i«j>
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  633

 TomyLd. Viscount Cornebery, LordChamberlaine to her Majesty,&c.
       My Lord,

   I should be exceedingly wanting to my duty, and to the interest you

 are pleas'd to allow me in your friendship, not to preserve it by such

 acknowledgements as arc due to you by infinite obligations: and if this

 have not been done oftcner, distance, and the many circumstances of a
 jealous intercourse, will easily obtaine your mercy ; for I sweare to you,
 my Lord, there breathes not a man upon earth who has a greater value
 for your noble person ; because I have establish'd it upon your Virtues,

 and that which shines in you above titles, and adjuncts, which I re-

guard but as the shadows of greate men ; nothing constituent of good
 & realy permanent. But, my Lord: I intend not here a Panegyric,
 where haply an Epithalamium were due, if what has been lately told
me, of your Lordship being newly married, or shortly re-entering into
 those golden fetters, be true. But can your Lordship thinke of such a
felicity, and not com'and me to celebrate it ? not as a Poet (for I know
 not what it mcanes) but as one perfectly devoted to your good fortune ;
since that glory must needes be in my mouth, which already is so pro
foundly engraven in my heart. I thought indecde that golden key
which I saw ty'd to your side by that silken riban, who was the fore
runner of some other knot, constant as the colour, and bright as the

mettall. My Lord, I joy'd you at Hampton Court for the one, and I

would joy you from Sayes-Court for the other: You have in the first a
dignity conspicuous for the ornament it receives from your vertues ;
but in the second onely, a reward of them above the pearles, & the

rubies ; 'tis a price which Fortune owes your Lordship: and I can

celebrate her justice without flattery. Long may you live under her

happy Empire. When I am certaine of the particulars, I will string

more roses on this Chaplet, and make you a country gardener's present ;

if the anxiety of being at this distance from a person whose influence

is so necessary, do not altogether wither my genius.
    But, my Ld. give me now leave to entertaine you a little with mine

owne particular condition ; since as contraries illustrate one another,

it cannot but improve your happinesse.
    After 6978 (and possibly halfe as many more conceil'd) which the

pestilence has mow'd downe in London this Weeke ; neere 30 houses
are visited in this miserable Village, whereoff one has beene the very
neerest to my dwelling : after a servant of mine now sick of a swelling
(whom we have all frequented, before our suspicion was pregnant) &
which we know not where will determine ; behold me a living monu

ment of God Almighty's protection and mercy ! It was Saturday last

'ere my courageous Wife would be persuaded to take the alarme ; but
she is now fled, with most of my Family; whilst my conscience, or
something which I would have taken for my duty, obliges me to this
sad station, 'till his Majestie take pitty on me, and send me a consid
634 TO VISCOUNT CORNEBERY FROM JOHN EVELYN.

erablc refreshment for the comfort of these poore creatures, the Sick &
wounded Seamen under mine inspection through all the ports of my
"district. For mine owne particular, I am resolv'd to do ray duty as
far as I am capable, & trust God with the event ; but the second causes
should cooperate : for in sum, my Lord, all will, and must fall into oblo
quy & desolation, unlesse our Supplys be speedily settled on some
more solid fonds to carry this important Service on. My Bro: Com
missioner Sir William D'Oily after an accoumpt of /.17000 is indebted
about ,£.6030, and my reckoning comes after it apace. The Prisoners
of Warr, our Infirmatories, & the languishing in 12 other places ; the
charge of Sallaries to Physitians, Chyrurgeons, Officers, Medicaments,
4 Quarters, require speedy & considerable supplies ;--lessc then j£.2cco
a wceke will hardly support us. And if I have been the more zealous
& descriptive of this sad face of things, & of the personal danger I am
expos'd to, it is because I beg it may be an instance of your goodnesse
& charity to rcade this article of my letter to my Lord your Father,

who I know has bowels, and may seriously represent it to his
Majesty and my L: High Treasurer. For, my Lord, having made mine
attempts at Court by late Expresses on this occasion, I am driven to
lay this appeale at his Lordships feete, because having had experience
of his favour in mine own concerne and private affaires, I addresse my
selfe with a confidence I shall succeede now that it imports the publiq.

I dare not apply what Saint Paule sayd to Timothy (because it does
not become me), but give me liberty to allude : I know none (amongst
----all our Court greate-ones) like minded, who dos naturaly care for oor
state. The consectary is        -- ; for all seeke their owne. 'Tis, my

Lord, a sad truth, & this is no time to flatter ; we should succumb under
the poiz but for some few such Atlasses as are content to accept of the
burthen with the honour; which though it makes it sit heavy, makes
it sit with a good conscience, & the expectation of a blessing. I am s.

plaine Country Gentleman, yet heare, & see, and observe, as those in
the valies bestdiscerne the mountaines : this Nation is ruin'd for want
of activity on our parts, ; religion & gratitude on all. But, my Lord, I
tirannise your patience ; pardon the excesse : I have not often the
                     God knows           I may enjoy another, who daily-
opportunity,   and  my hands.    when   cmalaamligintyitywilol fbethiins discaibdleC. --onBtaugtiolnet
carry my life   in
                                If the

spend no faster before Winter, the
me now acquainte your Lordship how I passe those moments which my
assiduous prayers to God for your prosperity, & my service of his
Majestie do not take up. It is now about 2 moneths since I consige'd
a large Epistle to Royston : for that piece your Lordship enjoyn'd me
to publish in consequence of the former, and which I have made bold
to inscribe to my Ld: Chancellor, under somewhat an a;nigmatical
character, because of the     invidiousnesse of the argument. The booke
it selfe was quite finislvd,  & wrought off; but Royston being fled, &tie
   - THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                 63$

presses dissolv'd, we cannot hope to get our freedome, till it please God
in mercy to abate the Contagion. This is that which hinders us from
that most incomparable piece of Mr. Stillingfleete's friend against
Scarjcant, and divers other particulars, which though printed will not
as yet be publish'd ; --both venders, & buyers, & readers being univer
sal)- scathed. As to our Philosophical concernes, Dr. Wilkins, Sir
William Petty, & Mr. Hooke, with our operator, live altogether at my
Lord Geo. Barclay's at Durdans neere my Brother, where they are ex

cogitating new riggings for Ships, new Charriots, & new Ploughs, &c.

so as I know not of such another happy conversation of Virtuosi in
England. And now I mention'd my Brb: I were ungratefull to omitt
my acknowledgement of the infinite honor he tells me my Ld: Chan-
celor was ple.is'd to do me, before so many persons of Quality and

Gent: of our County of Surrey as came in to waitc on him at Farn-
ham, at my Lord Bishops of Winchester table ; when his Lordship was
pleas'd to mention me with an eulogy, and kindnesse so particular &
obliging, as I can never hope to merite from bis goodnesse. But I
would estceme it the most fortunate day of my life, that should present
me with an occasion, in which I might signalize my prone & most

ardent inclynations to his service, as being professedly more engag'd to

his Lordship than to any person living in this world. And if God
heare the humble prayers which I poure out for the continuance of your
prosperity, I shall have perform'd but my duty, who am with a most

unfained resignation,                My Ld:

                                             Yours &c.

Sayes-Court, 9th September, 1665.

To My Lord Viscount Cornebery, Lord Chamberlaine to

                       her Majestic
   My Lord:

By this most agreeable opportunity I continue to p'sent your Lord
ship with my faithfull service, and if it arrive seasonably, to supplicate

your Lordships pardon for the style, the mistake, and the length of

mine of the ninth instant ; it will excite in you different passions, and

one, my Lord, not an unpleasant one. Smile at my intelligence, and

pity all the rest ; for it will deserve and find a way to your noble
                       I

                                    it,
breast. My Servant (whom there mention to have sent from my
house for feare of the worst) will recover, and proves sick only of
very ougly surfeit which not only frees me fro' infinite apprehensions,
   ;                                         is

                                                               ;

                                                                    it
                                                                         is

                                                                                        a
but admitts me to give my Wife visite, who   at my Brother's, and
                       ;

                                  a
within fortnight of bringing me my seaventh sonne and   time,
a

my Lord, he were borne for they keepe us so short of monys at
Court, that his Majesties Commissioners had neede of one to do Won
ders, and hcale the Sick and Wounded by Miracle, 'till we can
636 .           SIR PHILIP WARWICK TO JOHN EVELYN.

maintaine our Chyrurgeons. My Ld: I do not forget your injunction
of waiting on you this moneth at Cornebery; but I am momentarily

threatned to be hurried to the Sea-side againe, after this Conflict of

my Lord Sandwich; -- and the Woman in the straw I would gladly see
out of perill. I will not question your Lordships being at Oxford this
approching reconvention of Parliament: My Father-in-law waites
there, and it must go ill with me if I kisse not your hands. Just now
I heare the Gunns from the Tower: This petty Triumph revives us

much ; but the miserably afflicted Citty, and euen this our poore
Village, want other consolations: my very heart turnes within me
at the contemplation of our calamity. God give the Repentance of
David, to the Sinns of David ! We have all added some weights to
this burthen ; Ingratitude, and Luxurie, and the too, too soone oblivion
of Miracles.

   The Almighty preserve your Lordship, and my best friend in the
world my most honored Lord Chancelor. I would say a thousand
affectionate things more to conjure your Lordships beliefe, that I am

                                                My L: your &c.

    Sayes-Court, 12 September 1665.

       Sir Philip Warwick to John Evelyn, Esquire.
       Cousen,
   I am to seek how to answere your Letter ; for  without passing any
compliment vpon you how much I am concern'd
                                                  in your safty, which I
find endangered by your Employment --without professing how sensible
I am, that scarce any pellicular in the Nauy ought to haue that care &
tendernes wait vpon it as the Sick and Wounded men, and the
Prisoners, though a lesse regard in respect I heare ours are not soe
well vsed ; and that the Embassador Servant seems to take such little
care for Exchanges, as if he meant to burthen vs with them: and that
these fellowes are soe stuborne they will not worke, nay beat any that
will -- yet a shame it is if they be not in the proportion the King allowes
them prouided for. The ill effect of both these I acknowledge if they
be neglected. And when I haue said this you'll wonder what I can
say next, that my Lord Tr'r makes not the prouision. Sir: I must say,
though I offend my good friend Sir George Carteret, that from the
first my Lord Tr'r told him this charge was a cheife part of the expence
of the Nauy, & by his Assignments to be prouided for. It was the
Ifirst sin transferring faults one from another ;' & therefore
                                                                am
asham'd to be making such returnes, & know that will as little feed the
hungry & cloath the naked, as a mouth that's open with a benediction
&a     hand closed with                 And                     you judge of
this                      the money.         yet  how to make
       I cannot, without   showing you  how  the  whole Royall  Ayde is dis
tributed. (And this I assure you, the distribution of the whole
£2500000 is not of perticular concerne vnto me, fine p'd.)
               THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.          637

Of the Citty for the Nauy before the Parliament borrowed        £.
Of the Dunkirk mony (This is to be repaid)
                                                             200000
13 Counties wholy assigned
County of Bucks for the Nauall Regiment                      050000
                                                           1277604
The first 3 months of all the other Counties               0047346
Vpon 17 other Counties 102""" & 40miu And now lately       0096047

   the dispute being that he had noe proper assignment

for the sick & wounded, my Lord told him he would

assigne him ,£28000 of those Counties particularly for

them                                                       0170000
but 1 feare that will not doe you any seruice, Sir George

   saying the assignment being upon the 3rd year, he can
   not borrow vpon it.

This hath bin already the Nauys Portion of the Royall

Ayde                                                       1,840,997

Ordnance hath had assigned vnto it                         0367686
Guards hath Counties sett out for                          0170616
Garrisons                                                  0045 121

Rem: on the    17 Counties  50mU(   Tf°v.m' u              0608423
   on Wales                 59 5
                                                           2449420
And now do you see by whose friendship you have receiued   0109000
that small refreshment, which I say not to diminish his

kindnes, but to shew you that properly you were a care
of Mr. Vice Chamberlin's.

                                                 Totall

                                                 Rem:

                                                           2558420

All I can adde my Lord T'rer will endeavor to dispose the Viceis,

Chamberlin     &  if      be in his power, for thinke him as much over-
            ;                 if
                      it
                                       &

                                              I
layed as others, doubt not he'l vndertake your charge. And because
               I

the Assignment which remaynes to be made vpon Wales, which
                                                 if

                                                           it
                                                                       is
about £30000 for the second yeare the first quarter of the third, may
better please him, my Lord T'rer will offer him that, or offer to Sir
William D'Oyly yourselfe, you can procure credit vpon it. He'l
                  &

make an essay whether out of the present Prizes (which his Majesty
will not employ to this vse, being a better fond of credit, he may be re-
paied from this Assignment) he can get you a considerable sum. His
Lordship ready to assigne out of Wales or the 17 Counties £50000
      is

                               Iif
for this seruice singly. And        could give you a better more perti
                                                   &
638 TO SIR PHILIP WARWICK FROM JOHN EVELYN.

cular account I would, for I valew both yours and Sir William's

integrities and informations soe much, you may both assure yourselues

I'l not be wanting. And am really sensible of your cares & dangers,

which we want not (being for all comers) euen here ; but being in our

station & depending on Prouidence, I hope none of us shall miscarry.
Wee are now seperated & in motion, but I'l hast the Resolution. In

the mean tyme you may reserue this to yourselfe. Only communicate it
to Sir William D'Oyley, to whom I cannot at present write, for hauing
receiued your L'res but late this night, and the Post goeing away in the

morning, & I have to send my L'r six myle thither. I begge his pardon

& yours, & remayne with all truth & affection
                                   Your most faithful

kinsman & servant                      P. Warwick.

Stratton, Sept. 16, 1665, 8 at Night.

   To Sir Philip Warwick, Secretary to my Lord High Treasurer.

    Sir,
    Your favour of the 16th current from Stratton has not only in-

lightened mine eyes, but confirm'd my reason ; for sure I am I durst
write nothing to you which could cary in it the least diffidence of your
most prudent ceconomy ; and you are infinitely mistaken in me if you
,lhinke I have not establish'd my opinion of your sincerity & candor in

all that you transact, upon a foundation very remote from what the

World dos ordinarily build upon : I am sufficiently satisfied to whose
care our Supplies did naturaly belong : for I do not believe the sums

we have received to carry on our burthen thus far (trifling as they have

been comparM to the occasion) proceeded from his (Sir George's) good
nature (which I have been much longer acquainted with then you), but
to shift the clamor which our necessities have compell'd us to ; whilst

our Task-masters exacted brick without allowing us straw. And if I

have express'd any thing to you in a style more zealous then ordinary,
it has been to lay before you a Calamity which nothing can oppose but

a suddaine supply ; and for that my Lord Arlington (to whom I have
frequently said as much) directed me to the proper object. Nor was

what I writ a prophesy at adventure : One fortnight has made me
feele the uttmost of miseries that can befall a person in my station and
with my affections : To have 25000 prisoners, & 1500 sick & wounded

men to take care of, without one peny of mony, and above ^2000 in
debted : It is true I am but newly acquainted with buisinesse, and I

now find the happy difference betwixt Speculation and Action to the

purpose ; learning that at once, which others get by degrees ; but I

 am sufficiently punish'd for the temerity, and I acknowledge the

burthen insupportable : Nor indeede had I been able to obviate this

 impetuous torrent, had not his Grace the Duke of Albemarle and my
THE. CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                     - 639

Ld: Sandwich (in pure compassion of me) unanimously resolv'd to
straine their authority, and to'sell though not a full quorum) some of

the Prizes, & breake bulke in an Indian Ship, to redeeme me from
this plunge : and all this, for the neglect of his personal care-- whom

you worthily pcrstringe, though for domestiq respects & other rela

tions they were not willing to expresse their resentiments. Sir, I am

in some hopes of touching the .£5000 some day this weeke ; but
what is that, to the expense of £200 the day ? Is there no exchange
or pecuniary redemption to be propos'd ? or is his Majestie resolv'd to

maintainc the Armies of his Encmyes, in his owne bosome ? whose

idlenesse makes them sick, and their sicknesse redoubles the charge !

I am amaz'd at this method but must hold my tongue. Why might

not yet the French, who are numerous in this last action (and in my
conscience have enough of the Sea) be sent home to their Master,
not to gratifie but plague him with their unprofitable numbers ?

   Sir, I most humbly acknowledge your goodnesse for the confidence
you have in me, and for that Arcanum, the Accoumpt of the disposure &

assignement of this prodigious Royall Ayd of ,£2.500,000 which you have
                                 & that I
so particularly imparted to me,            should have  pIfrcsI erovb'dtainweiththailsl
due caution, though you had      enjoyn'd   me none.
small sum of ,£5000 it will be a breathing till I can meetc my Bro:
Commissioners at Oxford, whither I am sum'on'd to joyne for the

effects and settlement of some of those more solid appointments men

tioned in your Audit, & which you have promis'd to promote, & there
fore I will trouble you no further at present, then to let you know, that

upon that account of your encouragment (I meane the providence of

God & my sole desires of serving Him in any thing which I hope He .
may accept, for I sweare to you no other consideration should tempt me
a second time to this trouble) I am resolv'd to maintaine my station,
and to refuse nothing that may contribute to his Majesties service, or

concerne my duty, who am, Sir, Your, &c.

Sayes-Court, 30 September 1665.

   To Sir William Coventry, Secretary to his Highness the Duke
                   of Yorke, and one of the Privy Council.

       May it please your Honor,
   Nothing but a calamity which requires the application of the spee
diest redresse to preserve the lives of men, the honor of his Majestie,
and (as I conceive) a concernement of the weightiest importance to the
whole Nation, could have extorted this repetition of the sad posture
our affaires are in, for want of those monys and effects we were made

believe should be assign'd us for the carrying on of the province in
trusted to us. I will not torment you with the particulars of my owne
story, which you know so well by all that has prevented mv com

plaints ; but I perfectly apprehend the funeste and calamitous issue
640 TO SIR WILLIAM COVENTRY FROM JOHN EVELYN.

which a few days may produce, unlesse some speedy course be taken

to stop it : Nor am I so little acquainted with the respect which I owe
to the persons I now write to, as not to know with what decency- and
reserve I ought to make my addresses upon any other occasion ; but
the particulars I have alegM are very greate truths, and it were to
betray his Majesties gracious intentions, and even his honor, to exte
nuate here. Sir William D'Oily and my selfe have neere ten thou
sand upon our care, whiles there seemes to be no care of us ; who

having lost all our Servants, Officers, and most necessary Assistants,

have nothing more left us to expose but our persons, which are every
moment at the mercy of a raging Pestilence (by our daily conversation)
and an unreasonable multitude ; if such they may be call'd who having

adventured their lives for the publiq, perish for their reward, and dye
like doggs in the street unregarded. Our Prisoners (who with open
armes, as I am credibly inform'd by eye-witnesses, embrac'd our men,
instead of lifting up their hands against them) beg at us, as a mercy, to
knock them on the head ; for we have no bread to relieve the dying
creatures. Nor dos this County afford Goailes to secure them in,
unlesse Leeds Castle (for which I am now contracting with my Ld:
Culpeper) may be had ; if at least half of them survive to be brought
so far to starve when they come there. As for the pittance now

lately order'd us, what will that benefit to our numbers and the moutbes
we are to feede ? Neither is that to be had suddainely, and will be
spent before we touch it. I could assemble other particulars of a sad
countenance relating to the miserys of our owne Countrymen. I beseech
your Honor let us not be reputed Barbarians ; or if at last we must be

so, let  me not be the   executor of so     much inhumanity ;   when   the price  '
         good Subject's   life is (rightly  consider^) of more  value  then the
of one
wealth of the Indies. It is very hard, if in now a twelve moneth's time
that we have cost you little more then ^30000 through all England
where we have supported this burthen, there should not have been a
sufficient fond consecrated & assign'd as a sacred stock for so impor
tant a service ; since it has been a thing so frequently & earnestly
press'd to their Lordships ; And that this is not an affaire which can
be menag'd without p'sent moneyes to feede it ; because we have to
deale with a most miserable indigent sort of people, who live but from
hand to mouth, & whom we murther if we do not pay daily or weekely ;

I meane those who harbor our Sick & Wounded men and sell bread to
our Prisoners of Warr. How we have behav'd o'selves for his Majes
ties advantage & honor, we are most ready to produce the Accoumpts,
and to stand to the comparison of what it cost a former Usurper, <% a
Power which was not lavish of their expenses. Let it please your
Honor to consider of the premises, and if you can believe I retaine so
much of servile in me, as to informe you of tales,' or designe to mag-
rune my owne merits (whatever my particular & private sufferings have
                        THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                     641

been), let me be dismiss'd with infamy ; But let me beg of your Honor
to receive first the relation of his Majesties principal Officers & Com
missioners of the Navy which accompanies the Paper of

                                                  T Right Honorable
                                                                                  Your &c.

     Sayes-Court, 2 Octob: 1665.

  To SAMUEL Pepys, Esq. Clerk of the Admiralty, and one of the
                 principal Officer of his Majesty's Navy, &c.

      Sir,
   I have according to your com'ands sent you an hasty draught of the
Infirmary, and Project for Chatham, the reasons, & advantages of it ;

which challenges your promise of promoting it to the use design'd : I

am   myselfe convinc'd of                      the exceeding benefit it  will every way afford
us.                                            of the particulars, and   your intercession, it
      If upon examination

shall merit a recom'endation from the rest of the Principall Officers,
I am very confident the effects will be correspondent to the pretence of
the Papers which I transmit to accompany it. In all events, I have
don my endeavour ; and if upon what appeares demonstrable to me

(not without some considerable experience, and collation with our
officers, discreete & sober persons) I persist in my fondnesse to from
a prospect of the singular advantages which would be reaped by setting

    on foote, beseech you to pardon my honest endeavours, with the
errors of
it                                                               J.
                                                      Sir, Your &c.  if
             I
                                                                          it
                                            3
     Sayes-Court, Jan. 1665-6.                                                       ;

   My Lord,             To my Lord Viscount Cornbery.                       I
                                                                                 I it
   Ubi Amor, ibi Oculus, excuses the glaunces we cast upon desireable
                                                                                          ; ; it,
objects my hand cannot containe selfefrom this presumption when                                 it
I                       a
   have any thing to write which affords me the least pretense and
         I                    I
                     ;                :I
though you should not answer my Letters, yet, till you forbid me wri
ting, please myselfe that you vouchsafe to reade them. Great personsa
                                                  it
pay deare for such addresses, who afford them that honor and
especialy those that (like your Lordship) know so well to value their
tyme. One period more, my Lord, and beso los manos.

   Upon Wednesday last went to London and spent the whole after-
noone in viewing my Ld: Chancellors new House?
                                                                         be not a sole-

cisme to give a Palace so vulgar name: My uncessant businesse had
'till that moment prevented my passionate desires of seeing since
was one stone advanc'd: but was plainely astonish'd when beheld
what a progresse was made. Let me speak ingenuously                      went with

*       Clarendon House, built by Mr. Prat since qu'ts demolished        by Sir Thomas  Bond,  &c
                                                                          E.
who purchased it to build strerte of tenements to his undoing.
                                                                              -41
642 TO DR.'WILKINS FROM JOHN EVELYN.

prejudice, and a critical spirit ;  incident to those who fancy they  know
                                                                      never
anything in Art : I acknowledge      to your Lordship that I "have

seene a nobler pile : My old Friend and fellow Traveller (cohabitants

& contemporarie at Rome) has perfectly acquitted himselfe. It is with

out hyperbolies, the best contrivM, the most usefull, gracefull, and mag
nificent house in England, -- I except not Audley End ; which, though
larger, and full of gaudy & barbarous ornaments, dos not gratifie judi
cious spectators. As I sayd, My Ld : here is state and use, solidity &

beauty most symetricaly combin'd together: Seriously there is nothing
abroad pleases me better ; nothing at home approches it. I have no
designe, my Ld: to gratifie the Architect,  beyond what I am obliged, as
a profess'd honorer of virtue wheresoever
                                            'tis conspicuous ; but when I
had seriously contemplated every roome (for I went into them all, from
the cellar to the plat-forme on theroofe) seene how well and judiciously
the Walls were erected, the Arches cut, & turn'd, the timber braced,
their scantlings and contignations dispos'd, I was incredibly satisfied,
and do acknowledge myselfe to have much improved by what I ob
served : What shall I add more ? rumpatur Invidia, I pronounce it
the first Palace of England, deserving all I have said of and a better
                                                 &
Encomiast.                                             it,

May the greate illustrious Person, whose large ample heart has
                  &

honor'd his Country with so glorious structure, and by an example
                                    a

worthy of himselfe, shew'd our Nobility how they ought indeede to

build, and value their qualities, live many long yeares to enjoy  it     and

                                                                      ;

when he shall be pass'd to that upper building not made with hands, may
his Posterity (as you my Lord) inherite his goodnesse, this Palace, and
all other circumstances of his grandure, to consum'ate their felicity
                                                                         ;

with which happy augure, permitt me in all faithfullnesse, and sincerely,
to subscribe my selfe, My Lord,

                                                                     Yours, &c.

Sayes-Conrt, 20th Jan. 1665-6.

To the Dean of Rippon (Dr. Wilkins) afterwards Lord Bishop

                                         of Chester.

Sir,

have read Mr. Tillotson's Rule of Faith,' and am oblig'd to render
I                    I                                                Never
               I
                           '

                               I
                                        &

                                           is I
him thankes for the benefit acknowledge to have receiv'd by  ;it

in my life did see a thing more illustrated, more convincing, unlesse
men will be blind because they will be so.     am infinitely pleas'd with
his equal style, dispassionate treatment, Christian temper to that im-
portunat Adversary: For my part, looke upon that businesse as dis-
patch'd, and expect onely the grimaces and agonies of dying
rate men for the future: plainely the wound mortal.         I         despe

                                                               &
   Sir, that presume to send you the consequence of what formerlyI

publish'd in English, in the Controversy 'twixt the Jesuites and Jan
          THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                              643

Senists, speakes rather my obedience to a com'and from that grcatc

Person, my Lord Chancellor, than, my abilities to have undertaken, or
acquitted my selfe of it as I ought: I have annext an Epistolary Pre

face, not to instruct such as you are in any thing which you do not

know: but for their sakes, who reading the booke, might possibly con
ceive the French Kings to have ben the onely persons in danger ; &
because I hope it may receive your suffrage as to the pertinence of it
pro hie et nunc.

   I am heartily sorry that some indispensable avocations frequently
deprive me of your meetings at Gresham-Colledge, & particularly that
I cannot be there on Wednesday : his Majestie having enjoyn'd me to
repaire to-morrow to Chatham, for the taking order about erecting an

 Infirmary capable    to entertaine   abIofutAlm50i0ghstiyckGopedrsdoonsn, ot&voaulcl htsoafbee
Jinish'd against the  next occasion.
to accept this service, as well as the Iling my Master, I shall be an

intollerable looser, by being so long diverted from a conversation so

profitable and so desirable. But Warrs will once have a period ; and
I now & then get a bnite at Philosophy ; but it is so little and jejune,

as I despair of satisfaction 'till I am againe restor'd to the Society,

where even your very fragments are enough to enrich any man that has

the honor to approach you. Sir, I thinke I have at last procured the

Mummia which you desired: be pleas'd in the name & with authority

of the Royal Society to challenge it of the injurious detainers, therein
using the addresse of Mr. Fox ; Sir Sam. Tuke having written most
effectually in our behalfe, who deserves (together with the Hon. Mr
Hen. Howard of Norfolk) a place among our benefactors.
                                                     Sir, I am, &c.

                      To my Lord High Chancellor :
          Sir Edward Hyde, afterwards Earl of Clarendon.

My Lord
I did the other day in Westminster Hall give my Lord Cornbery,

your Lordship's sonne, my thoughts briefely concerning a most neede-

full reformation for the transmitting a clearer streame for the future
from the Presse, by directing to imaculate Copys of such Bookes as

being vended in greate proportions do for want of good Editions

amongst us export extraordinary sums of mony, to our no lesseMetri-
rnent than shame : And I am so well satisfied of the honor which a
                                      esvoemnetoinposatesruityper(fhiocwiael vveirews)mtahlalttheI
redresse  In this kind will procure
present   instance may appear to

thinke my selfe obliged to wish       that your Lordship     'may    not  conceive
it unworthy of your patronage.        The affaire is this :

Since the late deplorable conflagration, in which the Stationers have

been exceedingly ruin'd, there is like to be an extraordinary penury &

scarcity of Classic Authors, &c. us'd in our Grammar Scholes ; so as
644 TO SIR EDWARD HYDE FROM JOHN EVELYN.

of necessity they must suddainely be reprinted. My Ld: may please

to understand, that our Book-sellers follow their owne judgement in

printing the antient Authors according to such text as they found ex
tant when first they entred their copy ; whereas, out of MSS. collated
by the industry of later Critics, those authors are exceedingly- un
proved. For instance, about 30 yeares since, Justine was corrected by
Isaac Vossius, in many hundreds of places most material to sense &
elegancy ; & has since ben frequently reprinted in Holland after the
purer copy : but with us, still according to the old reading. The like

has Florus, Seneca's Tragcdys, & neere all the rest : which haue in the

meane time been castigated abroad by severall learned hands, which,

besides that it makes ours to be rejected, & dishonors our Nation, so

dos it no little detriment to learning, & to the treasure of the Nation in
proportion : The cause of this principaly the Stationer driving as
&
              a
                              &

                                               is,
                                                                         &;

                                                                                                                                                        :

                                                                                                                                  ;
hard cruel bargain with the Printer as he can and the Printer

taking up any Smatterer in the Tongues, to be the lesse looser an
exactnesse in this no wayes importing the stipulation by which

meanes errors rcpeate multiply in every Edition, that most noto
riously in some most necessary Schole-bookes of value, which they

obtrude upon the Buyer, unlesse men will be at unreasonable rates for
forraine Editions. Your Lordship dos by this perceive the mischievous

effects of this avarice, negligence in them.
                       &
                                 it

                                                              :

                                                         &
                                                                                                                   :
                                                                                                           ;
   And now towards the removing these causes of the decay of Typo

graphy not onely as to this particular, but in generall It is humbly
                                                                                                                      First, that
propos'd to consider whether       might not be expedient
inspection be had, what Text of the Greeke
                                                       Latine Authors should
                                            Secondly, That a Censor be
be follow'd in future impressions
establish'd to take and caution of all Presses in London, that they be
provided with able Correctors, principaly for Schole-bookes, which art
of large and iterated impressions. Thirdly, That the charge thereof
                                                  but just, and will be easily
be advane'd by the Company, which           is

reimburs'd upon an allowance arising from better and more valuable

copys since 'tis but reason that whoever builds an house be at the
;

charges of surveing and    if      stand in relation to the publiq (as this
                       :
                               it
                        &
dos) that he be obliged to it.

   My Lord these reflections are not crudely represented, but upon
mature advice conference with learned persons with whom now&;
                 &                                         &

then converse    ;     they are highly worthy your Lordships interestingI

                    &                                                       I&

your power authority to reforme    it,  &&  will be inserted into the glorious

things of your story, adorne your memory greate persons hereto
                                                    ;

fore did take care of these matters,        & it  has consecrated their names.
. The season also now most proper for that this sad calaniitv hasit,
             is

mortified a Company which was exceedingly haughty                                                                     difficult to

manage to any usefull reformation       ;         therefore (well knowing the

benefit whicli would accrue to the publiq by so noble an attempt)
                  THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN" EVELYN. ' 645

 could not but reco'mend it to your Lordship out of the pure sense of
. gratitude I have to wish your Lordship all the happy occasions of in
 creasing your honor, for the favors you always shew me, and the obli
 gations I haue to your particular friendship and kindnesse. My Lord,
 if this Paper find acceptance, I would be bold to add some farther
 hints for the carrying it on to some perfection ; for besides all I have
 sayd, there will neede paines in reading, consulting MSS. & conference
 with learned men, good Indexes, apt divisions, Chapters and Verses as
 the Dutch Variorum, embellishment of Roman and Italiq letters to
 separate inserted speeches (especialy in Historians & sententious Au
 thors) and which adds to the use and lustre, together with a choyce of
 succinct Notes after more terse & profitable copys. For 'tis a shame,
 that ever such as our owne countryman Farnaby has publish 'd, should
 be sold us from other Countries ; because our owne Editions are so

 much inferior to them. If your Lordship would set your heart upon

 other particulars, concerning the Reformation of our English Presse, I
 could give instance in some of high reputation, & no meane advantage.
 But I would rejoice to see but this take effect. My Lord, I kisse your

 Lordships hands, efce.
     Sayes-Court 27 November 1666.

                           To Abraham Cowley, Esq.
   . Sir

     You had reason to be astonish'd at the presumption, not to name it
 affront, that I who have so highly celebrated Recesse, and envied it in
 others, should become an Advocate for the Enemie, which of all others

 it abhors and flies from. 1 conjure you to believe that I am still of the

 same mind, & that there is no person alive who dos more honor and
 breathe after the life and repose you so happily cultivate and adorne by
 your example : But as those who prays'd Dirt, a Flea, and the Gowte '.
 so have I Publiq Employment in that trifling Essay *, and that in so
 weake a style compar'd to my Antagonists, as by that alone it will ap-

 peare I neither was nor could be serious ; and I hope you believe I
.speake my very soule to you ; but I have more to say which will re

 quire your kindnesse. Suppose our good friend were publishing some
 Eulogies on the Royal Society, and by deducing the originall, progresse
 and advantages of their designe, would bespeake it some veneration in
 the world? Has Mr. Cowley no inspirations for it? Would it not
 hang the most heroic wreath about his temples ? Or can he desire a
 nobler or a fuller Argument either for the softest Aires or the loudest
 Echoes, for the smoothest or briskest strokes of his Pindaric Lyre ?

    1 Dornavius's ' Amphitheatrum Sapientiae Socraticae Joco-scrim ' contains a large Collection
 of those Facetiae, in prose and verse, with which the Scholars of those times relieved their
 serious studies.

     Public Employment, Ac preferred to Solitude, 1667.
646 , ABRAHAM COWLEY, ESQ. TO JOHN EVLEYN. -

 'There be those who aske, What have the Royal Society done? Where
their Colledge ? I neede not instruct you how to answer or confound

these persons, who are able to make even these informe Blocks and

Stones daunce into order, and charme them into better sense. Or if

their insolence presse, you are capable to shew how they have layd

solid foundations to perfect all noble Arts, and refdrme all imperfect

Sciences. It requires an History to recite onely the Arts, the Inven

tions, & Phenomena already absolved, improved, or opened. In a

word, our Registers have outdone Pliny, Porta, & Alexis, and ail the

Experimcntists, nay the great Verulam himselfe, &have made a nobler
and more faithfull Collection, of real seacrets, usefull and instructive,
than has hitherto been shewn. -- Sir, We have a Library, a Repository,
& an assembly of as worthy and greate Persons as the World has any ;
and yet we are sometimes the subject of Satyr and the songs of Drunk
ards ; have a King to our -Founder, and yet want a Maecenas ; and
above all a Spirit like yours, to raise us up Benefactors, & to compeil
them to thinke the Designe of the Royall Society as worthy their re-

guards, & as capable to embalme their names, as the most heroic enter-
prize, or any thing Antiquity has celebrated ; and I am even amaze

at the wretchednesse of this Age that acknowledges it no more. But

the Devil, who was ever an enemy to Truth, and to such as discover
his prestigious effects, will never suffer the promotion of a designe so
destructive to his dominion, which is to fill the world with Imposture
& keepe it in Ignorance, without the utmost of his malice and contra

diction. But you have numbers and charmes that can bind even these
Spirits of Darknesse, and render their instruments obsequious ; and
we know you have a divine Hyme for us ; the luster of the Royal
Society calls for an Ode from the best of Poets vpon the noblest
Argument. To conclude : here you have a field to celebrate the Greate
and the Good, who either do, or should favour the most august and

worthy designe that ever was set on foot in the world: and those who
are our real Patrons and Friends you can eternize, those who
                                                                  are not
you can conciliate & inspire to do gallant things. -- But I will  add no
more, when I have told you with very greate truth that I am.
                                      Sir &c.

   Sayes Court 12 March, 1666-7.

,       From Abraham Cowley to J. Evelyn, Esq.
I  Sir                                      Chertsea, May 13, 1667.
        asham'd  of the rudenesse  I  have  committed in deferring so
   am
long my humble thanks for your obliging Letter which I received from
yow at the beginning of the last month : my laziness in finishing the
Copy of Verses vpon the Royal Society, for which I was engaged before
by Mr. Sprats desire, & encouraged since by yow, was the caus of
this delay, haueing designed to send it to yow enclosed in my Letter 1
,'~              THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVEL.YN.                                     647

   I
but am told now that the History almost quite printed, will bee
                   I

                                 it
                                                         is

                                                                 it
                                                                                      &
published so soon, that were impertinent labour to write out that

which you will so suddenly see in a better manner, and in the company

of better things.      could not comprehend in many of those excel

lent hints which yow were pleased to give mee, nor descend to the

praises of particular persons, becaus those things affoord too much

matter for one copy of verses, and enough for Poem, or the History
                                               I
itself some part of which have seen,                I&think yow will bee very
&                           &I
              :                  I                           aa
well satisfied with it.         took the boldness to show him your Letter,
                                      it
hee says hee has not omitted any of those heads, though hee wantsis

your eloquence in expression. Since had the honour to receive from

yow the reply to book written in praise of Solitary Life           it 'I,                haue
                   a

sent all about the town in vain to get the c.ithor, haveing very much

affection for the subject which one of the noblest controversies both

Modern and Ancient, you have delt so civily with your Adversary

as makes him deserve to bee look'd after. But could not meet with

him, the books beeing all, seems, cither burnt or bought up. If
                                               it

                                                     it I

                                                                &
yow pleas to do mee the favour to lend             to mee, send                          to my

Brothers hous (yet was) in the King's Yard, shall bee return'd to
yow within a few days with the humble thanks of your most faithfull

obedient Servant,                                                  A. Cowley.

                 To Henry Howard, Esq. of Norfolk, heir apparent to

                                that Dukedom".

    Sir
It not without much regret and more concernement as reguards
    ; is                                                           &
                                                                         it

                                                                                       &
your honorable illustrious Family, that have now so long a time be-
'held some of the noblest Antiquities of the World,&&a&
                                   I                               which your
Grandfather purchased with so much cost and difficulty, lye aban
                                        &&
doned, broken, defaced in divers corners about Arundel House&I

the Gardens belonging to it.                   know your honour cannot but have

thoughts and resolutions of repairing collecting them together one

day but there are in the meane tyme certaine broken Inscriptions,
now almost obliterated with age, the ill effects of the weather, which

will in a short time vtterly be lost perish, vnlesse they be speedily
removed to a more benigne lesse corrosive ayre. For these is,
                                                                 it

                                                                                       ; it

                                                                                      I
should be an humble suitor that you would think fit to make a present
of them to the University of Oxford, where they might be of greate vse
and ornament, and remaine more lasting record to posterity of your
munificence, than by any other application of them whatsoever and

    Sir Geo. Mackenzie' Moral Essay upon Solitude, preferring to Public Employment,'
*1                     a
                         '

Aa. i'>f.
    This Letter procured all the Marmora Arutideliana, Greek and Latin Injcr.pticni, Vrtifi,
A(i«, Tablet, &e. new at Oxen.  J,  P.
.648 TO DR. BATHURST FROM JOHN EVELYN.

the University would thinke themselves oblig'd to inscribe your name
and that of your illustrious Family to all significations of gratitude

  I have also long since suggested to your Honor that you would

cause the best of your Statues, Basso-relievos, & other Antiquities stand

ing in your Gallery at Arundell House, to be exquisitely designed by

some skillfull hand, and engraven in copper, as Mons: Liancourt did

those of Rome by Perrier, & long before him Raphael himselfe, Sadeler,

and other incomparable sculptors: because by this meanes they would

be com'unicated to the world, and diuers greate & learned persons,

studious of Antiquity, might be benefited by them: and if such a
thing were added to the impression of the Marmora Aruitdeliana
(which I heare the University of Oxon are now preparing for a second
impression) how greately would it adorne that admirable work, & do

new honors to your illustrious name & family, as it as formerly, & yet

dos to divers noble Italians, & others, who have not ben able to pro

duce such a collection as you are furnished with ; but which perish in

obscurity, & yeild not that to the publiq, who would be obliged to
celebrate you, for want of a small expence ! Methinkes, whilst they

remaine thus obscur'd & neglected, the very Marbles are become vocal,

and cry to you for pitty, & that you would even breathe life into them.
Sir, you will easily see, I have no other designe in this then to expresse

the honour I have for your person and for your illustrious Family;
and because I find this would be one of the most glorious instances to

                        cannot but wish that might take effect.
augment and perpetuate4                      ;

                          iIt,                 if I it
                                I
have no more to add but that am, &c.                      it I
I
   I  Sayes Court, Aug. 1667.                                                 I

      To Dr. Bathurst, President of Trinity College, Oxon.

      Sir,

      heartily wish had the good fortune to be as serviceable to you in
               I
                       I

                                   I
particular for the many favours have received, as doubt not but
shall be to a place, which for your sake as well as my owne, have so

much reason to honour, meane the University  at least may be
esteemed a service to have obtained of Mr. Henry Howard of Norfolk,

the freely bestowing upon you all those learned Monuments which

passe vndcr the famous names of Marmora Arundeliana. This, Sir.
the interest which that illustrious person has allowed me in his friend
ship has wrought for you and dare pronounce highly worthy your
               is
                                         ;
                                  I

                                       I
                                           I;

                                                                   it
                                                                        I

                                                                                                                      it
acceptance. For you shall not onely be masters of some few, but of
               nothing more to be don, than after you have taker,
all and there
;

notice of his munificence (which desire, and wish may be speedily
don in a publiq Addresse as from the body of the University) to take
order for their transportation to you for which effect, conceive
would be worth your while to delegate Mr. Obadiah Walker, or Dr.
Wren (Sir Christopher), persons that much honor, who may take
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  649

care, and consult about the best expedients for their removall ; foi they
being marble & some of them Basse relievos rarely cutt, will deserve to

be guarded from injuries: And when they are at Oxford, I conceive

they can no where be more fitly placed than in some part about the
new Theatre, except you should think fit to protect some of the more
curious & small ones, as Urnes &c. in the Galleries next the Library,

where they may remaine secure. I haue assured Mr. Howard that

the University will not faile in their sense of this noble gift and mu

nificence, by decreeing him a publiq and conspicuous Inscription which

shall consecrate his memory : And if I have hinted it more particu
larly to Mr. Walker, it is what I think will become your justice &such
gratefull Beneficiaries. I shall intreate you to acquainte Mr. Vice-
Chancellor with what I have don, as also Dr. Barlow, & Dr. Pierce,

the Warden and Presidents of Queenes & Magdalen Coll: my worthy
friends, and beg that through your addresse this service of mine may
be acceptable to the University from

                                                             Sir, Your &c.

      Lond: 9th Sept: 1667.

 To the Earl of Sandwich, Lord Ambassador in Spain, at Madrid.
       My Lord,

    I could hardly obtaine of myselfe to give your Excellency this trouble,
 or dare to mingle my impertinencies amongst your publiq and weighty

concernes, 'till reflecting on the greatnesse of your genius, I concluded

it would neither be disturb'd, nor disdaine my humble addresse, that

confident of your com'unicative nature, I adventur'd to supplicate your

 Excellency's favour in behalfe of a work of mine upon the Hortulan
subject ; and in particular, that your Excellency would vouchsale by
the meanest of your servants to give me some short descriptions of
the most famous Gardens and Villas of Spaine ', and what other singu

larities of that kind might occur to the adorning of a labour wherein I

chiefely pretend to gratifie greate & illustrious persons, and such as like
your Lordship are the most worthy to cultivate and enjoy these amce-

nities. The Catalogue which I here presume to send your Excellency,
and the paines I have already taken to render it no .trifling or un-use-
full speculation, will in some degree com'ute for this bold addresse ;
especialy since I could never hope to receive so much light from any
but your Excellency, to whom I am confident there can be nothing

curious in this argument conceal'd, how close & reserv'd so ever the

Spaniards are. I have heard that there is lately a German at Madrid,
who pretends to a successful Invention for the setting of Corne by a
peculiar sort of plow. This, I am sure cannot have escaped your

  J.1 Which he sent me from Madrid, many sheets of paper written in his owne hand, together
Iwith the Sembrador or plough itsclfe, which gave to the R: Society, & is describ'd in their
" Transactions." -- E.
.650  TO THE REV. JOSEPH GLANVIL FROM JOHN EVELYN.

Excellency: and it will be due to the R: Society, the History whereof,
now at last publish'd here with infinite applause, I doubt not is ccme
to your hands, and that you will judge it worthy the most accurate

Translation: But, my Lord, I shall leave that to the joynt request of
the Society, and accumulate no more to these extravagances of mine,
after I have supplicated your Excellency's pardon, who am,

                             May it please your Excellency, your &c

       Sayes Court, 13 Dec: 1667.

To the Rev. JOSEPH Glanvil, Chaplin                           in Ordinary to his   Majesty,
                                                             and a distinguished
   and F. R. S. a native of Devonshire ',                                          writer of

the seventeenth century.

   Sir,

I received so wellcome, and so obliging a toaken from you by the
hands of Mr. Oldenburgh, that after all I can say in this Letter in
acknowledgment of that particular favour, I must continue to sub
scribe myselfe your debtor: For what have you seene in any of my
productions, which should make you augure so favourably of that trifle
of mine, upon so trite and humble a subject ; or mention me amongst
the Heroes whom you so meritoriously celebrat ! I cannot find any

thing to support but your most obliging nature, of which the comely
                            it,
                                        is
and philosophic frame aboundantly conspicuous, by this worthy
vindication both of yourselfe and all usefull Learning, against the

Science (falsely so called) of your snarling Adversary-                            do not .
                                                                        is
                                                                                   '.

                                                                                  I

                                                                                                             ;
conceive why the Royall Society should any more concern themselves
for the empty and malicious cavells of these delators, after what you
haue sa/d but let the Moon-dogs bark on, 'till their throats are drie
&
                         ;
the Society every day emerges, and her good Genius will raise up one.
or other to judge and defend her whilst there nothing which dos
more confirme me in the noblenesse of the Designe, than this spirit ofI
contradiction which the Devil (who hates all discoveries of those false;
   prestigious ways that have hitherto obtain'd) dos incite to stirr up

men against it. But, Sir, you have discours'd this so fully in this ex

cellent piece of yours, that have no more to add, but the suffrage

and subscription of, Sir,                                    Your, &c

      Sayes Court 24 June 1668.

      He sent me his Booke, intituled, 'Plus Ultra; or the Progress and Advancement of
31                                                                          E. --An account of this

                ;
Knowledge, since the Days of Aristotle/ octavo, I.ond. 1668.            J.
may be seen in the Philosophical Transactions, No. 36.

     Henry Stubbe, an inveterate enemy of the Royal          Society,   which he   set forth in many
Pamphlets. He also wrote an Answer to Mr. Glanvil,           intituled              Ultra reduced to.
                                                                        'The Plui
a Non Pint or a Specimen of some Animadversions upon the Plus Ultra of Mr. Jost
Glanvil,' Quarto, 16794
      THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                             651

To the Earle of Sandwich, Ambassador Extraordinary in the Court
       % of Spaine, at Madrid.
      My Lord,

  I am plainely astonish'd at your bounty to me, and I am in paine
for words toexpresse the sense I have of this greate obligation1.

   And as I have ben exceedingly affected with the Descriptions, so
have I ben greately instructed in the other particulars your-Lordship

mentions, and especialy rejoice that your Excellency has taken care to

have the draughts of the Places, Fountaines, & Engines for the Irriga

tion & refreshing their plantations, which may be of singular use to us
in England. And I question not but your Excellency brings with you a

collection of Scedes ; such especially as we may not have com'only in
our Country. By your Lordship's description, the Encina should be
the Ilex major aculeata, a sucker whereoff yet remaines in his Majes
ties Privie-Gardens at White Hall, next the dore,,that is opposite to the
Tennis Court. I mention it the rather, because it certainly might be
propagated with us to good purpose, for the father of this small tree I

remember of a goodly stature ; so as it yearely produe'd ripe Acorns ;
though Clusius, when he was in England, believed it to be barren : &

happily, it had borne none in his tyme. I have sown both the Acorns of
the tree, and the Cork with successe, though I have now but few of them

remaining, through the negligence of my Gardiner ; for they require

care at the first raising,- 'till they are accostom'd to the cold, and then

no rigour impeaches them. What your Excellency meanes by the
Bama de Joseph, I do not comprehend ; but the Planta Alois, which
is a monstrous kind of Sedum, will like it endure no wett in Winter, but

certainely rotts if but a drop or two fall on whereas in Summer you
                           I

                                                    it,
cannot give drink enough.  perceive their culture of choyce ten
      &                                                                        if &
der Plants differs little from ours in England, and as has ben pub-it
                                                         is
                                                                 it

                                                                            ;
lish'd by me in my Calendarium Hortense, which now the third time

reprinting. Stoves absolutely destroy our Conservatories but they

could be lin'd with cork, believe would better secure them from the
                      I    I

                               it
cold  moisture of the walls, than either matrasses, or reedes with

which we co'monly invest them. thinke was the first that ever planted
Spanish Card6ns in our country for any culinerie use, as your ExcelI
lency has taught the-blanching but know not whether they serve
                           ;          it I

themselves in Spaine with the purple beards of the Thistle, when               is
in flower, for the curdling of Milk, which performes much better than            : it
Reinet, and far sweeter in the Dairy than that liquor, which apt
      1                                                                           j it I is
to putrifie.
   Your Excellency has rightly conjectur'd of the Pome-Granad; is
. have allways kept expos'd, and the severest of our Winters dos
no prejudice they will flower plentifully, but beare no fruit with us,it
                      &  in the repository, or set in the open ayre
either kept in cases

      Vpon Iiia communicating particulari of Horticultural matters Spftiftin
65 3 TO DR. BEALE FROM JOHN EVELYN.

at least very trifling, with the greatest industry of stoves & other

artifices.

   We have Aspargus growing wild both in Lincolnshire & in other

places ; but your Lordship observes, they are small & bitter, ie not

comparable to the cultivated.
   The red Pepper, I suppose, is what we call Ginny-Peper, of ·which I

have rais'd many plants, whose pods resemble in colour the most

oriental & polish'd corall : a very little will set the throat in such a

- flame, as has ben sometimes deadly, and therefore to be sparingly

us'd in sauces.

  I hope your Lordship will furnish your selfe with Melon seedes,

because they will last good almost 20 years ; & so will all the sorts of

Garavances, Calaburos, & Gourds (whatever Herrera affirme) which
may be for divers ceconomical uses.

   The Spanish Onion-seede is of all other the most excellent : and yet

I am not certaine, whether that which we have out of Flanders & St
Omers, be all the Spanish seede which we know of. My Lady Clar

   endon (when living) was wont to furnish me with seede that produe'd
   me prodigious cropps.

      Is it not possible for your Excellency to bring over some of those

  Quince and Cherry-trees, which your Lordship so celebrates ? I sup

   pose they might be secured in barrells or pack'd up, as they transport

, other rarities from far countries. But, my Ld: I detaine your Excel
  lency too long in these repetitions, & forget that I am all this while

doing injury to the publiq, by suspending you a moment from matters
of a higher orb, the Interest of States, & reconciling of Kingdomes :
And I should think so of another, did I not know withall, how uni

versal your comprehensions are, & how qualified to support it. I
remaine, my Lord,
   Sayes-Court, 21 Aug. 1668.  Your 4c.

                                  To Doctor Beale

       Sir,

   I happen'd to be with Mr. Oldenburg some time since, almost upon

the article of his receiving the notice you sent him of your fortunate

and usefull Invention ; and I remember I did first of all incite him,

both to insert it into his next Transactions, and to provoke your farther

prosecution of it ; which I exceedingly rejoice to find has ben so suc

cessful!, that you give us hopes of your farther thoughts upon that, and
those other subjects which you mention.1 You may happly call to re
membrance a passage of the Jesuite Honorati Fabri, who speaking of
Perspectives, observes, that an object looked on through a small hole

   1 The paper alluded to is intituled, 'An Experiment to examine what Figure and Celerity
of Motion begetteth or encreaseth Light and Flame.' Philosophical Transactions, toL I.

p.aa6.
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                        653

appears magnified ; from whence he suggests, the casting of two plates

neately perforated, & fitted to looke through, preferrable to glasses,
whose refractions injure the sight. Though I begin to advance in
yeares (being now on the other side of 40) yet the continuance of the
perfect use of my senses (for which I bless Almighty   God) has rendrcd
me the less solicitous about those artificial aydes ;
                                                       which yet I fore
see I must shortly apply my selfe to, and therefore you can receive but

slender hints from me which will be worth your acceptance upon that ar

gument: Onely, I well remember, that besides Tiberius of old (whom you

seeme to instance in,) Joseph Scaliger affirmes the same happned both
to his Father Julius and himselfe, in their younger yeares. And some
times methinks, I my selfe have fansied to have discern'd things in a

very dark place, when the curtaines about my bed have been drawne,

as my hands, fingers, the sheete and bed-clothes ; but since my too

intent pouring upon a famous Eclipse of the Sun, about 1 2 yeares since,
at which time I could as familiarly have stared with open eyes upon

that glorious Planet         in  its full lustre, as now upon a glow-worme (com
paratively speaking)             have not onely lost that acuteness of sight, but
                             I

much impaired the vigour of it for such purposes as it then serv'd me.
But besides that, I have treated myne eyes very illneere these 20 yeares
during ail which tyme I have rarely put them together, or compos'd
them to sleepe before One at night, & sometimes much latter: that I
may. in some sort redeeme my losses by day, in which I am continually

importun'd with visits from my neighbours & acquaintance, or taken

up by other impertinencies of my life in this place. I am plainely
asham'd to tell you this, considering how little I have improv'd my-

it,

       I

                                 ;

                             'I
                                            I

                                                                &

                                                                   I
                                                                      I
selfe by but have rarely ben in bed before 12 o'clock as sayd, in

the space of 20 yeares and yet reade the least print, even in a jolting

Coach, without -other assistance save that now then use to rub my
shut eye-lids over with a spirit of wine well rectified, in which distill
a few Rose-marie Flowers, much after the processe of the Queene of
Hungarie's Water, which does exceedingly fortifie not onely my sight,
but the rest of my senses, especialy my hearing and smelling a drop
or two being distill'd into the nose, or eares, when they are never so
dull and other xoWapiov never apply. Indeede, in the sum'er-time,
I                                I               ;
            ;
                                                     I
                         a&                                 I;
    have found wonderfull benefit in bathing my head with a decoction
                                                                      is
of some not aromaticall herbs, in lixivium made of the ashes of
                                    is a
vine-branches, and when my head well washed with this, im'edi-
ately cause aboundance of could fountain-water to be poured upon me
stillatim, for good halfe-hour together which for the present, not
                                          ;

onely one of the most voluptuous and gratefull refreshments imaginable,
but an incredible benefit to me the whole yeare after for never neede
other powdering to my hair, to preserve bright, and cleane, as the
                                             it

      The Editor thankful to God that he can and does do this at double the age of Mr.
Kveiyn, mentioned above.
1

                         is
654 TO DR: BEALE FROM JOHN EVELYN.

      Gallants do ; but which dos certainely greately prejudice transpiration

by filling up, or lying heavy upon the pores. Those therefore, who
(since the use of Perrucqs) accustome to wash their heads, instead of
powdering, would doubtlesse find the benefit of it ; both as to the pre
venting of aches in their head, teeth, and eares, if the vicissitude &
      unconstancy of the weather, and consequently the use of their
                                                               of catching
monstrous Perrucqs, did not expose     them to the   danger
                                       the Southern   parts,   I did some
colds. When I travell'd in Italy, and

times frequent the publiq Bathes (as the manner is), but seldome with
out peril of my life, 'till I us'd this frigid affusion, or rather profusion

of cold water before I put on my garments, or durst expose my selfe
to the ay*e ; and for this method I was oblig'd to the old and noble
Rantzow, in whose booke de conscruanda valetttdine I had read a passage
to this purpose ; though I might have remember'd how the Dutch-men

treate their labouring Horses, when they are all over in a froth, which
they wash off with severall bucketts of cold water, as I have frequently

observ'd it in the Low-Countries '.

      Concerning other aydes ; besides what the Masters of the Catoptrics,

      Phonocamptics, Otacoustics, &c. have don, something has ben at
tempted by the R: Society ; and you know the industrious Kircher has

      much labour'd ; as the rest of those artificial helps are sum'd up by the

      Jesuite And. Schottus. I remember that Monsieur Huygens (author

      of the Pendulum), who brought up the learned father of that incompa

      rable youth Monsieur de Zulechum, was us'd to prescribe to me the
benefit of his little Wax Taper (a type whereof      with the history of
                                                 is,
                                                           it
it if,  in some of our Registers) for night elucubrations preferable to all
      other Candle or Lamp light whatsoever. And because explodes all
glaring of the flame, which by no meanes ought to dart upon the eyes,
        seemes very much to establish your happy invention of Tubes in

      stead of Spectacles, which have not those necessaiy defences.

      Touching the Sight of Catts in the night, am not well satisfied of
the exquisitnesse of that sense in them.  II  believe their smelling or

hearing dos much contribute to their dexterity in catching Mice, as to
all those animals who are born with those prolix smelling haires. Fish
will gather themselves in sholes to any extraordinary light in the darke
night, many are best caught by that artifice. But whatever may be
      say'd of these, and other senses of Fish, you know how much the&
           &
sagacity of Birds  Beasts excelle us how far Eagles Vultures,
                   &
                                  it,
                                    &

                                                                              :
                                                                                             ;

                                                                          8. a
                                                                                :&
Ravens other Fowles will smell the Carcase Odorumq; Canum

      Vis, as Lucretius expresses  we daily find by their drawing after the
Game. Gesner affirmes that an Otter will wind Fish four miles
. distance in the Water, and my Ld: Verulam, Cent: speakes of that
element's being also a medium of sounds, as well as ayre Eeles do
manifestly stirr at the cracking of thunder, but that may also be atari

        1  The common practice with Post horses in England, in the present day,
      THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                       6j$

buted to some other tremulous motion ; yet Carps & other Fish are
known to come at the call and the sound of a Bell, as I have ben in

form 'd. Notorious is the story of Arion, and of Lucullus's Lamprys
which came ad nomen (and would lick the hand of Caesar) ; and you
have formerly minded me ofVarro's Grccke-Pipe, of which Lucian and

Cicero ad Atticum take occasion to speake. Pliny's Dolphin is famous,

and what is related of the American Manati ; but the most stupendious
instance, that of the Xiphia or Sword Fish, which the Mamertines can

take up by no other stratagem than a Song of certaine barbarous

words, as the thing is related by Thorn. Fazellus. It is certaine, that

we heare more accurately when we hold our mouthes a little open, than

when we keepe them shut ; and I haue heard of a dumb gentleman in

England, who was taught to speake (and therefore certainely brought
to heare in some degree) by applying the head of a Bass-Viole hard
against his teeth, & striking upon the strings with the bow : You may

remember the late effect of the Drum extending the Tympanum of a

deafe person, to great improvement of his hearing, so long as that was
was beaten upon ; and I could at present name a friend of mine, who

though he be exceedingly thick of hearing, by applying a straite stick
of what length soever, provided it touch the instrument, and his eare,

dos perfectly, and with greate pleasure heare every tune that is playd :

All which with many more will flow into your excellent Work, whilst
the argument puts me in mind of one Tom Whittal, a Student of
Christ Church, who would needes maintaine, that if a hole could

dextrously be boar'd through the Skull to the Brain in the midst of

the Forehead, a man might both see, and heare, & smell without the use

of any other organs; but you are to know, that this learned Problematist

was   brother to him, who     preaching     at St. Maries,  I  Onxotfotrhdi,netooAksesehi?s'
text  out of the History of  Balaam :    Num. 22. ' Am

Deare Sir, pardon this rhapsody of       Sir,
                                                Your &c.

Sayes-Court, 27 Aug. 1668.

 To the Right Honourable Sir Thomas Clifford, Treasurer of his

     Majesty's Household, &c. (Aftenvards Lord High Treasurer of
                                               England.)

       Right Honourable,

   In my conversation sometimes amongst bookes to redeeme my tyme
from other impertinences, I think it my duty to give your Honor notice
of some pieces which have come to my hands, the subjects whereof I

cannot but esteeme highly prejudicial to the honor of his Majestie and
the whole Nation, especialy two Bookes, the one written in French, the
otrter in Latine (not inelegantly) both with approbation of their Supe
riors, the States of Holland licencing their publication. The argu
ment of them is a remonstrance to all the World, of the Occasion,
656 TO SIR THOMAS CLIFFORD FROM JOHN EVELYN.

Action, and Successe of the late War betweene the English & the

Dutch ; but with all the topics of reproach and dishonor as to matter
of fact ; every period being filled with the dissembled instances of our

injustice, ingratitude, cruelty, and imprudence ; and the persons of

divers particular gallant men engag"d in that action, injuriously treated
and accus'd, & in summ, whatever they can else suggest to render his
Majestie and people cheap and vile, the subjects of derision and con

tempt. I should think in my poore judgment (under submission to a

better) that there is nothing which ought to be more precious to a
Prince, or his people, than their Reputation : sure I am, it is of more
value with a man of honor, than his life ; and certainely, a gTeate

Kingdom, which comprehends so many individuals as have ben one
way or other concern'd in the publiq interest, ought to be tender of
                                                   and cannot with
their fame, and consequently obliged to vindicateis
                                          &

                                                    it,

                                                                                      ;
out a crime do lesse, without being wanting to themselves in a most

necessary defence.

know may be say'd, that this but a Paper quarell but your
I

       &
               it
Honor dos consider, what effects such malevolent suggestions do pro
duce, with what a black deepe malice contriv'd, how far they flie,
                          && &
and how universaly understood the Latine French tongues are, the
one amongst the grave and more intelligent sort '(not by way of
pamphlet, but of a formal close Treatise) and the other amongst the
Vulgar to which also joyn'd, for the better fixing their injurious
;                   is
              ;
ideas, the several Types        Figures cut in Brasse, to represent our
Misfortunes as in particular our want of conduct (as they terrne it) in
the first encounter, our basenesse in surprising a few poore Fishermen,
and the firing of Schelling, revenged in the dire conflagration of Lon
don, the Metropolis of our Nation, the descent they made on Sheer
Nesse, and their glorious exploit at Chatham, where they give out we
so ridiculously lost, or betraid the creame of our Fleete, and bullwarks
of the Kingdom, by an unparallel'd supinenesse nor this crudely, or
in trifling way of writing but so as may best affect the passions, &
a                                                                                                                                       say nothing
           &

                                 :
                                  ;

                      aI
                                :I ;
                                   I

                                                                                                                                     :

                                                                      I
prepossesse the judgement and beliefe of the Reader.
of some personal reflections on my Lord Arlington, Sir Rob: Holmes,
and even the King himselfe, whom they represent deliberating in a
paniq consternation of a flight to Windsor, <fcc. nor many other parti

culars pointed at nor of a thousand other notorious indignities plainely

insupportable But have sayd enough to inflame a breast sensible
of honor, and generous as know yours to be, to approve, or at least

to pardon the proposal which shall humbly submit to your consider
ation and encouragement, for the Vindication of his Majestie and the
Nation's honor, and especialy, of an Action in which your Honor bore
so greate so signal a part And that were doubtlesse by employing
an able Pen, not to formal, or studied Reply to any particular of this
egregious Libell (which might now happly be thought unseasonable),
               .  THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                               657

but to compose a solid and usefull History of the late War, according
to the truth of circumstances, and for the honor of those very many

brave men who were actors in whose names deserve as well to be
                                             is it,
transmitted to Posterity as our meaner Antagonists but which must
                                                     is ;
else dye in obscurity, and what worse, with obloquy and scorn, not
of Enemyes alone, but of all that shall reade what these men are per

mitted to scatter abroad in the world, whilst there no care taken

amongst us at home to vindicate them from it.
When have mention'd to your Honour the employment of an able
;I

         it

            I
                        I
Pen upon this occasion, prevented all pretences to as relating to
                                                     it

myselfe who have neither the requisite talents, nor the least presump
tion for it1. But would humbly suggest, how worthy, and glorious in
your Honour would be, to moove my Ld: Arlington, and with him,

to provoke his Majestie, to impose his province upon some sober and
well instructed person, who dignified with the character of his Royal

Historiographer, might be oblig'd to serve and defend his Majesties
honor, and that of the publiq, with his pen a thing so carefully and
                                                     ;

                                                               It

                                                                      is
so industriously observed by the French King, and other greate Poten

tates, who have any reguards or tendernesse to their owne or their

People's glory, the encouragement of gallant men, and prospect of their
                                                                          History alone
future stories, as there nothing more notorious.
               ;

                                  is
(however the writers of them may be esteem'd) which renders the great"
est Princes, and the most deserving persons, what they are to the

present age which perfumes their names to posterity, inspires them to
an emulation of their virtues, and preserves them from being as much
Ifforgotten as the co'mon dust in which they lie mingled.
                                                                                   your
Honor thinke this worthy your thoughts, (and worthy of them pro
nounce to be) all that shall humbly supplicate to you that through
your favour, may present his Majestie with a person highly deserving
it                                                   a
                                                                              is,
     ;
                                                                                I
              it

             is I
                                I
as being one, who has not onely ben sufferer in his capacity, but

one who perfectly able and accomplish'd to serve his Majestie: a
learned industrious person, and who will esteeme himselfe gratified

with a very modest subsistence, to be allways at hand, and allways la

Ifborious and not to weare a title (as some triflers have lately don) to
itthe reproch of it.    there be already tollerable honorary appendant
                                                     a
   ;
                                                                    I
    if ;
                                                                                    it
                                                                                                it

                                                                                                          :f

                                                                                                                                                  v
to the place of Historiographer, we have no more to beg, but the graunt

of not, that through your mediation, some encouragement may
               will not be one of your least noble things, for which you
be procur*d.   It
                     I
will merit a just veneration of your memory. But shall add no more
at present because will beg the grace of a particularpermission to dis-

Mr. Evelyn was however appointed to write this History, and had made considerable pro
I
           is
gress, when upon the conclusion of the war he was ordered to lay aside. What he had
written unfortunately lost, except the Preface, which he published in 1674, as a distinct
Treatise, under the title of 'Navigation and Commerce, their Original and Progresse this
highly pleased the King, but because
                                         it  gave great offence to the Dutch, was for a time

suppressed. Sec Letters in this Volume.

                                                           42
658 TO LORD HENRY HOWARD FROM JOHN EVELYN. _

course this affaire to you, and with the joynt request of my worthy
friend Mr. Williamson ' (who will likewise present your Honour with a
specimen of the persons abilities) bespeake your Honour's favourable

encouragement, who remaine,

                                                     Your Honour's &c
      Sayes-Court, I Feb. 1668-9.

To my Lord Henry Howard of Norfolk.
       My Lord,
· I am not prompted by the successe of my first addresses to your
Honour, when, as much for yourowne glory, as that of the University's,

I prevail'd with you for the Marbles, which were Inscriptions in stone;
to solicit you now on the same account for the Books, which are In
scriptions but in parchment : but because I am very confident your Hon

our cannot consult a nobler expedient to preserve them, and the memory

of your Name & illustrious Family, than by wishing that the Society (on
whom you have so generously bestow'd your Library) might exchange the

MSS. (such onely, I meane, as concerne the Civile Law, Theologie, and

other Scholastical Learning) for Mathematical, Philosophical, and such

other Books, as may prove most usefull to the designe and institution of
                                                                       desire it (as I can
it: Especialy, sincethe University  do not onely humbly                Vice-Chancellor,
                                    have seene from the
testifie by divers letters which I

and other eminent persons there), but desire it with a designe of
owning it yours, and of perpetuating your munificence, by dignifying
that appartiment where they would place them, with the title of Biblio-
theca Arwideliana, than which, what can be more glorious and con
spicuous? The learned Selden, Sir Ken: Digby, Archbp. Laud (not
to mention Sir Tho: Bodley their founder, and severall others, who are
out of all exception) esteem'd this a safer Repository, than to have
consign'd them to their mansions and posterity ; and we have seene

that when their persons, families, and most precious moveables have

suffer'd (some of them the uttmost violences and dispersion) their
Bookes alone have escaped untouch'd in this sacred Asylum ; and
preserv'd the Names of the -Donors through all vicissitudes. Nor in
saying this do I augure lesse of the Royal Society, should they thinke
fit to keepe them in their owne Library ; but, because by thus parting
with such as are foraigne to their studies to the University, your illus
trious Name and Library will be reserv'd in both places at once with
equal zeal, and no lesse obligation ; when as many as shall have
recourse to such bookes at Oxon : as are under the Arundelian title,
will have occasion to mention it in their workes and labours to your
eternal honour. For my part, I speake it with grcate sincerity, and
adul emvyenpeorawteiorncoonfsuylot urthLeoraddsvhainpcsembeonutntyo,f  that if I would to the uttmost
                                                                        your Lordships glory in this

< Afterwards Sir Joseph Williamson, Principal Secretary of State.
                THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.            659

 .ift, it should be  by   declaring my suffrage in behalfe  cf the Universities
                          much in the late Council, where   I must testifie that
request. I sayd       as

·ven those who were of a contrary sense to some others of us, were yet

11 of them equally emulous of your Lordships honour. But, since it

was the unanimous result to submit this particular to your Lordships
decision, I cannot, upon most serious reflection on the reasons which I
                                     of preserving your Name
.ave  aledged,  and especialy  that   implore your Lordships  and Library
        double  consignation,   but                            favour and
jy a

indulgence for the Universities, where your munificence is already

deeply ingraven in their hearts, as well as in their marbles ; and will

then shine in letters of a more refulgent lustre: For, methinkes I hear
their Publiq Orator, after he has celebrated your Name amongst the
rest of their glorious Benefactors and Heros, end his panegyric in the

resounding Theater, as once the noble Poet, in the person of the Young
Arcadian
Eel: 7: Nunc te Marmoreum pro tempore fecimus --

          We yet, greate Howard, Thee but in Marble mould,
         But if our Bookes increase, Thou shalt be Gold.

                                                  I am your Lordships, &c.
Sayes-Court 14 Mar: 1669.

                       To Dr. Meric Casaubon, Is. F.

                                   Prebend of Canterbury, &c.

        Reverend Sir,

   Tho' I am a stranger to your person, yet the name & the learning
which you derive both from inheritance, as well as acquisition, draw a
just veneration to them. Sir, whilst it has ben lately my hap to write

something concerning the nature of Forest Trees, & their Mechanical

Uses, in turning over many books treating of that & other subjects, I
met with divers passages concerning Staves, which have in a manner
obliged me to say something of them in a Treatise which I am adorn
ing: but whilst I was intent on this, I began to doubt whether I should
not actum agerej remembring this passage of your Father (rW /mcapira)

jin his Com'ent on Theophrastus, p. 172. Edit. 1638: Sed haec hactenus

nam de Baculis et eorum forma, muliiplicique apud veteres usu, plu-
rima qua observavimus ad Iticem multorum Scriptorum veterum,
alibi, iav & Qtis I9i\y, co'modius proferremus. That which I now
would entreate of you, Sir, is to know whether your learned Father did

ever publish any expresse Treatise concerning this subject, & it not,
that you'l be pleased to afford me some short hints of what ycu find
noted in his Adversaria about it: By which meanes you will infinitely
oblige me, who shall not faile to let the world know to whose bounty &

assistance I am indebted. Sir, that worthy & communicative nature
of yours, breathing in your excellent writings, prompts me to this

greate confidence ; but, however my request succeedes, be pleased to.
66o MERIC CASAUBON TO JOHN EVELYN.

pardon the liberty of, Reverend Sir, your most humble, tho' unknowne

Servant &c.                  Sayes-Court, 17 Jan. 1669-70.

                          To John Evelyn, Esquire.

       Sir,
   You might have had a more speedy answer to your kind letter, bat

that soon after the receipt of it I fell into my ordinary distemper, which

is the Stone, but with more then ordinary extremities, which hath con
tinued these 3 or 4 days already, and what will be the end God knows ;

to whom, for either life or death, I heartily submit.
   Presently after the reading of your's I set my selfe to search my

Father's Adversaria and Papers, and after a little search I found a

proper head or title de Baculis, as an addition to what he had written
upon Thcophrastus ; and under that title, many particular references to

all kind of ancient authours, but soe confusedly that I thinck noe roan
but I, that have been used to his hand and way, can make any thing
of it. There are 2 full sides in quarto. Sir, if God grant me life, or
some respite from this present extremitie, it shall be one of the first
things I shall doe, to send you what he hath written, copyed out in the
same order as I find it.

   Whilst I was searching my Father's papers, I lighted on a note con
cerning Plants and Trees, which I thought fit to impart unto you,

because you tell me you have written of trees ; you have it here en

closed. Besides this I remember I have, but know not where to find
it at this time, Wormij Literatura Danica, where, if I be not much mis

taken, he hath somewhat de Baculis, there, or in some other treatise I

am pretty confident. Sir, I desire you to beleeve that I am very

willing to serve any Gentleman of your quality in soe reasonable a

request. But if you be the Gentleman as I suppose, who have set out
the first booke of Lucretius in English, I must needes confesse my selfe
much indebted to you, though I never had the opportunitie to professe

    for your honourable mention which you were pleas'd to make of me
in your preface. Whatsoever should thinck of your work or translation,

yet civility would engage me to say soe much. But truly Sir, you
will beleeve me, who thinck was never accounted a flatterer by them
it,                                                                  if
           it
                                                                             '.
                                        :

                    if I
                        I

                                                    ;

                                       I
                                          I
                                            I is,

                                                           I
that have known me, my judgment that you have acquitted yourselfe
of that knotty business much better then thought could be done by

any man, though thinck those excellent parts might deserve a more

florid and proper subiect but submit to your better iudgement.
Sir, hath been some taske to me to find soe much free time to dic
               there be any thing impertinent, desire you will be
tate soe much                                                 I

pleased to consider my case. Soe take my leave, and rest,
                             your very humble Servant, MERIC CaSAUBON

Jan: 24, 1669-70.

This letter not written by Mr. Casaubon, but only bears his signature.
1
                         is
               THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN. .                                                                                                                     66l

                  To Dr. Meric Casaubon, Isaaci FiL

       Reverend Sir,

   There was no danger I should forget to return you notice of the
favour I yesterday receiv'd, where I find my obligations to you so much
improved, by the treasure they convcy'd me ; and that it is to you I am

to owe the greatest and best of my subsidiaries. There are many

things in your paper which formerly I had noted ; but more which I

should never have observ'd ; and therefore both for confirming my
owne, & adding so many more, & so excellent, I think my selfe sacredly

engag"d to publish my greate acknowledgements, as becomes a Bene-
ficiaric. As to the crude and hastie putting this trifle of mine abroad
                                                                 I
into  the world,       there  is  no  danger  '    since            should  thereby                                                                                     deprive
                                                ;

my selfe of those other assistances which your generous bounty has in

store for me ; nor are those materials which lie by me, brought into
any tollerable order yet, as not intended for any worke of labour, but
refreshment, when I am tired with other more serious studies. Thus,
Sir, you see me doubly oblig'd to returne you my thanks for this greate

humanity of yours, and to implore the Divine goodnesse to restore you
                                              Reverend Sir
to your health, who am
                                                                    Your &c.
      Saves Court, 34 Jan. 1669-70.

          To my Lord High Treasurer of England [Clifford].it I',                                                                                                        &
                                                   if,                                                                                                                          &
       Right Honourable
                                                             it
   I should much sooner have made good my promise of transmitting
                                                                                                                                                              &
to your Honour, the inclosed Synopsis (containing the briefe, or heads
                                                                                                                                                                     ;
of the work I am travelling on) besides the number of bookes
papers that have ben condemn'd (as were) to reade over dilli-       is

gently peruse, there had not lately ben put into my hands a monstrousI
Folio, written in Dutch which containes no lesse than 1079 pages,&
elegantly and carefully printed at the Hague this last yeare and what
fills me with indignation, derogating from his Majestie our Nation:&        &
the subject of being principaly the Warr with England not yet brought
to a period, which prompts me to believe there another volume pre
paring on the same argument. By the extraordinary industrie used in
this, and the choice pieces find they have furnish'd the author with,
his Majestie and your Lordship will see that to write such an Historic
as may not onely deliver truth matter of fact to posterity, but vindi

cate our Prince his people from the prepossessions disadvantages
they lie under (whilst, remaining thus long silent, we in a manner jus
tify their reproches) will require more time to finish than at the first

Amongst Mr. Evelyn's papers there a small fragment of this Treatise in Latin, con
*i

    '

         is

                              2

                         is it

                                        3
                                                        :

                                             it
                                                                    is

                                                                                   it
                                                                                                        a

                                                                                                                                                           ;
sisting only of or pages      does not appear that was ever finished. From an introduc
tory paragraph, should seem to have been intended as jocular piece but the small part
               grave and solemn. It begins with the Stuff which Jacob used when he
which written
met his brother Esau.
Sakea van Stuet en Oorlogh door d'Heer Lieuwe Van Ailzema,' &q
662 LORD CLIFFORD TO JOHN EVELYN.

setting- out could well have ben imagin'd. My Lord, I dare affirme it
without much vanity, that had I ben ambitious to present his Majesti;
with a specimen onely of my diligence, since first I received his com-

'ands, I could long ere this have prevented these Gent, who, I am told,

are already upon the Dutch War. There had nothing ben more easy
than after a florid preamble to have publish'd a laudable description &
image of the severall Conflicts, & to have gratified aboundance of
worthy persons who were actors in them ; but since my Lord Arlington
and your Lordship expect from me a solemn deduction and true state
of all affaires & particulars from his Majestie's first entering into

Treaty with the States at his arrival in England, to the yeare 1667, nay

to this instant period (which will comprehend so greate & so signal a

part of his glorious reigne), I easily believe his Majestie will neither
believe the time long nor me altogether indilligent, if he do not receive

this Historic so soone as otherwise he might have expected: All I will
add in relation to myselfe is this ; that as I have not for many moneths
don any thing else (taking leave of all my delightfull studies), so by
God's help I intend to prosecute what I have begun, with the same fer
vour &, application. Your Lordship will consider how irksome ataske

it is to reade over such multitudes of Books, Remonstrances, Treatises,
Journals, Libells, Pamphlets, Letters, Papers, & Transactions of State,
as of necessity must be don before one can set pen to paper: It would

affright your Lordship to see the heapes that lie here about me, & yet
is this the least part of the drudgerie & paines, which consists in the

judgment to elect & cull out, and then to dispose & place the materials

fitly ; to answer many bitter & malicious objections, & dextrously, &

.yet candidly, to ward some unlucky points that are not seldome made

at us ; and after all this, the labour of the pen will not be inconsiderable.

I speake not this to inhaunce of the instrument, but rather that I may
obtaine pardon for the lapses I may fall into, notwithstanding all this

zeale & circumspection: and that his Majestie will graciously accept of
my endeavors, and protect me from the unkindnesses of such as use
to decry all things of this nature, for a single mistake; or because some

lesse worthy men find not themselves or relations flatter^, and be not

satisfied that (tho' they deserve not much) they are no where disobliged.

As to the method, I have bethought myselfe of this (if your Lordship
confirms  namely, to transmit the papers (as fast as shall bring
        (I

             it)
                                        a

                                                                         ;
                                                                                                      ;

                                                                                  is

                                                                   I

                                                                                                ;I
them to any competent period) to my Lo: Arlington and your Lord

ship: that so being com'unicated (thro' both your favours) to his
Majestie before they swell into enormous bulke, he may cast his royal
eye over them with lesse trouble, and animadvert upon them 'till they
are refin'd and fit for his gracious approbation since by this meanes
shall hope to attaine two greate things the performing of his Majestie's
pleasure, and that part of true Historian, which to deliver Truth
and he think) who attaines to this, omnt tulii punctum.-- But, my
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  663

Lord, there are yet divers considerable papers and pieces which I want ;
Letters, Treaties, Articles and Instructions to Ambassadors, &c. which I
can onely receive from Mr. Secretarie and from your Lordship, that so

I may not be impos'd on by such Memoires and Transactions of State

as I find to my hand (if I durst adventure on the coyne) in the books
of our Antagonists publish'd with a confidence so frontlesse. But
since I may not well hope for these and other personal and living assis
tances (as I shall also have neede of) 'till the more urgent affaires of
Parliament are over, I do in the meane time employ my selfe in adorn
ing a Preface (of which I here inclose your Lordship a sum'arie) and go
on in reading, and collection of materials, that when I shall have re-
ceiv'd those other desiderates, I may proceede to the compiling part,
and of knitting together what I have made some progresse in.

                                           I am, my Lord, your Honors, &c.
       Sayes Court, 20 Jan. 1670.

                                  To My Lord Treasurer.
       My Lord,
   It is not my fault, but misfortune, that you have not 'ere this receiVd
a full account of the time which (by your particular favour to me) I ac
knowledge to be wholly yours: your Lordship has sometime since justi
fied the Quasries which I first drew up, that they were material, &
promis'd I should not want your assistance in the solution of them ;
but the recesseof the Court, and consequently your Lordships absence,
& otherways want of opportunity, & pressure of affaires, has depriv'd me
of receiving those necessarie directions which so important a subject as
that under my hand dos require: But tho' this might serve somewhat

Ito extenuate what may be thought wanting to my industrie, yet I hope

   shall not be found to have trifled in that which I am preparing to put
shortly into your hands ; namely, the two former parts of the Historie,
which (if your Lordship likewise approve) I think of disposing into
the following Periods. The First (giving a succinct account of their
Original for methods sake) comprehends the state of the Hollanders
in relation to England, especially their defection from the Crowne of

Spaine, Anno 1586, til his present Majesties happy Restauration 1660;
and herein, a deduction of all the notorious injuries & affronts which
the English have suffer'd from the Dutch, and what rebukes they have
received for them from the Powers who first made warr against them,
<fc from his Majcstie, whom they compcll'd to make another. The
Second sets forth at large the course and progresse of the late differ

ences, from his Majesties returne Anno 1660 to the year 1666 (in
clusively) by which time (his Majesties Ambassadors being recall'd
from their respective ministeries abroad) the Warr was fully indicted.

This period more especially relates his Majesties endeavor to have com-

pos'd matters in dispute between his Subjects and the Dutch; answers
664 TO THE LORD TREASURER FROM JOHN EVELYN.

·ill their cavells, vindicates his honor, states the aggression, treaties
with Munster ; describes the first battail, the action at Bergen ; trans
acts with the Dane, the French, the rupture with both: together with
all the intercurrent exploits at Guiny, the Mediterranean, West Indies,

and other signal particulars, in 169 paragraphs or sections ; and thus
far it is already advanced. The Third and last Period includes the
status or height of the Warr (against the three greatc Potentates we

named) to the conclusion of it in the Treaty at Breda, 1667, in which

I shall not omit any of those numerous particulars presented to his
Majestie thro' my Lord Arlington's hands in my first project of the

work, nor any thing else which your Lordship shall com'and me to
insert.

The two former parts being already dispatch'd, want nothing save
the transcribing, which I therefore have not thought convenient to hasten
'til I receive your Lordships directions in the difficulties which I here
with transmit ; upon returne whereof I shall soone present his Majestie
with the better part of this worke ; and then, as his Majestie shall ap
prove of                                         with the remainder,    which I hope    will
not take  umpysodilliognegncae,timpreo.ceeIdfe  it shall be thought                     cast
                                                                      fit hereafter to

it into other languages, especialy Latineor French, it may be consider
ably contracted, so very many particulars in the English relating onely

to companies & more domestiq concernes, in a legal style, full of tedious

memorials and altercations of Merchants: which (tho' now requisite to
deduce somewhat more at large for the justification of his Majesties

satisfaction of his subjects and as a. testimonie published from authentiq
records amongst ourselves) will be of little importance to Forrainers,
and especialy greate persons, curious & learned men, who are to be en-

tertain'd with refin'd and succinct narratives, & so far with the cause
of the Warr as may best imprint the sense of the wrongs we have sus-

tain'd, take off" the prejudices our enemies have prepossess'd them with,
together with the most shining matter of fact becoming the style of
IHistoric
      now send your Lordship my preface ; it is in obedience to a parti
cular suggestion of my Lord Arlington's, requiring of me a compleate
deduction of the progresse of Navigation & Com'erce, from its first

principle to the present age: and certainly not without greate judge
        since (as his Lordship  well observ'd) all our
ment:  with the Hollanders at   Sea derive onely from      contests and         differ
ences                                                      that sourse:
                                                                                And if
the Introduction (for a page or two) seeme lesse severe than becomes
the fore-lorne of so rude a subject as follows     I iIt,have this to say, That

as no man willingly embarks in a storme, so am perswaded your

Lordship will not condemne me when you have perus'd to the end, &
                                                                         it it
considered how im'ence an ocean have pass'd to bring home to the
                                                I

argument in hand, and yet in how contracted a space have assembl'd
                                                                      I

together that multitude of particulars the most illustrious taken in all
                                                                         ;
               THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                  665

that is material, and more (permit me to affirme) then is to be found in
many Authors of greate bulke, much lesse any one single Treatise, an-
tient or modern ; by which your Lp. may perhapes a little estimate the
diligence has ben used, and that I can do nothing which your Lordshipe

thinks fit to com'and me, superficialy. I confesse it were yet capable of

politure, and would shew much brighter in another dresse among the
curious, to whom singly it might happly prove no unacceptable enter-

tainement: I could yet also add considerably to but some perhaps
                                                               if

                                                                           it,
may think already too large for a Vestibule, tho' that will best appeare
&Iwhen the superstructure
                         finish'd, which, my calculation abuse me
    &
            it

            I

                                   is

                                I
not (from the model already fram'd & in good part advane'd) will
amount to at the least 800 or 1000 pages in folio, notwithstanding all the

care can apply to avoid impertinences, as lar as consists with integ

rity, the numerous particulars which necessarily crowd into so active

and extensive a Warr. Sure am (whatever may be objected,) 'tis ap
posite proper to the subject and the occasion of                                stands falls
                                                               ;

                                                                         &
                                                                                it,
                                                                                  &
                                                                                                 &

                                                                                                  I
by your Lordship's suffrage. His Majesty has yet two sheetes, which

beseech your Lordship to retrieve for me and after your animadver

sions on this, will waite upon your Lordship receive your farther

directions to

                                                               My Lord, &c.

Sayes-Court, 31 Aug. 1671.

My Lord,                 To the Same.

was yesterday at Whitehall to waite on your Lordship, and little to
I                        a

   it I                                              I
                                                                                             ;
                                                                                          a

                                                                                                &
expostulate with you upon the work enjoin'd me, for want of that assist
ance which Mr. Secretary promis'd from time to time so as unlesse your

Lordship interpose and procure those papers, must desist, and go no
further: Tis, my Lord, grave and weighty undertaking in this nice
captious age to deliver to Posterity a Three-years War, of three the
greatest Powers and Potentates of Europe against one Nation newly
restored, and even at that period conflicting with so many calamities

besides. If this deserve no application extraordinary, have taken but
ill measures when entered on                                   III
                                       but rely on your Lordship whose
               III
                            &

                                        it

                                                        :;
                                                            ;

                                           I
Ifcom'ands first animated, by whose influence onely care to proceede.
the materials  have amass'd lie still in heapes, blame not me,

who write not for glory, unlesse you approve of what write, and assist
the deferrent, for am no more 'Tis matters of fact his Majesty
would have me deliver to the world let me have them authentic then,
and now especialy in this crisis of exinanition (with griefe indigna
tion speake it), and that the whole Nation sinking. As to the
                                                               I is
                                                                  I

                                                                        it,
                                                                                &
Action at Bergen, am ready to transmit what have drawn up,
               I

but shall go no further 'til you cast your eye upon since without
your Lordship's approbation (after the measures have taken of your
666 TO THE LORD TREASURER FROM JOHN EVELYN.

comprehensive and consum'ate judgement, quorumq; pars ipsefuisti,
I neither can nor ought to like any thing I do : But this, either your
modestie or buisenesse deneys me, & unlesse I overcome let all have
don wither and rise no more. Augustus Caesar had weighty affaires onI
his hand, but he suffered nothing to pine of lesser concerne when he
sometimes heard Poems recited and Scipio would converse with  :
Lxelius, and often with Lucullus too and will you let your Country;
                                                            it,
                                          ;                  &

suffer, and that which you with so much earnestnesse and vigour  I

prcss'd might be publish'd with the greatest expedition, languish now      is
for want of your assistance My Lord, what you were wont to say
                                I?
was prediction, and we are already blown upon and proian'd without
recovery. The Inscription' here inclose will more than a little dis

cover that were high time to think of all imaginable ways to recover
       :

          I

               it
the dignity of the Nation and yet assure myselfe your Lordship hasO:II
ben infiam'd with a disdaine becoming you at the sound of this dis
                 do protest solemnly, have not in my life receiv*d a more
grace

sensible mortification.         that ever his Majestie and this glorious

Country should in our time (and when your Lordship sits at the hehne)
succumb under the reproch see ourselves buried alive, our honor
                                ;

(which ten thousand times more precious than life) borne thus away
by perfid and ungratefull people To see our glory drag*d in triumph,
aa                                  I!
       is
and pillar to our infamie set up on that foule turfe which had not ben
a name but for our indulgence.          dare say, my Lord, your heart as
big as your breast can containe, and that you would be one of the first

should even devote themselves to tare downe that impudent trophy, and
take away our reproch And God Almighty do not shortly stir up
                         ;         if

amongst us some such generous indignation,                    do not for my part

desire to live, see the mines that are coming on us But this is re-
it
                      &
scrv'd for men of greate hearts, and for such as your Lordship. My
part will be to represent   so, when come to that cutting period. If
                            it

                                          I

incite not all that call themselves English to rise as one man in
rescue of our honour, the whole world will blush at our stupid lac/ieti,
and the ingratitude of our foes be styl'd a vertue. Let me therefore,
my Lord, receive your further directions seasonably, that whilst you
still incite me to dispatch, your Lordship not furnishing me those

pieces, render impossible to advance".
                   it                        am, My lord, Ac.

                           '

                                                      3. I
                                                          (I
Sayes Court, 14 Nov. 167 1.
Desiderata. -- The particulars of the Treaty with the Dutch after the
first war with the Parliament, to be found                    suppose) in the Paper
Office. -- 2. What com'ission was given De Ruyter when he went to
Ginne, of which we charge the States?-- Mr. Hen. Coventries in
structions for Sweden, so far as concernes the action at Bergen.
4. Coll. Nicholis instruction, <Scc. with the Articles of the reddition of

                         Sit up for Q« Wilt on hi* uploit at Chatham.
         THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                          667

New Amsterdam.-- 5.             Lord Fitz                                reHlaatridoinnsg. '--s 6i.nsTthruectiinosntsr,ucwtihoinchs  I sus
                               the Dutch
pect are corrupted in                                                                                                                of Sir
Walter Vane sent to                                                      Brandenburg. -- 7. His Majesties
treatie with the Bishop        the Duke of                               8. By whose importunitie was the
                               of Munster.--
saile slacken 'd in the first encounter with the Dutch, or whether I am
to blanch this particular ?-- 9. What particular Gent. Volunteers, &c.
am I more especialy to mention for their behaviour in the first engage
ment.-- 10. Was Mr. Boyle's head carried into the Sea from the trunk ?
11. Did there no wound or bruse appeare upon my Lord Falmouth's
body ?-- 1 2. On whom is the breaking bulke of the E. India prizes to be
realy charged ?-- 13. Did Bastian Senten board the Earle of Sandwich,
take downe the Blew flag, set up the                                     Orange, &possesse him 3 houres,
as the Dutch relations pretend? -- 14.                                    Sir Gilbert Talbot's letter to the
Commander in chiefe at Bergen, which I find not in your Lordships
         -- 15. I desire the
papers.                         Order your Lordship promis'd me to                                                                   the
Cleark   of the Parliament,                                                                                                          im
                               that I may search the Journals for those
portant particulars your Lordship mentioned, &c.

               To my Lord High Treasurer (Clifford.1.)
   My Lord,
According to my duty I send your Lordship the letters and papers

which your Lordship has been pleas'd to trust me withall for the com
piling of that part of the History of the late Warr which (having
receiv'd both his Majesty's and your Lordship's approbation) I designe
to publish, and the rather because I have no other meanes to cxpresse
my greate obligations to your Lordship than to set that forth, in which
your Lordship's courage & virtue has been so conspicuous. And now,
my Lord, the greate abilitie, uprightnesse and integritie which your
Lordship has made to give lustre thro' the rest of those high Offices

and Charges which you have rather dignified, than they your Lordship,

makes me perfectly deplore your Lordship's so solemn, so extraordinary

& so voluntarie a recesse. I am deeply sensible of my owne greate
osse by because have found your Lordship has ever ben the most
         it,

                            ;

                      I
obliging to me but much more of the publiq.                                          pray God to blesse
                                                                         is

                                                                                  I
your Lordship, and humbly beg this favor, that you will still reguard
me as your most gratefull beneficiary, & reckon me amongst the
number of those who not onely make the sincerest professions, but

who realy are what they professe, which to be
                                                                         My Lord, &c.

Sayes-Court, 21 Aug: 1672.

      Mr. Evelyn wrote a. congratulatory letter to Sir Tho. Clifford on his being made a Peer,
and in the margin added this note 'Who was ever a most obiigin; friend tome in particular,
and after Treasurer (whatever his other failings were) person of as dcane hands and genar*
ous a mind, a* "»·'*w' ho liavo succeeded in that high trust/
1
                                                                      :

                                                                         a
668 TO VISCOUNT CORNBERY FROM JOHN EVELYN.

                       To the Lord Viscount Cornbery.
      My Lord,
  I think it is not unknown to your Lordship that I have sometime since
ben com'anded by his Majesty to draw up a Narrative of the occasions
of the first Dutch Warr ; in order to which my Lord Clifford acquaints
me he did formerly and dos still continue to desire of you, that you
would be pleas'd to give me the perusal of Sir Geo: Downings dis
patches to my Lord Chancelor your Father, which (as I remember)
you told me were at Cornbery, where now you are. My Lord, 'tis

an extraordinary mortification to me that my un- toward employments
here have not suffered me to waite upon you all this time of your

sweete recesse, that I might also have seen how that place is adorn'd
and improv'd since I was there, & where I might likewise have seene

those papers without giving your Lordship this trouble ; but your

Lordship will consider my present condition, & may be assur'd that I

shall make use onely of such particulars as conduce to the province
impos'd on me by his Majesty. I would likewise be glad to know what

light your Lordship can give me out of the letters & dispatches of my
Lord Holies, Mr. Coventrie & Sir Gilbert Talbot, which have all of
them an influence into that affaire, as it concern'd France, Denmark
and Sweden, upon which I am also directed to touch, but shall net

be able to do it with any satisfaction, unlesse your Lordship favour me
with the com'unication of the subsidiaries in your Cabinet, who am,
my Lord, &c.

  ' Whitehall, 17 Sep. 1672.

            To the Duchesse of Newcastle, &c. at Bolsover1,

                              (when she sent me her Works.)
      May it please your Grace,

   I go not into my study without reproch to my prodigious ingratitude
whilst I behold such a pile of favours, & monuments of your incom

parable spirit, without having yet had the good fortune, or the good
manners indeede, to make my recognitions as becomes a person so

immensely oblig'd. That I presume to make this small present to

your Grace (who were pleas'd to accept my collection of Architects, to
whom Timber & Planting are subsidiaries) is not for the dignitie of the
subject (tho' Princes have not disdain'd to cultivate Trees & Gardens
with the same hands they manag'd Scepters), but because it is the best

1 This letter might be considered as a banter on this extraordinary lady were it not remem
bered, that the homage paid to high rank and riches at that time of day was excessive ; and
that Mr. Evelyn  If 'Awas himself very profuse of compliment in his dedications and letters of ac
knowledgement.
                        the reader will turn to a very scarce and curious volume, entitled,
Collection of Letters and Poems, written by several Persons of Honour and Learning upon
divers important subjects to the late Duke and Duchess of Newcastle, London, 1678,' he will
find that not only learned men, but learned bodies of men, made use of the same terms in
celebrating the talents and accomplishments of these noble authors.
        THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  669

expression of my gratitude that I can returne. Nor, Madame, is it by
this that I intend to pay all my homage for that glorious present,
which merits so many encomiums, or write a panegyric of your virtues,
which all the world admires, least the indignitie of my style should

prophane a thing so sacred ; but to repeate my admiration of your
genius, & sublime witt so comprehensive of the most abstracted
appearances, & so admirable in your sex, or rather in your Grace's

person alone, which I never call to mind but to rank it amongst the

Heroines, and constellate with the Graces: Such of antient daies were

Zenobia Queene of Palmyra, that writ the Historie of her Country, as
your Grace has don that of my Lord Duke your husband, worthy to be
transmitted to posteritie. What should I speak of Hilpylas, the
mother-in-law of young Plinie, & of his admirable Wife ! of Pulcheria

daughter to the Emp. Arcadius, or of Anna who call'd Alexius father,
& writ 15 books of Historie &c. ! Your Grace has title to all their
perfections. I passe Cornelia so neere the greate Scipio & mother of

the Gracchi, to come to the later wits, Isabella Queene of Castile, wife
of Ferdinand K. of Arragon, of which bed came the first Charles, & the

mother of foure learned Daughters, of whom one was Catherine wife

to our Henry the 8th ; Mary of Portugal, wife to John Duke of
Braganza (related to her Majestie the Queene Consort), rarely skill'd
in the Mathematical Sciences ; so was her Sister, espoused to Alex

ander Duke of Parma ; Lucretia d'Este-, of the house of Ferrara ;

Dutchess of Urbin, a profound Philosopher ; Vittoria Colonna wife of

Ferdinand d'Avila Marquis of Pescaria, whose Poetrie equal'd that of
the renowned Petrarch ; Hippolita Strozzi, daughter to Fran: D: of
Milan ; Mary of Arragon ; Marques de Vasco, Fabiala, Marcella,

Eustocbium, St. Catharine of Sienna, St. Bridget & Therese (for even
the greatest Saints have cultivated the Sciences), Fulvia Morata,
Isabella Andreini, Margarite of Valois (sister to Francis the First and
grand-mother to the greate Henry of France) whose Novells are equal
to those of the witty Boccaccio, & the Memoires of another Margarite

wife of this greate Prince, that name having ben so fertil for Ladys of

the sublimest Genius. Catharine de Roches of Poictiers was a cele

brated wit, & Claudia de Cleremont Dutchesse of Ret2, Mary de

Gournay, (daughter of Martigne), & the famous Anna M. Schurman:
And of our owne Country Queene Elizabeth, Queene Jane, the Lady
Weston, Mrs. Philips our late Orinda, the Daughters iof Sir Tho:
More ; the Queene Christina of Sweden, & Elizabeth daughter of a
Queene also, to whom the renowned Des Cartes dedicated his learned
worke, & the profound researches of his extraordinary talent: But all
these I say, sum'd together, possesse but that divided which your

Grace    retaines in one ;  so as Lucretia Marinella, who writ a book  g(ilni
1 601)  dell' Excellenzia   delle Donne, con difetti e mancamenti de

huiinini, had no neede to hive assembled so many instances & argu-
670 TO DR. CASAUBON FROM JOHN EVELYN.

ments to adorne the work, had she lived to be witnessc of Margarite
Dutchesse of Newcastle, to have read ber Writings, & to have heard

her discourse of the Science she comprehended : I do, Madame,

acknowledge my astonishment, & can hardly think too greate of those
soules, who resembling your Grace's, seeme to be as it were wholy
separate from matter, & to revolve nothing in their thoughts but uni
versal ideas. For what of sublime & worthy in the nature of things,
dos not your Grace comprehend, and explaine ! What of greate &
noble, that your illustrious Lord has not adom'd, for I must not lorget

the munificent present of his very usefull book of Horsemanship, toge
ther with your Graces Works upon all the profound as well as politer

subjects, which I receiv'd of Sir Fran: Tapps from both your Graces

hands ; but this accumulation ought to be the argument of a fresh and
more ample acknowledgement, for which this paper is too narrow. My
Wife (whom you have ben pleas'd to dignifie by the name of your
Daughter, & to tell her that you looke upon her as your owne, for
a Mother's sake of hers, who had so greate a veneration of your Grace)
presents her most humble duty to you by, Madame,

                                                               Your Grace's, &c

   Sayes-Court, 15 June, 1674.

To Doctor Meric Casaubon, Isaac! Fil.

   Reverend Sir,

I am infinitely oblig'd to you for your civil Reply to my Letter ; but

am not a little troubl'd, that it should importune you in a time when
you were indispos'd : The Stone is an infirmity, which I am daily
taught to co'misserate in my poore afflicted & deare Brother who lan
guishes under that torture, and therefore am much concern'd when I
heare of any that are exercis'd under that sad affliction : I will there
fore beg of you, that no impertinence of mine (for truly that trifle is no
other) may engage you to the least inconvenience, and which may pre
judice your health. You have already greately oblig'd me, by the hints
you are pleas'd to send me, & by the notice you are pleas'd to take of

that poore essay of mine on Lucretius, so long since escaping me :

You may be sure I was very young, & therefore very rash, or ambitious,
when I adventur'd upon that knotty piece. 'Tis very true, that when
I committed it to a Friend of mine (and one whom I am assur'd you
intimately know) to inspect the printing of in my total absence from
London, fully resolv'd never to tamper more with that Author but
I                                        & it,
   I                                                  &
                                                        (I
            it
               &                                                             a

                                                                                                 ;
when saw come forth so miserably deform 'd,  may say) mali

ciously printed mistaken, both in the Latine copy (which was most
correct and accurate one of Stephens's)
                                         my version so inhumanly
                       indignation together incited me to resolve upon
deprav'd, shame     &

another edition  ;  &    knew not how (to charme my anxious thoughts

                      I

during those sad & calamitous times) to go thro' the five remaining
              THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVET.YN.                                                                                                                                     67 1

bookes : but when I had don, I repented of my folly, & that I had not
taken the caution you since have given us in your excellent Enthusi
   <fcI
              &I
                          I

                                                                                                                                      :

                                                                  I

                                                                                 &&

                                                                                I

                                                                                                     it
asm*, which might have foreseene. But, to commute for this,
still lies in the dust of my study, where 'tis likely to be for ever buried.

   Sir, returne you a thousand thanks for the favour honour you
have don me, which should have sooner acknowledged, had not

ben from home, when your letter came to my house        shall now beg
of God to restore your health, not for the satisfaction of my impertinent

enquiries, but for the universal Republiq of Learning, the benefit
which all good men derive from the fruits of your worthy labour, who am

                                       Sir, your <fec.

   Sayes-Court, 15 July 1674.

                   To the Countess of Ossorie, &c.

   Madame,

   cannot account my self to haue worthily discharg'd my duty to the
   I

                        &
                                              ;
                                 &

                                                             &
                                                                                                                                                                                   :
memorie of my noble Lord, without deepely condoling the losse your
Ladyship has sustain'd in the death of that illustrious Person never

did a greate man go off this earthly stage with more regret and uni

versal sorrow, never had Prince a more loyal Subject, never Nation a

more publiq losse          how greate my owne were in particular, the

vn-interrupted obligations of above thirty yeares (joyn'd with a most

condescending peculiar friendship) may serve to declare, that nothing
could haue happen'd to me more calamitous. But all this dos but

accumulate to your Ladyship's affliction, which were indeede deplora
ble, had you not, besides the greate heroic actions of his life, the

glorious name he has left behind, the hopefull branches that remaine
to imitate his virtues, the consolation, above all, of his being safe,

where he has recciv'd a Crown brighter than any earthly Prince. It

was my duty (as well as honor) to be with him night day till clos'd
his eyes, to joyne in those holy offices which were so devoutly per-
form'd by the Bishop of St. Asaph to the last article, and during all his

Lordship's sickness which was pass'd thro' with such Christian patience
         &                                    is
                                                  &
                   ;                                            I
&  resignation, as that alone ought to giue your Ladyship exceeding
                     a it
comfort        am sure dos to me, your Ladyship to blesse Almighty
God for       who, after so many honorable hazards in this wicked world,
       ;                       &
                                    &
        I

         it,

would haue him to better, that he departed hence as a greate&I
man a true Christian should do, tho' for the present to our infinite
losse. And now, Madame, should beg pardon for entertaining youIis
so long on this mournfull occasion, did not assure myselfe that the

testimony giue your Ladyship of the religious pious circumstances
         I                                    &
                                                              &
of his sickness, would afford you some consolation, as well as to shew
how sincerely devoted was to his Lordship's service, how much
obliged for his constant and generous friendship to me, how much
              5
                                       Madame, your &c.
                     I
I  am

      White Hall, June, 1680.
672 TO DR. MORLEY FROM JOHN EVELYN.

To Mr. Pepys, &c. [after the Shipwreck in which the Duke of YORK

                 escaped so narrowly, returning out of Scotland.]
       Sir,

   I have ben both very sorry, & very much concern'd for you, since
your Northern Voyage, as knowing nothing of it 'till you were em-
bark'd (tho' I saw you so few daies before) and that the dismal and
astonishing Accident was ouer, which gaue me apprehensions & a
mixture of passions not realy to be express'd 'til I was assured of your
safety, and I gaue God thanks for it with as much sincerity as any

Friend you haue aliue. Tis sadly true there were a greate many

poore creatures lost & some gallant persons with them ; but there are
others worth hundreds saved, and Mr. Pepys was to me the second of

those some, and if I could say more to expresse my joy for it, you
should haue it vnder the hand & from the heart of

                                                                            Sir, your Sec.
   Sayes Court, 5 June, 1681.

      To Dr. Morley, Bp. of Winchester.
                                                                 1 June, 1681.
»*##  Father Maimbourg has had the impudence to publish at

the end of his late Histoire du Calvanisme, a pretended letter of the
late Dutchesse of York ', intimating the motives of her deserting the
Church of England ; amongst other things to attribute it to the indif
ference, to call it no worse, of those two Bishops, upon whose advice
she wholly depended as to the direction of her conscience, and points
of controversie. 'Tis the universal discourse that your Lordship is
one of those Bishops she mentions, if at least the letter be not suppo

sititious, knowing you to have ben the most domestic in the family, and
one whom her Highnesse resorted to in all her doubts and spiritual

concernes, not only during her former circumstances, but all the time
of her greatnesse to the very last. It is therefore humbly and earnestly
desired (as well as indeede expected) amongst all that are concerned
for our Religion and the great and worthy character which your L'p
beares, that your L'p would do right to and publish to all the world
1
                        is

                                                     I it,

                                                                         a

                                                                       I

                                                                                                                          in

                                                                                                                                                                       3
how far you are concerned in this pretended charge, and to vindicate

your selfe and our Church from what this bold man would make the
                                         know your L'p will be curious
world believe to the prejudice of both.

to reade the passage your selfe, and do what becomes you upon this
signal occasion, God having placed you in station where you have

no greate ones frownes to feare or flatter, and given you a zeale
for the truth and for his glory. With this assurance humbly beg

your L'ps blessing.

  A Note added: -- 'This letter was soon followed with the Bishops

full vindication published in print.'

This letter printed in a small collection of Letters of Eminent Persons,                                                                                                  vols. IX
               THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                              673

               To Mr. William London, at Barbados.

   Sir,

I find myselfe so exceedingly oblig'd for the greate civilitie of your
Letter (abating onely for the encomiums you are pleas'd to bestow upon

me, & which are in no sort my due), that having nothing to returne
you but my thanks and acknowledgements, I was not to delay that

small retribution, for so many usefull & excellent notices, as both your

Letter & the Papers inclos'd haue com'unicated to me. I haue indeede

ben formerly more curious in the culture of Trees and Plants, & blot
                      of
ted a  greate  deale       paper with  my crude observations (& some of
them            had   the  vanitie to  publish), but they do in no degree
       I have
amount to the accuratenesse of your designe, which I cannot but ap-

plaude, & wish you all the successe so excellent an undertaking de

serves. I do not know that euer I saw a more pertinent & exact
enumeration of particulars, & if it please God you liue to accomplish
what you have drawn the scheme of, I shall not doubt to pronounce it

the most absolute & perfect Historie that we haue any where extant of
either oure owne, or other Plantations. So that I cannot but highly
encourage & augure you all the prosperity imaginable : and I shall not

faile, in order to to impart your papers to the Royall Society, who
               it,                                                             I
                               is                                                  I
am very confident will be ready to do you any service although do
                                                 &
                                                                      ;
not see that your designe           any where defective. And perswade
                                                                         I

my selfe that you will be curious to adorne your work with true                <fc

handsome draughts of the Animals, Plants, other things that you

describe in the Natural part. This am bold to mention, because
                                       &I
most of those Authors (especialy English) who haue giuen us their

relations, fill them with such lame imperfect draughts pictures,
                                                                         a
as are rather a disgrace than ornament to their books, they hauing no
                                                                            &
talent that way themselues, and taking no course to procure such as

can designe           now then you sprinkle here there prospect of
             ;                                   &
                                                     it
                &

                  if

                      &
                                 &
the Countries by the true and naturall Landskipe, would be of in
finite satisfaction, imprint an Idea of those places you passe thro',

which are so strange to vs and so desirable. Gaspar Barteus (in his
elegant Historie of Brasile) has giuen an incomparable instance of
this in which work the Landskips of divers parts of that Country are
;
accurately exhibited and grauen in copper, besides the Chorographicall
     a&
Mapps, other illustrations But, Sir, beg your pardon for men
                      I

                          a
                                           :
                                         I
                                              I
tioning thing, which am sure you haue well thought of, will pro
vide for. In your account of Plants, Trees, Fruits, &c. there are        I&

abundance to which we are here utter strangers, therefore cannot
                                                 ;

                                                    is &
but be desirable to the curious.       am told there newly planted in
Barbados an Orange of most prodigious size & such an improve
ment of the China as by far exceedes these we haue from Portugal,
which are of late yeares much degenerated. As for Flowers, think
                                                                               I

have heard that the Narcissus Tuberosos grow wild, in plenty with&

                                                                         43
674 TO WILLIAM LONDON FROM JOHN EVELYN.

you. I haue not the impudence to beg for myselfe any of those rari
ties you mention, but wish with all my heart I had any thing of my
owne worthy your acceptance. I had at the beginning of last spring
some forraine, & exotic seedes which I imparted to my friends, & some
I sow'd & set, but with very little successe : & as rightly you complaine
there is no trust in our mercenarie Seedes men of London for any
thing. In themeane time concerning Nutmegs, Cinnamon, Cloues, &

those other Aromatics you so reasonably covet, I feare it will be a
very difficult province to obtaine such of them from the East Indies,

they being mostly in possession of the Hollanders, who are (you

know) a jealous people, & as I have ben informed make it capital to
transport so much as a single Nutmeg (I meant; such a one as being
set would produce a Tree) out of their Countrie : the late Sir John
Cox, who had often ben at Nova Batavia, told me he could not pro

cure one handfull but such as were effoete and depriv'd of their

sprouting principle, upon any tearmcs ; much lesse could he obtaine a

plant ; & yet I haue ben told by a confident Broaker about the Cus-
tome house (whose name occurs not) & who has himselfe ben in
the Indies more than once (pretending to curiosities), that he brought
                    of the true Nutmeg Tree belonging to a certaine
away 2 or 3 plants  I suppose for the learned Dr. Munting of that
Dutch Merchant;

Countrie, who has brought vp both Nutmegs & Cinnamon Plants in

his garden in Holland, but to what improvement I cannot telL It
were not to be despairM but that some subtil & industrious person
(who made it hisbusinesse) might ouercome this difficultie among some
of their plantations, & why not ? as well as that a Countrie man ot ours,

who some yeares since brought home the first heads of Saffron out of
Greece (whence it was death to transport it) in the hollow head or top of
his Pilgrime Staff, if what our Hollingshed writes be true: some such
contrivance or accident will doubtlesse at last inrich your Western, &
propitious Climate with those precious deficients ; as it has don Suggar,

Ginger, Indico, & other beneficial Spices & Drougs : & I know not
whether the Jamaica Peper be not already comparable to many of
those we haue enumerated. I am sure it gratifies the tast & smell with
most agreeable qualities, and little inferior to the oriental Cinnamon.
There is a Wallnut in Virginia whose nuts prosper very well with us,
but we want store of them. It is in the meane time deplorable that
the Bermudas Cedar, of all others the most excellent & odoriferous, is
(as I am told) almost worne out for want of propagation: if it will thrive
in other Countries 'tis pitty but it should be universally cultivated.

But, Sir, I tire you. The Hortus Malabaricus presents us with the
most stupendious & vnheard-of Plants in that elaborate work ; the
Cutts being in copper are certainely (of any publish'd) the most accur

ately don, nor are their shapes & descriptions lesse surprising. Sir,
the Royal Society have lately put their Repositorie into an excellent
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.           675

method, & it euery day encreases, thro' the fauor and benevolence of

sundry Benefactors, whose names are gratefully recorded. If any thing

occur to you of Curious (as certainely there daily do innumerable) you
will greately oblige that Assembly of Virtuosi in communicating any

productions of the places you trauell thro', vpon the occasion oi the re-
turne of vessells from those parts. The particulars they collect are
Animals and Insects of all sorts, their Skinnes, and Sceletons, Fruits,

Stones, Shells, Swords, Gunns, Minerals, & whateuer Nature produces
in her vast & comprehensive bosome. Sir, your Letter came to me
from Mr. Hamvell the 23rd of September, & by the same hand &
fauour I returne you the hearty thanks and acknowledgments of

Sayes-Court, 27 Sep. 1681.  Sir, Yours, &c.

                 To Sam. Pepys, Esq. Secretary to the Admiralty.
         Sir,
    In compliance with your com'ands I have already transmitted to you
 the two large Sea Charts, & now I send you the shcetes I have long
 since blotted with the Dutch Warr, for which I should now make
 another apologie (besides its preface) were it not that you well under
 stand the prejudices I lay under at that time, by the inspection of my
 Lord Treasurer Clifford, who would not indure I should lenifie my
 style, when a war with Holland was the subject ; nor with much pa

 tience suffer that France should be suspected, tho' in justice to truth

 as evident as the day, I neither would, nor honestly could, concealc

 (what all the world might see) how subdolously they dealt & made us
 their propertie all along. The interception of De Lyonne's letters to

 his Master, p. 226, is sufficient to make this good, and I am plainely as

 tonished it should not long since have opened our Statesmen's eyes:
 unlesse it be, that we designe to truckle under France, and seeke in

 dustriously the mine of our Country. You will, Sir, pardon this severe
 reflection, since I cannot think of it without perfect indignation. As to
 the Compiler's part, 'tis not easy to imagine the infinite fardles ot
- Papers, Treaties, Declarations, Relations, Journals, original Letters, &
 other volumes of print and writing, &c. which I was obliged to reade
 & peruse (furnish'd and indeede imposed on me from the Secretaries 01
 State and others) for this small attempt, and that which was to follow ;

 I am onely sorry that I was so hasty to returne some pieces to my Lord
 Treasurer, which I might honestly have kept, and with better consci

 ence than his carryingthem away into Devonshire, vnde nttlli retrorsum.
     I had drawn a Scheme of the intire work down to the Treaty at

 Breda, and provided the materials ; but the late Lord Treasurer Danby

 cutting me short as to some just pretensions of another nature I had
 to his more particular kindnesse, I cared not to oblige an ungratefull
 age ; and perhaps the world is delivered by it from a fardlc of imper

 tinences.
676 TO SAM. PEPYS, ESQ. FROM JOHN EVELYN. .

   Clifford (his  predecessor)    was, with all his other               imperfections, a
generous man,                   believe of cleane hands ;
                  and I verily                                          I am sure I was
oblig'd to him ; the other had been sometimes so to me & mine, but

that's all past. Clifford had greate failings, but was gratefull and
firme to his friend.
As to your other Queries, I have not any thing relating to the Prize
Office ; and for that Discourse wherein I did attempt to shew how far
a Gentleman might become learned by the onely assistance of the
modern languages,                               request of Sir  Samuel Tuke                      for
Duke of Norfolk)      t(owrmittyengraietfetheI   feare I shall  never recover                    it ;  the
                                                                                                       for,
sending it to the person I nam'd sometime since, he tells me he cannot
find it; and so for ought I see it is lost. There is a List in it of Authors,

and a method of reading them to advantage, besides something in the

discourse which would not have displeased you ; nor was it without

some purpose of one day publishing because was written with a
virtuous designe of provoking our Court Fopps, and for encouragement
of illustrious persons who have leasure inclinations to cultivate their
                                                it,
                                                  &

                                                                    't

minds beyond Farce, a Horse, a Whore, and a Dog, which, with
                  a
                                   it,
very little more, are the confines of the knowledge and discourse of
most of our fine Gentlemen and Beaus.           will desire Sir James to
                                                I

                                                    I
                                                            I
make another search for when next see him.
In the meane time the particulars which here send you are,
The battle of Lcpanto: A description of the Armada in [i5]88,                                          I

suppose authentiq.

  A Paper written in French touching the severitie of their Marine Laws.
   Trajan's Column with Alphonso Ciaconius's notes, referring to the

Bass-relieue by the figures. Such as concerne Ships and Gallies, &c

you will find bythe figures 57. 243. 260. 153. 24. 236. 239. 152. 155. and
especially 303. 235. where he speakes of copper or brass instead of
iron-work and the best season for the felling of timber and there is,
I                                               &
                     ;                                                  it
                  I
                                                                                              ;
as to other notices, subject of a world of erudition beyond whatI
Ciaconius has touched, which would deserve an ampler volume.

  A Discourse concerning the Fishery, duty of the Flag.
  A large volume of Sir R. Browne's Dispatches from 1641 to 1644,

&c. during his publiq ministrie and character in the French Court.
Besides which have Two folio's more that continue longer.
  also send you the Journal of Martin Frobisher and Capt Fenton.
That of Drake cannot find as yet, so many papers and things there
are to be removed and turned over in my confused study.

   Item, a Map of an Harbour, whose name find not to it.II
   Also an old Map of a Sea fight.

   Also a packet of original letters belonging to the former of my L.
of Leycesters, in number 14, which are all have remaining.

   With a declaration of the old Prince of Orange, William of Nassau,
H-ho was assassinated at Delft.
              THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                    677

   The Earlc of Leycester's Will.
   Another packet of Letters & other matters, and Transactions of
State relating to the late times, in number 88, and of which I have
thousands more that you may command sight of, but these I think are

most material.

A particular of wages due to the Deputy, Army, & other state
              affaires relating to Ireland. Anno 15S7 -- 1588.
Officers and  of 38 papers containing instructions and matters  of  State

  A Packet
to severall public Ministers abroad, Ac

   Item, another Packet of 33 originall Letters to & from greate persons
during the late Rebellion here.

  A Scheme of the action of the Hollanders at Chatham, 1667, when

they burnt our ships, and bloq'd up the Thames.

Order of Council of State (then so called) for the apprehension of
Charles Stewart, his present Majesty, so named by the Regicides.

   Lastly, a Relation of his Majesty's action & escape at Worcester,
when he came out of Scotland with his Army, being as far as Sir R.

Browne wrote out of the then Queen Mother's letters at Paris ; that
which he tooke from his Majesty's owne dictating (when he, after that
escape, came into France at Paris) was sent to Monsieur Renodaut, &
was publish'd by him in the Weekly Extraordinarie Anno 165 1, where

youl find it in French among the volumes of his Gazettes. I am sorry

the original was not rctriv'd from him.

   Thus, Sir, you see how diligent I have ben, since I came home, to

answer your queries, as I shall in all your other com'ands as far as is

in the power of,

                           Sir, your Ac.

These papers, mapps, letters, books and particulars, when you have

don with, be pleas'd to take your owne time in returning.

Sayes Court, 5 Dec. 1681.

                   To the Bishop of Oxford (Doctor FELL).
      My Lord,
   It cannot but be evident to your Reverend Lordship, to how greate
danger A fatal consequences the Histoiri Critique, not long since pub
lish'd in French by Pere Simon, A now lately translated (tho' but ill
translated) into English, exposes not oncly the Protestant A whole

Reformed Churches abroad, but (what ought to be dearer to vs) the
Church of England at home, which with them acknowledge the Holy
Scriptures alone to be the Canon & Rule of Faith ; but which this bold

man not onely labours to vnsettle, but destroy. From the operation I
find it already begins to haue amongst diuers whom I converse with,
especial y the young men, & some not so young neither, I euen tremble

to consider what fatal mischiefe this piece is like to create, whilst

they do not look vpon the bookc as coming from some daring Wit, or
6>8 TO t>R. FELL FROM JOHN EVELYN.

young Lord Rochester revived, &c. but as the work of a learned
Author, who has the reputation also of a sober and judicious person.
And it must be acknowledged that it is a master-piece in its kind; that

the man is well studied in the Oriental tongues, & has carried on his

project with a spirit and addressc not ordinarie amongst Critics; tho'
after- all is don, whether he be realy a Papist, Socinian, or meerely a

Theist, or something of all three, is not easy to discouer ; but this is
evident --as for the Holy Scriptures, one may make what one will of
them for him.- He tells the world we can establish no Doctrine or
Principles vpon them, and then, are not we of the Reform'd Religion in
a blessed condition ! For the loue of God, let our Vniversities, my Lord,

no longer remaine thus silent : It is the Cause of God, and of our
Church ! Let it not be said your Chaires take no notice of a more
pernicious plot than any that yet has alarm'd vs. Whilst euery body
lets it alone, men think there's nothing to be said against it ; & it
hugely prevails already, & you will be sensible of its progresse when
'tis too late to take off the reproch. I most humbly therefore implore
your Rev. Lordship to consider of it seriously ; that the Penns and the

Chaires may openly & on all occasions assert & defend the com'on
Cause, & that Oxford may haue the honor of appearing first in the

field. For from whom, my Lord, should we expect reliefe, if not from
you, the Fathers of the Church, & the Scholcs of the Prophets ? It is

worthy the publiq concerne to ward the deadly blows which sap the
rootes, & should by no meanes be abandon'd to hazard, or the feeble

attempts of any single champion, who, if worsted, would but add to
the triumph of our enemies, Papists & Atheists. My Lord, he who
makes bold to transmit this to your Lordship, tho' he be no man of
the Church, is yet a son of the Church, & greately concern'd for her ;
& tho' he be not learned, he converses much with books, & men that
are as well at Court, as in towne & the country ; & thinks it his duty
to giue your Lordship an account of what he heares & sees, & is
expected & call'd for from you, who are the superintendents & watch
men that Christ has set ouer his Church, & appointed to take care of
his flock. Sir John Marsham's booke ' would likewise be considered
farther than as yet it seemes to have ben, & the obnoxious passages in
it not put off to Prefaces & accidental touches onely; while neither to
that, nor yet to Spinosa (made also vulgar) we haue had anything pub-
lish'd of expresse, or equal force in a just volume, fitted either for

   1 ' Chronicus Canon i£gyptiacusf Hebraicus, et Graecus, cum Disquisitionibus Historicis
et Criticis.' fol. Lond. 1672. He travelled into France. Italy, and part of Germany ; studied

the Law, and was one of the Six Clerks in Chancery. He suffered as a partisan of Kins

Charles the First, but on the Restoration was restored to his situation, and soon after created
a Baronet. He was one of the greatest Antiquaries and most learned Writers of his time.
Father Simon calls him the Great Marsham of England. He wrote the Preface to the Second
Volume of the Monasticon A nglicanum .besides the Diatriba above-mentioned. Sir John was
ancestor of the present Earl of Romney.
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  679

domestic or forraine readers. I know that the late Bishop of Chester1,
Dr. Stillingfleet, Huetius, & some few others, haue said aboundantly to

confute our modern Atheists 5 but as these start new & later notions,
or rally & reinforce the scatter'd enemie, we should, I think, march as .
often out to meete & encounter them. For the men of this curious
& nicer age do not consider what has ben said or written formerly, but

expect something fresh, that may tempt & invite them to consider,
that for all the bold appearances of the enemie, they are no stronger
than heretofore, & can do vs no more hurt, vnlesse we abandon and
betray ourselves and giue up the Cause. 'Tis not (my Lord) sufficient
to haue beaten doun the hcade of the Hydra once, but as often as they

rise to vse the club, tho' the same weapon be vsed, the same thing
repeated ; it refreshes the faint, & resolves the doubtful, & stirrs-up the
sloth-full, & is what our adversaries continualy do to keepe up &main-

taine their owne party, when euer they receiue the least rebuke from

vs -.--/as est et ab hoste doceri. Nor, my Lord, whilst I am writing
this, do I at all doubt of your Lordship's greate wisdome, zeale, & reli
gious care to obviate & prevent this and all other adversaries of our
most holy Faith, as built vpon the Sacred Scriptures of the Prophets &
Apostles, Jesus Christ himselfe being the cheife corner-stone ; But if
the excesse of my affection for the Vniversitie (which I haue sometimes

heard pcrstring'd, as not taking the alarme so concernedly vpon these

occasions) haue a little too far transported me, I most humbly suppli
cate your Lordship's pardon for my presumption, & for my zeale &

good- wishes to the prosperity of our Sion, your Lordship's blessing,
                                 Who am, my Reverend Lord,
                                                                   Your Sec.

   Sayes-Court, 19 Mar: 1681-82.

           To Sam. Pepys, Esq. late Secretary of the Admiralty.
       Sir
   In answer to your Queries, I will most ingenuously declare my
thoughts upon second meditation since I publish'd my Treatise of
Commerce, & what I have ben taught, but was not there to speake in
publiq without offence. I will therefore reply in the method you seeme
to hint ; and then say what I have concerning our pretence to
Dominion on the Seas. To the first:

    Boxhornius has written an historie of the Ansiatic Townes ; where
you'l find in what condition & credit Holland was for traffiq &

com'erce, & in the Danish Annales. It would be enquir'd when the
English Staple was remov'd into Brabant, being 100 years since, &
now fixed at Dort. How far forth Charles the Fift pursued or minded
his interest at sea ? As to Henry the 4th of France, 'tis evident he
was not negligent of his interest there, by his many projects for trade,

                                                            ' Dr. WilViM.
680 to sam. pepys prom John evelyn.

& performances at Marseilles; all that Richelieu and his successors in
that ministrie produc'd was projected by their Greate Henry, as is
plaine out of Claude B. Morisot his Preface. And now
   To our title of Dominion & the Fishery (which has made such a
noise in this part of the world) I confesse I did lately seeke to magnine
& assert it as becomes me pro hie &* nunc (to speake with logicians),
and as the circumstances you know then requir'd. But betwecne
friends (and under the rose as they say), to tell you realy my thoughts,
when such like topics were us'd sometimes in Parliament, 'tis plaine

they were passed over there upon important reasons. To begin with
the very first. Supposing the old Britains did prohibite forainers

to come into their country, what inferrs that to any claime of Dominion
in the Narrow, but a jealosie rather over their proper coasts ? Nor
reade we that they euer practis'd it ouer the Gauls. The Chinezes we
find forbad all to enter their countrie: are they therefore Lords of the
Oriental seas ? As for King Arthur (abating what is fabulous, viz. his
legendarie dominion) the Comes Litoris Saxonici, &c. stretch'd to
Denmark, Sweden, Norway, & Iseland, infers either too much or

nothing. Haue we therefore any right of clayme to those realmes
at present,' Why then to the Seas ? Againe, admitt the most, may

not Dominion be lost or extinguish'd ? Was not his rather a momen-
tarie conquest or excursion, rather than an establish'd dominion ?
Was it not lost to the Danes ? Had they not all the characters of
domination imaginable -- Lords of our seas, Lords of our shores too, &
Ifthe Tribute of Danegelt from England and Ireland both?
                                                          euer

there were a real dominion in the world, the Danes must be yielded to
haue had it ; and if their title cannot be extinguish'd by subsequent
revolutions, I greately question whether ours will euer be euinced. In
short, the story of King Edgar is monstrously romantic, & the pre
tended deede I doubt will appeare but spurious. Truely, if form inc
chronicles had ben as much stufT'd with the renowne of this Prince as
with K. Arthur, I should giue more credit to it. In the meane time,

what they report of Athelred is totaly against vs, since tis plaine he

pay'd the Danegelt as a tribute to them, & settled it to the end. One
may querie whether the Scots Seas, & Scotland to boote, be not a fee
                                                         the pro
to England ; for with as much reason we might challenge
                                   &
                                                    it,
                                                    if
ducing Rolls, Records, Acts of Parliament, of Statutes to that
     &

purpose, were of any importance because we can shew more to the
purpose than in the other case: but how would then that Nation take;
it,            ?
   & what become of their Laws about Fishing Tis declar'd in our
                                ;  ?

                                    &
                                            is
                                               a
Laws that we are the Lords of the Foure Seas, so adjudged in our
Courts, as to those born upon those Seas and yet the Parliament of
Scotland can impose a Tax on our Fishermen, which        shrewd argu
ment against vs. Who euer read that the Kings of England prohibited
any to fish, on the coast of Scotland Or charg"d them with vsurpa-
                  THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                    68l

tion for taking Toll and Custome for the Herring-fishery ? The truth
& is,
    the Licences (which speake of in my book, from Scarbrough) were
            is ;onely to fish on the Dogger-bank. Such English as were to fish in the
                            I

                                         &
Scottish Seas about Orkney, Shetland, Iseland, Fero, &c. did
                                            &
                                                       it                             North-
                                                            is &

                                                                       8

                                                                         &
                                                                                 is 6.
take Licences to fish from the Kings of Norway at Bergen
barum & this jurisdiction & sovreignty vndoubted of the Norwegian
Kings recognis'd by our owne Parliament in a Statute Hen. c. 2.,

by in'umerable Treaties betwixt the two Crownes, euen within a

century of yeares and so, consider how feeble a prooie that
                     ;

                            & if
famous Roll pro hominibus Hollandice, how               to be limited in

itselfe (by the   historie       occasion that caused it) to the Narrow                 or
Chanell onely.                  to be considered that the Danes protested               at
                   Tis also

Breda, that the cession of the Scots Fisherie about Orkney Shetland
                                            & it
                                                                &

                                                                    &;
                                                                              it it
was neuer made to our King James vpon his marriage of Q. Ann (as
our tradition is), nor any time before to any Scottish King and

supposing there were any such authentiq deede, were better to fix the
Fisherie (we contend about) euen in the Dutch, then either permit to
be regulated by the decrees of Scotch Parliament, or transferr to
                                  a

that Nation. Now as to the greate Trade, multitude of English

vessels, by the historie of the Haunse Townes, their privileges power

in England, one shall find, that for the bulk our Navies consisted most

of hired Ships of the Venetians, Genoezes, & Ansiatics, till Queene
Elizabeth, tho' her father Henry the had flourishing fleete. The
                                  I

                                                 8.

                                                         a

                                                                                                                                ;
Right of Passes, and Petitions thereupon, were formed vpon another
part of the Jus Gentium, then our pretended Dominion of the Seas
which (to speake ingenuously)               could neuer find recognis'd expressly

in any Treaty with forrainers. As to rcturne to the Fishery, that of

the Dutch fishing without Licence, the Intercursus magnus (so boasted)
was a perpetual treaty, and made as well with all the People as the

Princes of Burgundy, so as to be obligatorie, tho' they rejected their
                            &

Gouernors, as we see most of them did, as perhaps they might
                                            &
                                                                             &
according to the Loetus Introitus. And that the Dutch are still, by
Q. Eliz. were so declar'd to be, Pars contrahens, after their Revolt &
abjuration of Spaine, dos as much invalidate that proceeding of K.a

James, Charles the First, who both signed that Intercursus, & were
&

in truth included thereby tho' they had not sign'd it.
But besides all this, the nature of Prescription would be enquir'd
into as well when makes against vs, as for vs & therefore should
                  it                        &
                        it                        ;
                                                        ;;
                                                              I
                                                                        it
be demanded whether Queen Elizabeth did not first assert the Mare
Ldberum in opposition to the Danes, and whether his present Majestie
has not don at Jamaica against the Spaniard Pray consider the
seale of that Admiralty. To speake plaine truth when writ that
Treatise, rather as a Philological Exercise, to gratifie the present
circumstances, could not clearely satisfie myselfe in sundry of those
                  I

particulars, nor find realy that euer the Dutch did pay Toll or tooke
682 TO SAM. PEPYS FROM JOHN EVELYN.

License to fish in Scotland after the contest, from any solid proofes.
Indeede (as there I relate) they surpriz'd Brown who came to exact

   detain'd him in Holland seuerall months but think they neuer
&                                                                                               I

                ;                                                                                       & it.

                         it,

                          I

                                       I
                                                                                             ;
                                                            I
payd peny for tho' the Papers haue pervs'd speake of an Assize
Herring; nor did find that any Rent (wheroff in my 10S page cal
              arreres) for permission      to -fish, was euer fixed by both
culate   the  so cannot properly be
parties                                   call'd a settl'd Rent. This would
           &
therefore be exquisitely enquir'd into, and perhaps, both for these
many other particulars, a thro' search in his Majestie's Paper Office

may afford clearer light, there haue any due care been taken to
collect digest such important matters. As for the yearcs 1635 andI
1637, you cannot but espie an intreague in the equipping those formidif
         &
                      that they were more to awe the French than terrific&
                   ;

                   &
able fleetes

Holland (see how the times interests change but no more of that,I!
'tis now a tender point) fancy were no difficult matter to prove, and

that any Licenses were taken in those yeares, could neuer be assured
of: that of 1636 being but a single act of force on some particular
men, the States neuer owning them in                 and you know the Admiral!
                                             it

                                                  ;

Dorp was casheer'd for not quarrelling               it  with our Northumber

land, and our conduct and licenses flatly rejected in 1637, when

Capt. Field came. Lastly,
   When K. James fixed his Chamber, did he not either renounce the
English Sovereignly of the Seas, or violate therein his League with
Spaine? (as that Nation vrged, pleading that the British Seas were
Territorium Domini Regis); but he did not the latter, wherefore am
not single in this declaration. In a word, the intire argument of this                          is I
Fish'ry too controvertable to be too peremptory decided by the penn,
         is
                                                                             &
&  vpon many other accounts (of which the plenty wantones of our
full fed vnfrugal people, which deterrs them from hard labour, not

the least) a project wholy vselesse as circumstances be, and therefore
might with much more benefit, ease, facility be supplied by increasing
                                          &

our Fishery at> New-found-land. Finaly,
   As to the Co'merce in generall of this Nation from all that could
observe during my short being of that noble          it &                                       &I
                                                           &:  honorable Council,                     &

informing myselfe as was able by books discourses of experiene'd
              it
                  &

                     I
                               I

                                       &
persons  ;I   say, after all this, considered a veryvaine thing to make

any (the most probable, certaine, or necessarie) proposal about Trade,
&c. Not that might not be infinitely improv'd, Princes People
                                                         &

                                                               if
did unanimously, with a true publiq spirit, as our naturall advan

tages prompt us, apply themselves honestly and industriously about                                    it

                                                                                                          ;

but for that, as things now are have hitherto ben manag'd since the
renown'd Queene Elizabeth (for that encomium must give her), the
whole advantage this Nation receives thereby evidently carried onit is I
more by antient methods the sedulitie of private men, than by any
publiq encouragement and as to the present, certainely languishes
                      :

                           &
           THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                  683

vnder insupportable difficulties. And thus, Sir, I choose to convey to you
my second more digested thoughts, of a point which in your excellent
designe & work cannot escape the ample handling as one of the most
considerable, when you come to speake of the importance of our Ship

ping & Trade, or pretence of Dominion, &c. And I do you see,
with all selfe denyall imaginable (& not without some reproach) after

what have publish'd to the contrary, by which you may conclude how
     I
                    &

                                                                   it
                                                                             &

                                                                               &
                                                                                    &

                                                                                          it,
suspicious wise men should be of other Histories Historians too,
how confident specious soever, vnlesse were almost demonstration,
that the Authors had no interest of their owne to serve, were not in-

fluenc'd by their superiors, or the publiq cry. Let this ingenious con
fession com'ute for my faults in that Treatise,
                                                        be put amongst the

retractations of

                                 Sir, your &c.

Sayes Court, 19 September 1682.

      To Samuell Pepys Esquire, Secretary of the Admiralty.
     Sir,

     were very unworthy of your late former favours should not
I                              I                                                               I
                                       &
   I                                                                                                   ;
                                            I

                                                     &
render you some assurances, that am often meditating on them                                              &

that shall ever (according to my small force capacitie) obey your
com'ands. Without more ceremonie then -- am in the first place to

give you an account of Colours. But you will be better pleas to                                'd

receive from the learned Gisbertus Cuperus's Apotheosis, vel conse-
      it

cratio Homeri (Amsterdam in 1683, 4to.) in his curious conjectures
upon an antique Sculpture where speaking of the Rhapsodists that
                  ;

                                                     &
                                                          &
were vs'd to sing the Ballads of Vlysses' Errors Maritime Voyages,
they were wont to be clad in Blew; when his Iliads fighting Poems,
Red
   ;       were so superstitious, as allways to cover those bookes or

        &

Rolls in Parchment of those two colours. He pretends that one
Oenomanus first invented distinctions of colours in the Ludi Circenses,
where Greene was the ensigne of Combatants by Land, and Blew at

Sea so as when those who were clad in Greene gain'd the prize, they
     :
                                                        the Blew-Coates
              : it
                            a

                                                                      ;

                                                 &
                                                                                                                                     :
                                                                  if
                                                                                                     it
                                                                                                                                                   ;

                                                                                                         &
look'd on as a presage of a fruitfull harvest

prevail'd, successful expeditions and exploits at Sea: the first, seemes,
concern'd the Husbandman, the other the Mariner. He farther ob
serves, that when there was any com'otion or rebellion in the parts of
Italy or Gaule, the General of Horse carried a Blew Cornet, for as
much as that generous creature was produe'd by Neptune's trident,
first manag"d by that Sea God  that whoever signaliz'd his courage

on that element, was honor'd with a Flag of the same colour which
                  remarkable instance of, in the Life of Octavius
Suetonius gives
Augustus M. Agrippam in Sicilia, post navaletn Victoriam Cceruleo
Vexillo donavit, after the naval victory obtain'd against young Pom-
pey. It were ostentation to cite more Authors, Statius, Diodorus
684 TO SAM. PEPYS FROM JOHN EVELYN.

Siculus, Plutarch in Vit. Themist. &c. Enough to give yon an im
patient desire of that excellent entertainement Cuperus will afford you,
not on this subject onely, but in a world of other choice and curi

ous erudition.
   Sir, I do not remember you charg'd me with any other particular of
this sort : but as I am both dispos'd & esteeme myselfe very happy in
seruing you, th& but as a Pioncr to dig materials for a more skillfull
hand to square & polish & set in work, so if in my desultory coarse of
reading & among the rubbish I lite on anything which is worthy your
notice, & may contribute to reckon that you have in me a ready
                   :

                     I

                                        & it,
                                                              &

                                                                       (I
                                                                                              4
faithfull servant acquired by many obligations, but                                                           assure you) by
none, more than that singular love of virtue, things worthy an excel

lent person, which discover highly honour in you.
In the notes ot Issac Vossius upon Catullus, Sive utrumque "Jupiter
simul seenndus incidisset in pendent, &c. he has many learned observa

tions about Navigation, particularly, that of sailing to several parts

opposite to one another by the same wind, ijsdem Ventis in contrariunt

navigatur brotatis pedibus, as Pliny expresses                                                                was (you may re
                   I
                              it I

                                                   ;

                                                                     it

                                                                                                           ;

                                                                I&

                                                                              it
member) on this hint that inform'd you Vossius had by him a Treatise
n«pi TTixiurXoia;            enquir'd of him (when last was at Windsore)

whether he would publish        to which he gave me but an uncertaine
answer. In the meane time you'l not be displeas'd at what he tells us
of a certaine Harmonie produe'd by the snapping of Carters' Whips,
vs'd of old at the Feasts of Bacchus Cybele                                        that the Tartars
                                                   &&
                                                            &

                                                                                ;

                                                                      &
have to this day no other Trumpets, are so adroit, as at once to
make the Whip give three distinct clapps, that so loude as to be
heard very far off and then speakes of a Coachman at Maestricht

who plays severall Tunes with his Lash. To a Louer of Musiq and
Harmonie could not omit this scrap, th6 knowyoul laugh at me for

      pay me with the Tongues and Gridiron. But ere leave Dr. Vos
it,                                                I
                                                                  I
  I&
             I

                            &;
sius, dare say you have perus'd what he writes in his late Opusculum
touching the Reformation of Latitudes 6V» Eclipses; and his asserting
the Mediterranean other places to be much larger than our Geo
graphers report. He has something also of the North Passage to the
Indies, of the construction of Gallies, the Pico Teneriffe, &c. of all
                                                                                                              ;

which you best are able to judge, doubtlesse have form'd your re-
                                I
                                                &
markes thereon. Whilst was running on, comes Mr. Dum'er to give
me visite and am so charm'd with his ingenuity, that looke vpon
it                                                 II
     a                                                       I

                          ;                                         it I
                                         you find cultivate for my owne
                     I
as a new obligation to you      ;

                                   &

                                     if

sake a little, you will let him understand (by all that am to speake to
you of him vpon this short taste) how much wish him the improve
ments of your favours, who am for so many myselfe.
                                                   Sir, your &c
Sayes-Court, 23 September 1685.
                    THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                685

                                From Mr. Samuel Pepys.

   Sir,             I  am  that  I  was  not          Thursday night, 2 Oct. 1685.
Very sorry                                    in the way to enjoy you to-day, being
gone (the only time I have beene able to doe it this summer) to make
a visit to good Mrs. Ewer at Clapham. But I have 2 reasons to desire
you will give mee your company to-morrow noone, first because wee

will bee alone, & next I have something to shew you, that I may not
                                         Your most obedient Servant,
have another time.                                      S. Pepys.

To this letter Mr. Evelyn has subjoined the following curious note:
' That which was shew'd mee were two papers ' attested by his pre
sent Majesties hand to be a true Copie of the Originals which some
day before he had shewed Mr. Pepys privately :-- That his late Brother

Charles the Second was of long time since a Roman Catholique.
The papers contained severall points of Religion, labouring to cast
Heresy, Schism, &c. on the Church of England, but on my judge
ment without any force or reason, & a thousand times confuted.'

      To the Countesse of Sunderland (Lady Anne Spencer).

       Madame,

   I am not un-mindfull of the late com'and you lay'd vpon me, to give

you a Catalogue of such Books as I believ'd might be fit to entcrtaine
your more devout & serious hours: and I looke vpon it as a peculiar

grace & fauour of God to your Ladyship, that amidst so many
temptations, and grandeur of Courts, the attendants, visites, diver-

1 The following is extracted from the life of Kims James H> published by the Rev. J. S.
Clarke.

  ' Some few days after the late King's death, his Majesty looking into the papers he had
left behind him, found two relateing to Controversie, one in the strong box. the other in the
Closet, both writ in his own hand : they were short but sollid, and shewed that tho' his Con.
version was not perfected til a few houres before his death, his conviction was of a longer
date. The King thought fit to shew them one day to the Archbishop of Canterburie in his
Closet, no body being by, who seem'd much surprised at the sight of them, and pawsed almost
half a quarter of an houre before he said anything : at last tould the King, He did not think
Ifhis late Majesty had understood controversie so well, but that he thought they might be an-

swer'd : ' so,' sayd the King, ' I pray let it be done gentleman-like and sollidly, and then
it may have the effect you so much desire of bringing me back to your Church :' 'to which the
Archbishop reply'd, ' It would perhaps be counted a disrespect in him to contradict the late
King :' but his Majesty reassured him in that point, by telling him the change it might pro
duce in himself (if answer'd effectually) was of that consequence as to out-ballance any other
consideration : and therefore desired he might see a reply either from him or any other of his
perswasion : but tho' he, my Lord Dartcmouth and others were several times reminded of
is
                      :

                                                 it
                                                            is
                                                              it,

                                                                               it
                                                                                                                                   it
this matter, and earnestly press'd to    never any formal reply was produced during his
Majesty's reign in England. It true there was something of an answer published by an
unknown hand, but the drift of was rather to proue that the papers were not the late King's
(which was a libel in reality upon the present) than any reply to the arguments of it, and
  probable the Archbishop dispair'd ofanswering so efectually as to bring back his Majesty
to their Communion, whereas the publishing a reply would have own'd and published the
papers too and he had reason to apprehend, that the authority and arguments of their dying

II.Prince would influence more persons to that Religion, than his answer would perswade to re
linquish it.' Vol.     page 8.
             686 TO THE EARL OF CLARENDON FROM JOHN EVELYN.

sions (& other circumstances of the Palace, and the way you are
ingag'd in) you are resolu'd that nothing of all this shall interrupt
your duty to God, & the religion you professe, when euer it comes in
             competition with the things of this world, how splendid soever they
may appeare for a little &(God knows) uncertaine time: Madame, 'tis
the best, & most gratefull returne you can make to Heaven for all

the blessings you enjoy, amongst which there is none you are more

happy in, then in the vertue, early & solid piety of my Lady Anne,

             and progresse of your little Son. Madame, the foundation you haue
             lay'd in those two blessings, will not onely build, but establish your
             illustrious Family, beyond all the provisions you can make of gallant
             and greate in estimation of the world ; and will find the comfort of
                                  &

                                                &I
                                                                     I

                                                                                        &
                                                                                                     is

                                                                                                                       it,
             when all this noise hurry shall vanish as a dreame, Ieaue nothing
             to support vs in time of neede.
                                                         am persuaded you often make these
             reflections, from your owne greate judgment and experiences of the
             vicissitudes of things present              prospect of future, which
                                                                                                                           onely
             worth our solicitude.
                                                                                 am, &c

             Sayes-Court, 12 Sep. 1686.

                     To my Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, at Dublin Castle.
                                  [Henry Earl of Clarendon.]

                My Lord,

is I              had ere this giuen your Excellency my most humble thanks forI
      if     yours of the 7th past, but that was expecting the event of some'I
             extraordinary things then in suspence and when haue sayd this,
           itneede not tell your Lordship what am assured you have receiu'd from;
             better hands, nor make any farther reflections on than to acquaint
             your Excellency, that know of no new Com'issions, which your Lord
                                                                                 it, I
                                                                                                           I

             ship desires to vnderstand the meaning of, that make (it seemes) noI& I&
             lesse noise with you than they do here. The character your Excel
             lency giues of the hufifiing greate Man, Lord Tyrconnel, just how
             the noyse he makes will operate know little of what dos with
                                                         I                       ;
                                                                 is
                                                          do) sufficiently                  ; it is
                                                         prudence, courage,                                             :
             you (and would euery       where else                               evident   but God
                above all, and your     Lordship's                                         loyaltie,
                                                                                 & steady

will,           not surmount all malevolence, purchase you the estimation
                                                 doubt not, but of his Majestie also.
             of all good Subjects,                                                         I                               am

             plainely amaz'd at what your Excellency tells me of Ireland, which
             country we haue seene giuen twice conquer"d into his Majesties
             Father's Brother's (our late Souraines) hands, at no small expense
                &&
                       &

                                              ;

                                   &
             of blood treasure                   therefore question not but his present Majestie
             dos both see well consider the infinite importance of cherishing its

             improvements and tranquillitie.

             1  The Co'miss. of Ecclesiastical Affaires which suspended the Bp. of Load. Jtc and gaue

             greate offence to all the nation.   J.  E.
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                                                                           687

   My Ld. Teviot, I think, has quite abandon'd vs ; 'tis neere 4 moneths
since we haue receiu'd any assistance from him at the Sealej so as I

Ihaue not ben able to make any excursion as yet this Sum'er, & when

  shall now make my flight to Swallow-field, I am uncertaine. I haue

agen ben to enquire out my Lord Cornbery : but his Lordship is still

so cmploy'd twixt the Court & his Military Charge, that I cannot ex

pect the happinesse I promis'd my selfe of accompanying him thither,
and to go without him would be a melancholy thing. The Ladys arc
still at Tunbridge, tempted by the continuance of this Paradisian
season ; whilst we are here mightily in the dark, & curious (if lawfull)
to vnderstand, whether a certaine new Countesse came lately ouer

hither with his Majesties knowledge & permission. I tell the inquisi-
tiue, I know nothing of but that am sure your Excellency dos
nothing saue what becomes you, with good advise. Now that Buda

   taken, all our eyes are on Hambrow Denmark -- pray God giue
peace to Christendome, and continue in little England, with all pros-
peritie blessing on your Excellency illustrious Family these are
the assiduous prayers of, my Lord,

                                                                   Your Excellency, <fcc.

    Sayes- Court, Sep. 1686.
is
           &

                                          it,
                                                   &

                                                    & it & I
                                                                                                                                                  :
                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                          :

                                       To my Son, &c.

        Son,

      just now receiv'd the narrative of the Princes march, and the

political remarks you have made upon the occurrences where you have
ben. My Lord Clarendon would gladly have conferred with you on
several points seasonable at that juncture but all have now seemes
submitted, and the bells and the bonefires proclaime as much joy
satisfaction as those are capable of, who have beheld so many changes

   revolutions, without being able to divine how all this will conclude
at last, remembering that precept of the wisest of kings, (Proverbs,
ch. xxiv. v. 21) which neede not repeate to you. It will be no newes

     perceive) to you, to acquaint you with his Majesty's late recesse,
nor of his being stop't at Feversham, <fcc. But of his coming back to
White-hall, and what has since intervened, you may not yet have
heard. On Friday last there went thither my Lord Midleton, Earle of
Alesbury, Lord Feversham, Sir Step: Fox, and Mr. Grahame, where
the rabble had detain'd the King (the vessel wherein he was embark'd
with Sir Ed. Hales, Ralph Sheldon, which were all his attendance,
coming in for want of balast), till the newes of being brought to the
Lords of the Council, those Lords Gent: named were sent to per-
swade his Majesty to returne, or not prevailing, to conduct and waite
upon him with two troopes of horse, to what other port or place he
should please to go. The King, at last induced to come back to Lon
don, arrived at White-Hall on Sonday evening, went to masse at his
(I & I

            &

                            I
                                                                                                       ;
                                                                                                it
                                                                                                            &

&
                 if

                      &

                              I

                                          it
688 TO HIS SON FROM JOHN EVELYN.

Chapel on Monday, three priests officiating ; the usual number of Roman
Catholics, & a world more, filling the bedchamber and all the roomes
with extraordinary acclamation. In this manner his Majesty went thence

to dinner (a Jesuite saying grace), and all things seemed to passe in
such order, as the eclipse the Court suffered, by his Majesties four dayes

absence, was hardly discernable, all the clouds (as we thought) were
vanishing, and a bright day againe appearing. So soone as he was

retired, he sent my Lord Feversham with a letter under his owne hand to
invite the P: of Orange to St: James's: the message was accepted, but
the messenger arested & made prisoner at Windsor ; upon which poli
ticians make reflexions. But 'tis pretended, that a general of an enemy
ought not by the law of armes to come into the quarters of his antago
nist without a trumpet & a passeport : others say, that his Highnesse

was much displeased at the Earle's disbanding his Majesty's forces

under his co'mand, without disarming them, and un-payed, as thereby

leaving them in danger of seeking some desperate resolution, of dis

turbing the measures he had taken ; and there are who believe upon
some other account, which time will discover. Tuesday morning came

 the Marq: of Halifax (who with the Lord Godolphin had ben sent
. commissioner to the Prince) from Windsor, to let his Majesty know,

 the Prince would be the next day at St. James's ; but withall (foresee
ing it might be dangerous to have his army quarter'd about the towne,

so necessary to his safety whilst the King's guards were so neere) he
desires his Majesty that he would make choice of Hampton Court, or

some other place about that distance, to repaire to, for the avoiding
jealousies & inconveniences, which might happen betweene the guards
of different interests. You will easily believe this was not very kindly
taken, after so generous an invitation ; & that it was the more sur
prizing for its coming to him at one o'clock in the morning, when he
was weary & fast asleepe. The King upon this rises, & goes immedi
ately to Council, where severall things being proposd (but what I
undertake not to say) & altogether rejected ; and whilst by this time
White-Hall and all its environs were crowded with Dutch souldiers,

his Majestie put himself into his barge, accompanied with my Lord
Alesbery (now in waiting), the Lords Dumbarton, Arran, & one or two
more, follow 'd with three other barges and small boates, filled with a
Dutch guard, & a troop of horse by land, steering their course towards
Rochester againe, from whence he so lately had return'd. Thus have
you the second recesse, or something more dismaly boading : which,
whilst I my selfe, with Sir Chas: Cotterell & Sir Step: Fox, beheld
from one of  the windows of the  new buildings -- vix tempero
             have told you that                                 a  lachrymis.
-- I should                      the Prince being yesterday        Syon sent
                                                               at

Sir Rob: Howard & Hen. Powle with a letter to the Citty, acquaint
ing them with his approach, with other complements of course. This
was read before the Lord Mayor & Com: Council, and was answerd
           THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                               689

with all submission & respect, & with an invitation that his Highnesse

would honour their Citty by vouchsafing to lodge in rather than at
                                                                                                 & it,
St. James's. On this there stood up an Alderman, moved that an
Addresse might first be made to congratulate his Majesty's gracious
returne to White-Hall. But the proposal was not approv'd of, one of
them saying, they had given a good pail of milke, and that this were to
kick it downe againe'I'
   Thus, Son, have given you as minute an account of the Proteus

here as am able for the present. The hero now at St. James's,
      I                                       I
        I                                                & if I

                                                                 &
                                                                            is

                                                                                              ;
where have seene him, and severall of my old acquaintance.                                                  dined
at the E: of Clarendons, whom did not find altogether so well satis                                         I
fied as expected, considering that his son my Lord Cornebery tooke
      I                                                                                                           it & I

XsoarWco&ntsvid--eraBbylewhata  stroke in     this turne.    wish he do not wpoc «vrpa
                                    collect,  the ambitious    the covetous will be can
                               I

vassing for places of honour, and rich employment and that my Lord
will withstand the mercat, and neglect, not slight his applications,

upon confidence of his neere relation, the merites of my Lord his
          not upon other principles. If none of this happen, and that
son,  if

successe do not quite alter the principles of men in power, we are to

expect Astrea upon earth againe But as have often told you,
                                              :

                                                           I

                                                                         &
looke for no mighty improvement of mankind in this declining age

Catalysis. A Parliament (legaly cafed) of brave worthy Patriots,
not influenced by faction, nor terrified by power, or corrupted by selfe

interest, would produce a kind of new creation amongst us. . But
will grow old, and dissolve to chaos againe, unlesse the same stupen
dous Providence (which has put this opportunitie into men's hands to
make us happy,) dispose them to do just righteous things, and to
                                              &
                                                     :
                                                                  &
                                                                          &
use their empire with moderation, justice, piety, for the publiq good.
Upon the whole matter, those who seeke employment, before the gran

dees are served, may suspend their solicitation, the Queene having ('tis
sayd) carried away the Great Seale most of the writs being burnt by
his Majesty, will cost time, excogitation of expedients how legaly
           I it
                if
to supply them, his Majesty should designe to travell againe, or the
doore (which feare most likely) be shut after him. These, and sundry
other difficulties will render things both uneasy and uncertaine. Onely
   think Popery to be universaly declining, and you know am one of
I                                 is
                                           :

                                                    &

                                                           I
                                                                        is I

                                                                                         is
those who despise not prophesying nor, whilst behold what daily

wrought in the world, believe miracles to be ceas'd.
   Sir Ed: Hales Obadiah (his old tutor) are both in gaole at Maid
                             &

stone. C. Justice Herbert, Rob: Brent, Peters above all, are not yet
heard of. Poore Roger (for want of better observation)                                                      carried to

New-gate, and every houre pregnant of wonders.
      Anno Mirabil. Lond. 18 Dec. 1688.

                                                                                                        44
690 TO MR. PEPYS FROM JOHN EVELYN.

          To Mr. Pepys.

I Sir,    on Wednesday last (afternoone) to  kisse your hands ; but find
     was  abroad, and my selfe obliged to    returne that evening, that I
ing  you
might receive the Countess of Sunderland, who sent me word she

would call at my house the next morning early before her embarkment

iffor Holland, I do now write, what I should have said to you, time
had permitted ; and that is to let you know, that upon your late com
municating to me your desire of adorning your choice Library with the
Pictures of men illustrious for their parts & erudition, I did not in the
least suspect your intention of placing my shallow head amongst those

heroes, who knowing my unworthynesse of that honour, will in spight
of your good opinion of Mr. Kneller for his skill of drawing to the
life, cither condemne his colouring that he made me not blush : or me
for impudence that I did not. But this is not all': for men will ques
tion your judgment, or suspect you of flattery, if you take it not downe ;

for in good earnest, when I seriously consider how unfit I am to
appeare in the classe of those learned Gentlemen, I am perfectly

asham'd, & should say with much more reason than Marullus (after a
recension of the famous Poets)
A'os, si quis inter cateros locat Vates, Oncrat, qnam honorat verins.

  Tis pitty and a diminution, so elegant a place & precious collection
should have any thing in it of vulgar, but such as Paulus Jovius has
celebrated, and such as you told me you were procuring : the Boyles,

the Gales, & the Newtons of our Nation : what, in God's name, should
a planter of Colewart do amongst such Worthies ? Setting him aside,

I confesse to you I was not displeas'd with the fancy of the late Lord

Chancellor Hyde, when to adorne his stately Palace (since demolished)
he collected the Pictures of as many of our famous Countrymen as he

could purchase or procure, instead of the heads and busts of forreign-

ers, whose names, thro- the unpardonable mistake or (shall I call it)

pride of painters, they scome to put to their pieces, imagining it would

dishonour their art should they transmit every thing valuable to pos
terity besides Faces, which signifie nothing to the possessor (vnlesse
their Relations were to live for ever, & allways in being), so as one

cannot tell whether they were drawn from any of their Friends or
Ancestors, or the picture of some Porter or squalid Chimney sweeper,
whose prolix head and wrinkled forehead might passe him for a Philo
sopher. I am in perfect indignation at this folly, as oft as I consider

what extravagant sums are given for a dry scalp of some (forsooth)
Italian painting, be it of Raphael or Titian himselfe ; which would be
infinitely more estimable, were we'assured it was the picture of the
learned Count of Mirandula, Politian, Guicciardini, Machiavel, Pe
trarch, Ariosto, or Tasso ; or some famous Pope, Prince, Poet, or other
Hero of those times. Give me Carolus Magnus, a Tamerlaine, a
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  . 69 1

  Scanderbeg, Solyman the Magnificent, Matt: Corvinus, Lorenzo,
" Cosimo Medicis, Andrea Doria, Ferdinando Cortez, Columbus,

  Americus Vespusius, Castracani Castruccio, and a Storza ; the effigies
  of Cardan, and both the Scaligers, Tycho Brahe, Copernicus, and

  Galileo : I say give me the portraits of an Isabella ot Aragon or

  Castile, and her foure Daughters ; Lucretia d'Este, (to whom our
  Queene is related), Victoria Colonna, Hippolita Strozzi, Petrarch's
  Laura, A. Schurman, and above all Hellen Cornaro, daughter of a

  Procurator of St. Marco (one of the most illustrious families of Venice)
  who received the degree of Doctorcsse at Padua for her universal know-,

  ledge & erudition, upon the importunity of that famous University pre
  vailing on her modesty. She had ben often sought in honorable mar

  riage by many greate persons, but preferring the Muses before all
  other considerations, she preserved herselfe a virgin, and being not long
  since deceased had her obsequies celebrated at Rome by a solemn
  procession, & Elogie of all the Witts of that renowned citty. Nor may
  I forget the illustrious of ourowne Nation of both sexes : the Westons,

 Moores, Seymours, Sir J. Cheke, Ann Countess of Oxon (whose monu

  ment is in Westminster Abbey), the late Mrs. Philips, & Princcsse
  Elizabeth eldest daughter to the unfortunate Queene of Bohemia, to
  whom the greate Des Cartes dedicates his bookes, with a world of more

  renowned memorie famous for armes and arts, rather than the most

  beautiful Courtezan or Prostitute of them all, who has nothing to com
  mend her but her impudence & that she was a painted strumpet.
  Did it ever prejudice the glory of the inimitable Holbein, for putting
 the names of our greate Duke of Norfolk, Henry the Eighth when
 lesse corpulent, Edward the Sixth & Treasurer Cromwell, Jane Sey
 mour, Anne Bulleyn, Charles Brandon, Althea Talbot Countesse of
 Arundel, Card. Wolsey, Sir Thomas More & his learned Daughters,
  Sir Brian Tuke, Dr. Nowel, Erasmus, Melancthon, and even honest
  Frobenius, among innumerable other Illustrious of that age for learning

 & other vertues ? I aske if this were the least diminution to the fame
 of one who realy painted to the life beyond any man this day living ?

 But, in truth, they seeme from the beginning jealous of their owne
 honour, & afraid of being forgotten : hence we find TAYKQN AOHN ACIO

 EnoiEI insculpt on the Farnesian, Hercules, and Michael Angelo
fecit, P. P. Rubens pinxit, Marc. Antonio calavit, &c. There is not

 that wretched print but weares the name of the no-Artist, whilst our
 Painters take no care to transmitt to posterity the names of the persons
 whom they represent ; through which negligence so many excellent

 pieces come after a while to be dispers'd amongst Brokers & Vp-
 holsters, who expose them to the streetes in every dirty & infamous

 corner. Tis amongst their dusty lumber we frequently meete with

 Queene Elizabeth, Mary Q. of Scots, the Countesse of Pembroke,
 Earles of Leycester and Essex, Sir Walter Raleigh, Sir Philip Sidney.
692 TO MR. PEPYS FROM JOHN EVELYN.

  Cecil, Buckhurst, Walsingham, Sir Francis Bacon, King James & his
favourite Buckingham, and others (who made the greate figure in this
nation), of John Husse, Zisca, Luther, Calvine, Beza, Socinus, William
& Maurice Princes of Orange, Charles the Fifth, Philip the Second,
  Francis the First : the Dukes of Alba, Parma, Don John of Austria,
and Count Egmont : Authors of Sects, Greate Captaines and Politi

cians (famous in our history in other countries), flung many times
behind the hangings, covered with dust & cobwebs. Upon this
            men curious of books
account it  is,                                          antiquities have ever had
                    &

                                    &
                                                      &
  Medals in such estimation,  rendered them a most necessary fur

niture to their Libraries, because by them we are not onely infomvd

whose real image superscription they beare, but have discover'd to
us, in their reverses, what heroical exploits they perform'd -- their
                                                                  ;

                                                                       &
                                                                                              ;
famous Temples, Bazilicx, Thermas, Amphitheaters, Aquaeducts,

  Circus's, Nauniachias, Bridges, Triumphal Arches, Columns, historical
    other pompous Structures Erections by them and which have
&&  :
  ben greately assistant to the recovery of the antient           magnificent
          &&
  Architecture, whose real monuments had ben so barbarously defae'd&

  by the Goths other truculent invaders, that without this light (and:

  some few ruines yet extant that justifie those types) that so vsefullis
                                     &&
  order and ornament of columns                     their concomitant members
                                             &&
  were hardly to be known by the text of Vitruvius, and all his
                                          I I it &
  learned Commentators and till Daniel Barbaro, Leon Alberto, Ra

  phael, M. Angelo, others, rais'd out of the dust restored that
                                                                  :

                                                                             &
                                                                                       &
  noble art, by their owne and other learned men consulting com

  paring the reverses of Medals  Medallions besides what they
  farther contribute to the elucidation of many passages in Historie,
  Chronologie, Geography. So as do not see how Mr. Pepy's Li

  brary can be long without this necessary adjunct.               amongst the
                                                                  It

                                                                      is
                                                                          is
                                                                                                 &
  Medals we meete the antient legislators, Lycurgus, Solon, Numa, Ac

  There we find Orpheus, Linus, the old Bards, and there mention of
  Numns Homericus by Strabo, (if well remember) by Aristotle
  him-selfe too, as there stil extant those of the brave Hector
  Achillies so as among them we may see what kind of persons

  were Aristides, Themistocles, Epaminondas, Miltiades, Alexander
    Cyrus, Darius, &c. The grave Philosphers Socrates, Pytha

  goras, Plato, Aristotle, Epicurus, Zeno, and Demosthenes, shew

  their faces to this day revered in our Medals. Those of the
  Hebrew represent to us the rod of Aaron pot of Manna, & shew
            it
                  &

                       I&
                                        if

                                                               &
  how Juda was led captive. We come by Medals to understand
  the antient Weight Measures, and the value of Monies: You will see

  there when was that Princes assum'd the radiant Crownes, and what
  the Diadcme was. might proceede to the Punic Hanibal, Juba, Ac
  to the Consular Imperial of the Romans from Romulus, the Scipios,
  Catos, down to this age of ours, after Pertinax, and decline of that
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  693

empire, Sculpture & all good arts had not fall'n with it. You will
therefore be curious of having the first Casars, the greate Julius
(after his Pharsalian Victorie) being the first honourM with having
his erfigies, old, leane & bald as he was, in medal, or rather in monie,
which are rare to procure in gold or small copper. There are of these
and the other Emperors with Grecke inscriptions also. Who is not
delighted to behold the true effigies of the famous Augustus, cruel Nero
& his Master Seneca ? Vespasian, Titus, Nerva, Trajan, Antoninus,
Severus, the greate Constantine &his devout mother Helena? For we
have in Medals the beautiful Cleopatra & her paramour ; Drusilla,
Livia, Julia Agrippina, Antonia, Valeria Messalina, Octavia, Sabina
Poppaea, all of them Augustas ; and sundry more of the faire sex, who
rul'd the world. I have seene a series of the Popes from St. Peter,
& amongst the reputed Heresiarcs, that Medalion of John Huss &
Hierome of Prague's Martyrdome, with the memorable inscription
Post centum aunos vos Cito, which fell out at the appearing of Martin
Luther exactly at that period. But, Sir, I am sensible I have quite
tir'd you by this time with Medals, & therefore I will say nothing con

cerning those observations in the filing, sharpness, & due extanic
vernish, & other markes, necessary to be critically skill'd in to prevent

the being cheated & impos'd upon by copies & counterfeits for antique

& original: (tho' yet all copies, if well dissembled, stamp'd or cast,

are not to be rejected), because you will both for this and all the rest,

consult Fulvius Ursinus, Goltzius, Monsieur St. Amant, Otto, Dr. Spont
Vaillant, Dr. Patin and (instar omnium) the most learned Spanhemius
in that Treatise de prastantia et usu Numismatum Antiquorum. You
will likewise make vse of your friends Dr. Gale, Mr. Henshaw, Hill,
and Mr. Justell, vpon whose skill & judgment you may relie ! tho' even
the most skillfull may now & then be mistaken : But you shall be sure

not to be paied with trash, such as I do not (as I say'd) call the
Antiquo Moderno if well imitated. These persons your Friends whom
I mention'd, will I am sure be ready to assist you in this laudable
curiositie. And if they can be purchas'd together, as accidentaly they

sometimes may, it will save you a greate deale of paines, & enrich you
at once. But otherwise, they are likeliest met withall amongst the
goldsmiths, & casualy as one walkes the streetes on foote, & passes by
the stalls. Mr. Ashmole, our common friend, had collected all the
antient & modern Coines of this Kingdome, which were very rare, to
gether with seuerall Medalls of our British, Saxon, & other Kings
vpon occasion of Births, Coronations, Marriages, & other solemnities. I
know not whether they escap'd the burning of his study at the Middle
Temple. But for the most accurate ordering & disposing of Medals, so

as one may more commodiously take them out of their repositories, Mr.
Charlton of that Society, has a peculiar method, as he is the most

elegant & rarely furnish'd in all his other Collections. In the meane
694 To MR. PEPyS FROM JOHN EVELYN.

time, the curious of this sort of erudition (I meane of Mcdalls) were
formerly, & I belieue at present, very few in England. For besides Six
Robert Cotton, Mr. Selden, Sir Simon D'Ewes, Sir Tho. Hanmer of
Hanmer, Sir William Paston, and the late Mr. Hervey, I find hardly any.
That greate lover of antiquity Thomas Earle of Arundel had a very
rich collection as well of Medalls as other Intaglias, belonging to the
Cabinet he purchas'd of Daniel N ice at the cost of ten thousand pounds,
which with innumerable other rarities, haue ben scattered & squanderd
away by his Countesse when she got that treasure to Amsterdam,
whilst my Lord was in Italy, where he died. Aboundance of them she
bestow'd also on the late vnhappy Viscount Stafford, her beloved son; &
such as remained, Lely, Wright, & the rest of the Painters, Panders
and Misses, haue cheated the late Duke of Norfolk of. The same fate
befell a noble Collection of Medals belonging to the then curious Sir Si
mon Fanshaw of Ware-park ; they were after his decease thrown about
the house (as that worthy gent: his son Sir Richard, Lord Ambassador in
Spain, from whom I had the relation, has told me) for children to play
at counter with: as were those elegant Types of Sir Henry Savills at

Eaton, which that learned Knight procurd with greate cost for his
edition of St. Chrysostome, & as it com'only fares with such curiosities

where the next heire is not a Virtuoso. So vaine a thing it is to set
ones heart vpon any thing of this nature with that passion & mania,
that unsatiable Earle whom I mention'd did, to the detriment of his
estate and family ; -- mediocria firma. The medals in our Universitie
Libraries are not yet at all considerable, tho' Obadiah Walker were
an industrious promoter of        not vnskillfull in them. Mr. Ralph
                  &
                            it,
                               &
Sheldon of Weston in Warwickshire, left a very handsome Collection
both of Gold, Siluer, Copper, antient, and moderne, part of which

were bequeathed to a Sister of my Lady Tuke's, who not long since

offcr'd to haue sold them.     brought Monsieur Justell to see them,
                               I
                                  whether she haue since dispos'd
                                          &

                                             I
but they were much ouer-valued,
of them neuer inquired. At present know of none who can show a
        I

better chosen set of Medals than the Earle of Clarendon, to whose
late Father (after all this tedious parenthesis) returne,
                                                             II      &             haue a
                                                                            &
mind to entertaine you while longer with what had begun, where
                  a                                                                I

spake of his purpose to furnish all the roomes of state other apart
        with the Pictures  of  the most Illustrious          of our  bNeaftoiroen,itespTechiearlye
ments   Lordships time                                       diuers
                               acquaintance,             of
of his                     I&
                                                      &
were at full length, and as doubt not but you well remember to haue
seene, the greate Duke of Buckingham, the brave Sir Horace Francis
                                                                                &

Vere, Sir Walter Raleigh, Sir Phil. Sidney, the greate Earle of Leicester,
Treasurer Buckhurst, Burleigh, Walsingham, Cecil, Lord Chancelor

Bacon, Elsmere,   think all the late Chancelors graue Judges in
                  I&
the reigns of Q.
First. For there                    &
                                                                       &

                                                                             &
                  Elizabeth,     her successors James                           Charles the
                  was Treasurer
                                  Weston, Cottington, Duke Hamilton,
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  695

the magnificent Earle of Carlisle, Earles of Carnarvon, Bristol, Hol
land, Lindsey, Northumberland, Kingston, and Southampton: Lords
Falkland and Digby (I name them promiscuously as they come into
my memorie), & of Charles the Second, besides the Royal Family,
the Dukes of Albermarle and Newcastle, Earles of Darby, Shrews-

bery, St. Alban's, the brave Montrosse, Sandwich, Manchester, &c.
and of the Coife, Sir Ed. Coke, Judge Berkeley, Bramston, Sir Orlando
Bridgman, Jeofry Palmer, Selden, Vaughan, Sir Rob. Cotton, Dugdale,
Mr. Camden, Mr. Hales of Eaton. The Archbishops Abbot & Laud,
Bishops Juxon, Sheldon, Morley, and Duppa: Dr. Sanderson, Brown-
rig, Dr. Donne, Chillingworth, & seucrall of the Cleargie & others of
the former and present age. For there were the Pictures of Fisher,
Fox, Sir Tho. More, Tho. Lord Cromwell, Dr. Nowel, &c. And what

was most agreeable to his Lordships general humor, Old Chaucer,
Shakspere, Beaumont & Fletcher, who were both in one piece, Spencer,
Mr. Waller, Cowley, Hudibras, which last he plac'd in the roome

where he vs'd to eate & dine in publiq, most of which, if not all, are at

the present at Cornebery in Oxfordshire ; together with the Library,
which the present Earle has considerably improv'd, besides what
Bookes he has at Swalowfieldnot contemptible, & the Manuscript Copies
of what concernes the Parliamentary Records, Journals, & Transactions
which I haue heard both himself & the late vnfortunate Earle of Essex

(who had also the same curiosity) affirme cost them ,£.500 transcribing
& binding, & indeede furnish a prety large roome. To compleate &
encourage this noble and singular Collection, I sent his Lordship a
List of the names following ; Cardinals Pole and Wolsey : Gardener
Bp. of Winchester, Cranmer, Ridley, old Latimer, Bp. Usher, Mr.
Hooker, Occham, Ripley, John Duns, Roger Bacon, Suisset, Tunstal
Bp. of Duresme (correspondent with Erasmus), Tompson, Ven: Bede,

if at least to be met with in some ancient Office or Masse Booke,
where I haue seene some of those old famous persons accurately painted

either from the life or from copies : Sir John Cheke, Sir Tho. Bodley,
Smith, Jo. Berkeley, Mr. Ascham, Sir Fulk Greuil, Buchannan, Dr.
Harvey, Gilbert, Mr. Oughtred, Sir Hen. Wotton (I still recite them
promiscuously & not like an Herauld), Sir Fra. Drake, Sir Rich.
Hawkins, Mr. Cavendish, Martine Frobisher, &c. ; some of which his
Lordship procured, but was you know interrupted, and after all this
apparatus and grandeure, died an exile, & in the displeasure of his
Majestie & others who envied his rise & fortune -- tarn brevts Populi
Romani amores ! But I shall say no more of his ministrie, and what
was the pretence of his fall, than that we haue liued to see greate
Revolutions. The Buffoons, Parasites, Pimps, & concubines, who
supplanted him at Court, came to nothing not long after, & were as
little pittied. 'Tis something yet too early to publish the names of his
Delators, for fear of one's teeth. But Time will speake Truth, and
696 TO MR. PEYPS FROM JOHN EVELYN.

sure I am the event has made it good. Things were infinitely worse
manag'd since his disgrace, & both their late Majesties fell into as
pernicious counsels as euer Princes did : whilst whateuer my Lord
Chancelor's skill, whether in Law or Politics, the offices of State &

Justice were filled with men of old English honor & probitie ; lesse
open bribery & ostentation ; there was at least something of more

grauity and forme kept up (things, howeuer rallied at, necessary in

Courts): magnificent & ancient hospitalitie in his Majesty's houses,
more agreeable to the genius of this Nation than the open <fc avowed
luxurie & prophaness which succeeded, a la mode de France, to which
this Favorite was a declared enemy vpon my certaine knowledge.
There were indcede heinous matters laied to his charge, which I could
neuer see prov'd ; & you & I can tell of many that haue fall'n and yet

suffer under that calamitie.

   But what's all this, you'll say, to our subject ? Yes, He was a gTeate
Lover at least of Books, & furnish'd a very ample Library, writ him-
selfe an elegant style, fauour'd & promoted the designe of the Royal
Society: and it was for this, and in particular for his being very kind
to me both abroad & at home, that I sent Naudaeus to him in a dedi
catory Addresse, of which I am not so much asham'd as of the Trans
lation. There be some, who not displeas'd with the style of that

Epistle, are angrie at the application. But they do not consider that

Greate Persons, & such as are in place to doe greate & noble things,
whateuer their other defects may be, are to be panegyrized into the
culture of those vertues, without which 'tis to be suppos'd they had

neuer arived to a power of being able  to encourage them.      Qui monet
vt facias--you remember the sequel.    And 'tis a justifiable  figure ; nor
is it properly adulation, but a civilitie due to their characters. As for

the Translation, it has ben so insufferably abus'd at the presse, that

the shame any uncorrected copy should come abroad has made me

suppresse as many as I could light on, not without purpose of
publishing a new Edition, and which now perhaps might be more sea

sonable, since the humor of exposing Books sub hasta is become so

epidemical, that it may possibly afford some direction to gentlemen
who are making their collections out of them. Besides, the first

impression is I heare prety well worne out, and I should be very
unfortunate it should miscarry twice, or meete with such another acci

dent as happen'd, it seemes, to the blotted Manuscript at Oxford: the
circumstances whereof I will not now trouble you withall.

  And so I haue don with my Lord Chancelor. But not so soone with
my worthy friend Mr. Pepys, to whose learned & laudable curiosity of
still improving his choice Collection I should not aduise a solicitous
expense of hauing the Pictures of so many greate persons painted in
oyle, which were a vast & unnecessary charge ; tho' not so extra

ordinary a one to my Lord Chancelor as one may imagine, because
       THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                               697

when his designe was once made known, euery body who either had
them of their owne or could purchase them at any price, strove to
make their court by these presents ; by which meanes he got many
excellent pieces of Vandyke, and other originals of Lely, & the best of
our modern Masters hands. But insteadc of these, you think fit to
add to your title-pages, in a distinct Volume, the Heads Effigies ofI
such as haue enumerated, and of as many other as either in this         if & & &
or any other age have ben famous for Armes or Arts, in faille douce,IIa
                                     it                                         &
and with very tollcrable expense to be procur'd amongst the Print-
                                                ;                                    I&
sellers, should not reprove                           am sure you would be infinitely
                                       I if,
delighted with the assembly, and some are so very well don to the life,
that they may stand in competition with the best paintings. This

were a cheape and so much more vsefull curiosity, as they seldome
are without their Names, Ages, and Elogies of the Persons whose

Portraits they represent  :  say you will be exceedingly pleas'd to con

template the Effigies of those who haue made such noise bustle in
                                                                 Ia
the world, either by their madnesse                   folly, or more conspicuous
                                                      &&             a
figure by their wit learning. Nor would yet confine you to stop&I
          &&
here, but to be continualy gathering as you happen to meete with other
instructive types. For vnder this classe may come in Batails, Sieges,

Triumphs, Justes Tournaments, Coronations, Cavalcads, Enteries
of Ambassadors, Processions, Funebral other Pomps, Tombs, Tryals
& Executions: stately Edifices, Machines, Antique Vases, Spoiles,

Basse Relievos, Intaglios, Cameos taken from Achates, Onyxes,
                             &

                                                   ;
Cornelians, other precious stones Ruines, Landskips, from real
       &

subjects, not fancies which are innumerable                      not necessary, but such

as relate to Historie, and for reasons specified more at large in my
Treatise of Chalcographie. Your Library being by this accession made

suitable to your generous mind steady virtue, know none liuing
                             &

master of more happinesse, since besides the possession of soe many

curiosities, you vnderstand to vse and improue them likewise, haue
declarU that you will endeauor to secure what with so much cost
industrie you haue collected, from the sad dispersions many noble Li'

braries & Cabinets haue suffered in these late times: one Auction,

may call diminution, of day or two, hauing scattered what has ben
   it     I

                   a                                  that we are in England so de-
gathering many yeares. Hence  it
                                  is                                    in our greatest
                                                       &
fectiue of good Libraries among the gentlemen
townes: Paris alone, am persuaded, being able to shew more than all
the three Nations of Greate Brittaine: those of Mem'ius, Puteane,
Thuanus, Cordesius, Seguire, Colbert, Conde-, others innumerable of
                                                      &
                                                             &
Bishops, Abbots, Advocates, Antiquaries, a world of learned persons
of the Long Robe besides the Publiq Libraries at St. Victoire, the
          ;
     This Mr. Pepys did, giving his Books and collection of Prints to Magdalen College, Cam1a
bridge, where they now are under the name of the Pepysian Library, in the original book
cases and presses, placed in room which they exactly fit.
698  -             TO MR. PEPYS FROM JOHN EVELYN.

Sorbonne & aboue all, that of Mazarin (now with Richlieu's & sundry
others swallow'd vp in the present King's), far exceeding any thing we
can shew at home, tho' we have as much (if not greater) plenty &
variety of the best books as any Country in the learned world. But,

as I said, they are in private Cabinets, & seldome well chosen, vnlesse
in the Vniversities, where, if one may judge by the few productions of

so many learned men as are there at leasure, they signifie so very little
to the learned world. This grcate & august Citty of London, abound
ing with so many witts and lctter'd persons, has scarse one Library
furnish'd & indow'd for the publiq. Sir John Cotton's, collected by his
noble Vnkle, is without dispute the most valuable in MSS. especialy of
British & Saxon Antiquities ; but he refuses to impart to us the Cata
logue of his Treasure, for feare, he tells me, of being disturb'd. That
of Westminster is not much considerable: still lesse that of Syon Col-

ledge. But there is hope that his Majesties at St. James's may emerge
& be in some measure restor'd againe, now that it comes vnder the in
spection of the learned Mons. Justell, who you know was owner of a
very considerable one at Paris. There are in it a greate many noble
Manuscripts yet remaining, besides the Tecla; and more would be, did
some royal or generous hand cause those to be brought back to
                                                                  it,

which still are lying in mercenary hands for want of two or three hun

dred pounds to pay for their binding many of which being of the
Oriental Tongues will soone else find Jewes chapmen that will pur

chase transport them, from whence we shall neuer retrieue them
     &                       is
                &
                                                ;

                                                    &
againe. For thus has a Cabinet of ten thousand Medals, not inferior to

most abroad, far superior to any at home, which were collected by
that hopefull cherisher of greate and noble things Prince Henry, been

imbezil'd and carried away during our late barbarous Rebellion, by
whom whither none can or like to discouer. What that collection
     &

was, not onely of Bookes and Medals, but of Statues and other elegant
furniture, let the learned Library-keeper Patritius Junius tell you in his
notes ad Epist. Sainti Clementis ad Corinthos: quern locum, (speaking

of St. James's) si Vietnam pinacothecam Bibliotheca celcberrima con-
junctam, si Numismata Antigua Grceca ac Romana, si statuas 6>* signa
ex are et marmore consideres, non im'erito Thesaumm Antiquitatis

et TapuTov itistructissimum nominara potes, &c.
     Were not this losse enough to break Lover's heart The Royal So
                             &                         I
ciety at Gresham Colledge has a mixture, tho' little apposite to the ina?

stitution designe of that worthy assembly, yet of many excellent
     &
         &
Books some few MSS. given them at my instance by the late Duke
of Norfolck, which but a part of that rare collection of good Authors
                     is
                          &
which by the industrie direction of Francis Junius, the learned son
of the learned Patrick, Mr. Selden, the purchase of what was brought
at once of Germaine, was left neglected at Arundel House before

it   was demolished  &  converted into tenements.               now mention Mr.
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  699

Selden. There is a Fragment of that greate Antiquarie's Librarie at
the Middle Temple ; but his Manuscripts & best collections were be
queathe to the Bodleian at Oxford, to which both himsclfe & especialy
Archbishop Laude were the most munificent Benefactors: tho' with
all these, so poore in Manuscripts that they were ashamed to publish
their Catalogue with that of the Impressorum, but which might yet
have ben equaly inriched with any perhaps in Europe, had they pur-

chas'd what was lately offer'd them by the executors of Isaac Vossius,
tho' indeede at a greate price, who have since carried them back into
Holland, where they expect a quicker mcrcate. I wish'd with all my
heart some brave and noble Maca;nas would have made a present of
them to Trinity Colledge in Cambridge, where that sumptuous structure
(design'd for a Library) would have ben the fittest repository for such
a treasure. Where are our Suissets, Bodleys, Lauds, Sheldons, Bishops

& opulent Chancelors ? Will the Nepotismo neuer be satisfied. -- Scd
prastat motus composure. The next to that of the Bodleian are the
Librarys of Magdalen Coll., Christ Church, Vniversity, & Baliol, which
last is furnish'd with diuers considerable MSS. & lately (thro' the
bounty of Sir Tho. Wendie) with a number of other curious books. But

to returne againe neerer this citty: That at Lambeth, replenished at
present with excellent books, ebbs & flows like the Thames running by
it, at euery Prelat's succession or translation: there's at present a good

assembly of Manuscripts in a roome by themselues. The Bishop of Ely

has a very well stor'd Library ; but the very best is what Dr. Stilling-
fleete, Deane of St. Paule's, has at Twicknam, ten miles out of towne.
Onely that good & learned man (Dr. Tennison) of St. Martine's, neere

you, has begun a charity, for so I reckon it as well as that of his two

Scholes, &c. worthy his publiq & generous spirit, and the esteeme of

all who know him. Our famous lawyer Sir Edw. Coke purchas'd a
very choice Library of Greeke & other MSS. which were sold him by
Dr. Meric Casaubon, son of the learned Isaac ; & these, together with
his delicious Villa Durdens, came to the possession of the present Earle
of Berkeley from his Vnkle Sir Robert Cook. He has sometimes told me
he would build a convenient repository for them, which should be publiq
for the use of the Cleargie of Surrey ; but what he has don, or thinks
to do herein, I know not. Why is not such provision made by a publiq
Law & Contribution in euery County of England. But this genius
dos not allways preside in our representatiues. I haue heard that Sir
Henry Sauill was master of many precious MSS. &he is frequently

celebrated for it by the learned Valesius, almost in euery page of that
learned man's Annotations on Eusebius & the Ecclesiastical Historians

publish'd by him. The late Mr. Hales of Eton, whom I mention'd,
had likewise a very good Library ; and so had Dr. Cosin (late Bishop of
Duresme), a considerable part of which I had agreed with him for my
700 TO MR. PEPYS FROM JOHN EVELYN. -

selfe during his exile abroad, as I can shew under his owne hand1; bat
his late daughter, since my Lady Garret, thought I had not offer'd
enough, & made difficulty in deliuering them to me 'till neere the time
of his Majesties restauration, & after that, the Deane her father, becom
ing Bishop of that opulent See, bestowM them on the Library there.
But the Lord Primate Usher was inferior to none I haue named among
the Cleargie for rare MSS. a greate part of which being brought out
of Ireland, & left his son-in-law Sir Timothy Tyrrill, was dispos'd
of to giue bread to that incomparable Prelate during the late fanatic
War:             remained yet at Dublin were preserved, and by a
       such as   and placed in the Colledge Library of that Citty.                                publiq
purse  restored
                                                                                                  I haue

already mention'd what Isaac Vossius brought ouer, that had ben his

learned Father's, & many other Manuscripts which Isaac had him selfe

brought from Queene Christina out of Sweden in recompense of his
honorarie, whilst he was invited thither with Salmasius, Des "Cartes,
Blundel, & others, by the heroic & royal errant. But those birds, as I
sayd, haue taken their flight, & are gon. I forbeare to name the late
Earle of Bristol's & his kinsman's Sir Kenelm Digby's Libraries, of

more pompe than intrinsiq value, as chiefly consisting of modern Poets,
Romances, Chymical, & Astrological books, for I had the Catalogue in

my possession before they were disposed of, put into my hands by my
Lord Danby, then Treasurer, who desir'd me to giue my opinion of
them, which I faithfully did. As for those of Sir Kenelm's, the Cata
   1 The following letter from Dr. Cosin, afterwards Bishop of Durham, to Mr. Evelyn, is pro
bably here alluded to :

       Sir,

  I Ihaue here set the Prices (which paid) to the Bootes which you have added, bat there
I Ibe 4 or 5 of them (marked with --*-) which desire to keep, because haue written some notes
in them of my              The remaynder of             Ithe whole summe         you will see at  the foot e of the
                 owne.                And               Sir, thought I      (as  prevented any    further motion
inclosed paper)   will be  ,£105.  offer   thtrautly,I                    had
of abatement,              large
                 by the                                 made to you, of putting your Wives Confident

[friend] (for it concemes her only) to lose the third part of what her friend paid: specialty
Iconsidering that she is now forced to pay very neere £-joo for the Library, besides what it

cost at first. doe not conceive that it wilbe any great charge to you to have them brought to
London, where they wilbe subject to lesse hazard then in other places, & to no more there
If Ithen all other worldly things are in all other places besides.
                                                                                 you consider their number,
desire you would be pleased to consider likewise, that they are a choice -number, & a company

Iof the best selected Books among them all. When these & other of the like sort are gone

  haue good hope, that those who come to buy the remaynder & the worst sort of them all,
will not desire to have above a third part of the price abated them ; and therefore the

Ibetter sort (such as you haue chosen) might in reason goe at a better rate ; and indeed hatm
advised her, not to abate above a 4th part for most of them, & for some to hold them at the
same or a greater price then they cost ; as for example, There is in your note Plime's Natu-
rall   Historie in English priced at     36s. which is worth ^3. Camden's Errors, prie'd
for                                   ;   Paulus Jovius at aos, which sells now in Paris at        at 5s 6d
      which I haue seene aos. given                                                               4. pistols
and Pol. Virgil at 10s, which sells here for ^10. Will'm Malmesbury at 15s. for which they
                                   Menev,   &c. at 14s. which they will not part
                                    regard  whereof made accompt, that you
Idemand here £30.

where abroade for
                 and Asser                                                        with here nor          else
                                                                                  would rather           have
                  £10. In
said the abatement had ben too large then too little, which was made and offered so
freely by

      This 18th of July, 1651.                          Your humble servant,

                                                                                                  X. C.
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                         701

logue was printed, & most of them sold in Paris, as many better haue
lately ben in London. The Duke of Lauderdaile's is yet intire,

choicely bound, & to be sold by a friend of mine, to whom they are
pawn'd : but it comes far short of his relation's, the Lord Maitland's,

which was certainely the noblest, most substantial, & accomplished

Library that euer pass'd vnder the speare, and it heartily grieu'd me to
behold its limbs, like those of the chaste Hippolytus, separated &
tome from that so well chosen & compacted body. The Earle of An
glesey's, & several others since, by I know not what invidious fate,
pass'd the same fortune, to what euer influence & constellation now
reigning malevolent to Books & Libraries, which can portend no good

to the future Age.

  And now I haue in good earnest don with Libraries ; but yet not
quite with Mr. Pepys. For I mention none of all these as if I thought

it necessary euery private gentleman's study should be made common,

but wish we had some more communicatiue & better furnish'd with

good Books, in one of the greatest Citties of the Vniverse (London) ;
& for that end that x stately Portico were so contriu'd at the West end

of St. Paule's, as might support a Palatine, capable of such a designe ;

& that every Company and Corporation of the Citty, euery Apprentise

at his freedom, assisted at first by a general Collection thro-out the
Nation, a Copy of euery Booke printed within the Citty and Vniver-

sities, did cast in their symbals for a present stock & a future ample

funde. But this we are to expect when Kings are Philosophers, or

Philosophers Kings ; which I think may happen not in this but in Plato's
Revolution. All that I shall add concerning Gentlemen being furnish'd

with competent Libraries & for most part residing in towne is, how

obliging a thing it were, & of infinite effect to the promoting a noble and
vsefull conversation of Learned Gentlemen, as there a Society for
the Improvement of Natural Knowledge, and which was fit should be
                                &              ; is
                                    &
                                          if,
first, since Things were before Words, so there were an Academie for
that of Art Improvement of speaking writing well of which sort
&
there are (you know) some in Paris, almost in euery considerable
      ;
Citty of Italy, which go under the devises of La Crusca, Humoristi,
Inscnsati, &c. as that of the Beaux Esprits in France, set vp by
  the late greate Cardinal de Richelieu, for the polishing in-riching

 of the Language, publishing those many accurate pieces which
- has from time to time produe'd. It in these Assemblies, where a

 select number of learned men, persons of the first qualitie, not onely
                                                     &
                                                                     it

         &
                 it

                        is
                              is
come to heare, but esteeme an honour to haue their ingenious
exercises passe the test censure of so many ciuil polish'd Wits.
                                               &
                                                        &
And all the apparatus for this  onely the use of one competent
roome in the Gentleman's house, where there are chaires
                                                           a table,

where the person who declaimes being seated with a little more

crninency, like the Roman Rostrum, choosing his subject in prose
                                &
702 TO MR. PEPYS FROM JOHN EVELYN.

or verse, recites or reades his composures before the company.
This, for being but one halfe day or afternoone in the weeke, &
retiring in due houre, is of very little inconveniency to the master
of the house. Here it                      say, Gentlemen & Scholars bring
                                   is,

                                     I

                                                   &
their Essays, Poems, Translations, other oratorious productions
vpon a thousand curious subjects. Here they giue Law to Words
   Phrases, the Norma Loqnendi. These passe censure & bring
&

    I

                   &
Authors to the touch, reject or entertaine,                                    :&  indenizon Exotics,

&c. neede not inlarge to Mr. Pepys the benefit <fc noblenesse
of such assemblies, who has himselfe scene what illustrious persons
vs'd to honour Mr. Justell how many greate Dukes & blcw-ribbor.s.
Ambassadors as well as Bishops, Abbots, Presidents, and other& it :
                                      &&
Learned men Trauellers, this brought together into conversation the
               &&
most humane obliging in the world how exceedingly to bewish'd
some noble and worthy Gent, would give a diuersion so becoming;
usefully entertaining as would be. We should not then haue so                      &&
                                             && &
many crude and fulsome Rhapsodies impos'd vpon the English World
for genuine Witt, Language, the Stage, as well as on the Auditors

Spectators, which would be purg'd from things intollerable. It would

inflame, inspire, kindle another genius and tone of writing, with
                         &

nervous, natural strength beauty, genuine and of our owne growth,
without allways borrowing filching from our neighbours. And in-
deede such was once design'd since the Restauration of Charles the

Second (1665), and in order to three or fowre Meetings were begunit

at Gray's Inn, by Mr. Cowley, Dr. Sprat, Mr. Waller, the D. of Buck
ingham, Matt. Clifford, Mr. Dryden, some other promoters of it.
But by the death of the incomparable Mr. Cowley, distance & incon
venience of the place, the Contagion, other circumstances inter

vening, crumbled away              &       came to nothing what straw had
           it                                                                      II

gathered towards the bricks for that intended Pyramid (having the                      &
honour to be admitted an inferior labourer) you may command                                 &
dispose of, you can suffer my impertinences and that which haue
               if                                                              :
                          I
not shew'd you, the Plan drew was laying before them for that                   I
                                   I

                                        &

                                                           !

                                                 &
                                                      is

                                                                            !
designe, which was, said, the polishing of the English Tongue, to
be one of the first intentions chiefest subjects of the Academists.

"  And     now for shame haue don Methinks                                          heare you cry out,
   What                                                                            deale of ground, for
           gaarmaemb"le  has Mr. Evelyn made what a                                up an empty noddle
so little                Well, you see what the setting
has produe'd, what a deale of inke run to waste. And indecde&
                           !                                                       I
                                                                                         I
                       if

                               it
had ben criminaly vnanswerable of detriment to the publique as well
as to your owne repose, should haue dar'd to debauch you with so
                                      I

tedious intemperate a scribble, whilst you were not {tuo jure) your
owne man. But for all that, this prove an affliction also, as haue

cause to apprehend may, the onely expedient to rid yourselfe of such           &
imnppeirtinents will be, to assume your late buisy honourable charge
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  703

againe ; when no man can be so impudently uncivil as to expect you
should reade his long letters, when he considers how many you will
then be obliged to write.

   Sayes-Court, 12 Aug. 1689.

                        To the Countesse of SUNDERLAND.

        Madame,

    I bad prepared a Letter, to congratulate my young Lorde & your

 Ladyship, & all your illustrious Families happy arrival & returne to
 Althorp, when just as I was writing came the sad tidings of the death
 of that excellent lady your daughter the Countesse of Arran, which
 struck such a damp in me that I was fore'd to brcake off from a gratefull

 subject, to condole with your Ladyship, and those whom I thought it
 my obligation to endeavour the comforting ; And this was the more

 afflicting, that after such assurances of her Ladyships perfect recovery,

 vpon which I was meditating to write to you, this fatal newes should
 dash our hopes againe without any reserue. But so is the will of God,

 & this the constitution of all things here : no true satisfaction, no per
 manent felicity to be found on this side Heaven : whatcuer other cir
 cumstances of happinesse, as far as we can reckon any such thing in

 the power of this world to giue us, may seeme to promise of more
 lastingnesse & stabilitie, 'tis all but a seeming, a meere shew & false
 appearance ; for either the things which we hope to enjoy are taken from
 vs & perish in the fruition, or we are taken from them when we think

 ourselues most secure. Surely if in this life any thing were desirable,

 the hauing & the leauing virtuous & gracious Children behind us (such
 as might be examples of virtue, adorne & improue the age,) were to be
 esteemed the most valuable of blessings. But as such blessings are
 rare, so when God bestows them they are soonest taken from vs againe.
 They can no more liue in so corrupt an age than a healthfull body in
 a vitiated aire. What then are we to do when we loose them ? Not to

 consider them as lost, but happily absent. Madame, you know how
 easy 'twere to say aboundance of fine things on this subject -- no topiq
 more fruitefull ; but what's all this ? The wound is deepe and in a

sensible part, and tho' time and reason mitigate the present smart, I
cannot say it has healed what I often times suffer when the losse of

some deare Children & Friends come into my thoughts. One onely
consideration remaines, that as I said they are so far from being lost

or dead, that they liue & are now immortal, & would not for all the
world be with us againe. Why then grieue we for them ? Why,
plainely for ourselues, whom we loue more than . God, whose will it is
we should part with them, and whateuer He pleases to take from vs
heare, & depend on Him alone, who alone will neuer faile, neuer for
sake vs, but giue us that which shall neuer be taken from vs. Live we
then, Madame, in this religious indifference & resignation. But still
704 TO LADY SUNDERLAND FROM JOHN EVELYN. .

God has not left your Ladyship without those blessings. He has bet

in part eclips'd, & rather borrowed for a while than taken them away.
Besides my Lord your Husband, whom you haue seene restored, &
which to see so, you esteemed so greate a mercy : you haue a Daughter
& a Son, who are & ought to be all that you can wish or desire in
children. And him will Almighty God preserue : in both you will see
the fruites of your pious care & reward of your submission to the will of
God, and receiue all the discipline you haue past thro' as a greater
mark of his fauour & loue than if you had neuer suffered the least

checq or diminution of your former prosperity. This I am so well per-

swaded of you feele already, howeuer now by this lugubrous accident
as by others sometimes interrupted, that you would not exchange your
inward consolation, for the returne of all those external fugitiues you
once injoy'd to be depriv'd of this. Madame, this is a seacret knowne
onely to those who feele which, since am sure you do, leaue you
to that God who giues who your stay, your refuge, and may He
be all that you can want desire to supply this losse, & more than you

can wish.

   Sayes Court, 25 July 1690.
                                   & it, it,
                                               is
                                                         I

                                                                            I

                                   To Lady Sunderland.

                                                                        Deptford Aug. 1690.
   As for the 'Kalendar' your Ladyship mentions, what ever assistance
   may be to some Novice Gardiner, sure am his Lordship will find
nothing in worth his notice but an old inclination to an innocent
it                                                   II
                & it                                        I
                                 &
                                         is                                   it, it 4
                                            it
diversion, the acceptance found with my deare (and while he hVd)
worthy friend Mr. Cowley, upon whose reputation only has survived

seaven impressions,                  now entering on the eighth with some con
siderable improvements, more agreeable to the present curiosity. Tis
now, Madame, almost fourty yeares since first writ when Horti
culture was not much advane'd in England, and neere thirty since first
                                   consideration will
'twas   puIbf liinsht'hde,  which  time deserve the      hope excuse its many de
fects.                      meane    I                 name of no un-usefull trifle,

'tis all  itcapable of.                 it
             is
                  &                       came from rambling abroad, observ'd a
When many yeares ago

little there, a greate deal more since came home than gave me
                                                I

                                                      ;

                                                                              &
much satisfaction,              (as events have prov'd) scarce worth one's pur-
                            I&
suite, cast about how should employ the time which hangs on mostI &I
        I

young men's hands, to the best advantage and when books severer
studies grew tedious, other impertinence would be pressing, by what

innocent diversions might sometimes relieve my selfe without com-

plyance to recreations tooke no felicity in, because they did not con'
tribute to any improvement of the mind. This set me upon Planting-
of Trees, & brought forth my Sylva,' which booke, infinitely beyondis
my expectations, now also calling for > fourth impression, and has
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                            705

ben the occasion of propagating many Millions of usefull Timber-trees

thro 'out this Nation, as I mayjustifie (without im'odesty) from the

many letters of acknowledgment receiv'd from gentlemen of the first
quality, and others altogether strangers to me. His late Majesty Cha.
the 2d. was sometimes graciously pleas'd to take notice of it to me, &
that I had by that booke alone incited a world of planters to repaire

their broken estates and woodes, which the greedy Rebells had wasted
& made such havock of. Upon this encouragement I was once speak
ing to a mighty man, then in despotic power, to mention the grcate in

clination I had to serve his Majesty in a little office then newly vacant
(the salary I think hardly ,£300) whose province was to inspect the
Timber trees in his Majesties Forests, &c. and take care of their cul
ture and improvement ; but this was conferr'd upon another, who, I

believe had seldom ben out of the smoke of London, where tho' there

was a greate deale of timber, there were not many trees. I confesse I

had an inclination to the imployment upon a publique account as well

as its being suitable to my rural genius, borne as I was at Wotton,

among the Woods.

   Soon after this, happen 'd the direfull Conflagration of this Citty,
when taking notice of our want of Bookes of Architecture in the
English tongue, I published those most usefull directions of Ten of

the best Authors on that subject, whose works were very rarely to be
had, all of them written in French, Latine, or Italian, & so not intelli
gible to our mechanics. What the fruite of that labour & cost has
ben (for the sculptures which are elegant were very chargeable) the
greate improvement of our workmen, & several impressions of the copy
since, will best testifie.
                                                                          >

In this method I thought properly to begin with planting Trees,
because they would require time for growth and be advancing to

delight & shade at least, & were therefore by no meanes to be neglected
& deferred, while building might be raised and finish'd in a sum'r or
two if the owner pleas'd.
   Thus, Madame, I endeavoured to do my Countrymen some little

service, in as natural an order as I could for the improving & adorn
ing their estates & dwellings, &, if possible, make them in love
with these usefull & innocent pleasures, in exchange of a wastfull &
ignoble sloth which I had observ'd so universally corrupted an in

genious education.

   To these I likewise added my little History of Chalcography, a trea
tise of the perfection of Paynting, & of erecting Libraries,
Medals, with some other intermesses which might divert within dores,

as well as altogether without.

                                    45
706 TO ANTHONY A. WOOD FROM JOHN EVELYN.

Sir .   To Mr. Anthony A. Wood.

   Having lately received an account from Mr. Aubrey (as fonneny by
the Specimen & Proposals you have publish'd) of the progresse of your

intended Historie (Athena: Oxonienses), and that you desire to be
inform'd who one Mr. Welles (sometime since of Deptford) was: the
best light I can give you will be from the Inscription vpon his Wife's
Monument in that Parish-Church. Of what county, or family of that
name, he originally was, I cannot say ; but it might happly be conjec-
tur'd by the Amies, had not the Cleark (whom I ordered to send rue
the inclos'd note) forgotten that circumstance. Thus much onely I
can add, that Mr. Welles the husband married into a very antient &
worthy family of the Wallengers and Gonstones, of which the last
(namely Benjamine) had ben Treasurer of the Navy Royal during the

reignes of Hen. VIII. K. Edw. VI. Q. Mary & Eliz. a place of greatest

trust & honour. And to these two families, my wife has a neere rela
tion. -- But to returne to Mr. Welles. He was the author of a booke of

Shadows or Dialing, an excellent mathematician, well acquainted
with Mr. Gunter, Gelibrnnd, Doctor Gilbert, Mr. Oughtred, & other
famous mathematicians of his time: I have several Horoscopes, &. other

schemes of his, among my papers. He had two sons (whom I well

knew), whereof the eldest succeeded in his Father's office of Store-

Keeper in the Naval Arsenal, a place of good credit, & requiring ex
traordinary application: His second son, Ben. Welles, Physitian,
formerly fellow of All Soules in Oxon, a very good scholar, lately

deceased at Greenewich, leaving onely two daughters.

  This, Sir, being all I can at present learne of Mr. Welles, I take the
opportunity to superadd something which more immediately concemes
Tnyselfe: 'Tis some time since that Dr. Plot, communicating to me

your noble designe, required me (as from your selfe) to give him some

account of my owne family, &c. : what then I writ I do not now so well
approve of: & divers circumstances since that intervening, both as to

my fortune (which may possibly transfer my hitherto abode here at
Sayes-Court in Kent to the seate of my ancestors in Surrey) and an
honorable charge, which his late Majestie conferr'd on me, of one of

the Commissioners of the Privie-Seale, seemes to require some other

account from me than that which Dr. Plot exacted of me, which I
desired he would intreate you to manage, not as written by me in my
owne person (which were a vanitie insupportable), but that you would
vse the sponge, as you thought fit, & as becomes the modestie of one
who has no other ambition in this, than that (if needes you will take
notice  of an inconsiderable    man) thd I can contribute little to your
worthy
        labour, I may yet     endeavor, that the honour you intend me,

and the glorious Vniversitie who is pleas'd to owne me, may not suffer
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                              707

thro your too greate civilitie, or reproch me of presumption,   or ingra
titude.' I am,

                                                Sir, Yours, &c

   Sayes-Court, May 29, 1691.
   Sir,

If I may be so bold I should esteeme it a greate favour, il at least

you have prepar'd any thing concerning me, that you would transmitt

me a copy thereof? before you print it.

        To my Lord Bishop of LINCOLN. (Dr. THOMAS TENNISON.)
         My Lord,

      Whatsoever my opinion had been concerning the cause of Earth

  quakes, I am sure it had become me to haue submitted to your Lord

  ship's better judgement. But, indeede, I haue long had no other senti
  ments of it than what I find confirm'd by your Lordship with so greate
  reason, by so many experiments, & pregnant instances of the irresistible
  effects of niter, which no chaines can bind. An experiment which
  was long since made at Gressham Colledge, were enough to convince
  one. They prepar'd a ball of solid yron, about the thicknesse of a
  pretty cannon bullet, which was hammer'd both hot and cold, to render
  it as hard & tough as possible. In this they drill'd a small hole to

  the center, and after having dropp'd in a few graines of gunpowder,
  and stopping them up by forcing in a screw, exceedingly well riveted
  at the top, they set it on a pan of charcoale, in a large quadrangle of
  the Colledge, which no sooner thereby heated, but with a terrible ex
 plosion it brake the ball into a thousand pieces. Now tho' this was

  common gunpowder, yet 'tis not the sulphur, but the niter which
 operates with this pernicity, & breakes all bands whatsoever. The
 sulphur & coale which enter into the composition and blacken the

 cones, are onely (your Lordship knows) in order to its speedily kind
 ling, adding little else to its force. The consideration whereof frees

 me from all questionings of the being and power of spirits (I meane

 intellectual ones), & of creatures & beings invisible. The dire effects

 of compressed and incarcerated aer, when the turn-key fire [sulphur]
 but with astonishment : nor passe I by a windmill without wonder, to
 see a stone of that magnitude, & so ponderous, & of so many tuns

 weight, whirl'd about with that swiftnesse by something which we do
 not see, & sometimes hardly feele, for a very little breath will set it
going. Indeede it was to this pent-up vapour, which the antient
meteorologists attributed those coliques & convulsions of the earth ;

but they did not dreame of niter, which tho' no more than aer con
tracted, has so much the more violent operation when expanded, as
inclines me to think it has raised all the famous fires we meete with,

& not onely the vulcanos at present burning (such as Hecla, Vesuvius,

./Etna, Stromboli, &c.) but perhaps most of the mountaines of the
708 TO DR. TENNISON FROM JOHN EVEEYW.

worldKwhich       I fancy might have ben thrust up by the force of subter
ranean fires.
                     Powder'd alabaster, chalke & sand being put into a
vcssell, & set on the fire, will (when hot) boile, & bubble up to some
pretty & odd resemblan ces of such protuberances. Nor is it unlikely that

where the hills are highest, the caves are as profound underneath them ;

& that there are vast ones under those Alpes Sierras from whence
                                                &
our rivers derive their plentifull streames, and haue their supplies from?
some such capacious cisteme Hydrophylatia as Kircher mentions.<fc&
                            &
Besides these, may there not also be many dry empty Cryptas, some&? &
times above, sometimes beneath these water receptacles, where Vul& it &
can and the Cyclops are perpetualy at work And that in processe of&
time, the fire arriving at a bed of niter sulphure blowing up all in-is
cumbences, not onely cause these concussions, but frequently spew out

greate quantities of water 'Tis evident that the very glebe «& soile
all about Naples natural fuel, where have in many places taken up

sulphur vivum, both under and above the surface. All the ground both
                                                I

                                                     it,
under that noble citty country about sounds hollow like a tub.
The hot bathes, natural stoves, other extraordinary things of this
kind thro' all that teritorie, are the effects of subterranean fires, which

feeding on the bituminous other unctuous                       inflammable matter
                                                it,
                                                   &

                                                       &
(which copiously finds) when comes once to meete with a stratum
of niter,  it     forces up all above & about                makes that prodigious
              it

havock, however thick, deepe heavy be the incumbent weight or

matter. Thus did Vesuvius Ao 1630, and now since (more terrible at
Catanea, ejecting stones and huge rocks of monstrous bulk belching
                                                                                              ;

out flames, scattering ashes some hundred leagues distance from the
it
           it

                  &
                               &

                                  it
                                             it
                                                                                it
eruption. Now when this niter has don its execution, and one thinks
quite at rest (for so seem'd to be for about a thousand years, nay
                                                                                                   I

think ever since the elder Plinie perish'd there1) emitting only a little
smoke, was all this while, seemes, lurking 'till came to another

stratum, and then up went all againe, and thus 'tis evident haue ben

made those deepe dreadfull Calderras both of Vesuvius & JEtnz.
Whither at first these fires were kindled by lightnings from without (as
your Lordship well conjectures) or from corruscations within, or by the

collision of Pyrites other stones of the arched caverns, the prepar'd
                            &
                                                                         &

                                                                                        a
                                                                                             it
matter soone conceives a kindling, which breaking into flame, rarities
the stagnant aer, which bursts those rocky barrs, which 'till breaks

out puts oftentimes a whole country in those paroxisms and ague fitts
which we call earthquakes. The noise, explosion inconceivable swift-

nesse of its motion, affecting so many distant places in the same moment
almost of time, shewes thro' what recesses, long extended channels &
hollow passages (as in so many mines) this sulphrous niter lies in traine,
ready for the Lin-stock. These furnaces are doubtlesse the laborato

For in this confidence they built citties  and palaces, and  planted                viniards  and  places  of
1           E.

        J.
pleasure.
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  709

ries where minerals are concocted into metals ;fluors sublimated, salts
and juices condens'd, & precious stones, the several ferments imparting
various qualities to earths and waters, and promoting vegetation ; nay
who knows (& I pray God we may never know) whether local Hel be
not the central fire : or whether this vast terraqueous globe may not
one day breake like a granado about our eares, & cast itselfe into
another figure than the deluge did according to the ingenious Doctor's !

theorie ?

   But, my Lord, from philosophising and conjecture, I am rambling I
know not whither, when all that I would signifie is my full assent to

your Lordship's reasoning ; verily believing the cause of Earthquakes to
proceede from the ingredient mention 'd, mutualy inkindled, & then in
searching vent, teares all up, where it finds the obstacle, & shaking all
about it. 'Tis observable that .(Egypt and the lower regions seldome

feel these concussions, whilst the mountainous countries are most ob

noxious, as most cavernous ; especialy in hot climats. Sad instances
of this are the yet ruines of old Antioch, Smyrna, &c. and in our days
Ragusa, Benevento, Smyrna againe, & that terrible one of Jamaica,
which had its operation & was felt as far as England but a few days

since. All the mountainous countries of Sicily & Greece & along Dal

matian side are hollow, perhaps for thousands of miles, even under the

very sea itselfe ; as I believe from Vesuvius to /Etna, and thence to

other further remote mountaines & Vulcanos, perhaps as far as
Iseland, China, & the Andes of Peru, which are full of picos, whereof
Potosi (that inexhaustible magazine of silver and other metalls) seemes
to be no other. Those furious ravages may also probably have made
so many rugged rocks, cliffs, hiatus s & Peloponesus's, & have seperated
those many Hands, & scatter'd, nay, as it were sow'd about the ocean,

& divided from the continent ; & what if raised in the very sea itselfe,

as the Terceras were & Teneriffe in the grand Canaries, not to insist
on the new mountaine neere the Uaue: So that (my Lord) I am in no
distresse at all to solve this phmnomenon, at least to my owne satisfac
tion. But when all is said, tho' all proceede from natural causes, yet

doubt I not their being inflicted & directed, by the Supreme Cause of

causes, as judgements upon a sinfull world, and for signes of greate

calamities, if they work no reformation: if they do, of chastisements.
Upon these accounts I looke on them as portentous & of evil prassage,
and to shew us that there is no stabilitie under heaven, where we can
be safe & happy, but in Him alone who laiedlhe foundations of the

earth, the rock of ages that shall never be removed, when heaven &

earth shall passe away.

   As to our late Earthquake here, I do not find it has left any consi

derable marks ; but at Mons 'tis said it has made some demolitions. I
happen'd to be at my brother's at Wotton in Surrey when' the shaking

                                          1 Dr. Burnet of the Charter-House.
JIO TO DR. PLOT FROM JOHN EVELYN.

was, & at dinner with much companie ; none of us yet at table sensible
of any motion. But the mayd who was then making my bed, & another
servant in a garret above her, felt it plainely, and so did my wife's

laundry mayd here at Deptford ; and generaly wherever they were
above in the upper floores they felt the trembling most sensibly, for a
reason I necde not explaine to your Lordship. In London <fc particu
larly in Dover street (where my son's house is) they were greatly
affrighted. But the stories that go about in this neighbourhood, by
many who are lately return'd from Jamaica, are many, & very tragical.
I doubt not at the next meeting of Gressham Coll. (which will now
shortly be after their usual reccsse during summer) we shall have
ample & authentic histories & discourses on this subject from several

places of their correspondents. I cannot in the meane time omitt ac

quainting of your Lordship with one very remarkable, which we have
received here from credible hands: that during this astonishing & ter

rible paroxysme, multitudes of people running distractedly out of their

tottering houses, & seeing so many swallow'd up & perishing ; divers
of them espying the Minister of the towne at some distance, ran and
compass'd him all about, desiring him to pray for them, as im'ediately

he did, all falling on their knees, when all the ground about them sud

denly sinking, the spot onely upon which they were at prayer re
mained a firme & steady Hand, all the rest of the contiguous ground
turning into a lake, other places into gulphs, which drown'd & buried
all that stood upon them, & which were very many. And now, my
Lord, 'tis time to implore your pardon for this tedious paper, together

with your blessing.

   Sayes-Court, 15 October 1692.

                      To Doctor Plot.

Worthy Doctor,
Our com'on and excellent friend Mr. Pepys acquaints me, that you

would be glad to know upon what 1 am at present engaged relating to

Coines, there being      seemes) a designe of publishing something about
that subject as they
I                     concerne the Monye of this Nation. It true in-
                                       I
            (it                             I

                                                                it, is

                                                                       I
deede (& as remember to have told you) that had blotted some
sheetes upon an argument of that nature, but without the least reference

to current moiiy antient or modern, but on such Medals as relate

purely to something historical, which dos not at all interfere with otherit
coines", unlesse be such as our Spnr-Royal as they call being a
single stamp of gold, and, as you know, suggesting something of our

storie herein England, beside its intrinsic value, upon which account
may have occasion to mention it. For the rest, meddle not with them.

But this prompts me to send my request to you, for the assistance you

promis'd, by imparting to me what you had of this kind* which might
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  711

contribute to what I am now preparing, & by which you will very

much oblige
                                                    Sir, your, &c

       Sayes-Court, 27th August 1693.

                           To John Evelyn, Esq.

                              Thredneedle Street, London, October 2nd, 1693.
       Honoured Sir,

   According to your desire I have look't out all the Historicall Mcdalls
I have in my possession, which I have laid aside for your use, whenever
you please to call for them. In the mean time I must begg a favour
of you in behalf of the University of Oxford, who are now publishing
a Tract of Plutarch's concerning Education, & would gladly ad

another of St. Chrysostom publish't in France by Combcfis in Greek,
could they meet with the book. Pauls Church yard & Little Britain
have been search't for it without successe, nor is there now any hopes

left but in you, who it seems have translated it into English, wherefore

they presume you must have the Greek copy, which they promise
themselves (upon my importunity) you will be pleased to accommodate

them with. Wherein you are also desired to be very speedy, because
they designe to have both tracts out before Christmass. Our common
and most excellent friend Mr. Pepys told me this day he hoped to see

you this week, with whom, should I be out of towne (as I guess I may

on Wensday & Thursday in quest of some Roman Antiquities now

under my consideration) I desire you would leave the book, wherein
you will very much oblige the whole University, and amongst them

more particularly
                                  Your most humble and obliged servant,

                                                                     Rob. Plot.

                                  To my Lord Spencer.
      My Lord,
   Tho' I have not had the opportunitie of waiting on your Lordship so
often as I ought and should do, was I perfectly at my owne disposure

I(which by reason of many impediments in my circumstances of late

   neither have ben, nor as yet am) : yet my worthiest thoughts &
inclinations are never absent from you ; and I often revive my selfe
with the meditation of your virtues, & some very few noble young
persons more, when that of the sad decadence of the age we live & con

Iverse in interposes its melancholy prospect.

      was with greate appetite coming to take a repast in the noble

library which I heare you have lately purchas'd (& by the catalogue I

have scene, must needes be a very chosen collection), when at tha

same time I understand you are taking a Journey with resolution of
making a toure about England, thereby joyning to booki and paper'
712 TO MR. GIBSON FROM JOHN EVELYN.

descriptions, experience ; and to speculation, the seeing of the things

themselues. It has certainely ben a greate mistake & very prepos
terous in our education, the usualy sending our young gent: to
travell abroad, & see forraine countries, before they have scene or
known any thing of their owne. Your Lordship remembers who
says A'e sis peregrinus domi                      therefore worthily don memo
   it,                                                                             &
              it
                                                                                                A of
                                  ;

                                               &
rable in my Lord Treasurer Burleigh, to hinder the Council, whom
those days scemes us'd to give passes to trauel, from granting

them to any who had not first seene and could giue a good account
their owne countrie. Your Lordship therefore has taken the best

most natural method  :  &        know not what can now be added to the
                          I

rest of your accomplishments, but the continuance of your heakh,

which shall pray may attend all your motions, who am,I

                                            My Lord, Your &c

Deptford, September 1693.
         4
        To Mr. Gibson &c. (afterwards Bishop of London.)&

   Sir,
                        ;
To the notes papers you desired of me, have since endeavour'd
                           & ',                 &                                  which pre
to informe my selfe in those particulars you mention'd,   &                        II

                                                           I
                                                                 I

                                                                             is &
sume are come to you             now by this letter from a friend of mine,

well acquainted with the trustees of Dog Smith (as he call'd), send

you the particulars of that extraordinary benefactor to this County.
You may please to take notice, that besides what writ to you of Geo.

Abbot Archbishop of Canterbury, his bro; Robert Bishop of Salis
bury, he had at the same time Moris another bro: who was Lord Mayor
of London all sons of the same cloathier, natives of Guildford. Also
         :

                        II
that Hammond whom mention'd, was not onely a benefactor to the
schole there, but founder of a felowshipat Balliol Coll. Oxon. Io. de la

Haye died about 300 yeares since, about whom other particulars&
expect in my next, for would not retard the printer longer than
                                                                                       is

necessary, who remain                                 Your &c.

Wotton, 31 May 1694.

              To the Bishop of Lincolne (Dr. Tennison.)& is

      My Lord,
   It none of the least mortifications, that besides other circumstances
obliging me to be at this distance from my old abode, cannot haue
the opportunitie of waiting on your Lordship, receiving those advan
tages improvements which allways return'd with whenever came
from my Lord of Lincolne. We are here in no unpleasaunt solitude
some good books which find' here, with cart load which brought
                        I
                              I

                                         J.

                                                          a

                                                         &
                                                                              I

                                                                      I
                                                                              I

                                                                                                                                       :
1  The learned person who published the Saxon Chronicle, and was now setting forth a nc» *

edition of Camden's Uritannia, with additions.    E.
               THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                    713

along with me, serve to aleviate the tediousnesse of sitting still ; but

we know nothing of new, but what our friends from your side impart
to us. Mr. Pepys sent me last week the Journal of Sir Jo. Narbrough
& Capt. Wdod : together with Mr. Wharton's preface to his "intended

history of the Life of ArBishop Laude. I do not know whether I might
do the learned editor (for it seemes he onely publishes a MSS. written
by that greate Prelate of his owne life) any service, by acquainting him
with a passage relating to that person, namely the yiibile which the

sacrifice of the bishop caus'd among some at Rome ; it being my hap
to be in that citty, and in company of divers of the English fathers (as
they call them) when the newes of his suffering & the sermon he made

upon the scaffold ariv'd there ; which I well remember they read &
com'ented on, with no small satisfaction, & (as I thought) contempt, as
of one taken off who was an enemy to them, and stood in their way ;

whilst one of the blackest crimes imputed to him was (we may well

calle to mind) his being popishly affected. I know not, I say, whether
the Memoirs may be of any import to Mr. Wharton, with whom I haue

                                                   is
                                                      &

                                                            &
                                                                          it
                                                                                     it,

                                                                                   if

                                                                                                  it
no acquaintance ; I therefore acquaint your Lordship with an'd in

the formes almost that haue mention'd subjoin'd to my Discourse

of Medals under that of this Arch-Bishop's figure, which together with
I

       &&
            I
                  I

                             &
my copy, haue now sent Ben: Tooke to print (as he desires)                                            be

worth his while.   add nothing more but that of my Wife's humble

service to you my lady, that there still a part of our small family

at Sayes-Court, where my daughter Draper husband are the young

(Economists, all of us concern'd to beg your Lordship's blessing and

prayer, especialy                                  Your &c.

should rejoice to heare how Mr. Bentley proceedes with the Library
I

           &

                 I

                                                ;

                              I
at Whitehall.      hope your Lordship will mind him of the Sermons he

owes us the publiq heare nothing of the Bish: of Chichester, who

is likewise in our debt.

Wotton, 29 May, 1694.

               To Mr. Benjamin Tooke (Printer.)
Mr. Tooke,
Tarde, sed tandem. At last send you the copy you have so long
          ;
                                                                     wish
                            I
                                  I

                                     II
expected never the worse, hope, for coming no sooner.
                                                   ;

                                                           it it
                                                                    I
                                                                                     it
may answer the paines have taken in compiling for would amount
to the value of many Medals. was indeede unwilling should scape

from me without something more than an ordinary treatise. It will

therefore require a more than ordinary supervisor. You tell me, such
                   not, pray make use of the poore man directed to
a one you have
          is                                       &
                                                         &
                      ;
                                                                  I
                   if

                                     &
you, who       also acquainted with my hand,       will be ready to assist

you. There being aboundance of writers on this subject in all other
polite European languages, but one very short partial one in ours,
714 TO MR. WOTTON FROM JOHN EVELYN.

will I hope render this the more acceptable, & give ferment to the
           I                                    peevish quarter, in this
curious.      expect     attaques  from some    satisfy equitable judges,   angry
age, but  so  it make    for your  interest, &
                                                                           I shall

not be much concern'd.

   The Medals which are here sent you, pray take care of, & deliver
but one by one to your Graver, nor supply him with any other till he

returncs you that he is graving with the plate. You'l find I have
mark'd the paper, wherein you must keepe the plates, & apply to the
pages as directed, by which you'l avoid mistakes, easily fallen into
without some such method. Such as you are to have from the Earie

of Clarendon, Dr. Plot, &c. I will take care to procure you by the time

these are dispatch'd. As for the graving, so the contours and outlines
be well design'd, I am not solicitous for the hatching (as they call it),
since we have laudable examples of the other in Gruter, Spanbeim. &
other excellent authors. Mr. White, if he have leisure, will be your
best man ; & for the Volume, I should think a thin moderat folio, with
a faire letter, most desireable. As for the Title, Epistle, & Preface, I

shall provide you in good time, & as I see cause ; onely I pray take
special care of the insertions & paragraphs which I have marked [ :
when all this is finished, I purpose a very accurate Index. This being
all at present, I wish you good successe, and am
                                                  Your &c

Wotton, 2 June, 1694.

                         To Mr. Wotton.

       Sir,

   I most heartily beg your pardon for detaining your books so un
reasonably long after I had read them, which I did with greate satis
faction, especialy the life of Descartes. The truth is, I had some
hopes of seeing you here againe, for methought (or at least I flatter'd

myselfe with you said at parting you would do us that favour before
my going to London, whither am, God willing, setting out to-morrowif
             I           ;

                 it)        if I
or next day for some time not without regret, unlesse receive your
                                                I
                                                           I
co'mands,           may be any ways serviceable to you, in order to that

noble undertaking you lately mention'd to me, meane your generous
offer inclination to write the Life of our late illustrious philosopher
Mr. Boyle, and to honor the memory of a gentleman of that singular
&                        am sure you persist in that designe, England
worth vertue.&&       I

shall never envy France or neede a Gasscndus or a Baillet to perpetu
ate transmit the memory of one not onely equaling but in many things
transcending either of those excellent indcede extraordinary persons,
whom their pens have rendcr'd im'ortal.&
                                                wish my selfe was furnish'd
                                          I

to afford you any considerable supplys (as you    desirM) after my so
                                                  honored me with his
long acquaintance with Mr. Boyle, who had
particular esteeme, now very neere fourty yeares   as might have den
                                                j

                                                               1
           THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                           715

by more duly cultivating frequent opportunities he was pleas'd to allow
it
             ;
            is
                        & is,

                                  I& &
                                                     ; Iif

                                                                               is

                                                                                     I
me. But so it that his life virtues have ben so conspicuous, as
you'll neede no other light to direct you, or subject-matter to work on,
than what so universal)- knowne, and by what he has don &publish'd
in his books. You may perhaps neede some particulars as to his birth,
family, education,
                    other lesser necessarie circumstances for Intro
duction and such other passages of his life as are not so distinctly
knowne but by his owne relations. In this
                                                                                  can serve you, shall
do with greate readinesse,
                            hope successe having some pretence
by my Wife, in whose grandfather's house (which now mine at Dept-
ford) the father of this gentleman was so conversant, that contracting
an affinity there, he left his (then) eldest Son with him whilst himselfc
went into Ireland, who in his absence dying, lies buried in our parish
church, under a remarkable monument1.
                                                                                  mention this because
                            I
my Wife's relation to that family giving me accesse to divers ofI&
his neerest kindred the Countesse Dowager of Clancartie (living
                    ;                 ; it
                                                                    ;
now in an house of my Son's in Dover-streete) and the Countess ofII
Thanet, both his nieces, will question not be able to informe me whatI
they cannot but know of those other circumstances of their uncle,

which may not be unworthy of your notice especialy my Lady Thanet,

who a greate Virtuosa, and uses to speake much of her uncle. You
is is
know she lives in one of my Lord of Nottingham's houses at St. James's,
and therefore will neede no introductor there.
                                                                                  will waite upon my
Lord Burlington there be occasion, provided in the meane time (and
           ;

                if
after all this officiousness of mine) be not the proffer of a very use-
lesse service since my Lord Bishop of Salisbury, who made us expect

what he now devolving on you, cannot but be fully instructed in all
       is

particulars.

   It now, as said, almost fourty yeares since first had the honor
of being acquainted with Mr. Boyle both of us newly return'd from
           I
              I
abroad, tho' know not how, never meeting there. Whether he tra-

vell'd more in France than Italy, cannot say, but he had so universal

an esteeme in forrain parts, that not any stranger of note or quality,
leam'd or curious, coming into England, but us'd to visite him with

"the greatest respect and satisfaction imaginable.
    Now as he had an early inclination to learning (so especialy to that

 part of philosophy he so hapily succeeded in), he often honor'd Oxford,
 and those gentlemen there, with his company, who more peculiarly

applied themselves to the examination of the so long domineering me
thods jargon of the scholes. You have the names of this learned
&

                                '

                         A
                                                      of

                                                                              in
ytmto, most of them since deservedly dignified in that elegant History
of the Royal Society, which must ever owne its rise from that Assenv
bly, as dos the preservation of that famous University from the pha-

                       Ten! and Map Ireland rellerei
7l6 TO MR. WOTTON FROM JOHN EVELYN.

uatic rage & avarice of those melancholy times. These, with some
others (whereof Mr. Boyle, the Ld. Viscount Brouncker, Sir Robert
Murray, were the most active) spirited with the same zeale, and under
a more propitious influence, were the persons to whom the world stands
oblig'd for the promoting of that generous and real knowledge, which
gave the ferment that has ever since obtain'd, and surmounted all those
many discouragements which it at first incounter"d. But by no man
more have the territories of the most usefull philosophy ben inlarg'd,
than by our hero, to whom there are many trophys due. And accord
ingly his fame was quickly spread, not onely among us here in England,
but thro' all the learned world besides. It must be confess'd that he
had a marvailous sagacity in finding out many usefull and noble expe
riments. Never did stubborn matter come under his inquisition but he
extorted a confession of all that lay in her most intimate recesses ; and
what he discover^ he as faithfully register^, and frankly com'unicated ;
in this, exceeding my Lord Verulam, who (tho' never to be mention'd
without honor and admiration) was us'd to tell all that came to hand
without much examination. His was probability ; Mr. Boyle suspicion
of successe. Sir, you will here find ample field, and infinitely gratirie
the curious with a glorious and fresh survey of the progrcsse he has
made in these discoveries. Freed from those incumbrances which now
& then render the way a little tedious, 'tis aboundantly recompensing
the pursuite ; especialy those noble achievements of his, made in the

spring and weight of the two most necessary elements of life A er &

 Water, and their effects. The origin of formes, qualities, and prin

ciples of matter: histories of cold, light, colours, gems, effluvias, k
other his works so firmely established on experiments, polychrests, 4
of universal use to real philosophy ; besides other beneficial inven

tions peculiarly his ; such as the dulcifying sea-water with that ease &
plenty, together with many medicinal remedys, cautions, directions,
curiosities & arcana, which owe their birth or illustration to his inde
fatigable recherches. He brought the phosphorus & anteluca to the

clearest light that ever any did, after inumerable attempts. It were

needlesse to insist on particulars to one who knows them better than
my selfe. You will not, however, omitt those many other treatises
relating to Religion, which indeede runs thro' all his writings upon
occasion, and shew how unjustly that aspersion has ben cast on
 Philosophy, that it disposes men to Atheisme. Neither did his severer
studys yet soure his conversation in the least. He was the furthest

from it in the world, and I question whether ever any man has produe'd
more experiments to establish his opinions without dogmatising. He

was a Corpuscularian without Epicurus ; a greate & happy analyzer,
addicted to no particular sect, but as became a generous & free philo
 sopher, preferring Truth above all ; in a word, a person of that singular
 candour & worth, that to draw a just character of him, one must run
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                              717

thro' all the vertues, as well as thro' all the sciences'. And tho' he

 tooke the greatest care imaginable to conceale the most illustrious of
 'em, his charities & the many good works he continualy did could not

be hid. It is well known how large his bounty was upon all occasions: --

 witness the Irish, Indian, Lithuanian Bibles, to the translations, printing

 & publishing of which he layd out considerable summs ; the Cate-

chisme, & Principles of the Christian faith, which I thinke he caus'd

 to be put into Turkish, & dispers'd amongst those infidels. And here
 you will take notice of the Lecture he has endow'd and so seasonably

provided for.

  ;As to his Relations (so far as I have heard) his father Richard Boyle

was. fader fortunes a person of wonderfull sagacity in affaires, & no
lesse probity, by which he compass'd a vast estate & greate honors to
his posterity, which was very numerous, & so prosperous, as has given
to the publiq both divines & philosophers, souldiers, politicians, &
statesmen, and spread its branches among the most illustrious and
opulent among our nobility. Mr. Robert Boyle, born I think in Ire
land, was the youngest, to whom yet he left a faire estate ; to which
was added an honorary pay of a troop of horse, if I mistake not. And
now, tho' amongst all his experiments he never made that of the maried
life, yet I have ben told he courted a beautifull & ingenious daughter
of Carew, Earle of Monmouth ; to which is owing the birth of his
'Seraphic Love,' and the first of his productions. Descartes' was not
so innocent. In the meane time he was the most facetious & agree

able conversation in the world among the ladys, whenever he happen'd

to be engag'd ; and yet so very serious, compos'd & contemplative at
all other times ; tho' far from moroseness, for indeede he was affable &
civil rather to excesse, yet without formality.

   As to his opinion in Religious matters and discipline, I could not but
discover in him the same free thoughts which he had of Philosophy ;
not in notion onely, but strictly as to practise an excellent Christian

and the greate duties of that profession, without noise, dispute, or de

termining ; owning no master but the Divine Author of it ; no religion
but primitive, no rule but scripture, no law but right reason. For the

rest, allways conformable to the present settlement, without any sort
of singularity. The mornings, after his private devotions, he usualy
spent in philosophic studys and in his laboratory, sometimes extending
them to night ; but he told me he had quite given over reading by
candle-light, as injurious to his eyes. This was supplyM by his Ama

nuensis, who sometimes read to him, and wrote out such passages as
he noted, and that so often in loose papers, pack'd up without method,
as made him sometimes to seeke upon occasion, as himselfe confesses
in divers of his works. Glasses, potts, chymical & mathematical in

1 See Bishop Sanderson, De Juramenti promissorii obligatione, 2d edit, dedicated to him.
J.> Who confesses he had a bastard daughter. See M. Baillet in Vita Descartes.  E.
7 1 8 TO MR. WOTTON FROM JOHN EVELYK.

strumcnts, books & bundles of papers, did so fill & crowd his bed

chamber, that there was but just roome for a few chaires ; so as his
whole equipage was very philosophical, without formality. There were
yet other roomes, and a small library (and so you know had Descartes;.'
as learning more from men, real experiments, & in his laboratory

(which was ample & well furnish'd), than from books.
   I have said nothing of his style, which those who are better judges

think he was not altogether so happy in as in his experiments. I do
not call it affected, but doubtlesse not answerable to the rest of his

greate  & shining    p' a&rtslat; earndwryiteitn,gtos.  do  him  right,  it  was  much  improved
in his  ' Theodora
In his diet (as in habit) he was extreamely temperate & plaine ;
nor could I ever discern in him the least passion, transport or censo-
riousnesse, whatever discourse or the times suggested. All was

tranquill, easy, serious, discreete and profitable ; so as besides Mr.

Hobbes, whose hand was against every body, & admirVi nothing but
his owne, Francis Linus excepted, (who yet with much civility wrote1
against him) I do not remember he had the least antagonist.

   In the afternoones he was seldom without company, which was

sometimes so incom'odious that he now & then repaired to a private

lodging in another quarter of the towne, and at other times (as the
season invited) diverted him selfe in the country among his noble
relations.

He was rather tall & slender of stature, for most part valetudinary,

pale & much emaciated : nor unlike his picture in Gressham Colledge ;
which, with an almost impudent importunity, was, at the request of the

Society, hardly extorted or rather stolen from this modest gentleman

by Sir Edmund King, after he had refus'd it to his neerest relations.
In his first addresses, being to speake or answer, he did sometimes a

little hesitate, rather than stam'er, or repeate the same word ; imputa
ble to an infirmity, which, since my remembrance, he had exceedingly
overcome. This, as it made him somewhat slow and deliberate, so
after the first effort he proceeded without the least interruption in his
discourse. And I impute this impediment much to the frequent
atacques of palsys, contracted I feare not a little by his often attend
ance on chymical operations. It has plainely astonish'd me to have

seenehim so often recover when he has not been able to move, or bring
his hand to his mouth : & indeede the contexture of his body, during

the best of his health, appear'd to me so delicate, that I have frequently

compar'd him to a chrystal or Venice glasses which tho' wrought never
so thin and fine, being carefully set up, would outlast the hardier

metals of daily use ; and he was withall as clear & candid ; not a

' J.1 One at Egmond desiring to see his library, he brought him into a roome where he wasE.
dissecting a Calfe.
Via. Tract: de Corporum Inseparabilitate, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1661. J. E.
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.  7I9

blemish or spot to tarnish his reputation ; & he lasted accordingly,

tho' not to a greate, yet to a competent age ; threescore yeares I think ;
& to many more he might, I am persuaded, have ariv'd, had not his
beloved sister, the Lady V. Countesse Ranalagh, with whom he liv'd,
a person of extraordinary talents & suitable to his religious and philo

sophical temper, dyed before him. But it was then that he began
evidently to droope apace ; nor did he, I thinke, survive her above a

fortnight. But of this last scene I can say little, being unfortunately

absent, & not knowing of the danger 'til it was past recovery.

   His funeral (at which I was present) was decent, and tho' without

the least pomp, yet accompanied with a greate appearance of persons

of the best & noble quality, besides his owne relations.

    He lies interrM (neere his sister) in the Chancell of St. Martin's
Church ; the Lord Bishop of Salisbury preaching the Funeral Sermon,
with that eloquence natural to him on such it all other occasions. The
Sermon, you know, is printed, with the panegyric so justly due to his

memory. Whether there have ben since any other monument erected

on him, I do not know, nor is it material. His Name (like that of

Joseph Scaliger) were alone a glorious Epitaph.
   And now, Sir, I am againe to implore your pardon for giving you

this interruption with things so confus'dly huddl'd up this very after-
noone, as they crowded into my thoughts. The subject you see is
fruitfull, & almost inexhaustible. Argument fit for no man's pen but
Mr. Wotton's. Oblige then all the world, and with it

                                                               Sir, Your &c.

   Wotton, 30 Mar. 1696.

(if       To my Lord Godolphin, one of the Lords Justices,

                       and first Commissioner of the Treasury.
       My Lord,

   There are now almost foure yeares claps'd, since looking over some

papers of mine, I found among other things divers notes which I had
taken relating to Medals; when reflecting upon the usefullnesse of the

historical part of that noble study, and considering that there had ben
little, or indeede rather nothing at all written of it among us here in
England (whilst other countryes abounded in many excellent books &
authors of greate name on this subject), I began to divert my solitary
thoughts by reducing & putting my scatter'd collection into such method

as grew at last to a formal Treatise. Among other particulars (after I
had more at large dispatch'd what concern'd the Greeke & Roman, and
those of the Lower Empire) I endeavor'd the gath'ring up all such
Medals as I could anywhere find had ben struck before and since the

Conquest any such there were) relating to any part of good history.
Now tho' Mony and Coines during the severall reignes of almost all our

Kings, from the British to this present (as may be seene in what Mr.
720 TO LORD GODOLPHIN FROM JOHN EVELYN.

· Walker has added to the late edition  of Cambden) be forraine to my
                                        none which deserved the name
 subject ; and that I could meete with
of Medal 'til the two last centuries ; yet I could not well avoyd speak

ing something of the Mint, where Medals were coin'd as well as mony.
The copy being thus prepar'd for the presse, I two yeares since de

livered to a book-seller, who after he had wrought off almost 80 pages
in folio (emulating what had ben don and publish'd by Jaques de Bie

& Mons. Bizot in their Histoire Metaliq of France and Holland) would
needes be at the charge of ingraving an hundred stamps to adome a
chapter relating to our English Medals. This requiring time (& far
better artists than any I perceive he is like to find) retarding the publi
cation of his book, I thought it might not be either unseasonable or
unagreeable to your Lordship, if on this conjuncture of affaires
when every body is discoursing of these matters) I did present    (and
                                                                  your

Lordship with a    fspiarasmrttechomafepctthheaar,tnispcmrho/ac)peteedIrindgcisotniinncgeurthniseihngVlflrMtohmonytMo ewtdhhaaiclthaotf(thtthhoee*
passing thro' the

beginning of my
Mint. It is there that I shew (after all the expedients offer'd and pre
tended, for the recovery and security of this Nation from the greate

danger it is in by the wicked practices of those who of late have so

impudently ruin'd the publiq credit and faith of all mankind among us

by clipping, debasing, & all other unrighteous ways of perverting the
species) what is it which can possibly put a stop to the evil & mischiefe,

that it go no farther ; if at least it have not ben so long neglected as

to be irremediable.

   But, my Lord, this is not all. There are severall other things of ex
ceeding greate importance, which had neede be taken care of, it to be

set on foote effectually, for the obviating the growing mischiefs, de

structive to the flourishing state of this Mercantile Nation. Amongst

the rest :

   There is certainely wanting a Council of Trade, that should not be

so call'd onely, but realy be in truth what it is call'd ; compos'd of a
wise, publiq-spirited, active & noble President, a sellect number of

Assessors, sober, industrious & dexterous men, & of consummate expe
rience in rebus agundis; who should be arm'd with competent force at

sea, to protect the greater Com'erce & general Trade ; if not indepen

dent of the Admiralty, not without an almost co-ordinate authority, as

far as concernes the protection of trade ; and to be maintained chiefely

by those who, as they adventure most, receive the greatest benefit.
   To these should likewise be com'itted the care of the Manufactures

of the kingdome, with stock for employment of the Poore ; by
which might be moderated that unreasonable statute for their reliefe
(as now in force) occasioning more idle persons, who charge the publiq
without all remedy, than otherwise there would be, insufferably bur
dening the parishes, by being made to earne their bread honestly, who
     THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                              721

now eate it in idleness, & take it out of the mouthes of the truely indi
gent, much inferior in number, & worthy objects of charity.
   It is by such a Council that the swarmes of private Traders, who,
tho' not appearing in mighty torrents & streames, yet like a confluence
of silent, almost indiscernable, but in'umerable riveletts, do evidently

draine & exhaust the greater Hydrophylacia & magazines, nay the very
vital blood of trade, where there is no follower to supply those many
issues, without which the constitution of the body politic, like the

natural, needes must faile for want of nourishment & recruits. But
whom this article affects I have spoken in my Discourse of Mony.
  Tis likewise to this Assembly, that all proposals of new Inventions

(pretended for the publiq benefit) should first be brought, & examin'd,
incourag'd or rejected, without reproch as projectures, or turning the

unsuccessful proposer to ridicule, by a barbarity without example, no

where countenane'd but in this Nation.

Another no lesse exhauster, & waster of the publiq treasure, is the
progresse and increase of buildings about this already monstrous
ICitty, wherein one yeare with another are erected about 800 houses, as
   am credibly inform'd ; which carries away such prodigious summs of
our best and weightiest mony by the Nonvay trade for deale-timber

onely, but exports nothing hence of moment to balance besides sand
                                                                                                             it,
                                                                                                                         a
gravell to balance their empty ships whilst doubtlesse those other
&
                                                       it

                                                                                                ;
more necessary com'odities (were well incourag'd) might in short
time be brought us in greate measure, and much preferable to their
goodnesse, from our owne Plantations, which now we fetch from others,

for our naval stores.
Truly, my Lord, cannot but wonder even stand amaz'd, that
                  ;a I                                                                             &
Parliaments should have sate from time to time, so many hundred
                       &                                                                                  ;
yeares, value their constitution to that degree, as the most sovraine&
&&remedy for the redresse of publiq grievances whilst the greatest stilla

remaine unreform'd     untaken away. Witnesse the confus'd, de-
bauch'd, riotous manner of electing Members qualified to become the
representatives of Nation, with legislative power to dispose of the
fate of kingdomes which should would be compos'd of worthy per
sons, of known integritie ability, in their respective countries, and&&
still would serve them generously,
                                                                                  as their ancestors have don, but

are not able to fling away son or daughter's portion to bribe the

votes of a drunken multitude, more resembling a pagan Bacchanalia,
than an assembly of Christians
                                      &                                           sober men met upon the most

solemn occasion that can concerne a people, and stand in competition
with some rich scrivener, brewer, banker, or one in some gainfull office
whose face or name, perhaps, they never saw or knew before. How,
my Lord, must this sound abroad With what dishonor shame
!                                                                                                                &
                                                                               !
at home
   To this add the disproportion of the Boroughs capable of electing

                                                                                                             46
722 TO LORD GODOLPHIN FROM JOHN EVELYN.

members, by which the major part of the whole kingdom are frequently

out-voted, be the cause never so unjust, if it concerne a party intrest.
  Will ever those swarmes of lo atsis, Lawyers and Attorneys, who fill so

many seats, vote for a publiq Register, by which men may be securd of
their titles & possessions, & an infinity of suits & frauds prevented ?

Im'oderate fees, tedious & ruinous delays, & tossings from court to

court before an easy cause, which might be determin'd by honest gen
tlemen & understanding neighbours, can come to any final issue, may

be numbered amongst the most vexatious oppressions that call aloud

for redress e.

   The want of bodys (slaves) for publiq and laborious works, to which
many sorts of animals might be usefully condemn'd, and some reform'd,

instead of sending them to the gallows, deserves to be considered.

   These, Si the like are the greate desiderata (as well as the reformation
of the Coine), which are plainely wanting to the consu'mate felicity of
this Nation ; and divers of them of absolute necessitie to its recover)-
from the atrophy & consumption it labours under.
The King himselfe should (my Lord) be acquainted with these par
ticulars,^ of the greate importance of them, by such as from their

wisedome & integrity, deserve the neerest accesse, and would purchase

him the hearts of a free & emancipated people, & a blessing on the

government; where he pleas'd uncessantly to recommend them to

those, who, from time to time, are call'd together for these ends, and
healing of the nation.
And now your Excellency will doubtlesse smile at this politiq excur
<fcI

                                                                &;
sion, perhaps at the Biscoctum of the rest whilst the yeares to
which am by God's greate goodnesse ariv'd, your Lordship's com-
'ands in a former letter to me, some conversation with men the
world, as well as books, in so large a tract                        variety of events&I k

wonders as this period has brought forth, might Justine one, among               &
such crowds of pretenders to Ragioni di stato, some of which daily
meete to come abroad with the shell still on their heads, who talke as
confidently of these matters as they were counsellors of state first
is I

               &

                        ;

                     I

                                                     ?

                             I

                                         &

                                     I
                                        & if

                                              II
                                                    is & I

                                                                   I&
ministers, with their sapient expecting lookes, whom none must
contradict and no doubt but (as Job said) they are the people, and
wisedome is to die with them. To such have no more to say, whilst

appeale to your Lordship, whose real consum'ate experience, greate
prudence and dexterity in rebus agundis without noise, were enough to

silence a thousand such as am.  therefore implore your pardon
againe, for what may have written weakely, or rashly. In such a

tempest overgrown a sea, every body concern'd, and whose head

   not ready to turne        am sure, should   myselfe almost          despaire of
                          your Lordship, were  at the helme.           But, whilst
the vessel, if any, save
your hand is on the staff, your eye upon the star, compose myselfe
& rest secure.

Surrey Street, 16 June 1696.
         THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                            723

                      To Mr. Place (Bookseller.)

   Mr. Place,

I have seriously consider'd your Letter concerning your resolution of

sparing no cost, whereby you may benefit the publiq, as well as re-

compence your owne charge & industry (which truely is a generous in
clination, not so frequently met with amongst most book-sellers), by in
quiring how you might possibly supply what is wanting to our Country

(now beginning to be somewhat pollish'd in their manner of building,
and indeede in the accomplishment of the English language also) by

the publication of whatever may be thought conducible to either. In

order to this, you have sometime since acquainted me with your in

tention of reprinting the ' Parallel ; desiring that I would revise and
                                                                I
consider what improvements may decently be added in relation to your I

general designe. As for the Parallel, take to be so very usefull                it,
                                         it

                                              I

                                                            it
& perfect in its kind as far as pretends to (namely, all that was
                       &
material in those Ten Masters upon the Orders), that cannot thinkit
of any thing further needes to render more intelligible. As for
is                                    ;                   it

      I
               I it
what have annex'd to concerning Statues, my good friend Mr.

Gibbons would be consulted and for the latter, so much as conceive

    necessary, will take care to send you with your interfoliated copy.

In the meane time, touching the universal Work, or Cycle, which you

would have comprehend and imbrace the intire art of building, to

gether with all its accessories for magnificence                use, without obliging
I

                                      a

                                                                         &
                                                                            &

                                                                                                is
you to the paines in gleaning, when a whole harvest                                                 before you, or

the trouble of calling many to your assistance (which would be tedious),
cannot think of better, more instructive, judicious an expedient,

than by your procuring a good and faithfull translation of that excel
lent piece which has lately been publish'd by Monsieur D'Aviler
where he made to speak English in the proper termes of that art, by                                    if
                                                                                                                     ;
some person conversant in the French, and neede be, adding to him
I

          &
                        is

                               &
                                          &;
                                                       is

                                                         a
                                                           &

                                                       & if
some assistant, such as you would have recommended to me, my
leasure present circumstances could have comply'd with my incli

nations of promoting so beneficial designe.

      should here enumerate the particulars he runs thro', in my opinion

sufficiently copious,  in as polish'd yet as easy familiar style
                                                                ;                                   I& a
as the subject capable of in nothing exceeding the capacity of our
                                                                  &&                                         I
ordinary workmen, or unworthy the study application of the noblest

persons who employ them, to whom a more than ordinary super
ficial knowledge in Architecture no small accomplishment.
                                                                                                       say

should add the contents of his chapters, and the excellent notes he has
subjoyn'd to a better version of Vignole, Mic. Angelo, the rest of our
most celebrated modern Architects their works together with all
      is

              ;

             if
               I

                       4

                                                 5

                                         &
                                                       &
that  extant of antique,                 yet in being, appl/d to use,                               &  worth

knowing  thought you had not already heard of the book, since
it has now ben or yeares extant, and since reprinted in Holland,
724 TO MR. WOTTON FROM JOHN EVELYN.

as all the best & most vendible books are, to the greate prejudice of the

authors, by their not only printing them without any Errata, by which

the reader might reform them, or (us if they had none at all) correcting

the faults themselves: which indeede, that of the Paris edition (faire as

it seemes, & is in the elegancy of the character) exceedingly will neede,
before it be translated, by whomsoever taken in hand.
' But as the letter and its other beauties exceede the Dutch edition, so

do likewise the Plates, which are don with that accuratnesse & care, as

may almost com'ute for the oversights of the presse. I do not say the
· Holland Sculps are ill perform'd ; but tho' they seeme to be pretty
 well copied, they will yet require a strict examination, and then I think

they might be made use of, & a competent number of plates (pro
vided not overmuch worn) procured at a far easier rate out of Hol
land, than by having them perhaps not so well graven here ; for 'tis
not the talent of every artist, tho' skill'd in heads & figures (of which
we have very few), to trace the Architect as he ought. But if they

could be obtain'd from Paris, as happly with permission they might,

it were much to be preferred. I forget to tell you, that there is a most

accurate, learned & critical Dictionary by the same author, explaining
(in a 2nd part) not onely the termes of Architecture, but of all those
other arts that waite upon, & are subservient to her, which is very

curious.

  And now, if what I have said in recommending this work for the

full accomplishment of your laudable designe (& which in truth, I think,

were aboundantly sufficient) induce you to proceede in and that you
would with present the publiq with much more elegant letter than
          it if                           a            it,
                                              &
             is                                             ;
                 it                                                               it
II  believe England has ever seene among all our printers perhaps
                        &
  were worth your while to render one of the first productions of that&
                                    & it
  noble presse which my worthy most learned friend Dr. Bentley (his

  Majesty's Library-keeper at St. James's)           with greate charge In
  dustrie erecting now at Cambridge.             & is  &&

    There another piece of Mechanics, some other very rare use-
  full arts agreeable to this of Architecture,
                                                       incomparably curious.

  which,    translated joyn'd    &  tpoetrhfeectrewsto,rkw. ouIfldwh(wenithyoouutpcaossnetratdhiicstiwonay),
  render    a most desireable

  you will visite a lame man (who oblig'd to stay within at present)
    shall endeavour to satisfie you in any thing have omitted here, buta is
                                                 I

  the teazing you myselfe with tedious scribble (upon your late im

  portunity before my leaving this town) which you may wish had
                                                       I

  omitted.

    Surrey street, 17 Aug: 1696.

  I                              To Mr. Wotton.
     Worthy Sir,

     should exceedingly mistake the person, and my owne discernment,
THE CORRESPONDENCE OP JOHN EVELYN.                                              725

could I believe Mr. Wotton stood in the least neede of my assistance ;

but such an expression of your's to one who so well knows his own im

perfections as I do mine, ought to be taken for a reproche ; since I am

sure it cannot proceede from your judgment But forgiving this fault,
I most heartily thank                                                           Sylvaj which,
tho' I frequently find  you for your   animadversion   on
                        it so written  for KvXua &    vXq,                       wood, timber,

wild & forest trees, yet indeede I think it more properly belongs to a
                                                                                I think my Lord
promiscuous casting   of   se"vNeraatlul rtahlinHgsisttoorgye,"thewri,th&ouats
Bacon has us'd it in  his                                                       much reguard to

method. Deleatur, therefore, wherever you meete it.

Concerning the Gardning & Husbandry of the Antients, which is

your inquirie (especialy of the first), that it had certaincly nothing ap

proaching the elegancy of the present age, Rapinus (whom I send you)

will aboundantly satisfie you. The discourse you will find at the end
of Hortorum, lib. 4°. capp. 6. 7. What they cal'd their Gardens were
onely spacious plots of ground planted with platans & other shady trees
in walks, & built about with Porticos, Xisti, & noble ranges of pillars,

adorn 'd with Statues, Fountaines, Piscariae, Aviaries, &c. But for the

flowry parterre, beds of Tulips, Carnations, Auricula, Tuberose, Jon-
quills, Ranunculas, & other of our rare Coronaries, we heare nothing of,

nor that they had such a store & variety of Exotics, Orangeries, Myrtils,
& other curious Greenes ; nor do I believe they had their Orchards in

such perfection, nor by far our furniture for the Kitchen. Pliny in

deede enumerates a world of vulgar plants & olitories, but they fall in

finitely short of our Physic gardens, books and herbals, every day
augmented by our sedulous Botanists, & brought to us from all the

quarters of the world. And as for their Husbandry & more rural skill,
of which the same author has written so many books in his Nat. His

tory, especial lib. 17. 18. Ac. youl soone be judge what it was. They
tooke great care indeede of their Vines and Olives, stercorations, in-
graftings, & were diligent in observing seasons, the course of the stars,

Ac. and doubtlesse were very industrious ; but when you shall have
read over Cato, Varro, Columella, Palladio, with the Greek Geoponics,

I do not think you will have cause to prefer them before the modern
agriculture, so exceedingly of late improved, for which you may consult
& compare our old Tusser, Markham, the Afaison Rustic, Hartlib,

Walter Blith, the Philosophical Transactions, & other books, -which you

know better than my selfe.

   I have turn'd down the page, where poore Pulissy begins his per

sisting search. If you can suffer his prolix style, you will now & then

light on things not to be despised. With him I send you a short
Treatise concerning Metals, of Sir Hugh Platts, which perhaps you

have not scene. I am sorry I have no more of those subjects here,

having left the rest in my library at Deptford, & know not how to get
them hither till I get thither.
726 TO DR. RICHARD BENTLEY FROM JOHN EVELYN.

   Sir, I am in no hast for the returne of these, if they may be service-
able to you, but in no little paine for the trouble your civility to mine

puts one, who knows so much better how to employ his time, than to
mind the impertinence of, Sir, your &c.

       Wotton, 28 Oct. 1696.

                    To Dr. Richard Bentley.

      Worthy Doctor,
   You have under your hands something of Mr. Wotton, whilst he has

ben so kind as to offer me his help in looking over the typographical

Iand other faults escaped in the last impression of the ' Silva,' which
am most earnestly call'd upon to reprint. The copy which I frankly
gave about 30 years since to Allestry, is now in the hands of Chiswell
and your namesake Mr. Bentley (Booksellers), who have sold off three

impressions, & are now impatient for the fourth : and it having ben no
vnprofitable copy to them, I had promised some considerable improve
ments to vpon condition of letting Ben: Tooke (for whom have a
   I                I

         it,                                        it
                                                        it
                                                                 is
                                                                    a it
                                                                           &

                                                                               it

                                                                       I
particular kindnesse) into a share. This, tho' with reluctancy, they at
                    will endeavour to render with advantage, and
last consented to.

have ambition enough to wish, that since                                     folio, of so popular

and usefull a subject as has procured some reputation, might have

the honour to beare the character of Dr. Bentley's new Imprimerie,

which, presume, the proprietors will be as prowd of as my selfe. To

the reproch of Place, who made so many difficulties about my Booke

of Architecture, as you well know, have however made very con
                    it
                                   &

                                     I
                                           I

                                                               I J.
                                                                                I
siderable additions to that Treatise, as far as concemes my part, <fc
meane to dedicate to Sir Christopher Wren, his Majesties Surveyor

   Intendent of his Buildings, as did the other part to Sir Denham
&

his predecessor, but infinitely inferior to his successor.                   confesse

am foolishly fond of these other rustications, which had ben my
sweete diuersions during the dayes of destruction and devastation both
of Woods and Buildings, whilst the Rebellion lasted so long in this
Nation and the kind receptions my Bookes have found makes me the
   :

more willing to give them my last hand sorry in the meane time fot
                    :
                                                                          :
all my other aberrations in pretending to meddle with things beyond

my talent et extra oleo but enough of this.

   Wotton, 20 January 1696-7.

   Worthy Doctor,   To Dr. Bentley.

   Tho' made hast out of town, and had so little time to spend after
   I
        I
                     &I
                                                                    I

                                                                 III
we parted, was yet resolv"d not to neglect the province which
undertook, as far as had any interest in Sir Ed: Seymour, whom
found at his house, had full scope of discourse with.
                                                                             told him
"ame not to petition th« revival of an old title, or the unsettlement of
        THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                                                                         727

an estate, so often of late interrupting our late Parliaments, but to fix

and settle a publiq benefit ' that would be of greate & universal good
& glory to the whole Nation. This (with your paper) he very kindly
and obligingly receivM, & that he would contribute all the assistance
that lay in his power, whenever it should come to the House. To send
you notice of this, I thought might be much more acceptable to you

than to acquaint you that we are full of company, & already enter"d
into a most dissolute course of eating & indulging, according to the
mode of antient English hospitality ; by which meanes I shall now &

then have an opportunity of rccom'ending the noble designe you are
intent upon, & therefore wish I had some more of the printed Pro
posals to disperse. Sir Cyril Wyche, who accompanied me hither, is

altogether transported with       thinks the project so discreetly con-
                                  it,
                                     &
                                                      is
triv'd, that cannot miscarry. Here Dr. Fuller with his spouse.
        &
               it
The Doctor gave us a sermon this morning in an elegant and trim

discourse on the 39. Psalm, which find had ben prepar'd for the
                                  I

court,  fitter for that audience than our poore country churches.

After this you will not expect much intelligence from hence, tho'
                                                                    &

                                                                                    I
shall every day long to heare of the progresse you make in this glorious

enterprize, to which augure all successe prosperity, am
                   I                 &

                                  Worthy Doctor, your &c.

Wotton, 25 Dec. 1697.

                   To Dr. Godolphin, Provost of Eton.

                                                                      Wotton, Feb. 1697-8.
   Had you ben in towne when my Copys [on Medals] were distributed
among my Friends, the small present which presum'd to send you,
        a

          I
                                                           I

                                                                                                                                ;

                                                                  II
                                                                                                             8
                                                                                              is
~had ben brought by your most humble servant with an apology for my
boldnesse in obtruding upon the Provost of Eton (who himselfe so
greate judge of that and all other learned subjects) my meane per

formance. [It were quite to tire you out, should relate on what
occasion came to be ingaged on a topic on which could advance so
little of my owne to extenuate my presumption yet give me leave to
take hold of this opportunity to discharge a debt owing to yourselfe,
Tisand those of your learned relations who condescend to reade my book.
        now neere fifty yeeres past since Gabr. Naudjeus published direc
tions concerning Librarys and their furniture, which had translated,
                                  1I
                                       I
                                            I

                                                       it

                                                              J, I
minding to reprint as what conceiv'd might not be unseasonable
        it
                             it,
whilst Auctions were become so frequent among us, and gentlemen
every where storing themselves with bookes at those learned marts
                                                                                                                                   ;

                                                                                                                                     &

because was so very thinn a volume, thought of annexing a sheete

or two of Medals, as an appendant not improper. But being persuaded
to say something of our modern Medals relating to our Country (as

France and Holland had of theirs) found swell to so incompetent
                   Tho new Library to be milt In St. James's Park,  E,
        1
728 TO DR. GODOLPHIN FROM JOHN EVELYN.

a bulk, as would by no meanes suite with that Treatise. Whilst I
about this (and indeed often and long before) I had ben importun'd to
make a second    edition of  mwhyerCehaIlcloegftraopft"h, yto(ntohwis  grown very
and to bring it  from 1662,                                            time, there                                                              scarce)
                                                                                                                                                having
since that ben so greate an improvement of Sculpture. This being a
task I had no inclination for (having of a long time given over col
                         I thought yet of gratifying
lections  of that sort}                                them            in  some manner
with an   ex-chapter in  my Discourse of Medals,       where               speake of the
                                                                        I

effigies of famous persons, and the use which may be derived of such a

collection, and that which follows it.--Tis now a good while ago since
first I put it into the hands of a book-seller, with strict injunction not

to worke off a sheete, 'till it had ben revis'd by abler judgments than

my owne ; and so remain'd whilst the Medals could be collected that

were to be grav'n, which, tho' hardly amounting to an hundred, weie
with difficulty enough procured in two yeares time. This slow pro

ceeding, together with my long & frequent excursions at this distance

from townc, made me absolutely resolv'd to abandon and think of it no
further, but give it up to the Book-seller to dispose of it for wast paper,

when he would needs perswade me that he had such an accomplish'*!

Isupervisor of the presse he imploy'd, as would do me all the right
could expect from a learned & able man ; and that now he had ben at
such charges for the Sculptures, I should extreamly injure him to with
            copy, & what I had                         certainly I should [have
draw   my                                to annex, as  I had now no remedy left
done]  but  for that consideration        only. So as

me but by imbarquing the errata to my greater reproch, & it was very
slender comfort to me the being told that even the most incomparably
learned Spanheime, whose glorious work of medals was not long since

reprinted, 'scap'd not the presse without remarkable and cruell scarrs.
         now I
   But   I may   mention'd the noble     wShpaatnhIeimhav(etoswaihdosceonjucdegrnminegntEtail-l
deferr)         haply be censur'd for
minius, after what he has objected against that Medal (de praest.
Numis: Rep: 647); but if I was, and still am, unwilling to degrade our
renowned Citty of her so early Metropolitan dignity, whilst I had any

to stand by me, I cannot be so deepely concern'd, and indeed asham'd,
should any think me so ignorant as not long since to know that Obry

sum signifys gold of the most exalted purity & test, or, as the Ancients

express'd, ad Obrussam exactum, which yet, I know not how, escap'd
me when I was gathering out the errata. [As for CONOB, tho' I ever

read it Constantinople, the extreame rudenesse of a Reverse and Metal

I had shew'd me of that Coine, so perfectly resembling that of Cuno,

might favour my conjecture
s
                                         is

                                                   '.]

                                                                                    :

                                        I'

                                                                                it

                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                             is
                                                                                                                                             a
In the following letter to Mr. Henshaw, the latter part of which almost transcript of
the above, the sentence                  found the period omitted, p. as. which shculd
                         thus expressed
have been read, mutt & obrize sort also, which has on
                                                       horse rudely design'd with the
letters CON-OB. CjnstantinopoH cbrizatum, which some will have to signify Cctisiantim-fi*
    f--others, some Prince of ours/
THE CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN.                                 729

   There is in margine, p. 207, a mistake of Rickborow for Regulbium,
which also escap'd me.

   But, Sir, there are so many more & greater faults as put me out of

countenance, for which & this tedious scribble I heartily beg your par

don, who am, &c.

                                    To Mr. Henshaw.

                                                                        Wotton, 1 Mar. 1697-8.
      The bearer hereof, Dr. Hoy, a very learned, curious and ingenious

  person (& our neighbour in Surrey), acquainted (as who is not ?) with
  the name & greate worth of Mr. Henshaw, hearing that I had the

 honor to be known to you, desires me to introduce him ; I neede say

  no more how worthy he is to be let into your esteeme, than to acquaint
  you how deservedly we value him here in this country, not onely for
 his profession & successe, but for those other excellent talents which were

 Iever encourag'd by your free & generous communications. And in this

     serve myselfe also, by taking the occasion to present the most humble
 service of a now old acquaintance, begun long since abroad, & culti
 vated ever since by the continuance of your friendship thro' many revo

 lutions. I frequently call to mind the many bright & happy moments

 we have pass'd together at Rome and other places, in viewing &

 contemplating the entertainments of travellers who go not abroad to

 count steeples, but to improve themselves. I wish I could say of my
 self so as you did ; but whenever I think of the agreeable toile we
 tooke among the ruines & antiquitys, to admire the superb buildings,
 visite the cabinets & curiositys of the Virtuosi, the sweete walkes by
 the banks of the Tiber, the Via Flaminia, the gardens & villas ot
 that glorious Citty, I call back the time, & methinks growing yonge
againe, the Opera we saw at Venice comes into my fansy, and I am
"ready to sing, Gioconda Gioreiri --memoria sola th-- con ramento mi'l

fu --spisso spesso vicn a rapir mi, e qua! che si sia ancor ringiovenir

 mi. You remember, Sir, the rest, and we are both neere the conclusion,

hai che non torni, non torni piu--mo-- ri--bondo.

     Forgive me, Sir, this transport, & when this Gent: takes his leave

of you, permit me to beg your pardon also for the presumption I am
guilty of, in obtruding a Discourse of Medals on one who is so greate a

master & so knowing, & from whose example I sometimes diverted to

that study. Tis now neere fifty yeares, &c.

To Archdeacon Nicolson, Dean of Carlisle.

                                                                   10 Nov. 1699.
After thanking him for the tenderness and civility with which he had
                                            Mr. Evelyn  says: --
me'ntYioonuedrechoims mboenodk  on Medals,  of our own             Lawes & Home
                                 the study              Municipal
Antiquitys, most becoming an Englishman & Lover of his Country,
73° TO ARCHDEACON NICOLSON FROM JOHN EVELYN.

which you have skilfully deriv'd from the fountaine, & trackt thro' all

those windings & meanders which rendered the study generally deserted

as dull & impolite, unless by those who, attrackted by more sordid con

siderations, submitted to a fatigue which fill'd indeede their purses for
the noyse they made at Westminster Hall, whilst their heads were empty,
even of that to which they seem'd to devote themselves. Did our Inns

of Court Students come a little better grounded in Ethics & with some
entrance into the Civil Law, such an History as you are meditating

would leade them on with delight, & enable them to discover & pene
trate into the grounds of natural justice & human prudence, & furnish
them with matter to adorn their pleadings, before they wholly gave
themselves up to learn to wrangle & the arts of illaqueation, & not
make such haste to precedents, costomes, & common-places. By read

ing good History they would come to understand how .Governments
have ben settl'd, by Conquest, Transplantations, Colonys or Garrisons

thro' all vicissitudes & revolutions, from East to West, from the first

Monarchy to the last ; how Laws have ben establish'd, & for what
                                          holding by Knights service, 4
reasons change  & altered ;  whence our
whether feudal  Laws have    ben deriv'd  from Saxon or Norman. Tis

pitty young gentlemen should meete with so little of this in the course
of their Academic studys, at least if it continue as in my time, when

they were brought up to dispute on dry questions which nauceat gene

rous spirits, & to discourse of things before they are fumish'd with

mediums, & so returne home rather with the learning of a Benedictine

Monk (full of Schole cant) than with such usefull knowledge as would
inable them to a dexterity in solving cases, how intricate soever, by
Analytics & so much of Algebra as teaches to draw consequences &
detect paralogisms & falaces, which were the true use of Logic, A

which you give hopes our Universitys are now designing. To this I
would add the improvement of the more ornate & gracefull manner of
speaking upon occasion. The fruit of such an education would not
onely grace & furnish the Bar with excellent Lawyers, but the Nation
with able persons fit for any honorable imployment, to serve & speake
in Parliaments & in Councils: give us good Magistrates & Justices for
reference at home in the Country; able Ambassadors & Orators abroad;

in a word, qualifvd Patriots & Pillars of State, in which this age dos

not I feare abound. In the meanetime what preference may be given
to our Constitutions I dare not determine, but as I believe Ethics & the
Civile Law were the natural mother of all good Laws, so I have ben
told that the best Lawyers of England were heretofore wont to mix
their studys together with them, but which are at present so rarely
cultivated that those who passe forsoth for greate Sages & Oracles
therein were not onely shamefully defective, but even in the feudal Jfc
our owne.
You arc speaking, Sir, of Records, but who are they among this muK
THE, CORRESPONDENCE OF JOHN EVELYN. .                               731

titude even of the Coife, who either study or vouchsafe to defile their

fingers with any dust, save what is yellow P or know any thing of
Records save what, upon occasion, they lap out of Sir Edw. Coke's
basin, & some few others ? The thirst of gaine takes up their whole
man ; like our English Paynters, who, greedy of getting present money
for their work, seldome arive to any farther excellency in the Art than
face-painting, & have no skill in Perspective, Sym'etry, the principles
of Designe, or dare undertake to paint History.

   Upon all these considerations then, I cannot but presage "the great e

advantage your excellent book, and such an Historie, may produce,

when our young gentlemen shall ripen their studys by those excellent
methods. At least there will not likely appeare such swarms & legions
of obstreperous Lawyers as yearly emerge out of our London Semi-

narys, omnium doctorum indoctissimum genus (for the most part) as
Erasmus truly styles them.

   Concerning the Paper Office, I wish those Instruments & State

Arcana had ben as faithfully & constantly transmitted to that usefull
Magazin as they ought ; but tho' Sir Jos: Williamson tooke paines to
reduce things into some order, so miserably had they ben neglected and

rifled during the Rebellion, that at the Restoration of Char. II. such

were the defects, that they were as far to seeke for precedents, authen-
tiq & original treatys, negotiations & other transactions formerly made
with Foraine States & Princes, dispatches & instructions to Ambas
sadors, as if there had never before ben any correspondence abroad.
How that Office stands at present I know not ; but this I do know, that
aboundance of those dispatches & papers 'you mention, & which ought
to centre there, have ben carried away both by the Secretarys of State
themselves (when either dismiss'd or dying, & by Ambassadors & other
Ministers when recall'd) into the country, & left  to their heires  as ho
norable marks of their Ancestors imployments.        Of this sort
                                                                    I had

formerly divers considerable bundles concerning transactions of state
during the ministry of the greate Earle of Leycester, all the reigne of

Q. Elizabeth,  containing divers original Letters from the  Q. herselfe,
from Mary Q.                                                Maximilian
               of Scots, Cha. IX. and Hen. IV. of France,
the 2d Emp., Duke of Norfolk, Ja: Stewart Regent of Scotland,
Afarq. of Montrose, Sir William Throckmorton, Randolfe, Sir Fra:
"VValsingham (whom you mention), Sec. Cecill, Mr. Barnaby, Sir J. Haw

ofkins, Drake, Fenton, Matt. Parker Archb. of Canterbury, Edwyn Bp.

      London, the Bp. of Winchester, Bp. Hooper, &c. From abroad ;
Tremelius and other Protestant Divines, Parquiou, Spinnola, Ubaldino
and other com'anders, with divers Italian Princes ; and of Ladys, the
Lady Mary Grey, Cecilia Princesse of Sweden, Ann Countesse of
Oldenburgh, the Dutchesse of Somerset, & a world more. But what
xnost of all, & still afflicts me, those letters & papers of the Q. of Scots,
originals & written with her own hand to Q. Eliz. & Earlc of Leycester,
   732 NUMISMATA AND THE MSS. AT WOTTON.

   before during her imprisonment, which furnished to Dr. Burnet& I I <fc
   (now B. of Salisb.) some of which being printed in his History of theI ?)
   Reformation, those, others with them, are pretended to have ben
                       I&
                                           I

                                                  I

                                                                         I&
   lost at the presse, which has bin a quarell betweene me his Lordship,

   who lays the fault on Chiswell, but so as between them have lost the

   originals, which had now ben safe records as you will find in that
   History. The rest have named lent to his countryman the late
   Duke of Lauderdale, who honouring me with his presence in the

   Country, and after dinner discoursing of a Maitland (ancestor of his)
   of whom had several letters impaqueted with many others, desired
                                                                              I

   would trust him with them for a few days        now more than a few
                                             ;

                                                it
                                                     is
                                                             &
   yeares past, that being put off from time to time, til the death of
   ·his Grace, when his Library was selling, my letters papers could no

   where be found or recover'd, so as by this tretchery my collection being

   broken, bestowed the remainder on a worthy and curious friend (Qu.
   Mr. Pepys of mine, who not likely to trust a                               with any
                                is                                     S

   thing he values.
   But, Sir, quite tire you with a rhapsody of impertinences, beg your

   pardon remain,' &c.

      Among the Errata of the Numismata, but of which immediately
.                                                                         I

   gave an account in the Philos. Transactions, the following were thus to
   have been read: p. 22. n. 22 -- mixt as well as obrisd* sort in the
                       1.
                                --mCeonntsiotna'ndtinboypoAlildOusbri(zoaftuVmal,enbteilnoinagnin) g,wihthe
                         is
   margin, for such  a metal
                     he reads,
   CONOB: which
   says, to Count Landus: v: Aldus Manut. Notar: Exp'ta, p. 802.
                       p. 51. q. r. Etiminius: Spanheime indeed is
   Venet. ciD.io.xci.  &
                                    I 1.
   suspicious of this Medal, but was unwilling to degrade our Metro
   polis of the honor. P. 202 in margin r. Rcgulbium (with innu
   merable more).
          Sir,
        know not whether Sir Jo: Hoskins, Sir R. Southwell, Mr. Waller,
   and Dr. Harwood (who concern'd in what have said of Taille
   Douce) and the rest (on whom have obtruded books) would have the
   patience of Mr. Hill, to reade my letter, when you meete at the learned
   I

                                                  is

                                        I
                                                                    I

   Coffee-Club, after they are gon from Gressham.

                       From the MSS. at Wotton.
   Sayes Court. --The hithermost Grove
                                             planted about 1656 the
   I

                                   1

                            it,

                                                            ;

                                     &
                                         &

                                                         &

                                                           I

                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                          ;

                                                                            J.

                                                                                                it

                                                                                                                                                            ;

                                                                                                           &
   other beyond      1660 the lower Grove, 1662 the holly hedge, even

   with the Mount hedge below, 1670.

        planted every hedge tree. not onely in the Garden, Groves, &c

   but about all the fields house since 1653, except those large, old
   hollow Elms in the Stable Court next the Sewer for was before,
   all one pasture field to the very garden of the house, which was but

                 Otryzum signifies gold of the most exalted purity.       E.
\                 THE CHARACTER OF MRS. EVELYN.           733

   small ; from which time also I repaired the ruined house, & built the

   whole end of the kitchen, the chapel, buttry, my study, above & below,

   cellars & all the outhouses & walls, still-house, Orangerie, & made the

   gardens, &c. to my great cost, & better I had don to have pulled all

   down at first, but it was don at several times.

      Mr. Evelyn was acquainted with the use and value of Potatoes,
   which he calls Irish, tasting like an old bean or roasted chesnut, not
   very pleasant till use have accustomed, yet of good nourishment & ex
   cellent use for relief of Poor, yea & of one's own houshold where there
   are many servants in a dear year.

       Prince Rupert invented a Turfing Plow -- a sketch, but without any
   description of its use.

      Dredge is Barley & Oats mixed.

       Hops cost ^20 an acre before any considerable profit. Digging,

   £2 10s. ; 5000 roots, £2 10s. ; 1st year, dressing, £2 10s. ; 2nd year,
   dressing, £2 10s. ; Poles, ,£10.

      40 loads of dung on an acre, the produce not above £6 an acre.
      An acre of Hemp may be worth £8, & after this the land will be

   proper for barley, wheat, and pease successively.
       Orchards improve land from 10s. an acre, which is commonly

   the value of the best sort of Tillage, & even of best pasture not
   above £2, to £4.

      An acre planted with Cherries has been sett at ,£10, 100 miles from

   London.
      About Sandwich & Deal they edge & fence their corn fields with flax

   & hemp, but flax cheifly, which they affirm keep out cattle, being bitter ;
   they sow it about 20 feet deep into the field -- sow whole fields of Canary
   seed -- great grounds of hyssop & thime in tufts, for seeds only-- the
   soil light & sandy, but the hyssop in richer ground.

   A CHARACTER OF MRS. EVELYN,

                  BY DR. BOHUN1;

                  rROM THE ORIGINAL IN HIS HAND-WRITING.

     I HAD lately occasion to review severall Letters to me from Mrs.

   Evelyn of Deptford. After reading them, I found they were much to
   ni1 The Rer. Dr. Ralph Bohun, D. C. L.
                                           a scholar at Winchester College, and wu
   elected probationary fellow of New College, Oxford, at the early age of 19. In 1671 he
wrote a Discourse on the History and Nature of Wind ; and in 1685, he completed his Doc

   tor's degree.
734 THE CHARACTER OF MRS. EVELYN.

be valued, because they contained not only a compleat description of

the private events in the family, but publick transactions of the times,
where are many curious and memorable things described in an easy
and eloquent style.

   Many forgotten circumstances by this means are recalled afresh to
my memorie ; by so full and perfect a narration of them, they are
again present to my thoughts, and I see them re-acted as it were before
my eyes. This made strong impressions on my mind, so that I could
not rest till I had recollected the substance of them, and from thence
some generall reflexions thereon, and from thence drew a character of
their author, so farr only as by plain and naturall inferences may
be gathered from their contents. This was not perform'd in a manner
worthy of the design, but hastily and uncorrectly, which cost no more
time than cou'd be employed at one sitting in an afternoon ; but in this
short model, Mrs. Evelyn will appeare to be the best daughter and
wife, the most tender mother, and desirable neighbour and friend, in all
parts of her life. The historicall account of matters of fact sufficiently-
set forth her prayses, wherein there cou'd be no error or self-conceit ;
and declare her to be an exact pattern of many excellent vertues ; but
they are concealed in such modest expressions, that the most envious

censurers can't fix upon her the least suspicion of vanity or pride.
Tho' she had many advantages of birth and beauty, and wit, yet you
may perceive in her writings, an humble indifference to all worldly
enjoyments, great charity, and compassion to those that had disobliged
her, and no memory of past occurrences, unless it were a gratefull
acknowledgement of some friendly office ; a vein of good-nature and
resignation, and self denial runs through them all. There's nothing
so despis'd in many of these letters, as the fruitles & empty vanitys of
the Town ; and they seem to pity the misfortune of those who are
condemned by their greater quality or stations to squander away their
precious time in unprofitable diversions, or bestow it in courtly visits &
conversations. Where there happens to be any mention of Children
or Friends, there's such an air of sincerity & benevolence for the one,

and religious concern for the happines of the other, as if she had

no other design to live in the world, than to perform her own duty, and
promote the welfare of her relations and acquaintance.

   There's another observation to be collected, not less remarkable
than the rest, which is her indefatigable industry in employing herself,
and more for the sake of others than her own : This she wrote, not _
out of vain glory, or to procure commendation, but to entertain them
with whom she had a familiar correspondence by letters, with the
relation of such accidents or bysnes wherein she was engag'd for the

month, or the week past.

   This was a peculiar felicity in her way of writing, that, tho' she often
treated of vulgar and domestic subjects, she never suffered her style to
THE VIRTUES OF MRS. EVELYN.  735

languish or flag, but by some new remark or pleasant digression kept

it up to its usual pitch.

   The reproofs in any of these numerous letters were so softly insinu
ated, that the greatest punishment to be inflicted upon any disobligation
was only to have the contrary vertue to the fault they had ben guilty

of, highly applauded in the next correspondence, which was ever so

manag'd as to pleas and improve.

    Scarce an harsh expression, much less an evill surmise or suspicion

cou'd be admitted where every line was devoted to charity and goodnes.
This is no effect of partiality, but appears in the particular instances,

so that the same judgment must be made by all unprejudiced persons
who shall have a sight of them.

    Any misfortune or disappointment was not mournfully lamented, but
related in such a manner as became a mind that had laid in a suf
ficient provision of courage & patience before-hand to support it under
afflictions. All unfortunate accidents are allaid by some consolatory
argument taken from solid principles. No kind of trouble but one

seems to interrupt the constant intention to entertain & oblige, but
that is dolorously represented in many of the letters, which is the loss

of Children or Friends. That being an irreparable separation in this

world, is deplored with the most affectionate tenderness which words
can express . You may conclude that they who write in such a manner

as this, must be suppos'd to have a just sens of Religion, becaus there
can scarce be assign'd one act of a beneficent and charitable temper
but has many texts of the Gospel to enforce it. So that all good
Xtians must be very usefull and excellent neighbours and friends ;
which made this lady ever esteem'd so. Shee was the delight of all
the conversations, where she appeard, she was lov'd and admir'd,
yet never envy'd by any, not so much as by the women, who seldom
allow the perfections of their own sex, least they ecclips their own ;
But as this very manifestly & upon all occasions was her temper, the
world was very gratefull to her upon that account. This happines was
gain'd and preserv'd by one wise qualification, for tho' no person living
had a closer insight into the humors or characters of persons, or cou'd
distinguish their merits more nicely, yet she never made any despising
or censorious reflexions ; her great discernment and wit were never
abus'd to sully the reputation of others, nor affected any applaus that
might be gain'd by satyrical jests. Tho' shee was extreamly valu'd,
and her friendship priz'd and sought for by them of the highest con
dition, yet she ever treated those of the lowest with great condescension

and humanity. The memory of her vertues and benefits made such

deep impression on her neighbors of Deptford & Greenwich, that if

any one should bring in another report from this, or what was gener
ally received among them, they'd condem as fals, and the effect of a

 slanderous calumny ; either they wou'd never yield that any change
73^ -  THE ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF MRS. EVELYN.

shou'd happen to this excellent lady, or they'd impute it to sickness, or

time, or chance, or the unavoidable frailtys of human nature. But I

have somewhat digress'd from my subject, which was to describe her
person or perfections no otherwise than they may be gathered from

the letters I receiv'd'; they contain historical passages and accounts
of any, more or less considerable, action or accident that came to her

knowledge, with diverting or serious reflections as the subject requirti,
but generally in an equall and chaste style, supported by a constant
gravity, never descending to affected sallys of ludicrous wit.

    It's to be further observ'd, that tho' she recites & speaks French ex
actly, & understands Italian, yet she confines herself with such strictnes
to the purity of the English toung, that she never introduces foreign
or adopted words ; that ther's a great steadines & equality in her
thoughts ; and that her sens & expressions have a mutual dependance
on each other may be inferM from hence --you shall never perceive
one perplext sentence, or blot, or recalling a word in more than

twenty letters.

    Many persons with whom she convers'd or were related to her, or
had any publick part in the world, were honour'd by very lively charac
ters confer^ on them, always just, and full of discernment, rather in
clining to the charitable side, yet no othenvyse than as skillfull masters
who paint like, yet know how to give some graces and advantages to
them whose pictures they draw. The expressions are clear and un
affected, the sentences frequent & grave, the remarks judicious, the
periods flowing & long, after the Ciceronian way, yet tho' they launch
out so farr, they are strict to the rules of grammar, and ever come

safe home at last without any obscurity or incoherence attending them.

   I'll only give one instance of a person who was caracteris'd by her

in a more favorable manner than he durst presume that he deserved ;

however, to shew the method of her writing, I shall set it down. ' I

believe (such an one) to be a person of much wit, great knowledge,
judicious and discerning, charitable, well natur'd, obliging in conver
sation, apt to forget & forgive injuries, eloquent in the pulpit, living ac
cording to known precepts, faithfull to his friend, generous to his enemie,
and in every respect accomplisht ; this in our vulgar way is a desirable

character, but you'll excuse if I judge unrefinedly who have the care

of cakes & stilling, & sweetmeats & such usefull things.'
    Mrs. Evelyn has been often heard to say concerning the death of her

admirable & beloved Daughter, that tho' she had lost her for ever in
this world, yet she wou'd not but that she had been, becaus many
pleasing ideas occurr to her thoughts that she had convers'd with her
so long, and ben made happy by her for so many years.
, Oxon, 1695, Sept. 20.

   1 Copies of several letters to Dr. Bohun have been found at Wotton, but not those here
referred to. A few of them will follow, as specimens of her manner and great good sense.
          CORRESPONDENCE OF MRS. EVELYN.  737

          LETTERS FROM MRS. EVELYN.

                        For Mr. Bohun.
  If 2i May 1668.

        it be true that wee are generelly enclined to covett what wee ad

mire, I can assure you my ambition aspires not to the fame of Balzac,
and therefore must not thank you for entitling me to that great name.

I do not admire his style, nor emulate the spirit of discontent which
runns through all his Letters. There is a lucky hitt in reputation which

some obtaine by the deffect in their judges, rather than from the great-

nesse of their merit ; the contrary may be instanced in Doctor Donne,

who had be not ben really a learned man, a libertine in witt and a
courtier, might have ben allowed to write well, but I confess in my
opinion, with these qualifications he falls short in his Letters of the

praises some give him.
Voiture seems to excell both in quicknesse of fancy, easinesse of ex

pression, & in a facile way of insinuating that he was not ignorant of

letters, an advantage the Court ayre gives persons who converse with

the world as books.

   I wonder at nothing more than at the ambition of printing letters ;
since if the designe be to produce witt and learning, there is too little

scope for the one, and the other may be reduced to a lesse compasse
than a sheet of gilt paper, unlesse truth were more communicative.

Buisinesse, love, accidents, secret displeasure, family intrigues, gene
rally make up the body of letters, and can signifie very little to any

besides the persons they are addressed to, and therefore must loose in
finitely by being exposed to the unconcerned. Without this declara

tion I hope I am sufficiently secure never to runne the hazard of being
censured that way, since I cannot suspect my friends of so much un-
kindnesse, nor myselfe of the vanity to wish fame on so doubtfull a

foundation as the caprice of mankind. Do not impute my silence to
neglect ; had you seene me these tenne days continually entertaining
persons of different humour, age, and sence, not only at meales, or
afternoone, or the time of a civill visit, but from morning till night,

you will be assured it was impossible for me to finish these few lines
sooner ; so often have I set pen to paper and ben taken off againe,
that I almost despaired to lett you know my satisfaction that Jack'
complies  so well wi\h your desires,  and that I am your friend and
servant                                . M. Evelyn.

                         To Mr. Bohun at Oxford.

    Sir,

Do not think my silence hitherto has proceeded from being taken up

                         1 Her son, then at College under Mr. Bohun's care-

                                                                                                         47
738 MRS. EVELYN TO MR. BOHUN.

with the diversions of the Towne, the eclat of the Wedding, Mascar-
ades which trebled their number the second night of the Wedding [so]
that there was great disorder and confusion caused by and with

which the solemnity ended neither can charge the Houswifry of the
   I                                                                    I
                        I
                                                                                      it
                                                        ;                                   is

                                                                                                              ;

                                                                                                         it,
Country after my returne, or treating my neighbours this Christmas,
since never finde any buisinesse or recreation that makes me forget

my Friends. Should confesse the reall cause,                                        your expectation
of extraordinary notions of things wholy out of my way Women were

not borne to read Authors, and censure the Learned, to compare Lives
and judge of Virtues, to give rules of Morality, and sacrifice to the

Muses. We are willing to acknowledge all time borrowed from Family
duties misspent the care of Children's education, observing a Hus
band's com'ands, assisting the Sick, relieving the Poore, and being
     is

                               ;

serviceable to our Friends, are of sufficient weight to employ the most
improved capacities amongst us. If sometimes                                     happens by acci
                                                                                 it
dent that one of a thousand aspires a little higher, her fate commonly
                                                                                       ;

                                                                                            is
exposes her to wonder, but adds little to esteeme. The Distaff will de
fend our quarrells as well as the Sword, and the Needle as instruc
tive as the Penne. A Heroine a kinde of prodigy the influence of
a blasinge starre not more dangerous, or more avoyded. Thoughis
     it                                                        it                                                       I
                is                                                  is
have lived under the roofe of the Learned, and in the neighbourhood

of Science, has had no other effect on such temper as mine, but that of
                                                                        a
admiration, and that too but when                                            isreduced to practice.I             confesse

   am infinitely delighted to meet with in books the atchievements of the
I
Heroes, with the calmnesse of Philosophers, and with the eloquenceI

of Orators but what charms me irresistably to see perfect resigna
tion in the minds of men let what ever happen adverse to them in;

       I                                                                                      confirms my
                   ;
                            ;
                      it
their fortune that being knowing and truly wise
                                  j a is                                            ;

                                                                                       it

beleefe of antiquity, and engages my perswasion of future perfection,

without which were in vaine to live. Hope not for volumes or trea

tises Raillery may make me goe beyonde my bounds, but when

serious, esteeme myselfe capable of very little, yet am, Sir,
                                                                                 I

                                                           Your friend and servant,                              M. E.

   Jan. 4. 1672.

           To my Lady Tuke, after the death of Sir Sam. Tuke.

          Madame,

          acknowledge these are trialls which make Christian philosophy

   usefull, not only by resignation to the Divine decree, but by that
   Hope which encourages us to expect a more lasting happinesse then
   any this world can give. Without this wee were extreamly wretched
   since no felicity here has any duration. Wee are solicitous to obtaine,
   wee feare whilst wee possesse, and wee are inconsolable when wee
   loose. The greatest Conquerors themselves are subject to this unsteady
   state of humane nature lett us notmurmure then, for wee offend, and
             CORRESPONDENCE OF MRS. EVELYN.                 739

though in compliance to your present sence of things I could joyne

with you in greeving, having made as particular a losse as ever any

did in a Friend, I dare not indulge your sorrows, especially when I con

sider how prejudiciall it will proove to your selfe and those deare
pledges that are left to your care ; but I do rather begge of you cease
greeving, and owe that to reason and prudence which time will over

come. Were I in so good health that I could quitt my chamber, I
would be dayly with you and assure you how really I am concerned for
you. You cannot doubt the affection of your, &c

   Jan. 28, 1672.

                              To Mr. BOHUN.

   Sir,      be of  infinite  value            Sayes-Court, 29 Jan. 1672.
                                     living, how much cause have wee to
If a Friend
lament him dead ! such a friend was Sir Sam. Tuke, who retired out
of this life on St. Paul's day [25 Jan.] at midnight, and has changed
the scene to him and us, and left occasion to all that knew him to

bewayle the losse. You need not to be made sensible by a character ot
a person you knew so well, and you can enumerate virtues enough to

lament and shed some tearcs justly ; therefore spare me the sorrow ot

repeating what effect it has wrought on such a minde as mine, who think

no missfortune worth regretting besides the losse of those I love. Do
not blame me if 1 beleeve it allmost impossible to meet with a person

so worthy in hiinselfe, and so disposed to esteemc me againc ; and yet
that is not the chiefest cause of my affliction. I might wave much of

my owne interest, had I not so many partners that will suffer equally.

These are the tnalls which make Christian philosophy usefull, not only

by a resignation to the Divine decree, but by that hope which encou

rages us to expect a more lasting happinesse then any this world can

give, without which wee were extreamly wretched, since no felicity here

has any duration. The greatest Conquerors themselves are subject to
this unsteady state of humane nature, therefore well may I submitt,

whose concerns are triviall in respect of others. Yet this I conclude,

that wee dye by degrees when our friends go before us. But whilst I
discourse thus with you, I should consider what effects melancholy

reflections may have on a spleenetic person, one who needs not cherish
Ithat temper. I will only add that I am now able to quitt my chamber,
which is more then  could     do these 14 dayes,  and that  I am, Sir,

                              Your servant,                 M. Evelyn.

' Sir,  To Mr. Bohun, Fellow of New College, Oxford.

When I have assured you that my usuall indisposition has treated
me so severely this winter that I have had little leasure to think of
any thing but the meanes of gaineing health and ease, I am perswaded
740 MRS. EVELYN TO MR. BOHUN.

you wilLexcuse me if I have not decided in my thoughts which was the
greatest Captaine, Caesar or Pompey ; whether Mr. De Rosny were

not a great Polititian, a brave soldier, and the best servant that ever
Prince had for capacity, fidelity and steadinesse ; a man strangly dis

interested infinitely fortunate, and in every way qualified to serve such a
master as was Henry the Great, who notwithstanding humane frailties,
wasworthyto be faithfully dealt with, since he knew how to judge and to

reward. But why do we allwayes look back into times past? wee may not

reproach our owne, since heere is at this present a scene for galantrie
and merit, and whilst wee may hope, we must not condemne. Should

I tell you how full of sorrow I have ben for the losse of Doctor Bret-

ton1, you only would blame me ; after Death flattery ceases, therefore
you may beleeve there was some cause to lament when thousands of
weeping eyes witnessed the affliction their soules were in ; one would
have imagined every one in this parish had lost a Father, Brother, or
Husband, so great was the bewailing ; and in earnest it dos appeare

there never was abetter nor a more worthy man. Such was his temper,

prudence, charity, and good conduct, that he gained the weake and

preserved the wise. The suddennesse of his death was a surprise only

to his friends ; as for himselfe it might be looked upon as a deliverance
from paine, the effect of sicknesse, and I am allmost perswaded God

snatched him from us, leasthe might have ben prevailed with by the num
ber of petitions to have left him still amongst us. I f you suspect kindness in
me makes me speake too much, Doctor Parr* is a person against whome

you cannot object ; it was he who preached the funerall sermon, and as
an effect of truth as well as eloquence he himselfe could not forbeare

weeping in the pulpit. It was his owne expression that there were

three for whom he infinitely greeved, the martyred King, my Lord

Primate (Abp. Usher) and Doctor Bretton : and as a confirmation of
the right that was done him in that Oration, there was not a drie eye

nor a dissenting person. But of this no more.            M. Evelyn.

Sayes-Court, 2nd March 1672.

                                   To Lady Tuke.
                                                                                 April 1685.

   How to expresse the sorrow for parting with so deare a Child is a
difficult task. She was welcome to me from the first moment God gave
her, acceptable through the whole course of her life by a thousand en
dearments, by the gifts of nature, by acquired parts, by the tender
love she ever shew'd her father and me ; a thred of Piety accompanyed

  1 Minister of Deptford: he died in February 1671.      He died Nor. », 1691.  Th«
  » Richard Parr, D.D. Vicar of Reigale and Camberwell.
Funeral Sermon alluded to, was printed in 1672.
           CORRESPONDENCE OP MRS. EVELYN.                              74I

all her actions, and now proves our greatest consolation. The pa
tience, resignation, humility of her carriage in so severe and fatall a
disease, discover'd more than an ordinary assistance of the Divine

goodnesse, never expressing feare of death, or a desire to live, but for
her friends sake. The seaventh day of her illnesse she discoursed to

me in particular as calmly as in health, desired to confesse and receive

the blessed Sacrament, which she performed with great devotion,

after which, tho' in her perfect senses to the last, she never signified

the least  concerne for   the world, prayed  often, and  resigned her  soule.
           shall I say ;  She was too great  a blessing  for me, who   never
--What
deserved anything, much lesse such a Jewell. I am too well assured of
your Ladyship's kindnesse to doubte the part you take in this losse :
you have ever shewed your selfe a friend in so many instances, that I

presume upon your compassion ; nothing but this just occasion could
have hindered me from wellcoming you to towne, and rejoyceing with

the best friend I have in the world -- a friend by merit and inclination
one I must esteeme as the wife of so worthy a relation and so
sincere a friend as Sir Sam: (Tuke) was to me and mine. What is
this world, when we recall past things ! what are the charms

that keepe our minds in suspense ! without the conversation of those

we love, what is life worth ! How did I propose happinesse this

sum'er in the retume of your Ladyship and my deare Child-- for she

was absent almost all this winter !

   She had much improved her selfe by the remarks she had made of
the world and all its vanities --What shall I add ! I could ever speake
of her, and might I be just to her without suspition of partiality, could

tell you many things. The papers which are found in her cabinet disco
ver she profitted by her readyng -- such reflections, collections out of

Scripture, confessions, meditations and pious notions, evidence her
time was not spent in the triflyng way of most young women. I ac
knowledge, as a Christian, I ought not to murmur, and I should be

infinitely sorry to incur God's further displeasure. There are those yet

remaining that chalenge my care, and for their sakes I endeavour to
submitt all I can. I thank my poore Cousen a thousand times for her
kind concerne, and wish she may live to be the comfort you deserve in

her, that God will continue the blessing to both,  and make you happy

-- which is the prayer of her who is

                          Yours most affectionately,     M. E.

   I haue received        Mrs. Evelyn to her Son.

none of those you   your letter and request for a supply of mony ;     but
                    merttion which were bare effects of your duty.
                                                                        If

you were so desirous to answer our expectations as you pretend to be,
you would give those tutors and overseers you think so exact over you

lesse trouble then I feare they have with you. Much is to be wished
742 Airs. eVelyn to her son, and his tutor.

in your behalfe ; that your temper were humble and tractable, your
inclinations virtuous, and that from choice not compulsion you make

an honnest man." Whateuer object of vice comes before you, should
haue the same effect in your mind of dislike and aversion that Drun-

kenesse had in the youth of Sparta when their slaves were presented

to them in that brutish condition, not only from the deformity of such
a sight, but from a motive beyond theirs, the hopes of a future happi-

ncsse, which those rigorous Heathens in morall virtue had little pros
pect of, finding no reward for virtue but in virtue itselfe. You are not

too young to know that lying, defrauding, swearing, disobedience

to parents and persons in authority, are offences to God and man :
that debauchery is injurious to growth, health, life, and indeed to the
pleasures of life : therefore now that you are turning from Child to

Man endeavour to follow the best precepts, and chuse such wayes as
may render you worthy of praise and love. You are assured of your

Father's care and my tendemesse : no mark of it shall be wanting at any

time to confirme it to you, with this reserve only, that you strive to
deserve kindnesse by a sincere honest proceeding, and not flatter your
selfe that you are good whilst you only appeare to be so. Fallacies
will only passe in schools. When you throughly weigh these consider
ations, I hope you will apply them to your owne advantage, as well as

to our infinite satisfaction. I pray dayly God would inspire you witb

his grace, and blesse you.   ' I am,

                                              Your louing mother,
                                                                    M. Evelyn.

                             To Mr. BOHUN.

I       Sir,-  beleeve  you  are very buisy,  hearing so  seldome  from            167 1.
        must
                                                                                 you, and

that you are much in the esteeme of Dr. Bathurst', since he judges so

favourably of your friends. It cannot be the effect of his discernment
which makes him give sentence in my behalfe, being so great a master

of reason as he is ; but it is certainely a mark of his great kindnesse

to you that he deffers to your judgment in opposition to his owne. I
should not question yours in other things, but the wisest may be allowed

some grains, and I conclude you no lesse a courtier then a philosopher.
Since my last to you I have seene ' The Siege of Grenada,' a play so
full of ideas that the most refined romance I euer read is not to com

pare with it : love is made so pure, and valor so nice, that one would
imagine it designed for an Vtopia rather then our Stage. I do not
quarrell with the Poet, but admire one borne in the decline of morality

     1  Dr.  Ralph Bathurst, Dean of Wells and President of Trinity College, in  Oxford, whose
        and  Literary Remains have been published by Thomas Warton, Poetry       Professor, and
Life

Fellow of the same College.
CORRESPONDENCE OF MRS. EVELYN.  743

should be able to feigne such exact virtue ; and as poetick fiction has
been instructive in former ages, I wish this the same event in ours. As
to the strict law of Comedy I dare not pretend to judge : some think

the division of the story not so well as if it could all haue been compre
hended in the dayes actions : truth of history, exactnessc of time, pos

sibilities of adventures, are niceties the anticnt Critiques might require ;
but those who have outdone them in fine notions may be allowed the

liberty to expresse them their owne way, and the present world is so
enlightened that the old dramatique must bear no sway. This account
perhaps is not enough to do Mr. Driden right, yet is as much as you

can expect from the leisure of one who has the care of a Nursery.

                                                  I am, Sir, &c. M. Evelyn. .

   Mrs. Evelyn (who outlived Mr. Evelyn) by her Will, dated 9 Feb.
1708, desired to be buried in a stone coffin, near that of 'my dear hus
band, whose love & friendship I was happy in 58 years 9 months, but
by Gods Providence left a disconsolate widow the 27 day of February
1705 in the 71 year of my age. His care of my education was such as
might become a father, a lover, a friend, and husband, for instruction,
tenderness, affection, & fidelity to the last moment of his life ; which

obligation 1 mention with a gratitude to his memory, ever dear to me ;
St I must not omit to own the sense I have of my Parents care & good-

nesse in placing me in such worthy hands.'
744 TVRANUS, BY JOHN EVELYN.

  t *.* The Pamphlet published by Mr. Evelyn under the title of " Tyranous, or the Mode,-

is one of the most scarce of all his publications, and is here re-printed.
   This copy is taken from one lent me by James Bindley, Esq. which had been corrected by

Mr. Evelyn himself for a second edition, and the note at the end was added by him. /

  Mr. Bindley had thus endorsed it : ' I never saw another copy of this curious Tract. This,

which is corrected throughout by the Author (Mr. Evelyn) with his own hand for a second
edition, was bought at an auction at Paterson at Essex House, near forty years ago.

                                                                                                                                             B.T
J.
                                        's,TYRANUS, OR THE MODE;
                                                           J.
                   IN A DISCOURSE OF

       SUMPTUARY LAWES.

THE SECOND EDITION ENLARGED.

Gratius Falisc: Cytug;           Sed lubricus trror
                        Mas, et ab exptrtis ftitinant usibus omncx.

LONDON:-- Printed for G. Bedel, and T. Collins, at the Middle Temple Gate,

                       and Crook at the Ship in St. Pauls Church Yard.
                          · ESSAY BY JOHN EVELYN.                       745

If To Him that Reades.
     that be true which Demosthenes said, that Constancy is the
summe of all perfection, and that what is really good springs from

integrall causes ; all that aspire to this vertue should embrace what
ever may contribute to it. I have in this gentle Satyr prepared you

something to smile, something to frown at ; if the ballance fall equal I
am satisfyed. Shall I tell you ingenuously ? I have sometime (for
relaxation sake) indulg'd myself the liberty of a Prevaricator, and
amongst other impertinencies, to passe away the time, collected certain
essayes together, of which I once intended a volume. This, amongst
the rest, lay upmost ; and if I now put it into your hands, 'tis because

I think' it not unseasonable. I will not reproch the French for their

fruitful invention, or any thing that is commendable, but 'tis well

known, who those Gavaches are, which would impose upon all the
world beside ; and I have frequently wonder'd that a Nation so well
conceited of themselves as I take our Country-men to be, should so

generally submit to the Mode of another, of whom they speake with so

little kindnesse. That the Monsieurs have universally gotten the
ascendent over other .parts of Europe, is imputable to their late

conquests ; but that only their greatest vanity should domineer over
this Kingdome, speaks as strangely tame. For my own part, though

1 love the French well (and have many reasons for yet would be
                                                   I           I

glad to pay my respects in any thing rather than my Clothes, becauseit)

conceive so great a diminution to our native Country, and to the
IIdiscretion of it. His Majesty speaks French, not so much to gratify
                                                  For though Lewis the XIV.
                   ;the Nation, as because he has title tois it
                                               :
                      itbe the French King, Charles the II. King of France; and shall
                                                                  I

not despair to see the day when he shall give his vassals there the

Edict for their Apparel, and not suffer his subjects here to receive the

Law from them. If this give offence, can commute, and upon some
                                    if

                                        it

                                          I
other occasion say as much to their advantage. In the mean time
divert yourselfe with this Trifle;
                                        please you, am satisfy'd  ;   not,

                                                                    if

have prevented your censure.                                      J.  E.

                          TYRANUS, OR THE MODE.

Twas a witty expression of Malvezzi               vestimenti negli Animali
                                    ;

                                         ;i

                                                           I
sono rnolto sicuri segni della lora natura, negli Huomini del lor cer-
uello, Garments (says he) in animals are infallible signes of their
nature in Men, of their understanding. Though would not judge
of the Monk by the Hood he wears or celebrate the humour.of Julian's
Court, where the Philosophic Mantle made all his officers appear like
746 ON THE ABSURDITIES AND TYRANNY

so many Conjurors ; 'tis worth the observing yet, that the people of
Rome left off the Toga, an ancient and noble garment, with their
power, and that the vicissitude of their habite was little better than a
presage of that of their fortune. For the Military Saga differencing
them little from their Slaves, was no small indication of the declining
of their courage, which shortly follow'd. And I am of opinion that
when once wee shall see the Venetian Senat quit the gravity of their

Vests, the State itself will not long subsist without some considerable
               'Tis not a trivial remark (which I have
alteration.  when a Nation is able to impose and give          some where met
with) that
                                                               laws to the Habit
of another (as the late Tartars did in China) it has (like that of Lan
guage) proved the forerunner of the spreading of their conquests there ;
because, as it has something of shew and magisterial, so it gaines them
a boldnessc and an assurance, which easily introduces them without

being taken notice of for strangers where they come ; til by degTees
they insinuate themselves into all those places where the Mode is taken
up, and so much in credit. I am of opinion that the Swisse had not

been now a Nation, but for keeping to their prodigious Breeches ; and
as it was politically dissembled of Francis the First, to natter this
blunt people with the Toy, which for awhile he wore, and the Ladies
afterwards made their Pincushions of ' ; so was it again as prudent to
abandon that brutish shape, for a habit more convenient and decent.
Nor do I impute it so much to the levity in that Protean Nation, to

metamorphose themselves so oft as many are prone to censure, because

it is plainly their interest, and they thrive by it ; besides the pleasure
of seeing all the world follow them, and to be fond of bravery.

   Believe La Mode de France one of the best returnes which they
             it,
                                                   is
                                                       it
make, and feeds ai many bellies as clothes backs; or else we should
not hear of such armies, and swarmes of them, as this one City alone

maintains, who hang in the ears, embrace the necks and elegant wasts
of our fair Ladies, in the likeness of Pendants, Collers, Fans, and Peti-

coats, with the rest of those pretty impediments, without which Heaven
and Earth could not subsist.
   It may be thought, confesse, some mark of strange verticity that
;
                        ;

                          I
these things are alwayes things in fluctuation and 'tis so, indeed, with
                                                               ;

                                                                is
                                                                             is
us but with them, as constant as the Tide, and no more a fault than
in the Moon especially since (like hers) the change profitable, and
a characteristic of their fertil genius, which to be busie, mercurial,

and universal, and like good Prismes, both to multiply and change the

species to a degree so taking and so gainful!.

But, be thus excusable in the French to alter, and impose the
1

                it
Mode on others, for the reasons dedue'd 'tis no less a weakness and a
shame in the rest of the World, who have no dependency on them,c;

   C--This alludes evidently to the enormous                 Breeches so apparent in the picture*

of Henry the Eighth, and others of that time.
OF FASHION, BY JOHN EVELYN.  747

to admit them, at least to that degree of levity as to turn into all their
shapes without discrimination ; so as when the freak takes our Mon-
sieurs to appear like so many Farces or Jack-Puddings on the Stage,
all the World should alter shape, and play the Pantomims with them.

    Mcthinks a French Taylor with his ell in his hand, looks like the

enchantress Circe over the companions of Ulysses, and changes them
into as many formes: One while we are made to be so loose in our
clothes, as if we had alwayes need of the Close-stool, and by and by,
appear like so many Malefactors sew'd up in sacks, as of old they were
wont to treat a Parricide, with a dog, an ape, and a serpent. Now we
are all Twist, & at a distance look like a pair of Tongs, and anon
stuff'd out behind like a Dutchman. This Gallant goes so pinch'd in

the Wast, as if he were prepar'd for the question of the Fiery Plate in
Turky ; and that so loose in the middle, as if he would turn Insect, or

drop in two ; now the short Wast and Skirts in Pye-court is the mode ;
then the Wide Hose, or (which is more shamefull) like Nero's lacer-
nata Arnica, the Man in Coats again ; Monstrum geminum, de viro
foemina, mox de fawiiiia vir. So as one who should judge by the
appearance, would take us all to be of kin to the fellow that begs with
out armes, or some great man's iools. Mcthinks we should leam to
handle distaffe too ; Hercules did so when he courted Omphale, and
those who sacrificed to Ceres put on the petty-coat with much confi

dence. A man cannot say now, as when Lucian scoff 'd at Cinicus,
Quid tu tandem barbam quidem habes <&» comam, tunicain non habes t

On the reverse, all men now wear coats, and no beards. O prodi

gious folly !

   What shall I say of this madness ! Uterque habitus mutattdi mains,
alter adversus naturam, alter contra salute in, the one of them so adverse

to nature, the other to health : both preposterous, both in such cx-
treames ; as what Seneca spake of Silk in his dayes, may with equal

reason be appl/d to these clothes of ours, if clothes it be lawfull to

name them.

  It was a fine silken thing which I spied walking th' other day through

Westminster Hall, that had as much Ribbon about him as would have
plundered six shops, and set up twenty country pedlars ; all his body

was drest like a May-pole, or a Tom o' Bedlams Cap. A Fregat

newly rigg'd kept not half such a clatter in a storme, as this Puppets
streamers did when the wind was in his shrouds ; the motion was won-

derfull to behold, and the well chosen colours were red, orange, and
blew, of well gum'd Sattin, which argu'd a happy fancy: but so was
our Gallant overcharg'd indutumnc an onustum hominem, habere ves-
tern, an bajulare, whether he did weare this garment, or (as a Porter)
beare it only, was not easily to be resolvM.

   I do assure you I knew a French woman (famous for her dexterity

and invention) protest, that the English did so torment her for the
748 ON THE ABSURDITIES AND TYRANNY

Mode, still jealous least she should not have brought thenvover the

newest edition of that she us'd monthly to devise us new fancies of
        a
                            it
                                 it,

                                  I
her owne head, which were never worn in France, to pacific her cus

tomers. But this was in the dayes of Old Noll that signal Vertutnmts,
when the State self was as seldome above the age of a Moon with
out new face, as the Ladies her faithfull devotees. Bur have done
with pictures, and whilst seem to reprove their excess in Men, am so                I
                                                                                           if
far from disobliging the brighter Sex, that                 is I it      from  hence  d(fiasicrreLtaiodnieisn)
may justly be deriv'd the esteem which                               make of    your
                                                                   is
this point, because what you now wear so decent and so becoming:
      Nor am of so morose and particular a humour, that, with Seleucus,
      would allow of no ornaments, or significant changes. For my part,II
if I Ilove variety, and when declaim against the ascititious and un
            is                              I

      natural, am advocate for what graceful! and put on with reason:
                                               is

      But there a mediocrity in all things, and though garments be super-
      ficials, and extrinsecal to us, they are yet of such notable presage that
         (as Solomon) a Wise Man may be known by his gate, a Fantastick
      may be no less so by his garb and apparel
                       certain honestas in observation decori, which men
        There   is
                    a

      could once light on, would be of infinite more reputation to us than
      this slavish deference of ours to other Nations and when his Majesty
                                                                       ;

      shall fix a standard at Court, there will need no Sumptuary Lawes to
      represse and reforme the Lux which men so much condemn in our

      Apparel.

        Montaigne tells us, that at the death of King Francis one years
      mourning for him in Cloth made Silk to be so despis'd, that had any
      man appear"d in for long time after, he was taken for a Pedant or
      a Mountebank -- ne vestis serica viros fadaret (Tacitus in vita Tiber.)

         Doubtless would the great persons of England but owne their na

      tion, and assert themselves as they ought to do, by making choice of
                       :
                            it
                                       a

      virile and comely Fashion, which should incline to neither extream,

      and be constant to                    'twould prove of infinite more reputation to us
                it
                                    is it,
      then now that there nothing fixt, and the liberty so exorbitant.
        We deride the Spaniard for his odd shape, not for his constancy to
      it. Let be considered that those who seldom change the Mode of ·
      their country, have as seldom alter" their affections to the Prince. Laws
      are in credit as they are ancient and the very alteration of elements,
                                               ;
                                                   ;
      weather and dyet, are full of perill 'tis that renders us weak, old, sick,

      and at last destroyes us: so as 'twas not without advice that the Lawes

      of Plato did descend to the care even of Habits in that his perfect

      Idea, allowing only to Curtesans and Comedians to vary dresses,
      since 'twas but a kind of hippocrisie to be every day in a new shapeit
      and mascarad.
                            f
      poQriusonmoondocupsrtoadcieepnttoes  Dei custodiers    (says Tertullian) lineamenta cor
                                               (Tertul. de  cultu fcem). How can we expect
                         OF FASHION, BY JOHN EVELYN.                                                749

that men should keep the commandments of God (I add, of the King)
that preserve not the lineaments of their bodies ? Thus he to the

Gallants of his time ; and though he does somewhere as ingeniously
apologize for the Pallium (De Pal.) (which the proselytes had then
newly reassum'd) by instances deduced from the common vicissitudes
of nature and of the world, yet he proves its antiquity from the old

Lydians, and noble Pelasgi, and from the decency and simplicity of

the garb ; so as what was then said by way of «arcasme to the new
                    Toga ad Pallium, may now
Christians, a                                  (with  more  just                          reproch)  be
applied to the      old, ab Equis ad A situs.
   For my part I profess that I delight in a cheerfull gaiety, affect and

cultivate variety : the Universe itself were not bcautifull to me with
out but, as that in constant and uniforme succession in the natural
     it,               is
        is                          it,
Ifwhere men do not disturb so would have also in the artificial.

         the Kings of Mexico chang'd four times a day, was but an
                                         I

                                                      it
                                                                          it

upper vest, which they were us'd to honor some meritorious servant

with. Let men change their habits as oft as they please, so the change
be for the better.
                       I  would have a Summer habit and a Winter for
                                                                                          ;
the Spring and for the Autumne. Something would indulge to
Youth, something to Age and Humour, Scd quanam illuc avis tst, qua                             it
                                         a
                                                ;?

                                                      I
hue cum tumcis advertitt What have we to do with these 'bicign;
Butterflies In God's name let the change be our own, not uurrow'd?
of others for why should dance after Monsieur's flajolet only, that
have a set of English viols for my concert We need no French ina
ventions, or for the Stage or for the Back we have better Materials
for Clothes they, better Taylors. Strange, that men should coir.e to/a
            ;
                                II
value themselves from sort of wretches, of which nine go bul to
the making of one man
                                         hope to see the day when all this shall be
reform'd, and when all the world shall receive their standard from our

most illustrious Prince, and from his Grandees, and make prognostics
even from these little accidents and all that extrinsecal to them, that
                                         a it
there       a glorious,   steady, and a wise Director within, and thatis
                                                             is
shall be as presumptuous for any Foreign Nation to impose upon our
                                                                                       ;
Court, as   it      indeed ridiculous should, and its greatest diminution.
                is                                                    I

   Lampridius tells us Alexander Severus was in this point so nice,

that he would have all his subjects distinguished by their habit-- ne
servi ingenuis misccrcntur. How many times have saluted the fine
Man for the Master, and stood with my hat off to the gay feather, when
   found the Bird to be all this while but a Daw arripuit persona,
I

manet res; (Lucretius) for so the Assc wore the Lyons skin, but never
thought of hideing his cares. Yet this prodigious excesse injurious

both to nature and to civil life, that now a dayes makes hardly differ

ence between Trumpeter and General.
                    a

   Servants had always among the Romans a peculiar habit, till the
Common- Wealth grew dissolute, says Tacitus: And for my particular,
75° ON THE ABSURDITIES AND TYRANNY

I am so great a friend to this order, that I could be content all degrees
of men whatever should be known by their Cognizance, all Gown-men,
and all the Military. How would this conduce to publick frugality,
peace, humility ! and if to any emulation, to that only of exceeding
one another in vertue and obedience: for it is prodigious only to con
sider the impolitick wast which this promiscuous bravery draws along

with it: That nolesse then two Millions of Treasure (as I am inform 'd)
has in so short a time been lost in Gold and Silver lace ; and that to

feed this sole exhorbitance, the Goldsmiths should give so considerable
a rate for Bullion above the Mint, to employ it in this trifling fabric,

which is plainly consum'd, worn out, and never return'd again, so as in

a few years to endanger an universal penury.
Let us suppose that the finest cloth of Wooll, and which may be
made thin, light, and glossie for Summer, thick, close, and more sub

stantial for the Winter, and inferiour to no covering under Heaven,
were more in use and esteem: or, that there were a general prohibition

that persons beneath such a degree should wear either Silk, foreign
Stuffs, or Cloth, with a reasonable Tassa impos'd by the Magistrate
upon the price of our own manufacture amongst us ; how would this
bring down the rates of those exotick impertinences ! how many thou
sand hands employ ! how glorious to our Prince, when he should be

hold all his subjects clad with the production of his own Country, and

the people universally inrich'd, whilst the Specie that we now consume

in lace and point, or export for foreign silkes, and more unserviceable
.stuffs, would by this means be all sav'd, and the whole Nation unite as

one to  the heart of  their Sovereign, as to  a provident and indulgent
Father                and Plenty, with the    Love and Prosperity of a.
        ! If Riches
People, be the glory of a Prince, and the nerves of a State : if all other

considerations be noyse and empty shadows ministring only to Lux, and
the vanity of a few young insignificant triflers, whose brains are as trans

parent as their clothes ; what are those arts which a Prince should cul
tivate, but by exorcising these apparitions and fantosmes of a Court

and Country, procure the establishment of what is material and most
perfective of those solid blessings. With what facility this may be
effected, our illustrious Charles will one day shew his contemporary

Monarchs, by provision of such sumptuary and other wholesome Lawes

for the publick, and making such a collection of vertuous persons to

dispense them, that as his Court shall be the universal Idea for the rest

of the Princes to reform by, so shall his People and the whole Nation
become the envy of the World for their felicity.

  Were I the Censor for regulation of this excess, I should recommend

the best and most commodious habit, and calculate for the several,
meridians and degrees of the wearer. There may be much said (I con

fess) concerning customs and opinion, which render all things support
able ; but we in this Nation can plead neither of these for our fantas
            OF FASHION, BY JOHN EVELYN.                          /
                                                                        751

tical and often changes ; if 'tis true they have prevailed amongst us,

let us remember whose act it is ; Meddle not with those who are given
to change. We have suffer'd enough by these Lunatics, and been

brought to nothing but our inconstancies, which however allowable in
the weaker, becomes not the viriler Sex ; 'twas yet not ill observed of
Sir Philip Sydney that Ladies, though they were naturally afraid of a

Sword, were yet soonest in love with the men of Iron, whose shape is
the most unalterable of all the metals, and the noblest emblem of

constancy.

Behold we one of our Silken Camelions and aery Gallants making
his addresses to his Mistress, and you would sometimes think yourself

in the country of the Amazons, for it is not possible to say which is
the more woman of the two coated Sardanapalus's. But how may we

remedy this ? Shall we descend to some particulars ?

  I would choose the loose Riding Coat, which is now the Mode, and

the Hose which his Majesty often wears ; or some fashion not so pinch

ing as to need a Shooing-horn with the Dons, nor so exorbitant as the
Pantaloons, which are a kind of Hermaphrodite and of neither Sex:
and if at any time I fancy'd them wider, or more open at the knees for
the Summer, it should be with a mediocrity, and not to set in plaits as

if I were supported with a pair of Ionic pillars, or the gatherings of

my Grandames loose Gown. I would neither have my Dublet or my
Skirts so short as if I were to represent one of Sir John Maundevile's
Dobys, whose eyes and mouthes are in their shoulders and breasts ; nor
again so long as to act Francatripe in the Farce. I would not conceal

the shape of a well proportioned leg under a Hoop and Canopy, be
cause some bow-legg'd Monsieur would disguise his deformity to the

reproch of Nature. Are our Knees, like Esops Pots, afraid of justling
because of the same frail metal ? I am neither fond of the round

hoofe, nor of the long shoes, but for that which best fits my foot, and

is most easie ; and had rather have my Last a little too wide, then to
make it a Case for my Almanack, which I will sooner wear in my
pocket then in my stockings.   Slender feet are  for the Queens
And for those who delight to  be awak'd by the   Corn-cutter.    of China,

                                                                 I like the

noble Buskin for the Legs, and the Boucle better than the formal Rose ;
and had rather see a glittering stone to hasp it there, than the long

cross hilted knots now worn, because 'tis more glorious, and like that
Manucodiata which Queen Elizabeth tyed there at an audience of a
Muscovite Embassador (who had stuck one in his Hat), shews a kind
of contempt of riches.

   The wisest and most healthy of the Ancients went continually bare

headed ; so Masinissa, Caesar, so Hannibal us'd to go : But when I
must be cover'd, I infinitely prefer the Buchingamo or Montero lately

reform'd, before any other whatever, because it is most manly, usefull

and steady. I have heard say that when a Turk would execrate one
753 .           ON TYRANNY OR FASHION.

that displeases him, he wisries him as unstable as a Christians Hat;

and in effect 'tis obseiVd that no man can so plant it on another man's

                                                         nor
head but the owner do's immediately alter              it                 ever certain.
                                                          it,

                                                                 is
                                                                      is
                                                                         it

                                                                                                  :
All that can be reply'd in its behalf is, that shades the face but so
would a Tuft of Feathers in the Montero, which light and service

able when the sun hot, and at other times ornamental.
   would neither have my Band so voluminous as a Frokitis Nigkt-if
I          I

raile, nor yet so strait and scanty as a Negro's collar in short, wish:I it, if is
                                                              if ;        ;I
                                   it                             a it :    if

                                    I
any thing might supply that were not made of Hemp and for that

piece of wainscot which supports about our necks,                         be too high,
                                       it

                                                    ;
the man looks as he were impaled and had swallow'd stake                                             too

low, as the Doublet were borrowed at least wish that part were
                                                         I

defended with something less rigid than past-board and the Cravet
                                                             ;

                                                                     if

did still succeed there would be no misse of the other. To cover all

with two words  like the stately and easy Vest within doors, and the
Cloak without. In summe, affect whatever comely, and of use,
                                                         is

and to that would be constant, choosing nothing that should be ca

pricious, nothing that were singular, and therefore have made this col

lection out of all for seeing we are oblig'd to none, we injure none,
                is ;

                  if

                                                                   is

                                                                 I

                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                                   a
and since there so much variety, our choice the freer. Mode

Tyrant, and we may cast off his government without impeachment to

our Loyalty. But we will rather expect (and which most approve
of) the injunction of our Superiors for this regulation also, we shall do
wisely, and best avoid the censure. Those who follow'd the great Alex

ander held indeed their necks awry, because he most inclin'd to one
   ;
                                                                      ;

                                                    I

                                                                              a
                                                                                                     it

                                                                                                                             is
side and when his father Philip wore a fillet about his forehead for a

wound which he had receiv'd, all the Court came abroad with the like
till the cure was compleat but we have
                                                       Prince whose shape

elegant and perfect to admiration, so as know not whether there was
ever upon the throne a personage who had lesse need of Art to render

him more graceful, and whose mein makes all things to become him,

and therefore certainly (of all the Princes of Europe) the most fit to
give the standard now to the Mode we next expect, and that not only
to his own Nation, but to all the World besides.

Note.  --      Nee affectatce Sordes,  nee exquisites Munditice           Cravett,
           that this was publish'd          years before the Vest,
                                       2

                                                      &
Garters & Boucles came to be the fashion, therefore might haply
give occasion to the change that ensued in those very particulars.
              INDEX

                                                  TO THE

      DIARY AND LETTERS

                                                           OF

              JOHN EVELYN.

Abbeville, 41. Abbot, an eminent scri                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           II.VfdEoaianrlmsrc,lesno&zfi,nac,-a,3n319773,7o,.p4e13r3ASa3.n.,ge1Ai6onA5nj1no,ig,ul,e3Ss:i0eDga;un,knaerm,Vbaohalfcsi,ssnatpmgiaee-,rr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to Charles     367.                                         Queen),
  poA&ivH1aneser6ccog6ir6neg.du'.9esiotr.lnraeFsn,hrat,,3ito3aom6e,0ufa5r,Li7s,loy,beop,5yrn34ld7a,41a0M3y17t6..,,.05rL04.i.5e.3AAA89uEdgb60tvAsAa,.b.ecdtobloedytdoAms/,nrEef,yd,bAts,vnt,sb&he5aepMe7nc,s.5.tSru..Tuhter,ocroiersruuAswet1rHhpc7yieoeot60,oiru.uosf,sKspn,DtFii7intAic.r42vo1gsbas7ef,l,,,.,  Anne, Princess  (afterwards                                             477, 493,
  4obd43na3is6.,nt.roi,33b84uAs4tt.g.oioumnMebA3,s>ioxcuf,or(Aef1in6gtH6oo5broP),a,rrora4d0v3t3u3ei6is,n. ,c4aeA3n,3Sidr.t,.7CA0eWui,xdrpoi,7aer1Rmkr. isomyeAaaontfllt,-,,                                                                                                                                                                                                      marriage, 406,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      561 ; her  Lady Marl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       dismiss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                III.536, 538, 535,550,                                                                                                                                                  _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                467 ; refuses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                &bCc$oac9rt,oh;ue5gedSnhr4at,el;,r5gt4ao58i8en5s;e, diWn5, Silw8pli.rahomecnesQsuioenernet,ocoaSnttc.OilexPdfaourltd'os,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Antenor, founder of Padua, inscriptions to,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                °1f6t5.533A- ntiAchnrtiosnt,inuosn,                              final destruction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the       Aurelius, column
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               singer, 148. Ant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of, 137. Antonio Marc,
Alb1e3m3-arle, George Monk, Duke of,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            werp, visit to, 34, 35. Apennines, passage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PoMvared.ru, aE,v15e51l,y6n91.,56.3'6A1Ap. poAolopngpiuiyas,n   Peter,  bust of, at
a9», ^94, 301, 3°3- 3°4, 3o8, 311, 3»3. 3*5,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   for the  King,' by
339, 330, 437, 443. Stays in London                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     its extent,
during the Plague, 1665, 309. Appointed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Way,
AJbGGDueaurlntlyeec,orhanl,vfliealle1tat6,8S7ae3,ta1,,35,1&3034c.13.4. .31A0.SlchoarVraeinct,oofrwyarioSttvpeeanrntisohhne                                                                                                                                                                                      AbAPISiarraOacrn,a,lClJeioch?leoa3lrin.so, efso,cafAh,nqucasurictecaachnptotueu,enonfdwt,oefiat,nohtt6fe0m,Rs.ooommdtAeoee,rwr,cnnh,94it06be.1oyc,f,tuEA4rvr6e8ae3,5..
a sheet of calico,  33A0l.exaAnlddeorbranIdIIi.ni,                     Car
dinal, 145, 146.                                                     Pope,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      lityti,nne,7,333e0:p0i,Mgr7.a0m5D;'Aodnvi,irlee1cr6t'8isonnwsooterak. boounAt,rgibryeulpie.r,inMAtiarnegr-
a3d3p458taaf548in.,CD,t4ioun51rlg6wrA35e,li.lgce4rhie3sot3s,Arp,elfel5opeec1ua,nt5nii,n.ndtDgeAiCn,rdlga.l,e1ps1byt43y.nb.,7y,0S,,E3iArd85l3a6wle7,.Ta6g.8r,r,d0iA,,3,3l4ln0A1iCn4o,no,g,tlolt3e31on04g3ni6o33e,,,,
APL5p0otlrat1erh,nadoct,rahp,e,Ar16l15la51g,LaoSi3ronA5dus4lptl-ss'rS,euAgnjiColcdluoiiexdrlrln,eelaesg,nyeDd,3ro'3.sv9e.3rP0,seA0e1t.lale8it5nr,,--gAt3o4l1o89nS63i,9s,,.                                                                                                                                      Ar3lqci0nuu6gtise,todo3n,f,,"4,72L943.o81,r6d,3,530»36;7,8h,3is33o7r,9e,3b33e8*3l.l,io3n339,96-,437347051;.,  exe

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              304,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              347.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                348, 350, 352, 353. 354. 357, 358, 363. 3*8,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                371. 373. 374. 375.378, 450. (Lord Cham-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                berlain),389, 390, 391, 396,411,413,451,468,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                662; rebuilt Euston church and parsonage,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ar3rlia9n3cgt;etsore,na,3t 9C6ato;uEndutiseetdossna,   R39o4m, a3n96C;atlhifoeliacn, d                         cha
Am5b4a*s. sadors, French and Spanish, en                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of, 296, 37a, 442,                                      487.
counter between, 377, 378. Amber, spider                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ArmSoirurTer.,,                          Sir      Nich., 445,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               execution,                                      449,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      his
inclosed in, 434.   Amboise,    Castle of,                           i863j,,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    496, 504.                                                                                                     536.
                    Library   at Milan,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Armstrong,                                                                                                    458,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                55a Army, rebel, 1648, 196, 197 ; Parlia
64.   Ambrosian     Vincenzo, architect, 138.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ment's firmness in                                    al£Binm1id2si,htiSon5up1gr9s,r.,ey5Ai6,7r81rT3.a,hno,5sA1.Cr7no. oEuAlandtrr, l-
183.  Ammanati,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 brewer, against the

A7A3mmsp; theiortdhf aemaVte,rsepavasitsiaitVni,etno9n,7e,3; 76,a9t  ; at Perigueux,                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ran, Lord, 437, 485,
                                                                       Verona, 178.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ess, 703. Arundel

                                                                     28. Anatomy,
schools of, at Leyden, 30; at Padua, 169,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   39, 170, 175, 178, 181 ; his
Xxd27ox44yv0.n.iie.).44A557n«.Acbh4boA6ro8n,t*demrAosefno,tngh,eo3ldi7Sc.oir,oRfAiacncphdao.rs,tethiwn4esg4c,1a.ry(A,lAicpnto.s-,f                                                                                                                                                                              of, 34,  3&1,c3,6.68327. ,  Arundel, Hn. Fred. Earl,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                medals,                                                200. Arundel, Lord,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Hen. Earl, 1680,435.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Worksop manor, 175.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                48-and Countess, 1649,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,(*77, 37*.    Arundel,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Arundel,     Earl, of
754 INDEX.

Arundel of Wardour, Lord, 1660, 362;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BcvfltfsgVb3aLnahooco5o7olomeirrIuwSi0orddIrtd,l..,,tp.BH,i,C5,tCoH7ooaLBa19dAsro2sap4-re,lpd9tu1eddillci1m.lseiytiu2atn,ae,,Bm0icnal.r32,ec3aBl.3,i4d0llBo9c,ic2T0fb.n,lg5oo5,or2emBar,ao,Dd5vre3eBrm6d,c433ryls6elne6.9s:is,,,nm6,9Eontboi.,a2sou,ba,35,r5rfo0nl60y1SG.sS,35Cd,4oto,.iiaC0ee,of.nt,3daBnvuc510er2naBeetS5d4e,7na5ed3U..2.,n,.btld,eliwMya,in311n,,rKS534tB^fBh0l80.c6.re.Se.te1.yloantan,.oensdeBtBBfp,vB,idDcev'ewn1eoiddonci9r.Jfn,,--,-t,.-
1664-- 1685, 296, 353, 357, 470; released,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 . cf2MRih9ri1rcos..ths,eanBrb,dBoo.oey5krl5esk55ee5l5ll;lee,erylc,e,t5tu5teG87rre,1es6ro.,5rt6go49,e4,B,97e,521r76sk,0t5e,47lE8e37,ay71,r.3l5.,5S17B=i^r;5e2C4$nah.;tgaalaetsohvyiine.,,
Aru4°n3d,e4li?a8n :  i°87. Privy Seal, 506.
                     Library, obtained by           Evelyn           for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3Jl2FILeun8r°oydda79rgin,idaoec-,f2,em49S,55bat7,or43n.a5m8,t163tb41,.o56san8,u6r>,Ld9nam5J4kod.3,5eh5y5n9,n5*tBB54Lee54obr.5rBkyrkde,ee; ,lrlBeek5yA3eys55-rh,m8k3Ci.re.4bae5lsea,8tyBBs.le-seEe,arHraBdkkoeoreeuFllrrel.eskyaoeeyt^tfo,,t,
Royal Society, 320, 402. Arundelian Mar
bles, obtained for University of Oxford,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     y
by Evelynt332,342. Ashley, Lord, 1671-2,
{telb5ESeoi16xibaia5g5rrer4nr.nnac,leyJruoy3y.ot6MAs.nef3L,sd.u.oS&h,sruunedc31fruuAf,7,6som7m9stl-41,2hkb,,01'mes70S,5,r;oAi42rlt3522ehto.348e.fWi,0s,0r,b,E.Acur3l42oise4r0a59ihy7dn066s,,u,s1.u,,,rc3sDe9£3t5662Ad,7r69,7u,.883.,.,d.S4r45i54er8780.7yAA2AH2..ss,teAhhkEntim4AvnnorA8eysnudo0tr,,,--,;
mis, Lacus               (Naples), 130. Auger, Sir
Anth., 331.          at    Augustus' aqueduct, 1 19;
Temple of,                Puteoli, 182 ; Mausoleum at
Rome, 200. Avignon, 70. Aungier, Lord,
341, 400.             Aureltus, Marcus, statue       of, 116.
Aurum             Potabile, prepared by M.          Roupcl,
226. Ax tall, regicide, executed, 268.
Aylesbury, Earl of, 437, 525. Ayscue, Sir
George, taken by the Dutch, 314.

BawvLRcoaokannmhrddnoa,oiu,nns3s,ep,9,a31i.n16W39ti74ni,,Blglaia1s5d35me05b,.n,y,,1483BP98:n.0,r.gin1lic3Boe6aBn. keae,cLroBe,Cnwaa,iiMwvsaSrli.o.ro,ffG,EEtihdpoien-                                                                                                                                      Be3r4noin- i, sculptor  1oa5f2,n,dac3a0ti3rv.cehiitnBeecthrt.teiec9,3o,Mn0srp9.i,,ra13cx0y32,..

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           sB°ei*rwilc3k5,.   N81
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Duke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LibJ5gt1SBaou46riincraie39rkers.6e'Tye,e,h,rseMdBm5tOoa0aieeb4uJpxftt.l.,hhaoeoiln,loldui,qBfSsEuc,iR2onrve3ogfe,03blCp.ri6seil4d,ahr7.gty2B3,ei0Mn8i..b39Bg9Sl.i,i9ea.X,4,>B1B4irPain.40li,olnc1.ia.lkdBayregnBodrBleisdtolBuoc,lltsnedoid,oittata,tdPaen,oucMHrkl2pter2iouhsds4C-...
ping Forest, 343, 440. Baker, Capt., at
tempted the North-west                             Passage,
Baldarius, Andrea, 108.                         Ball. -Sir       390.

                                                             Peter,
pB3r8aoand.curcoBtfitao, lnlesB,p.oP,f.,.hig7s9if,ltib8tr1oa, rRy8o,ay,'2a4l01.5S2.oBcaienBtdayi,nnkc3l9li4o,.f
England established,                                        Banks,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cDtoorl.lMe, cotnaioegnya,inBisnitll,SPta.copJanistmetsset,s'sa50b4Po.autr,k,B5ir37d084s..,  BRiorychal,
Sir John, an opulent     556, 55H,                  568.       Ban-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Biron*
                         merchant,                    390.

Sutaentsintegd-,hoRuosme,anaumcetidoanls,of&p*icc,tufroeusndat,ne5a53r,.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lord, 317. Newstei.d Abbey, 236.                                                          of tbe
359. Baptism,            private, without                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bishops, inattentive to the interests
censured, 533.           Baptist, Signinr           necessity,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             church    apt ettihteionRJeasmtoersatiIoIn. ,                                                the   six
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bishops                                        ag3a63ins: t                                   his  de
                                                    John, mu
fs1oi6cr2,i.an7,3B9a4, r5b97a,3d04.o63e.sB, acBroaantras,pridiureasfe,ccytNsoicfin,neeagdrrcouhecsiateticaottn,,
,093, 55i. Barberini, Card. F., his cour                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   claration for liberty of             conscience,                                             ca5l1le5d;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           sent to the Tower, 516;              trial, 517;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           upon to reconcile matters on the expected
BacMBtrellaaosoryynwg,s,r.at,oJvoB4ehp9E,5n.n,.D,glri2s.h3,h0ims,36e53n.' 9,I9c,oB1na03r43i,l3Al,,n12i13m193,64a.,r1u43mB54.a1.",rilBl32o2aPn34r,..                                                                                                                                                        invasion,                             ; Bishops  and                                         Convo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           cation at         v1a6rHia8,nc5e2,1  1701, 582.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Blackheath,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             c5a41BmB.llepaatahBwtwl,,aac1ikt0Mew7,3ra,.l3M,l.'7r32.;D,9r.Sf.a,eicrBBrloeoentyna.lhrey1e6li1em*a3c.,t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           . 1690, 441,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           turer,
Barlow,            Francis, painter,            Ch38a2r,les42I8I,.,  598.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  War,    560.
Barlow,           Mrs., Mistress of                                  201,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          511.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           thanksgiving for the victory of, 588. Blots,
482. Baronius, Caesar, 124. Barrow, Dr.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   town, 6cc., 62, 63. Blood, Col. (who stole
sermon            byB, art3h8o2l.omeBoa, rthSoiglonmiore,o,mupsiicctiuarne,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the crown),                            Bloomsbury Square,
by, 221.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   building of,         353.            Blount, Sir Henry, 36a.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Blount, Col.,     302.
412, 432, 470. Bartholomew Fair, 156.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        339, 345,246, 252,262. Bobart.
Basil, Council of, original                          acts of, 230.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         olb4BtMQiuvfo1aur,tit'stnoe,ah2.gren3u4n0ir3sE.tgsotnvoit,v,fe'e,s3MBlny46o28n4re..ls5het-,;igEmoaBvfyDcouBe,ybrdnlo.yy7l,eiens3rtiM3-'oaa2sl.e,ln0r,-9.Ds5.L2oBuE8in8b8ocv,3rBh,e.a;uol3ryhn0yfnco8Re,,h,,rmotaMcih5fri3uiaau8rc2r1,.cnai6,ot,,teEs;ioLri3Dltnie5iDzesr0a.ors,.,:..,f ~
Basire, Dr. Isaac, 280, 289.                         Bassompicre,
Mons. de,            hBisathp,alaGcere, n4v2il.le,  Bath, visit to,

1654, 329.                                           Earl of, 272,

39°. 398,            4B37a*th4, 4»K,nig4*h5t,s  4<>8,478, 511, 540,
                                                 of, ccremoniesof,
566, 582.            Bathurst, Dr. Ralph, 313, 326,
1661, 272.
333, 38l, 384, 588, 648, 74a-
BaEy.n,ar3d3s2.,  sLapaBtoderyatE,slwe,ha2tu4D2rrs.d.te,,sclBer2etibt5aee2ur.df,otor,Bt,3a64y55nD2. .tuoknBe,BeeaaSourfi,-r                                                                                                                                                                                &c.  of,  31.BolBooglnoag,naJo, hBnalddai,sssacudlip, tpuareintibnyg,
  garden,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  by,  94.

   champ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  43. 81, 82.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bologna, buildings and curiosities of, 155.
440, 447, S77. Beaumont, poet, 695. Beck-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BoTscna, Lake of, 85, Bombardment, a
                                                                           - INDEX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                755

ToceEbrfxrhyIu,irpno.ee,at.tls,rthi2ems30oPp96efea0.nfcr,iiitcress4els,a2B9som.s2oooia0cftfd9hseB.,wLoocanLneurBnonfpdoaesoroorudnsnerk,,e,,sHde3o,551l7l04m32e97,.rm.s15;5,4e0.sB.Btt,ohohcneBreBogdioirrnoh,mvoelebotsSrhsneseis,,rt,-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Br3T6Cou3Cin077chfor71g.oeuo.hhw,n:.iam,cnBhmLi,B,3luio,s5.rc5r4o9k0dd33wG9h6;e8,1enu,a:ho,r1t4:sih.6hs3t4Lim,Vs9,caaiaund;lDHs2rdyTidit4cs,oere6rpfserbsu,aia2t,tnosti42secef5u1fhsri4ot,rra,hese.w3letsr,32i,,n464TBD.g063rr.u77i6un6kt0so;Bei4s,t:r.eycolfulerowsoHit,fotnB,moeg,uu3ri2usc5tS4tmehk--o5i,er,.
Card. 146, 15a. Borghesi, Villa, 98, 144.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Buckingham, second Duke, 201, 230, 301,
Borromeo, Cardinal, his munificence, 180.
Boscawcn,  Mr.,        483 ; his daughter,
Boscawen,  Mrs.,       40a ; her daughter,                                 568.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  337,354,360,412; his 'Rehearsal 'performed,
                                                                           58s.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  c3BB6huu1edlsl;as.M,hoistrfh.,,gailn0aF3ks.ts»Ks,g-.wSi5vo0-i,n1r.kg2,753oB.9nu2B.ctuhkBeloeun,ccaaSkrpoiinrttgtuCihr,hearMmiosif.,c,,h2D5a50eu93l..
Boucharvant, Abbess of, 211. Bouillon,
Duke and Duchess of, T42. Boulogne,
4M1o. ns.B,ouprobrotnraiIt'ArocfhaMmrbs.auEt,ve6l7y.n  Bourdon,
                                                        by, 199,
Bo43By51ol2e8y.,,le2,2RBaiocHwhoaynBre.dor,,uRrsSoefibrisre,sErtt6d,9..,E2a54r2B6l6,o. wo2fl6e1s,C, oS2r6ikr7,,Jo27h17n71.,,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Angclo, architecture of, 86, 90, 93, 94. 06 ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ptuarien,tin&gcs.,,7592,,81f0,6,10131, 5,10171, 9,io1S5,3,14506, 6      ; sculp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        153, 153,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 154, 512. Burial in churches, censured,
285,    2e0le9c, te3d89,Pre5s2i2d,en5t40o;f  experiment                    by,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5hl2Di34tnsr20g...,toHni4BBs,0utu,SrrE,lleeaoiigrg4flh1h7-,toohfn;,eC-t1ehER6cev8ei-8le,hf.loiylrlnLm,4o5ar1dt,c2i,oo35n6n2,,3t2r9.5ib8:47u2.Btl7eeu;dtrtBneeurhsttri,os,
284 ;                                         the Royal                    So
ciety, 422 ; letters to,                ; his death,
Bp. Burnet's sermon            605      his funeral,                       547                                                                                                                    ;
   particulars of                                                           ib.                                                                                                                   ;
   iLvelvn to Mr.              at                                          Mr.
Boyle Lecture,     phWriemaocthtceoornsm, m7e1ul4enc--itce7ad1t,9e.d&bcy,
                                                                           548,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jerettaecrhibnugr,nt  4oGb3f5yraS, nuthgr5ree2e,9y,h,4a05n4a65g.92m,. aB5n7Bu.7ury5r;t5o9p.nSa,t.stMBoEurrda.r,l
555- 55**. 563; settled in perpetuity, 565.
Boyne,    battle of,                         BracUhaw,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ton, Sheriff
George,   of Balliol     540, 541.           Bradshaw                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of Hanson
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 munds, 393. Bushcll's wells at Enstone,
                       College, 20.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              399. Butler, Mrs., 1674, 381.
(regicide), 20, 1Q7, 200, 207, 223, 271.
Bramhall, Abp. ,       266,                  Bramstonc, 203.
Bramstone, Mr.,          171,  498.          336. Branden-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Caen, 55, 56. Caesar, Augustus,    666. Cagliari,
                                  193,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P.mlo. s3, 53, 153, ifi't 167  Calais, 40, aoi.
burgh, Duke of, his present to the Royal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Calchography, History of,       285. Calista,
Society,               the Queen, 1693, 434,
Brandon,  41L0o1rdto,   trial and pardon of,                                554.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 comedy    Coeofd,liltepigoeenrfso, rom2f3e91d, 092a54t,0.co5u6Cr0t.a, m3Cd8ea0.mn'soCmaBmirlei
Bray, Sir Ed.,         252. Breda, ship of                                 493.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  bridge,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tannia,
                                                                           war,
blown up, 542. Brederodc, family of, 31,
BrtoOBBbMtsozSveoie8rfyfa;rtr$l,i6rrmixolJ,s,esa,.,.,Cbn,2tt3bnEa.h0o4M,l12d5a3niaB5l98c.o,.DCnoe468rrhn,eo0.lc,,r2es.enl.B2.os.1,B,39t,rf9tfr,5teBev8MoeoB;4.u3r4irr2uc,,irr6d3gSnW7ag.i19,hl,t9drh3l..3.Bee,,l7^ebeVlonl2s0o,l2yadi,8fhP,,BnBf,t2Jea,Wtrco,r3oleu3PeeeAhJo398aavl2etn8,d9n0ta8kemtot4.,m4eg,t'n.fso(e,prntV4in;,sr,a3e7D,eaB,R8i8Dlnelra.rovt2..eittllycrde8dain,.nkB0tWgne,Rgg,B,rcrgBiiaoes,rmnm7ui4rilrsb4gepae2dpacb.a7ehhbguiianl,narte,yegi,,a,nd,,hBmEtt43o1eBriiar5o37Sn5inrlepsne9)125ng,i,-.,.*,r..  flowers, fumes of, for headache, 199. Can,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nCDiacr.ep,,el4,1567L7..ordC,Caatnnrnitaeolrnba,nudrryedmeCaaatrhkt,haeb1dl6er4a9ol,,neig3«8a,,t  Ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   303.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   199,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 263, 415. Capel, Sir Hen. (Lord Capel of .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tewksbury), 328, 402, 407, 451, 4B3. S'4i

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ca--5p-»e98l0,lu. 5s5,4C- Maponrasr.o, la5,34p.alaCcaepoitfo, l21a6t.  Rome, 88
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Caracci,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Agostino, gallery painted by, 86. Caracci,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Annibale, 91, 137, 156,   166, 270, 277. Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 racci, Ludovico, 156.      Caravaggio (Poli-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 mchEfdnuoaocaearmrlrlpolr.ltepphorECl,reafo,aaninjlrc2e,dlr0caeLo0otr,aoeffa,tdrh)i2dc,oi9mrn,b7e9.y1a2oa,7t,fs0,io5C11A22n3,am5749r28..oib1ifn;,a. gCsC1Cfs9aaooCa6rrru.dladdirsori,tglnreC,aao,anrLf2vr,oM9eHor1wnuod.B,,sw,rcuMCaEondvraaeredy.rrw-,,l
283, 398, 399. Bristol, Countess of, 406,
Br4o1dari,c4k4,7,Si£rIQA.lan, 382. Bromley, Mr. John,
house   at Horschcath, 347. Brompton
Park,   rare plants in, 556.                  Bronzini, Ag-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of, 191.      Carnivals,  QatueNenapolefsG, eo1r2g5e ;II.a,t
nolo,   paintings by, So, 153.                 Brook, Lord,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rome,     141. Caroline,
        Brook, Lady,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             338. Carshalton, 259. Carteret, Sir Geo.,
2134.    first President  2o2f7.the          Brounker, Vis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       201, 266, 289. 293, 354, 504.
                                             Royal Society,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cartwright, CoL, 555- Cartwright, Archdea
count,

BrtS3oMBe8i*rmr7ron.pwA,b.mHinsSe,E,binrlr2io.Sz,9sR.i5eri,c&,3Ah352d7a4J42a,ra1d,mc,4,230,,5918A8,44.,m3048426b.B15,a.4r4so,s7w7a5B1nd,5r,o.5or8wS5i.ntrBo,RroF--iBcurrhan,oankw6rce8dner2,,,,.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 bcDorrno.t,hoDef reSato.nfALlobofardnR'siFp.aollknibl,arna5dr0y,1,.8561.C7 arCCyaa, rrtyPw,artiMgrihrcstk,.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 251. Casaubon, Isaac, hints for treatise * De
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Baculis' left by, 659, 660. Casaubon, Dr.
father-in-law to Evelyn, 195, 202, 205, 206,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Meric, correspondence with Evelyn, 659,
213, 214, 316, 223, 224, 270, 336, 384; his                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      660,661,670. Cashiobury,4i5. Castcl Fran
sduispappoprot inotfedtheofCthhuercwhardwehnilsehipaborofaMd,cr2t6o5 n;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          co, Geo., 160. Castel Mcllor, Count de. 399,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4tl8e0m. ainCea,stLleahdayv,en3,35L.ordC,at4, 37si,ng4u42la.r          Cas-
ColJcje, 176; resigns the clerkship of the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              kind
756                    - · - INDEX.

(probably the Mocock), 352. Cats, on the                                                                                                                   eLCsixohteiraedcrsut,,st5e4o0d04f,6,th55;6e359C.B,hr5iaCt4ihw7sa,hor6rt9tceh3or.a.hsotCDu, hsr4ae.,3r,8n.2oL9oc4kCn.,ndaoRwnoCo,bhrete7hr4at,1p,. ·
sight of, 654. Catanea, earthquake at
    <»093). 553, 704-
Catharine (Queen       of Charles                 II.),          448; her                                                                                  Cross,
   a3oola7nnrnr3idvCt;,hahelba5,ixrrl6Tte2h.hsSda'4samy;de,hesae1tr6ihn7,p3e,4h6ros71no7, 0on4u,6;r9218o;658fs,4t;,a3yp54s7r6o0i;cne;tsoEgsinlrieoigetn,f  family,     London,         BudrreoswtroyGerdee, n,393. 46.
Cathedrals, notices of, in England, 38, 339,                                                                                                                           seat at                                          Cheeke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Chel
                                                                                                                                                                       C4o0l7le. g4e4,7,pr4is8o3n;erwsatoefr-wwaorrkcso,nfin5e1d7.
                                                                                                                                                           sea, 406,
                                                                                                                                                           Chelsea
                                                                                                                                                           at 3°3 '· given to the Royal Society, 384 ;
                                                                                                                                                           purchased to erect the Royal Hospital 428,
*$*, 333.234,237,238. Abroad, 44, £5, 76,                                                                                                                  4393,9,4>4,337,o.433,C4h3e5s.terfCiehledn. eyE,arLlorodf,,  and
8L3a,te1r4a9n, ,18100;4--St1. 0P6e. teCra'su, a1M01a--la1t0a4,;   St. John                                                                                                                                             315,   son,
                                                                 statue of,                                                                                414. Chichley,              Sir Thomas, 315, 317,                  341,
                                                                                                                                                           Chi flinch, Mr..            King's closet-keeper,
166. Cave, Dr., 414. Cedar of Bermuda,                                                                                                                                                                                        347.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              280,
                                                                                                                                                           614. Child, Sir Jos., his great wealth,
Jti,6ClRo7hot4am, redt,ioCnt}e, ,1s3Sa41ri.4re6,J.oGChhiunaCs,meesp4btp1oiu9eu,s,r,g4p,5Ca3,i,pn4ati5tlnao5gcm, se,b45o69of,0,f,,5960a2a2t,.,
                                                                                                                                                           Ch4i3n9a.,  curiosities from, 396 : account of, by
                                                                                                                                                              Mr.      Vandcr Douse, translated by Evelyn,
                 599. Charcnton, Protestant                                                                                                                p6bCCC1irhhhni5durre.iigrssscettChmio.nh,faai 2,sOst4hw0xeD.efQolalVru,ydeeC,,Mnehone2rrb3t.i,sis1at.eobn'rsfovCoaSlHhaknwrdsocieeiesseldtplspeei,tCrrnao,o,l1h,l76lie3b331gi.22t.e5e8,2,dCC,,Chh4a52ro*0i2mps346t-,,.
509,
church     Uats,es5,2&; cm, oinnuqmuireynt                        Cha
ritable                                            at, .202.
                                                  respecting,      286,
" 287. Charles, ship, 1 10 guns, launching of,
    335*
           I.,  rfeStiu, rn196f,ro2m36,th3e38N, o2r9t0h,;  procession,                                                                                     336, 3(4. Chrysostomon Education, trans
Charles                                                     and to the
    1640,  on
Long Parliament, 6 ; on proclamation of                                                                                                                    lated by Evelyn, 256,
peace, 1643, 33 ; murder, 197 ; paintings,&c,                                                                                                              alteration in, 240.                  358.   Church -anisic,
dispersed, 298; statues thrown down, 200;                                                                                                                                                                of England,
                                                                                                                                                                                               Church
                                                                                                                                                           collection for persecuted ministers, 1658,
prayers used on his martyrdom, altered,                                                                                                                    357 ; private tast by, 1659, 262 ; state of,
  II.I0S9, 528: Stephens's sermon, 576.                                                                                                                    under the Commonwealth, 593, 594, 613 ;
                                                                                                                                                             ocGcCoonehnlnluTet.rrrc,ocatviLhjoaeiinelrnlsu,'yostfScroiooarflfruTitmWoiPewniasn,e,psrit&,s5at0ncs55,,.216.wC479ii4ta0Ch..ch,ounrCic6uh1hsi6,ull,.rncoh6M1tiel7rls,.,
Charles ,201, 217, 253, 358,313,368,369,411,                                                                                                               Cicero's tomb, 122, 123, Clancarty, Earl of,
461 ; letter in defence of,                       303 ; declaration
to Parliament, and their                          address to, ib. ;
return to London,                    M36o5 rl;eyEvperelyvnio'sus
spondence with Col.                                               corre
Rhaelsl,to2r0a5tio; nt,ouc5h0e4s ;                                to the
to Parliament, 266                   entertained at Guild
                                     for the      evil, ib,                                                                                                  aC5Ct/ll,a9arn,enr5,io4c2tai.Vcrder.,d,C, laL2n4o11c6r,ad, r,tf2y132,.72.3C.ouCCnllCaatlrreaeesp,shaHoLmfa,oi,r5l,d4h,ao,Cua27s13me64s..
                                     ; Peers      created        ;bysp, e&ecch,                                                                            Clabrreidngdeo,n,24E0.dward Hyde, Earl of, lot, at©,
as3a7ni2dlin; dge-cmcolraaotrncehastiohbneist,wien3e7tne3n;tbiooonpatesntsoofmPhaairsrliraaymn, de2n7t5ht,e;
Dcoumkme eonf dYsorEkv'se, ly3n77s      in danger at
                                     ;  writings, and            sea, 286 ;
                                                                  explains
his plan of building Whitehall, 300 ; pro                                                                                                                  270, 285, 208, 316, 325, 327, 588, 622, 623.
rogues Parliament, 1665, 304; visits the                                                                                                                   624, 641 ; attempts to remove him from
                                                                                                                                                           his office  of Chancellor,                                         ; his
fleet, 1665, 307; gracious reception of Eve-                                                                                                               daughter's    marriage to             1656-7,               2o72f  York,
                                                                                                                                                                                               the Duke
,J*lyn after the Plague, 311, 312: orders                                                                                                                  d2M6icr8a. ;tiEoevnleevloyanftehdiimn tosatgattaheie,ns2tP8e7Seor;rabrgeieemr,ea,2rk76s72;0in:vivsleiintts
thanksgiving on fight with the Dutch,
           3in1g4aai;necatiysesnuotmf eststhaeteth,lea3d3Pie1esr,;siga&ancm,hina3gb3i4t,a, t3332h54is;;
1666,                                                                                                                                                      ter to, 662 : portraits worth collecting.
dines                                                                                                                                                                       ; collection formed,                               695 ;
Court,                                                                                                                                                     proposed,   694  the Parliament, 327 :                             Seal*
                                                                                                                                                           impeached    by
grants a lease to Evelyn, other attentions,                                                                                                                taken from him, 331; party in Parliament
      ; project for getting him a divorce, 1669,
337   ; desires Evelyn to write a History of                                                                                                               a434g394ain;; shitni,sju2rc7ioosn,uds3u3c1ct,ha3cr3ogsn,etsr3a3sa3tg,ead6i9n6swt;ithhhiimsth,flaig4t h48to.i,T
344   Dutch war, 345, 348, 351 ; at Newmar                                                                                                                    his supplanters,
the     357 ; at Euston with Mad. Qu^rou-                                                                                                                  Clarendon, Hen.
ket,
                                                                                                                                                              Eari, 3S7, »o8,
nha37iitsl8letCh,; oelu5ib5rR8tr,ayre;4y-a6h2toat,uat4scW6eh7mh;iePtehlnohitsta,ltsloi,4c4kF64nr1ea;9snp,scr4eao2nsfl0digS;adtaceuiyaaartrmhto,,f                                      204.    Cornbury\                 second
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       373, 4*3,
                                                                                                                                                                                       (Lord
                                                                                                                                                                                       313, 3»8. 338, 340,
                                                                                                                                                                       44», 453. 459,   468,   '4M73y. st5e"ry.
463, 464 ; conduct in his last hours, 465 ;                                                                                                                437.         letters to, on  the                      o5f>5Jej s5r3a5t.-
                                                                                                                                                           586 ;       398, 633, 633, 624, 625 : hints for a
character, 465, 466 ; papers proving him a                                                                                                                 ism,'
                Catholic, 488, 489, 685 ; anniver                                                                                                          c4ocu.,rs6e33o,f6s3t5ud; yL,o6r3d0  ; congratulating him,
Roman           his Restoration neglected, 1692,                                                                                                                                               Lieutenant of Ireland,
sary of
        Order of Regicides for                    his apprehen                                                                                                                         his recall, 505, 506, letter
350 ;  and relation of his escape                 from worces*                                                                                             4to8,3,on48a7f,fai4r9s5o;f  Ireland, &c., 685 ; refused
sion                                                                                                                                                       to sit in council with Papists,
  III.ter, 676.                                                                                                                                            dissatisfied at the Revolution,
                 of Spain, in England, 1704,                      587.                                                                                                                                 1688,                  5o*2p :
Charles        VIX.,.,stleatttueres
   Charles                                                        D15r3..,                                                                                                                              6*9:
   Charles                           of,          norse-arms,                                                                                              posed William's assumption of the Crown,
                                      of,  37 ;      Charlton,                                                                                             530; sent to the Gate-house, 1690, $40,
                                            240,
lecture by, 440. Charlton, Mr., his curio
                                                                                                                                                           bailed, 541 : confined in the Tower, 545*
                                                                              INDEX.                                   ,,                                                                                                                   757

m54e4dJalpsearmndittleibdrartyo,  take                     country      air, $*45 ;                        Conway, Lord,    399.        Cony, Mr, 388. Cook,
                                  694,                                                                         Sir Robert,  207.
                                                           695.                                                                         Cook .he regicide exe
                                                                                                           cuted,      2a6Sn3i.reTx.Cc,oeoldlekisnec,toCvseoinrl.yg, ea1rb,0ao,&ut4c5,E4a.2s4tC2,oInc2kd4e9ia,.
Clarendon, Countess, 270, 416, 458, 47a, 480,                                                              Capt,
       53E5a- rl,Clhairsenadcocno,unEt do.(fLoDrednCmoarrnkb, u1r6y8)7,,                                   Cooke.
49°,                                                                                                       l4phIMCCotoa6aoosouitltomnn,is,apetspin4e.n65a,rag74n,lt.6se6,y.,,9L,205o&9C5.3r?6o6dCc.1.r,o,oC. rnotbCcCaomyCrotno,eirboaoranuon9,nt0rpawioy,era,nPoarl9,,nile2doL,HMtfro,c1irHLr4l.dol3,8ae7H,rrl3ndiewC.m.r,rojirjanctmi2.ehtl7Ceibr2n,oau,is4qrCrh2n2yuo8id1e'pes1r,ids,,-.  .
third

J11 ; goes over with some regiments to the
Prince of   Orange, 524.                                   Clarendon    House
built, 298   313, 335, 327;                                 collection  of pic
tures at, 338, 694, 695 ; sold and demolished,
443,            : opinion                               of the house,         note,                                                              is
641,  4481 457  Clarges,                                                448    578.
        642.                                            Sir Walter,     558,    336.
Clarke, player on the Irish harp, 226,                                         pro
Classics, Greek and Latin, Evelyn's
posal for correct editions,                                4F69r49a3.n, c6e4C,5la. y4t9Co3Ina,;udSheii,sr  tone, Dr., of Verona,                  Cosin, Dr., Dp.
Mons., forced to quit                                       Robert, 250, 370,                              of Durham, 20], 314,            178.  293, 337, 431 in
book burnt in England,                                                                                                                     240,        ;
7\, 425. Clayton, Sir                                                                                                                                                ;
                                                                                                           English chapel at Paris, 705, 314 publish
                                                                                                           ing his 'Offices,' ib. on the purchase of
                                                                                                                                        :
                                                                                                                                          ;
375. 3°o. 39*. 39°. 397 ****» 407. 41a, 413,                                                               his library,      220,  60b9isholept,tepreorvne, rtibe,d  Cosin,
5cCu3le6tev, de,,5612D6,u8k.5e79.Colfe, nCc3leh1m., eDnCtlrse.,,ve5rlae2n6g,dic,id5E2e7,a, rle5x4oe7f.,    John, son                                                 to Po
                                                                                                                           of the
                                                                                                           p3hC3ieos5rty,tso,o5nn27,1,47.S,3i6r.162.JCo0o.htCntoCo,not5t,ti4tncgSrteiaorlln,g,RrSeoiabLrteCorGrhtd,r.e,, c33i2a1306n51,,,,
292, 325; Duchess                 IoIf.,                345,  412,      465; Her                                                        ;                                                                                                   430:
children by Chas.                                       359,  368,      391, 498.
Clifden, 4I0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                210.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            316.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            335,
                                                                                                           v61e996ns,;an2M9t,7S, SS6.c1co4.otcllhe,cCtoebvdeublr,nyt,D,6r9.52J.7o6hC. no,ttoC5no6,3v.eLnatdCryyo,,
Clifford, Sir Thomas, afterwards Lord, 301,

325, 357, 358--366, 346, 363,                                 375- 377, 378 j                              tbhraienfkninogticheimof.fo2r3l5ib, eratdydorefscsontoscJiaemncees,                                                              11.,
                                                                                                           Coventry, Henry. 606, 6o«S. Coventry,
Lord Treasurer, exchequer                                     closed by his                                                                                                                                                                 5S71ir.
advice, 363: inclined                                    to Popery,
signs, 373; engaged                                     to the Duke     3o6f4:Yorrek                       William,        secretary    to James,    Duke of Vork,
not to tak<r the test, 374 ;                                his characterand                                                262, 291,   308, 313,    331 letter of,
unhappy death, 325, 374                                    -- 377 ; letters to,                            &c, 303,
         it,
624, 627, 628, 661, 667.                                                                                       639-  Abr.,  393, 395, 331,           70E4 arlleCtotewrpsert)o,,
                      ;                                                                                                        Cowper, Mr.
                             ;                                                                             Cowley,

                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                                                                        (
                                                                                                                                                               :
                                                                                                                                                                  ;
Clocks, curious, 242, 269, 270. Coale, Gre                                                                 326,645,695.
gory* 3a5- Cock, Capt., 301. Coffee intro
duced, 2a Coffee-club, 732. Coin, depreci                                                                  CfloLNooorfarradrdvnEd,yte,ko,,enJ2oec,23phl83ee4,n6rr1,,k,3053,o5563f4.84219G..1,rCe5rCe9esCnr0eiagr.radCmhndltoooboCn'nu.coh,krx,n,o,,2fD7,CD0ra:4.Lr,p9.o,t83r..C,dPor2r,Rao,Cvov42reyo3a8nas0f0t,l-.,
ated state of, 2694, 538 ; difficulties in re                                                              *9}, 377, 391, 483. -Cressy's answer to Dr.
forming         563 new coinage, 1695, ib.
scarcity of, 1696, 565, 566. Coins, ancient col
lections of, 603, 694 Prince Henry's collec
tion, 608. Coke, Sir Edw., 695,699. Colbert,
French ambassador, 325,337, 357. Colches
ter, 248. Coleman executed,                                              Coligni,                          Pierce, 394, 616, 618. Crevecceur, Marquis
assassination of, 114. Collins,                               4D0r5..,  of King's                          de, 210. Crew, Bp.,"Co3, 503,504. Crew,
                                                                                                           Sir Clepesby, 196. Crew, Lord, creation
College, 239.   Collins, Capt., sea-chart                                     IbI.y,,                      of, 196. Crisp, Sir Nich., project of, 345,
438. Cologne,    City of, address Chas.
266. Colone,    Bartolomeo, statue of,                                        168.                             283.        Herbert,    'Naked Truth'                 by, 340,
Colonna.Connestable, 106 wife of Colon a,
                                                                                                           Croft, Dr.      CCrrooftms,weLlol,rd,O2li0v1e,r,3931.96;CrAomctbeo,f
                                                                                                                           330 feasts with Lord Mayor,
'                                                                                                          388,   389.
                    a                                                                                      Col.,    33.

                                               ;
                                                                              n
                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                               ;
                                                                                                                                              ;
573 Vittoria, 668. Colours of the ancients,
684. Columbus, painting of, 462,
CoMmomnesr.c,eForefnEcnhglaanmd,ba6s8saa,d6o8r3,.                                                          Oblivion,
                                                              Comminges,                                   337 prohibits ministers of the Church from
                                                                                                           preaching, Ate., 245 death and funeral,
'Committee,'               play by Sir                        292,      301, 307.                          258, 259, 260; disinterment, 218, 349, 352,
                                                                        Howard,
                                                               R.
090. Compton, Dr.,                                       Bp. of London, 341,                               371, 277, 378. Cromwell, Richard, 360.
332377821>.. 39CCI.4oo3nn9fde»e4d,4e3rPa>rti5ne°cs»,e-     Compton, Sir Wm,,                               CudDCMdorwrron..o,o,Crnat2heh1nu,6,..rDchrDC.C,,rrr.omul,ewsotc4etnea0,u,r0mS.tAioerc,SnaC6atdu1sec5lp.mkinev,ypil5eClde7rr,e9o, .wl3ad0C,C6eo.1rrlo5.,,3yC,dRr4o7eo80nvy01,.,.

                                                        of, 198, 201, 202, 203,
                                                        1689, progress of, 534,
535- Conopios, Nath., a Greek, 20. Con
science, liberty of, proclamation for, in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '! \
Scotland, 168 506; bishops petition the                                                                                    Lord,
king against reading the declaration for,                                                                  Culpeper,       Bp. of      it-, 314, 354.                Cumber-
;                                                                                                          land, Dr.,                3 Peterborough,
                       -,                                                                                  Cu penis,
515 proceedings against them, 516, 517.                                                                                    Gisbertus, on colours       o5f 4t3h/e                                                                           544,
Consideration, treatise on, by Dr. Horneck,                                                                                                                                                                                                  an
                                                                                                           cients, 683. Curtius. Sir Wm., an, 398,
440. Constant ine the Great, statues of, 90                                                                JhpCooauhutsrsntieaa,,nrccohrefe,boDuCfeilaCptpotftano.f,srttdeak,rnntifgi2inrh6eot0,pe, lde33,,653732.,007.3. C65u.tCleurCs,tyormSili,r
arch, 97 obelisk, 105 church built by,                                        ;
140. Convention, 1689, proceedings of, as
to disposal of the crown, 22, 526, 528, 530.;           ;
Convocation, 1690, for reforming liturgy,
537, 538 notice a passage in a book of Dr.                                                                 D'Ada, Ferdinand Count, Pope's nuncio,
Davenant's, 581 disagree with bishops,                                                                        495, 511. Daincourt, Lord, 381. , Dam-
         ;                                                                                                   pier, Capt, 371, 572. Dauby, Earl of, 4iri
                          ;

|8a.
258 INDEX.

   67$*. Danes, title to Dominion of the Sea.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           496.   Dover Castle, prisoners- of                           war  -at,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        306,  636. Doughi, Cardinal, 84.
   680, 681. Danger-field,                                whipped, 479,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        537. Douw, Gerard,
   Darcy, Edward, 19, 20. Danen, Scotch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Douglas, Lieut. -Gen.,   George, 3x6, 351, 668,
   book about, 576 ; Parliament vote against                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Downing, Sir
   the Scotch settling in, 577. Darneford                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ts)xr.ake.  Sir Francis,                                     Draper,
   Magna, farm so called,                                             Darnel. Rev.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      William,    who married              349,   Ev7e3l1y.n- 's    daugh*
   Mr., 344. Dartmouth,                             233.              fair on Black-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mr.
                                                   Lord,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ter, 552,   M«3r,s.,5545,69,5625,8156. 9    nste, 584,
   PAnSnhFMaaoearirrcrnrnasihetstt.,ihs,A,ttenS,2D3cpti0h2trrpru24oo.lW.r,,acnenuyD5,.tr,,35iea84ndv1,pg.4i7ls3a1ob5,33yf8y,.sD1L,;,.siaeu4bu2gu4D6ungDt10'i,.eAl.,,'dsAvt4ien23ivM5nd0*gi7s06,l.,co, rnn4m23,o5,889et5930Men..4..o.DnDoDrDsDcDf..aaa,a,evwnvvaioaeeesonnx-,,-f                                      .  Draper,                                     Drcbbcll,             5»-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          che

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        mist,       3D1r6o. ghDedreass,takseanti,ric2a0l2,es5sa4y0.  on, 744--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J7o5h2n. ,                                                    Dry den,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    plays by, 291, 377, 388, 443, 540;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .D3u4Dgm35wsd2SDk79a50eriueeu7iir6i6rs.nmdr,ne.,tpeW;c,db4,4,otp,04aioD3Dml3a2lrV51i-turi--iab34ngioi.e.50ms,,o4tnD.,rei7,ntug,6,35tgD.oo4L6(suflBDoL1,3tdS.nom.Srousids1cg1mrgas,a,9ndesdD8niisD,ta,o5,u4hDl0ru<ee3,,0o3l24,nBRw..795wgo.0e6minr.Sciv6saDeeDhi..,vr)urDu,ecDmDpurhDWCu,a1bradouMbi9\ibnn2,l,ln6llle0Utitie,cna3infi3ngoa.me3io0getmc,6a9sf,,s,1lDub,,,Pr,uAreoc33221ecnnhr2069Sn&eye9e32t8i,,.,,,r
   bd5iDDhD1na3ea5eeeg8rsm0d,lr,c.f,1h,tr'i,Aaa5pbSm4Dn3ae3i39g7erid,-n,.lnetbJbi,oE5nDyiD4gshg,Me0eshsn.lee,,i.4,c,xr3hi2,2n2ED40iog204ae;2,7.,24r,f.9lrBCiS3Dguo;r4iDaeer5sfDt,l,eeqaeeltE.m1se,e2d,6,C8peb6.0dra,f4eie.pcmr,n,can4dp2s1iLnDih6,n1oa.tie6geMprt.ndrs.,tm,D,,DoDaowSe252ere3r0l2ekank33c4r,-..-,,,
   tyranny exercised in,                                  D5e1n1m. arkD, enPmrianrcke,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  alccSMaooganrmmand.i,bdbn,ee,s,or5tRsn5, C,4ee.ihv2i.a.0oDr:fWlDueniusitnlh,cnltieoarcpommoadmrLb,uloi,bcare5emdA6,ds0en,SnstieJtr,5uad6sarJs9otyn'.iohcsn,epnosrD,1ot3euc3a.neix.n5ce,odDDmi3Iuonr1nbnge6-,s,
   Prince of, 1663, 284.                                  ; married to Prin
   George of,     461, 46s, 511                            Deptford, plague
   cess Anne,       446, 447.
                  ; fire in                        cdnorclokyf,ard2,033;29ex:ecchuuterdc,h
   At, 314, 316   Derby,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                c3eLhcno4agu,rriras4inv3eg1Xr.,IVs3De.2au5-b.nceodfaoolrn,Deau, lpdo,23r45t9L4,..orDd,DrD.uh,unisnsGtksraceilrhlek,ek,mMep*rr5oo.,;f
   built, 574.
   316. Derby, Lord, 1689, 527, 530. Coun
DesteiosRsnosotonf,yG,3u9iM1n,er4.a,1, 976.3096..
                                                    De Ruyter's            commis
                                                   Decartes, 691,          714,717,
   718. D'Espagne,                               MJaosn.s.I,I.24t9o.   D'Estradcs,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      fessor, 276,  369. Duppa, Bp , 421, 695-
   Marshal, obliged                                                   dismiss Pro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (Earl of Feversham), 387,                           461,
   testants,               Devereux, Lord, 249. De                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Duras, Lord      Epsom, 358. 287. DureU,
   Vic, Sir    533.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Durdans at                                                        Dr.,
                                                   27D7e, v3o27n.shirDee, voEnasrhliroef,,                                                                                                                                                                                                                              III.Dean, 205, 406, 442.              Durer,    Albert, 5 a ;
              Henry,        36,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         343 ; paint
   Earl of, i6<2,          220.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         prints, 59 ; carvings,               80, isr,
   afterwards Duke, 530, 554, 567, 572. De                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ings, 106, xxo, 151, 153,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of, 362; embassy to
   vonshire, Christian, 1662, Countess of, 286;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               243.    Dutch,         avarice
                                                                 Ruby                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        late   Will.                534;
                      Diamond and                              Dr. Ed.,             ships                                                                                                                                                                                                                               jealousy concerning the Spice islands, 374;
-  1 68ft, 496.   220. Dickinson,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       toll for the fishery in Scotland refused by,
   launched,                                                                          589.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              lot. Dutch bishop, humorous story of, 85,
   Dickvelt,      Mynheer, 509.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         86. Dutch fleet, daring enterprise, 1667,
   barded,                   Digby,                         Dieppe,        S3 ;     bom                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in the destruction of ships at Chatham, 338,
   Digby,         5S5i8r.  Everard,                       Earl of,         463,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3cbo2lo9ucnk;tsecruhepwmietthhe,ofT3thh31ae.maecDst,iuotn3c,2h96,7w63a3; 0rc,,o3vm3ig1pole:roteeunlsy
   Kenelm,                                                505. Digby,                69S4i.r
                  32, 227, 230,                           277, 290;                  Mr.
   Evelyn's opinion of him, &c,
   library, 701. Digby, Mr.                                                J2.1,0,  345 ;
                                                                                     175.
   Digesters, Papin's, bone dissolved by,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               prosecution of, on both sides, 1665, 306,
                  Diocletian, baths of, at Rome,
   434*  435-     Diodati, Signior John, 191,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EaV°a32r78tl7ee540g,.,A,el*t2tD7ahE90troaai\.orrptn(heB,Eq,pau.rMan&korlecfe.s,yS,--Ea1vSl6iieisn9rlb0yE,uJn.nr',ysg5)l43,a30n;5dd1.i9s,in5cEo.1J6ausa8rro7mtsr,he,a52ia0co1n9an4d,.,;
   93,    94.      Dissenters, Act of Indulgence
   X92,   193.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C1166a99t6a0,,ne5aa6n3adn;diantMaaNlllteawp, a1rBt6sa93toa, fv5i5aE2,ur;1o6ap9te9,,Po55r75t4l1an;; daa,tt
   for.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Rome, 1703, 585; essay on earthquaJces
Dives,   5S34ir.  Lewis,   adventures                                 of,  3ia,     216.
I SCA4Dj0dai7v*nriiiintae43gt5ri*-cb5ab,-u.erl1yl,7.DD0.ootg4rlb4ieaD7el*nooo,iff4l,y9VD$2,er.7Sn.7,ii.crDe3W,4oD3lib,elolseiba3pns9mo,o8u,ns:a,M3lAp0rba.1opi,nf.J3tut1ehso3re,,f
   tice, 409. Donatelli, statue by, 81. Don-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and their   ucanuiosnes, of,70&6--c,71106. 57,  East         India.
   DonDqfauoo,.irnsins4l0eaCo1,ufo.,su,Dn3Drt2o,.8f,ru,en6Sll5e9,w75r1ae,.ldM7is3roh6.Df,.,or22caD50hm80oe.b.rsactshesreMaD,sdaotoerjrCon,ro,aru,vniMut33esa36's5r8s.s.                                                                                                                                                 Company,                                         254:        pros
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        perous, 438 ; probable dissolution, 534 ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        transactions in Parliament respecting, 54S,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        572. East India Company, Dutch, their
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        palace at Antwerp, 35 ; account of the
   Amphitheatrum,                                           note.            Dorset,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SCcoomtcpha,ny5,661.656.Ea2t3o0n. ,  East India Company,
   Charles Sackville,                                64$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Judge, 300. Eccle
   SD6o?v. e°,3$D. r.,Dsoerrsmeot,ns                      Earl of,         530, 561,
                                                   sixth
                                                   Countess                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Edosgifae, sct3oi8cm.abl eEa,fdfaSuiicrrsa.tRioiCcnho,.m, ma3c3isa6sd.ieomnEidfcog,re,dh1eil6lf,8e6c,btsa5t0tolaef.,
                                                     by, 411,         of, 1657, 254.
                                                                      462. Dover,
   'art, 351, 447,547* Dover, Countess of.
                                                                              INDEX.                                                                                                                                                       759

1699, 729. Edward                  VT., MS. exercises of,                                                                                                                    X85 ; detained at Mount Simplon, 1S6, 187 ;
430. Edward the                    Confessor, crucitix and                                                                                                                   catches the small-pox.                          19D1. ut1c9h3;    at
                                   his coffin, 485. Edwyn,                                                                                                                   Geneva, 190 ; learns                      190,                  and
        chain found in             Eleanor,
fotlpd., letters, 731.             head of,                                                                                                                                                                            High
Elizabeth, Queen,                                                                                                                                                            oSEnpf gacnlhaiensmhd,isatrtiyb,.Pa;ibr.isv,;isimt1s9a5rrKi;einsfrg,e*q1u9C6ehn;atsrrleeatsucronI.usrsatoet
                                                                Queen,        &33c8,.
                                                                effigies,
                       Elizabeth,                        Princess,        dam of
*Q3u3»een3*o'-f    Bohemia, 691.                          Elowes,       Sir John,                                                                                            Hampton Court,                    iCbh. a; rlessetsII.outat foSr lPaGreisr,
                                                                                                                                                                             200; with King
428. Eltham palace, 347. Elzevir printing                                                                                                                                    main's, 201 ; presented at an audience with
office at Leydcn, 30. Emanuel College,
Cambridge, 240. Embalming, new-invented                                                                                                                                      the French regency, 202 ; perilous adven
method of, 434. Employment,                                     public, and                                                                                                  ture in company with Lord Ossory, 204,
an active life, preferred, 326,                                 645. Eng                                                                                                     205 ; sails for England, 206 ; in danger
land, New, 354, 355, 356, 361, 581. English
language, 428, 701, 702. English portraits,                                                                                                                                  RDfFrroriac.:nhncCaeor,tdshienibB.trroo;e,wbr6ene9lme9aa;wrrkaimstth,y,a2nL08o2,a0uu7i2sd;0ieX9rnI;ecVtelue.r,tnotesf2r1S3otior;f
collected by Lord Clarendon, 338, 690,694;
others worthy of being collected, 69b ; por
traits by Holbein and others, 691.                                                                                                                                           returns to England, 218; settles at Sayes
Eustone. Bushell's                 wells at,                             Epicteti                                                                                            Court, Deptford, 220 ; letter to Mr. Thur-
   Enchiridion, 622.                 Epping                      299.    Earl of                                                                                             olcmsahhfniaitrtdstehee,esdon=CSu2hhpa8uoiy--srnec,2lshe4gn1Coeaoa;lfuraarEtftnBf,taegriiobnrlasm.dn,s;lde5j9ayo3,uipnr;rn2i2verL2oayo,btneb2din2eom3trnoye,; Wecpo2tiumi4nlr2tg,
                                                                forest,
Norwich's house                       3p43o.rtraEitrasbmy uHs,olsbteatinue,
and birthplace,                 on,
                                24 ;
3E4r3s.kineE,reMmri.t,anmaa,steAr lboefrCt,harhteeardhouosfe, ,
                                                                              161.                                                                                           T2h4Ua3y,slop24rir9itu:oanalppatldhievesisedtoris, aD3s4rt2r.oJ;ueslreetmtsetryatteoTaDyorlf.orJethare.s
                                                                              411,
p34ch25r6ia0v.r;yachEttieossrs,ethhxo&eu, scem,C, aaorpf&r,eiacla,g,neEdaatorhfliCsaoLfsal,ahddioycybr,euOar4ytj1il,oe6n;4an1on5ofd;,t
Air. Thynn, 429 ; committed to the lower,                                                                                                                                    Church, 593, 594 ; visits Abp. Usher, 243 ;
                                                                                                                                                                             conversation with Ought red,                                  : cate
                     his death, 445.                                       Essling,                                                                                          Tchaiyzelosrh, iscofmammileyn,d3in45g  ; letter of  344
4M4o3n. s.44, 4of:  Paris, his gardens,                         455-     Estcourt,                                                                                                                                  his piety,             Jeremy
TStivrVoVliU, L1, 46,killeEds,te,46L2.ucreEtsitae*,               54.                                                                                                                                                            Dr.        ; visits
                                                                 Palace d', at
                                                                d', a profound                                                                                                                                                    594
                                                                                                                                                                             Harrlib. 245 ; attends a farewell sermon on
                                                                                                                                                                             the prohibition of the Church, ib. ; procures
                    608. EstC-, Princess Mary                                                                                                                                ordination for Mons. Le Frane, whom he
PhSeilaotsroicpehedr',, married to James, Duke of                                                                                                                            httioaudsD, rci.bo.Jne;vre.lerttTeteadry,slo3or4f7Do;rn.puhlbeisrli.sdhTeeassiyrelohirosftoLr,ue5ct9irr5ee ;
EvYleyonlyr,knE,, li3Sa7i7nr.oErd.(Em,veeole,thccteeerdleobMfrJ.aotPhe.dn, 4)s,7t5a1,t7u,5e4198-o, f1,9E,1v62e20..
Evelyn,            Eliza (sister of                             John),                                                                                                       ment from the world,                   59254,9,59a6co; ;  journey    to
Evelyn,-           Elizabeth (second                                     of17J,oh3n37).,                                                                                                                                                 letters  to
                                                                  dau.                                                                                                       the N.E. of England,
                                                                                                                                                                             Geo. Evelyn on the                6pd0ae1iantt; hetor,oMf*5r9h.8isT;hstuoornl,aLni{ed9u,6,
o33f 2J,oh48n3).,   Evelyn, George                              (elder brother                                                                                               t5e9n7a;ntofofBthaerloTwowtehre,
                    17, 22, 196, 197,                           198, 220, 226,
                 I letter       to, 506; elected M.P. for                                                                                                                    oMnadhoisx,trewaittihsehoinntsprfaoyretrr,av6e0all,er6s04in;  to Mr.
297. 475         330; a         dep.-iieut. of Surrey, 555;                                                                                                                                                                                France
Surrey,                                                                                                                                                                      and Italy, 599, 600 ; to Hon. Robert Boyle,
cGheaor.a, ctterra,ve57ll4er;,  fahmisilys,k5il7l5. in          Evelyn, Capt.
                                                                 architecture,                                                                                               &encc,lo6s0insg:  some of       his unpublished treatises,
199, 226. Evelyn, Geo., of Nutfield, 555,                                                                                                                                                       to Dr.       Jer. Taylor, 606 ; letters
Jm551o759oh856n.,n, u,2m50E5eo00v,n,fetl2y50G7an74t,o-,dG2Jsa1ot7Enod.vneseteol,(yEnsnives2,e,t0ely0Gr3n,7eo,7o.2f.2o,Jo6ld,hEhvnis2Se)5l,iyr8trn1,aJ7,ov,2he62Snl42si,,r,,      Dr.    TJeary. loTra,y6lo0r8  to christen his son,
                                                                                                                                                                             to  Dr.                           : subscribes to the         607 ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           stock
                                                                                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                                                                                             of the Eng. East Ind. Co., 254; surprised,
                                                                                                                                                                             with many others in Exeter chapel, oy the
                                                                                                                                                                             military, i2. ; grief at the death of his eldest
EvW3e9liy4lt.ns3,,582Jo,0h05,7n9,5. 1a17E, v1e8l,yn1,9,  Sir    John, of  Deane,                                                                                             sBorno,wnRei,ch6a0r7d, .60823;5    ; letter    to Sir Rich.
                                                                 21--38;    matri                                                                                                                              death of   his son George,
                                                           20,                                                                                                               357 ; letter to Dr. Taylor, 609, 6x0; pub
culated .it Ley den, 30; arrives in London,                                                                                                                                  lishes a translation of Chrysostom on edu
    ; at the battle of Brentford,                               39 ; sends a                                                                                                 cation, 358 ; summoned by                    Commissioners                                                                                                                         -
SSone accoutred to the king at                                  Oxford, 40 ;                                                                                                 for new foundations, 260;                     letter to Mr-
embarks for France, ib.; Normandy, 54;                                                                                                                                       Thurland, 610,611 ; publishes his 'French
attacked by robbers, 60 ; arrested by his                                                                                                                                    Gardener,' 260 : his intimacy with Hon.
valet, 65 ; sets out for Italy, 66 ; in the                                                                                                                                  Robert Boyle,                             IpI.u,bli2s6h2e;s  his apo
Mediterranean, 72, 73 ; his peril, 72, 73 ;                                                                                                                                  logy for King     261, 267             ;                     letter to
                                                                                                                                                                                                Charles
at Genoa, 74        ; blessed by the                                   Pope,                                                                                                 Geo. Take, 612 ; treats with Col. Morley,
disappointed        of a voyage to                                      the   H1o45ly;                                                                                       to bring in the King, 263 ; letter to Dr.
                    tomFaatrtihceurlatKeidrchaetr'sPa*dOubae, sil1c7u0s;                                                                                                     Wilkins on the anatomy and the vegetative
Land. 165;                          elected Syndicas Artis-                                                                                                                  motion of trees, 612, 614; letter in defence
contributes                        172 ; learns the Thcorba,                                                                                                                 of the King against a paper from Brussels,
tPaarruamphialitasP,'ad1u7a1,
                                :                                                                                                                                                       264 ; procures         thCeolD. uMkeorloefy'Ysorkpatrodothne,
                                                                                                                                                                                        presented by
173 ; attends       anatomical lectures, purchases                                                                                                                           263,            the Restoration, 365         ; requested to
preparations,        and attends the hospitals, at                                                                                                                                       at  a commission for a           troop of horse,
Padua, 174 ; adventure with                                     a Scotch      colo                                                                                           2K6in3 g;  out
nel, 183, 184; journey over                                     the Alps,      284,                                                                                          take
                                                                                                                                                                             but declines, 267 ; presented to Anne, Du<
760 INDEX.

chess of York, 270 ; chosen a member of                                                                                                                                                                                            [  307    sends his            family           irom    London on ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      count   of the             plague,            but    remain* there'
the Philosophical Society, ib. ;                              presents                                                                                                                                                                      ;
his * Circle          o; fanMdehchisan' iRceallatiTornadoefs      to the                                                                                                                                                                                      ;
Society, ib.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          himself,        309        passes through the infected
                                                              the Peak                                                                                                                                                                parts of          the      city, 309, 310; letter to
hoifmTethnecrmiffeeth,od37o1f                                                                                                                                                                                                         -* Lord Cornbury congratulating bios on
                               ; Prince            Rupert shows                                                                                                                                                                          his marriage his own critical state
                               mezzotinto,           273 : declines                                                                                                                                                                                          :
                                                  the Bath, ib. ;
the honour of Knight of                           the Coronation                                                                                                                                                                      as commissioner for the sick and woundec,
presents his * Panegyric ' on                                                                                                                                                                                                         633, 636 of Sir              Philip Warwick to, on the
II.of the King, 275 ; discourses with Charles                                                                                                                                                                                         6sa3m9,e6s4u0bjetoct,M6r3.3;;                to Sir W. Coventry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   --638           enclosing a plan of
     about        t'hFeimRiofuygailumSoc'iettoy,      276  ; and pre                                                                                                                                                                                               Pepys,       :                              Lord Corn
sents his                                            the   KthiengK, in3g77,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   on Tilk*-
bis ; sails                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;                          graoortslv

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;
                  down the Thames with                                                                                                                                                                                                sbhoiusnr'ysp,ropR6ou4s3leedoitfnofFiramDitarh.r,y',Wib6i.4l1kin6ts4o3,;

378 : his 'Translation of Gaspar Naudaeus                                                                                                                                                                                                   '

concerning Libraries', 280 : receives the                                                                                                                                                                                             received, and his services acknowledged,
thanks of the Royal                                                                                                                                                                                                                   by King Charles and by the Duke of York,
Duke of York, ib. ;                     Society,        ib. ; James                                                                                                                                                                   311, 312 his plan for an infirmary for sick
                                      held the          candle while                                                                                                                                                                  and wounded, ib. closettcd with the King.
King Charles's head was drawn for the                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :
new coin, 28r ; Duke of York visits him,                                                                                                                                                                                              ib. elected of the Council of the Koyal
382, 383 ; attends the King about the pa                                                                                                                                                                                              Society, ib. with Prince Rupert at the
lace at Greenwich, ib. ; appointed                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nore, 315; made a Commissioner for the
missioner for improving streets,                                                                                                                                                                                  a com               forming and nuking of saltpetre,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a Commissioner for repair of old                                            31s. 316;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  &c, in                                                                                         St. Paul's
London, 384, 286 ; attends Prince Rupert
to the Royal                Society, 284                presents his                                                                                                                                                                  Cathedral, 317 witnesses the awful fire of
* History of             Chalcography             '  ;  to the Royal                                                                                                                                                                  London, 319, 320           ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rebuilding London                 ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;
mcvShiosoacittriheitetatyrob,,lteoi3b, 8.u$3s;5e;1sn,o;mm3aH8idn6yead;teevadisLictoborymodmfthCietshhseaionKncQieneurlgeloerfno'os-rf                                                                                                                                      presents his plan for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         to the King, 322 over
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      turned in his carriage, 335; letter to Sir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sam. Tuke on the fire of London and notic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ing his plan for rebuilding the City, 148, 149,
the Council of the Royal Society, ib. :                                                                                                                                                                                               150 Persian                habit assumed               by the King,
sails down the Thames with the King and                                                                                                                                                                                               which he had               recommended               in his 'Tyrxn-
                                      to Lady Cotton, 614 ;to                                                                                                                                                                         ;;                   e32d5itionlsettoefr   to Lord Clarendon,
MQure. eVna, n2d5e7r  ;  letters      615 ; petitions the King                                                                                                                                                                        nus,* 324,:                               school classics, 643--
                         Douse,                                                                                                                                                                                                       on correct
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;
about his own concerns, and goes with him                                                                                                                                                                                             645 library and MSS-of the Earl ofArundel
to Mons. Febure, 288 ; presents his ' Sylva'                                                                                                                                                                                          given to the Royal Society bv bis means,
to the Royal Society, 289, 300 ; at Court,                                                                                                                                                                                            326, 402 publishes his Public Employ
                                       planting of Forest of                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;
                                      ; King pays him a visit                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
289 ;  suggests the                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ment preferred to Solitude,'                         336                 ;:   letter to
Dean   with oak, ib.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DMurc. hCeosswloeyf ,N6e4w5c, a6s4t6le,      visits  the                   Duke and
at Saves court, 203 ; his house broke open,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         327,   328
ib. ; letters to Dr. Croone, 615, 616 ; to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         letter of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cowley, 646 conducts the Duchess of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;

Dr. Pierce, ib., 610 ; made a commissioner                                                                                                                                                                                            Newcastle             to a meeting              of the                   RoIyLal  So
of   the Mint,           39G5eo; .deEavtehloynf  his son Richard,                                                                                                                                                                     ciety, 32$;             with Kinz               Charles                           tb.
     ; letter to                                 ;own itthhetheexpKeinnsge,                                                                                                                                                           commanded by his Majesty to search for                                                                    ;;
ib.  his travels in Italy, 574                                                                                                                                                                                                        pleetatmet,rix3tto3u9rHe eohnfisrcyhraeHrcocewoipaatlrdafnodorflmoNaaomkrfi)nogtlrki,ehdso.ou3llil3cie0its
        subscribes to Slingsby's                        lottery, 397                                                                                                                                                                  [a
of     with Lord Cornbury into                          Oxfordshire,                                                                                                                                                                                    ;

395 ;                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;
goes
                  3o0f0A;ncKieinngt   Charles commends his                                                                                                                                                                            ing the Marmora Arundeliana for the Uni
398, 299,                             and Modern Architec                                                                                                                                                                             versity of Oxford, 647, 648 obtains the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ABrautnhduerslita,n648m, a6r4b9les,Uni3v3e3rsityletinterCotnovoDcar.
'Parallel                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tion present their acknowledgments to, 332,
ture ', and his ' Sylva,'             733 ; publishes                                                                                                                                                             his                                              ;
s'Sicyklvaan,d'   ib.; appointed      a commissioner                                                                                                                                                              for                                                               ;
                  wounded, 301,       303 ; his activity                                                                                                                                                           in                                                                   ;

that office, 303, 304, 305, 306, 307, 308, 309,                                                                                                                                                                                       3o3f3ive3i3n4s  gives the Royal                 Society his tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :               and arteries, ib.            ;   letter to Earl of
33ipivsn"*iums>5biv.t.,lis'in3s3dh6t"hKie6.ce,sian3t3»Rgai6o4op7n,y,a3aCr»3olth°6f,a8oMLr,33floee16rt7ns9hd.ae3gC;*ce'l5oalrMe.miretey3tmnse*8tdreie,notnro3nyd3S,s5Dt,o6r13fJ.9a6JmS--e3,ps3e6ru30saa63i'4sttst;,                            :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sandwich, on Spanish horticulture, 640,
a6P1na4drkr,etoc3o0m4LomrldeenttdCeirnosgrntbothueMryrc,.loosTnihnogthse.ofLCtehhniefthtnhfaceshat,,                                                                                                                                  650 gives a quantity of bricks towards
tres, 62a, 623, 624 to Sir Thomas Clifford                                                                                                                                                                                            building a college           for Royal Society,
on the affairs of the sick and wounded,                                                                                                                                                                           it,                 letter to       Dr. Jos.     Glanvil, 649, 650;                               333   ;;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of land         granted                                                      lease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ;                                                     by the                           King, 537
     ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;;     letters, to the Earl         to,       Sandwich                           on Spanish
                  ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                   horticulture,                                &ofcto,Pa6D5inr2.t, in6B5ge5/ale3p.3u7obn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      optics and                   of
                                   ;                                                                                                                                                                                                  lishes his                                    portraits he recom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      list of great         aco6u50s,tic6s5,1      ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Perfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '  men whose                                              ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;

624,635; to Dr. (Sir Christopher) Wren, to                                                                                                                                                                                            mended Lord Clarendon to                             procure,                      33S
desire him to recommend a tutor for his                                                                                                                                                                                                                   letter to Sir Thos.              Clifford,                    655,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      note, 695          658 his History
son, ib., 626,           o6f27the     to Duke        of Albemarle                                                                                                                                                                     656, 657,       ;                                    of the Four
on the affairs                        sick and       wounded, ib.,                                                                                                                                                                                              ;
     :                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             letter to Lord Henry
                ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '      permit Roy. Society
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;
                                   ;                                                                                                                                                                                                  GHroewatarImd poofsNtoorrsf,o' lk339to
628 to Sir Thomas Clifford, 637, 638 to                                                                                                                                                                                               to exchange some of the MSS. givta by,
S62ir8--Pe6t3e1r  Wyche, on the English language,
a course          to Lord Cornbury, with hints for                                                                                                                                                                                    for mathematical and other scientinc books,
                  of study on history, 630--633                                                                                                                                                                                                          degree of       Doctor conferred on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      65S,   659      ;   University
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      him                                 of Oxford, 34a, 343;
entertained on board the fleet at the Nore,                                                                                                                                                                                                 by the
                                                                                 INDEX.                                                                                                                                                       761

letters, to Dr.              Meric Casaubon, 659 : of                                                                                                                        about erecting a public library, 456; his
Dr. Casaubon                 in answer, 660, 661 ; afflic                                                                                                                    'Account of the Winter of 1683-4,' pub
tion on account of his brother Richard,                                                                                                                                      lished in Phil. Trans., 457; consulted about
                                                          to write the history                                                                                               bhdCicniiuahosuiupalddsgrrloaihencutsgrelge,arhciom4tevEe6epilSrnritzgioa;MBnbheaJeairrstkomyhef,,a,elef4sf4iy6lbi*9c3.IGt;--Ii.ao; 4rnaJd7oac4enocmnno; semtdh,tshepeiebaaI.dtnIdh.;eiee'aasaossttfshhgMisrhtaoorsis.ff
oo34ff 3ti.ht,e343D44.u8 t3c4: h5th;we parrKe,sisn3eg4d5  ; draws up a draught
                                                          orders official docu
                         given,                                               letter
ments to            be  synopsis                          349,    350, 357;
enclosing           a                                           the history,   &c,
                                                           of
661 , 66s ; contents of first and second books,
66a-- 665 : want of co-operation, 662--667 ;                                                                                                                                 PIIe.p, ys48t4o--4P8o7r;tsmleotutetrhs,    to attend      on James
introduces Gibbon, the carver, at Court, ,                                                                                                                                                                                             Pepys, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          to Mr.
3S°i 35*t 352f 353 : appointed on a Council                                                                                                                                  ptohrfoevMecorl.oCuhrPaserlpeoysfs,tIhIea.baoaunRtcoiempnaatpns,er6CsSa3tt,heo6nl8dic3in,, g64884Hto, ;
for foreign plantations, 35s, 353 ; attends
the meetings of, 354--357,360, 361, 362,365,                                                                                                                                 tstaf4hroiRnoaer9dnn, eesdPxar6eerc8oicct5vilfuoiynStnmieenssw,gSide4eanta9rthtsc6lee,,tnft4o4o'd,99fraf39icna,pe;pcr5aeipn0no,o0tdfii,innbPg5t.ae0r;diC2vrm,oey5mifas0usS4smaeCels:isaosr,lmse,Pifo4m4urn09isvi58eesyrs;;
                          be and his wife entertained
3°9,  th3e7°«Tri3n7i7ty;  Company for passing a fine
by

CsoCvuefohiruatlsarratwlnetdiistoghnfrIoaIrwMn. tirtate.hhtdeCELirtouoocs,raktdl,ombnys3S,h5a5ot3nhu5de;s8ewd:,Kiicnilheens3a,g5s3,eawn3;io6dt1fhhiSsr;eaKflcylaieonewcn'gs  Seal for          prilonentttienrJgas,mpetoos pLisaIhId. ybooAnonksn,hiSsp50eb0nicr;tehirn,
tions  oof nhihsis'  death,                                            the first
part                 Dutch    366, 367;                         reads  Clifford,                                                                                             attendance        of Sunderland, inclosing a cata
                                                                Lord                                                                                                         day, 503 ;
                              War' to                                                                                                                                        Countess
3le6t9te;rsc, htooseLnordSeCc.liffoofrdRooyn.                     Society,
                                                                the Dutch     370 ;                                                                                          logue of religious books for her use,
                                                                                                                                                                                       to Henry, Earl of
                                                                              war,                                                                                                       of Ireland, 685,
667, 668; to Lord Conbury, desiring the                                                                                                                                                                                  Ct.irendon, on
&pecr,us6a6l8  of   Sir Geo.  Downing's Dispatches,                                                                                                                          685 ;                                      686 ; reflections     the
                    sworn a   younger brother of the                                                                                                                         affairs                                                          of,
                 ;                                                                                                                                                           ooPnfrivKpyoinpSgeeraJyla,mdise5m0s5'si,sse(5a0dt6,tei:£m.pc;toepmda)mrtiicsinsuitloaronrsdeurscretiloafontr
Trinity House,
phetic farewell              3to7t,1he3;ir7L5o:OrdrhigisiCnlai'flNfoaravdni'dgs aPtpirrooon-                                                                                 ing to    fhaisvoluarwosuf iJta, mwehsichII.,wa5s08,te5rm09,ina5t1e0d;
and Commerce,                                                                    of                                                                                          by the
eiesse,' 379 ;            letters, to                                 Duchess    --
Newcastle on              a present of                          the  works, 668                                                                                              appointed a governor of St. Thomas s Hos
                                                                her
670; to Dr. Meric Casaubon on his own
translation          of Lucretius,                              637;601L,,o6r7d3183B: ec; rhk'aeDrlaeiscy                                                                    pital,    511 ; petitions   to             be allowed charges
ter of Sir            Wm. Petty,                                                                                                                                             as a      commissioner                     sick and wounded,
course of           Vegetation/384                                                                                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                                                                                             514; letter to Abp. Sancroft, detecting
                                                                                                                                                                             machinations of the Jesuits, 511; prayer
confides his estates and property to, 387,                                                                                                                                   on the anniversary of                       Ins   baibrtohudtaryetu(r6n8tohf
                                                                       entertained                                                                                                                letter to his         son,
388, 389,      391, 39a ;         the                     cQoupeyeonf   ' Marmora                                                                                            year),    51I1I.  :  to Whitehall
at Sayes       court, 389         ;a                                                                                                                                         James                                           (1688), and conse
                                                          hpisres' eKnateledndtaorihuimm,
Oxomensia Arundeliana'                                                                                                                                                       qceruxoeafnmtt inthpaartionockneseodhfinimtghse,fo6re8xh7t--irsa6o8lre9dtitne; arA,ryb5p3,t5alS;eanhntiss
by the University, id. ;
Hortense,'                    treats                      for marriage of his
son with             704  ;  of Sir                       John Stonehouse,                                                                                                   of

                    dau.                                                                                                                                                     on  DQr.ueCelnencMha'srysonI,I.,5265,2952r7       ; his remarks
414 ; last conversation of, with LordOssory,                                                                                                                                                                                   conversations
                                                                                                                                                                             with Abp. Sancroft and Bp. Lloyd, 53a,
me4LDs1ouac7ncai,dchpaoe4e,n1s8,s&f,rco4oo1,mnf96Y7hs;o3hislr,iekp6twp7terd4roree;pcsttokeoos,retDMidn6rr7.g.1HMti:hPsoeetrtoolperyCyyMsh, ru.oorocnnWfhtJmhhaoie.sf                   1530p4.a;idI lehttiostehrpiotmort--rMaiort.ntapPkaeeipnnytesargsao, nin&acb--ycoKmcnopienlils-
                                                                                                                                                                             JieJ3r,»
                                                                                                                                                                             ment
                                                                                                                                                                             --Lord Clarendon's collection of portraits
England, and              ihnecrloascincugsahtiiosn' HUoftohriym,of47t2he;                                                                                                   --on prints-- public libraries in Paris and
to Mr. Pepys,             his ' Discourse of Modern                                                                                                                          iEnnglEisnhglalanndg--uasgoecieretycomfomrendimedp,rov6i8n9g--
Dutch War,'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the
Languages,' and the titles of a multitude                                                                                                                                    prayer on his birthday,                                          703;
                                                                                                                                                                             sation with Mr. Pepys                           1689, 536 ; conver
of papers sent to Mr. Pepys, 675, 676, 677;                                                                                                                                                                                  on the Navy, 538,
consulted by            Sir43S2t--ep4h35en;                     Fox about     Chel                                                                                           tc5e3o9rnvt;oedrLsinaaetdsioynwSwiuthnitdheSDrliarrn. dLG,l.ooynMd,ahc2isk4e0,'nKz2ia4e1l,en; dilbea.t :
sea Hospital,                                                    attacked      with
ague, and settles his affairs, ib. ; letters to
Dr.   Fell, 677,          o6f78,the679se;a,to                    Mr.     Pepys on                                                                                            rium Hortense,' and other works,
the   dominion                                                         the fishery                                                                                           his 'Sylva.'and King Charles's                                   704, 705  ;
                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                           commen
                                                                                                                                                                                               it,

                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;
claimed by the English, and on English                                                                                                                                       dation of ib. his Parallel of Ancient
commerce, 679---687 ;                                     declines standing the                                                                                              and Modern Architecture,' ib. becomes
election for President                                      of Royal Society,                                                                                                one of the bail for Lord Clarendon,. 54
       disposes of           his  East India adventure,                                                                                                                      letter to the Countess of Sunderland, con                        1
438 ;  his account           of   Sir Richard Browne,                                                                                                                        soling her on the death of her daughter, the                       a;
id. ;
4c7K33oi29nnsg;;cipdeolenanctnilotiansuesvshisisaimt wlotuotacivlrkeatshst,ievaet4D4euS9macy;hpeelsoastsytcmeonoeudfnrsttP, of4rrot4thsm1e,                                  Countess of Arran, 703 encourages Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                       &                                     Sloane,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;:  letter
                                                                                                                                                                             h(aisfttoerrywaordf sJamSiar)icaH, an54s3                 to write
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       to Mr. An
                                                                                                                                                                             thony Wood, communicating particulars
mouth,         450 ; visits the Lord                                 Danby in the                                                                                            of Mr. Welles, and of himself ani publica
Tower,         453 ; consulted by                                    Dr. Tenison                                                                                             tions, for the 'Atheiue Oxomensis,' 706;
762 INDEX.

at the funeral of Mr. Boyle, 547; a trustee                                                                                                of himself on completing hii 82nd year,
for the       Boyle Lecture, 548, 555 ; his opinion                                                                                        585 resigns the treasurcrship of Green
of Dr.                                                                                                                                     wich Hospital to his son-in-law Draper,
ter to        Bentley 's Boyle          Lecture, 549 ; let                                                                                    ;; ;
              Dr. Tenison on            earthquakes and                                                                                                  ;
their causes, 706--710; Mr. Draper's mar                                                                                                   586, 5S7 account of his treasurcrship,
                                                                                                                                                       recollection of himself at S3, 5S7,
rlPLeiarotetgresdeirdswenitStothpsheDhinpric.sedorPafluoo.tthneSounhsRiasocnyonainamls,,aS5k75oin21c0gie;, tdy7ae,11cl5it;n5o5eutsor;      581         conversation with Dr. Dickinson
                                                                                                                                           588
                                                                                                                                           about philosopher's elixir, ib. Duke of
                                                                                                                                           Marlborough's condescension to, 5S9 his                                ;;
                                                                                                                                           sickness, 590 his death, ib. Christmas
                                                                                                                                           hospitality to his neighbour-;, 301, 302,
through England, #.,713; Duke of Nor                                                                                                                 ;;                                                                     ;
gafootleks'Ws owktiitnthodnnh, eiss5sf5a7mfo; irlyltehtteoteElrisvv,eelywtonithDfaphm.isilGyb,irbos5t5oh5ne,r;                                                   ;               Essay on Manuscripts,'                             ;;
                                                                                                                                           339. 343, 377                 :;
                                                                                                                                                                               **
                                                                                                                                           263 his published works, 83 list of his
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;

communicating particulars for his edition of                                                                                               works, from the Biographia Britannica,'
                                                                                                                                                       89 etchings                 by,
the 'Britannia,' 711 ; to Dr. Tenison, com                                                                                                    87, 88,  John (third                 son     ib.  John),                  243,                                                                                        323,
municating information relative to Abp.                                                                                                    Evelyn,
                                                                                                                                                                                           of
                                                                                                                                           398 presented to Queen-mother, 270
Laud, to Mr. Wharton's life, ib., 713; to                                                                                                  entered of Oxford University, 326, 340
Mr. Benjamin Tookc, sending him the copy                                                                                                   admitted of Middle Temple, 365; pub
of his Essay on Medals, to print,                        ib.,                                                                              lished           translation of Kapinus Hor-         *
                                                         of              N71o4r ;                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                                                ;
                                                                                                                                                                    a
his   conversation with                 IIM.,arq55u8is;                                                                                    EvrTttrBeehioraleveyirgrennukneTi,metu,ryleee/4,ay1sJ43ouH57h5iron01ynustoesnehtF(,5gir1sTai2yna3ndont7ceodu3eacsntooghDnme,e5rwmv5S7o6oei2s,nnBfs.tr3iJooo8btn9hywheneirtr)Lhh,ooirsofdbfLImsirroittashrhrodhe,f
man   by, about Charles                                  treasurer                                                                            433; at Eton, 550; entered at Oxford.;
of Greenwich Hospital, 559,                                                                                                                                                            :;
his account of the death of                              tfiSttetr, 581 ;                                                                                                                                            ;
                                                         Queen Mary,
      ; furnished              the additions to Surrey                                                                                                 ;
559   Camden's '               Britannia,' (169O, 560;                                                                                                      ;;

in
one of a committee to survey Greenwich
House,                           his    intimacy with Dr.
Tenison,       561, 506 ;               ; interests himself                                                                                m57i1ssioantetar ckoefdprwizieths,      small-pox. 580; com
                  558, 561,       563                                                                                                      riage, ib. treasurer
about the Royal library at St. James's,                                                                                                       ;                                                treaty for                          mar
                                                                                                                                                         ;                         5o8f2   stamp duties,
5a^n3.ac5c7o1uintleottfetrheto   Mr. Wotton,              containing                                                                                                         '                                                       cS3.
his intended life,                                        Boyle, for                                                                                                                 "s
                                                         settles the                                                                                                                      ;

                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                 Hon.   --R7o1b9e;rt                                                                                       Evelyn,     MoCfahnJoa',rhlen(dsauEI.Iv.eolyfncS)o,inr dRmeiscachrer.inasBgioreon,w1an9ne5d,,
                                   7I4                                                                                                     and wife
Boyle Lecture in perpetuity, 565 ; lets his
                                                                                                                                           218, 220;

house in Sayes court to Adm. Benbow,                                                                                                       promise to, 269, 271; Princess Henrietta
        letter to Lord Godolphin, on English                                                                                               thanks herfor the character she had pre
{;66
  ;
listorical medals, council of trade, en                                                                                                    sented,     3O?oliveprretsoenCtehdaralecsopIyI.,of37a6;micnhiaa:
                                                                                                                                           ture by
l--ar7g3i2ng  of London,         osfceGnreesenawt ieclhectioHnoss,pit7a1l9                                                                 racter of her by Dr. Bohun, 733-7736;
        ;     first stone                                                                                                                  letters to Dr. Bohun on epistolary writing,

laid by him and others, 567              letters,                        to Mr.
Place about reprinting his              Parallel                         of Ar
                                        ';                                                                                                 ib. on female accomplishmentsand duties,
                                                          ;                                                                                ;;                   Tuke,
chitecture,' 733. 724; to Mr. Wotton, on                                                                                                                                    ; S.of Sir
                                                                                                                                                                                                     :death
                                                                                                                                                                on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;;
                                                                                                                                           737 to Lady                             and to Mr. Bohun,
his Sylva,' and on the husbandry and gar                                                                                                   on the death                            ofTDurk.e,B7re38tont,o                                                                                                           Mr.
     '                                                                                                                                     Bohun on the                              death of her                                                                                                                   7o3*9n
                                                                                                                                           to Lady Tuke
dening        oBfothheuna,ncnioetnictsin, gib.h, is725e, m7p26loymleetntet,r                                                               Evehdienxuagltyunrg,nahhc,oimtntMefrDart,oorrymyMadae(vhdnrieary'tsru,ugwo7*hu4iStls0eli,ergl7ifte4eoo3,f.ohf7Jeo4Gr!hrensn)ot,anod,3Ma1e,0'rx,.h73oB47roJ8t ,
to Dr.
at Wotton, his grandson and dau. Draper,
                  letter to Dr. Bentley on his
568, 569       and Parallel of Architecture,'
 Sylva,
     ;                       the Surrey address of
                ;            peace to King William

                            '
726 goes with                                                            IcIoIn.,
gratulation for                                                                                                                                        o4f169o63Jfo,, hW41n69o9)7o,,,d4c1577o4,4t9e..18(,EbE1vrv9oe,etlhly3yen3nr.,,oMfRE.ivJcoeLhhlaaydnrndy,\
570; letters to Dr. Bentley, on his propo
sal for erecting a new library in St. James's                                                                                              406, 43s,
park, 726          to Dr. Godolphin, with an                                                                                               Wycne,
account            his Treatise on medals, 737,                                                                                            (father
               ;;of                                                                                                                        Richard,
                       ;
                                     ;
                                                 ;
                                                      ;
728,               to  Mr. Henshaw, introducing                                                                                            »j,17. 33, 196, 197, 352,                       297,
                 ib.   his house at Sayes court let                                                                                                                                        (son
Dr.                                                                                                                                        344. Evelyn, Richard

                                                                                                                                           335, 256, 527, 607, 6cS.
        H7a29y,                                                                                                                                                                                                 o3f37Jo. h3n4)o,.                                                                                   343*

tlNRooiisccshoPlaoesrtfodenh'rs,isthsdoeoennaG,tehr5de,7ua2 ct5,a7t4r5ie,o7g1n5r7e5tfoarfffollirtechttehitoeisnrbbaofrorfo,rtDhtthhereer.                                                  Evelyn, Susanna
                                                                                                                                           (daughter of John), 340, 553. Evelyn,
                                                                                                                                            Mons.,
                                                                                                                                           Evening     34L4o.ver,'               a play,                        336. Everard,
                                                                                                                                           Mrs. 206;*           Eversneld,                                      E4u1s5t, on4, 36s,eat57a4t-,
historical library, ravages committed in                                                                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                               :
the paper          of7f2ic9e--,    original letters in his                                                                                 Evertson, Opt., 305, 306                                               Exchequer
possession,                      732 settles at Wotton,
     ;  his                                                                                                                                357.      3uf5pa8,r.m130=b79y3. ,J3a39m64e3, .s39IE5I..x,c3i4s96e$8,-  &c, duties
                     ;                                                                                                                     shut
                                          ;;580";                                                                                          let to                                                                 Scots grant
                                                               ;
                                                                     ;;
576                prayer on completing his 80th                                                                                           them forever, 476. Execution at Rome,
                   his concern for the illness of his
year,                 subscribes towards
                   chapel, at Wotton,
Sdaskowno.o, dib.                                        re-building
                                                                         holds                                                             148. Exeter College, comedy performed
his courts in          Surrey, 583, 584                  5Sh2 is         tables                                                            sbEEEuyxxyr,heppsae2r,lri0asi.mtethidoee,nnE, ,tx62e55ntf34iee,e.rw6ry5csE,4hhx.3aiep5pEt.5eey.3rlr,0,eE1 ,xct.ooaMEmmixrlmot.orlJoo.nunfg,s,Jcet.i2tDicri3.ser6t,.s,,,
of veins and           arteries ordered                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               at.
graved by          the Royal                             to be en
a member           of Soc. for   Sporcoipeatyg,at5inS3g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             451.
in foreign         parts, $84                                          elected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      344;
                                                                       Gospel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       394.
                                        pious examination                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           568.
                                                               INDEX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               763

Fairfax,   443M. ajoFar,lkla39n6d.,  LFuaclciuosnbedrrgy, ,  Vise,                                                                                                                                                                              Freeman, Sir Ralph, 390. Freind, Sir
   398,                                                      Lord,                                                                                                                                                                              John, 565, French refugees, £09, French,
694. Falkland, Lord,                 458, 473, 557.          Falk                                                                                                                                                                               tg2FDFia7r.nriet5l.,eg,s.s6oc,72as26tFtaQ,.ir,d,oRvw12Fao4d9rnd5o4e,tom.a.l1pga4he6ncFu.ltroesccf,rl,n,kFe5tr,oc3etu8moyM.r,biooMnHuoFssfarr,..on,c1bsl6oLo,i6sofc.h1ckPe5kar2be,rF.y,isu,M,l22lFea36<rr99rai,.,.
land,       Lady, 471, 472. Fallen                   angels,
603.       Falmouth, Chas. Berkeley,                Karl of,
            Family       oFf aLnosvhea,w5, 00S. ir
978.       by, 285.                                 Fanclli, sta
tues                                                Sim., coins,
694. Fanshawe, Rich., 220, 241, 274, 286.
Famese          DpF1raa0.l,6ua,2bc6ec1a4r,.t9,.86FM,eFolal1n,r1ns8D.,h, ra.m1,432,2397.,h6,o4p2F3-9ag69r,r,noeu43s6n0e14d,.,                                                                                                                    D* Fr.umWifiullg.,iu3m7,7'.    Fuller, paintings by, 300.
Cardinal,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    publication of, 277, 320.
aFte>ar7n33e-,
342, 501, 677, 678, 679. Felton, Sir John,                                                                                                                                                                                                      Gaddi, Sig., of Florence, 153. Gale, Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Thos., bt. Paul's            school,                                     438,   56G0,al5le62y.-
S39ir3.JohFne,nt5o66n,,    letters of, 731. Fenwick,                                                                                                                                                                                            Gallant, Wild, by            Dryden,                                      291.
                         568F.criaF, erDguukseono, f,co1nSs2.piraFtcorr,-                                                                                                                                                                                                     Galloway, Bp. of, 205,
445, 4S0, 481.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  slaves, 70,      72, 78.     261. Galway, Earl of,
mor, Sir Wm. (Earl of Pomfreti, 407, 427,                                                                                                                                                                                                       Galloway,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lord,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1701, 68f, 682. Gardens, abroad, 27, 36,
                   Fcrrara,                 Fcrrarius,         Dr.,                                                                                                                                                                                                               50, 310 ; Ona'sai
543,    i854f8.-  Ferrers,     Ba1Cro7.ns,   Oakham,                                                                                                                                                                                            47, 43,    49. 53.  54, 57, 58,   PitU at Florence,
180,                                                           236.                                                                                                                                                                             Genoa,      74, 75
Fete Dicu, 64. Fevcrsham, Earl of,                             387,                                                                                                                                                                                                 ; Palace of           VRilolameB,or9g1h, e9s2i,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I02 : Palazzo de Medici
                               04. Fiammingo,                                                                                                                                                                                                   Prince Ludovisio's, 92,93         at
461, 465, 479, 485,                                          FGieelrd.f,                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;
                                                               Fic-
04, 102, 14S, 200.             Fiat, Mons., 229.                                                                                                                                                                                                      144 ; Cardinal         Borghese's at Rome,
                                                               men,                                                                                                                                                                                   ; Pope's palace
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ingnHot
Bp. of Oxford,            19.  Fisnncs, Dr., 584.             Lord                                                                                                                                                                              Vatican, ti6                 at Monte Cavailo,                                              ;
sola, Gio. di,           140.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of Justinian,    1;1454H,3o; 1r4tF6ir;eMsPcaaathltaiace(eiC, ad1r'3dE5isnt;aelgaaAtrlddTeoin--
352, 270. Filmer,              SirFEift.h,    Monarchy                                                                                                                                                                                          brandini's),
                                            452. Finch,
Keeper, in Holland, 25, 28. Finch, Lord
Chancellor,        EMarrl.,ofEaNrolttoinfgAhyalmes,fo3rd01,,                                                                                                                                                                                    voli, ib. ; garden of simples at Sienna, 150 ;
435. Finch,                                                    355,                                                                                                                                                                             at Padua, 170; at Grand Duke's near Bo-
                                                               407,                                                                                                                                                                             lo-na, C53 :     Count Ulmarini's at                                            Vincenza,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                177; Count       Giusti's at Verona,                                            179; gar
467, 507, 511, 563.
FiroC56SHeS3fto-a,a.6s.rl.h.d6,iJi5pan4sm5FFg,0,ii,9etsz6.hs55g,35eL9s.hr.oFaolrsalrdqdFnmuF,,isaieorhrfen5eL,e7w,,ar43yo,d9N,r6y5k6is6;c3r6Ci.s,6gaai.hgtt5hthR9F.t,,ooiramFfm,n4itde5Fiz63nl,pa3.,haom1e,0tac9rAFr6riiciii:8tnnrkzi1.,gn,-,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                dens of Palais Cardinal at Paris,                                               203, 213.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                19, 320;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                In England, at Wotton, 17, iS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Lady Brook's at Hackney, 337 ; Mr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tombs's, ib. ; Physic Gardens at Oxford,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 384 ; Earl of     Pembroke's at Wil
Mons.. 67a. Fiamsted, Dr., 391, 416, 447,                                                                                                                                                                                                       231,       300,  ; orangery,      &c, at Bedington.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ton,        233
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                358, 579; at Albury, 349 ; Lord Arlington's
J4u$ni.e,  Fleet,  engaged,          3t1h51e66; 5Ns,oard3e0,5sta;3t0ev7ico;tfovtrhiyce,                                                                                                                                                         SdatoirnE, Hu3se0t9nonr;y, L3oC5ra9dpe; Lla'astudaBeterrdKkaeelelwe'sy,  House,     Lon
                   306 ; at          English and French                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  at Ham,    403 ;
            1665,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ib., 451,  514;
tory, June 1666, 314,
English fleet, 315 ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Countess of Bnstol's at Chelsea, 406 : Ear]
FloPfFlrealeeelnattcscz,hezeo, r,17V697pe--2oc,8ec3th,,3io661,659.05,.717F5--l3e:8e1ptwa;loaoccdhe,uorcfBhPpi.t,otif,3t87h99e.;                                                                                                                 of Essex's at Cashiobury, 415; Apotheca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ries' garden at Chelsea, 4*2 ; Sir Wm.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Temple's at Sheen, 574.
rAenpnousnitcoiaryta,of82c,u1n5o1s;itPieosg,gio152Im; poclrdialpea, la1c5e0;,                                                                                                                                                                   Gardner, Mrs., 308, 216.                  Gannus, Mr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Hamburgh, resident in England, 276. Gar-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ret, Lady, 699. Garter, Order of,                                                     St.
ib.  ;  Leopold's        collection, 153    ; Sig. Gaddi's,                                                                                                                                                                                     George's day, 337, 338. Gascoyne,                                                    Sir
ib.  ;   Academy          de la Crusca,     ib. ; Church of                                                                                                                                                                                     Bern., 347, 360, 399. Gassendus,                                                    V--ita,
bbMS1yl6reo.,9an91Lu,s8a,50.w,7. 55ro2.ef,FnGoc5Fnee3ot,n.anentviaabFai,,no, e;nD5,ta7oa3rmMnt. iaress,tn.sF,iA,con3og14n-,57Mi4.br.aaerlmfFiaoFa,clnroaktwraraivovibniarnlekelg,s-,                                                                                                                                                :o3.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pei.eschi,          edit. 1657,   2a5t1.ChaGreanstsoionn, ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (soldier;,       monument for                                                Gaudy, Sir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JGSoiahrunRd,c.,n4,74601S, .irGaDGueennnt,iesv,Jao4,h0n199,1o,5f,51039.72,,  335. Geere,
of, 95, 96, :w3, 105, 106, 116,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               193 ; town-
Fontana, Lavinia, 117, 133.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4Gc2pihlni5ha9ogeh7l1uuiaroa.,smrcnebce3,,ahitG3iean71iesonb9e.,oft2.,,srg,;7;S5G7iaiicC3ber,:oa.r;lJrmmlo4;ae1hoarpgb9dlrnue.eem,s,s,ioeaL5MiGgunb7aer.8edadyd.rr,mtywiu,GabaGsSLely,1leitsn9,rr,t6ioarbh,aad.eL7,r,a6od212r,F7:9d0r3N3e,d,L--orno;e227vcrs026rahdse16,,,,.,;
                                                    136, 139,  M15r6.,.

                                                    Forbes,

S4FFSSooiirr7ww. llSeeHtrre.,,F,pohSrDec2ie2rnr9.,,T. D.E3,u1dc72F.h,2,o8et.4hBs0esp7rF.,dboeeo4xef1,la,1G,B, l5pSo43.ui16,rc.2e6,J9so54tFhe.1orn4,r,,sFt45oe422xr381,,..,

431, 437. 441. 45°. 454, 459, 473. 484, 505,
657 ; forms regulations                     for Hospital at
Chelsea, 428, 432, 435,                     436. Foy, Dr.,                                                                                                                                                                                      Ghent,     37. Ghetto at Rome,            113                                ;  at Venice,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ghisi, palace of, 113,         137,                                  139. Gib
·Fra35FF67rrnaa12cnn,.iccs3ee7,sFI0.cr,,aopm,5te4opr3Smst,ioegb6nc.,3u,o7t3f.i,oR8no04,bF1r.o4.,a3fn2B.cPFp,rr.oaMtnoecfosinsGtaslno.i,tuslceP.e,asu4t27el4a87r,,..                                                                                 174 :  Grinling, carver, discovered at work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   bon,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                by Evelyn, and introduced to notice of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t4i0n0g,,41315,04, 1375,14,3035,436;1,ca3r0v5in, g5s06b;y,WJ5a1lp,ol3e5'3s.
St., epitaph, 64. Fraser, Sir Alex., 314.                                                                                                                                                                                                       account of       hiDmr,.,35806;,  lettci  to Mr. Evelyn,
Frederick, Sir John, Lord Mayor, 279.                                                                                                                                                                                                           ibt Gibbs,                         iro.     Gib* on, Bp.,
   764 INDEX.

   112.   Gifford, Capt, $6r. Gilbert, lapi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Guildford,                Countess of, 370. Guilford,
          oGfilVpeinn,iceB, er1n7aS-rd,  Gil dron, pain tines,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lord, 575.                Guillotine, at Rome, and Ven
   dary,                                   50,$. Giolo, the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ice, similar to one in                    England, 148, 167.
   aoo.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Guise, Duke of, 353.                        Gunman, Cape,

S. bspC5Ge8aaoijpeo.3riunopev,n.etlaelt,G5in(,)d8b,tnC4arhi-oa,npi.sv3vr5-aiivinftSnlt,iiG.cile-glelDlaraa.,o,,rwnG,.5v1io7m7iooJlo8tl'ffe..taso,Er.5Fb,v7lGleo6(eaMAlr4l-syae0mrndn.,b,)ibcGy6a,er,5it5oo,o0141grr.904g,o84,i1,t.oG5ts5no33tl5.)aac3,C3tn5u,,iv(ueGBi155lsla0i47eotu3r64L,f.-,,,                   388, 474. Gunning, Bp., 384 ; sermons,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    354,      o2n5Jo7;thhne3,6T3,e3s13t.6,34,G06w37y;1nd,ne,a3t8h8N. 4;e0ll0c,.haGarcuaticrtteeesnrs-,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    371 ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    oerg,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3»4» 353, 43*, 465.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Hacker, regicide, executed, 368. Haeriem,
   583. Glass-painting, 434. Gloucester Ca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          63JSu99is9r,t.i3c4Ee5d,H- wa3l.He5,5sa.,gGuSoeHv,ira. ltehEosed,f,w3DJ.o7,o,hv2n3e41,r3. ,   Hale, Chief-
   c3thi6oe8ld,i.ra3l61,507,2.3547. 9G. oGdlGofruleocywe,-swteoSrr,imr sD,Eudkcemaulleondfd,bu1Lr6uy6c,0-,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of ^ton, 69$,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                344. Hales,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Castle, 408;
   Gomdoulrpdheirn,of,F4ra0n5,cis409(.son of Lord), 403, 405,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lieut, of the Tower. 5(7. Halifax, Mar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    quis      of, 336, 390,   4o6f8,K^i2n2g, 's5p24ri,nt5e3r0,to.33re7,
                                   Godolphin, Dr.                        Henry,
   478.   44803,,  571,   585.          Godolphin,                       Sidney,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ?,6o.      Hall, patent
   411,             517,     565.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Hall, Dr., Bp. of Norwich,
          Godolphin, 368, -38a, 387, 391, 393,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4Du3us9ek.de,Ha4o9llf8,.  Dr., sermon of, 259, 341. Ham,
   Lord                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lauderdale's house at, 403,

   393, 401, 405, 406, 408, 411, 459, 468, 473,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     qHH1x9ouaa86immso,,biltu3e2or16xng77e,h.,c,uD5t2isuHo2ieknaeg,m,eiml1to1o9af69,nr8r,25ia,0g3.4DeH3uaH7okm;aefim,lhttoaiislnttkor,eisnano,l,,nD,1M1u566ka194e30r8.,,,

   475,   478,     5*4.   505, 5»4, 54», 55°, 553. 559.
           567,    568,   580, 584, 719. Godolphin,
   5°i,                   381, 38a, 387, 389, 393, 398,
   Mrs., 340,368,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;                         ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;
   401, 403, 403, 406, 407, 459, 473, 478, 517,
   C549h5M55o54ar93u5,ps6..s.te.1.,,,6GGG5,3367ooo0014doo548..dds,.trGo3icFno7Gkr3erG,ioi,,dnnoga4d2f,5fyS5oe6,8il.r.aC, so1C,34lHG.9o7,7.elo1..3,n5te59.,.,fG33rG5io1do4,o5Gi.f,d6fo3e8m8o..S.GadingeoDG,.l,rd,Go.irDDon1inrga4rreg5s..,,,,..
   Goveme, Mdme. de, 501. Goutiere, caves                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           540. Hamilton, Lady, and Geo. her hus
   so called, 66.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Hab4iHotmnr3afaig3enpam,ddtFom,,wencoo4lol5mno3mC5Sdwao.m8,snu.hirtDitrtp,HeeHr,sd.aap,tmo&martlp3acioel2dtcd,9oee.tn7hna1e,a,fHatte,.aTMrm3,oRr8Hwm3.e4,8av,eo1m.1nr5.,63dp95,dM43.He4,rnfa3.o5,,Hnu5ma4n4M3.n5de1r3reg6.,,r.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;                                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ;
   Grafton, Duke          4o9f,8.34^Gra34ftao,n3, 68D, uc3h9e1,ss        413,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SirThos.,   3£2 portrait of, 463. Hanover,
     436. 45', 48a,                                                        of,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Duke of,    excluded from the British throne,
   3GoCCf6oar,8alp.,mat.4,Jmp1al3moa,3nye94ts,14b,.8yM,3D.845$Grd,ye1rd,a, 3eh439na558,2m3,,.,345G58534r3M.a,, nr45sGa95.d05r,a.a. n, 5aGGc4do3rronaa, qhhsuaa5hmme6o5st,,t.,                                                                                                                                       kcHH513eo6aa4nu8r.r9trblot,eo,nyrH5,dC,3a,oM5rSu.carpno.metu,Harbt3dkaa,4e'rs,4rbs. 3aSo1dior3rodHf.r,a,SthrhiSmHleieisaroydrHn,ceC,ooaCuhuto5srh.8tL,e,,35.3E3o3E1d7fa.H.,.rCaHl43ora06mloa46rf--.-,.
   trial of, 338.      Grand       Seignior's letters to
   Popes, 183.       Graunt,       Mr., bills of mortal
   ity, 383. Greatorex, mathematical instru-
t  3mM6Se7m.S.,Gmr3e3ae9kk.erh,Gisrt3eo4er7ika. nasu,Gth6roe31rbs.n,eGlro,rsetepwnro,orpAkhnsentoeicf,,                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sam., visit to,           by Mr. Evelyn,                                                                Har
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    vey, Sir Dan.,            314. Harvey,
   restored after hanging, 381. Greenbarrow,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D3r4.5,.  statue,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    33HMH1089aar684tt..,;ft,ioe3nolaH0d,f8na,,CntLtopiov3ama5endl3rba,ysceGa,e,ar3yar753dt780,e90on.,3r9,ha.3otb5Hiu4oua.Hsnirleat,wtootHa3ovota9nec7t,rL.tK,oinLr3bDo6.H1ryr.ad..Sr,,veH2ae7r33goy9i3.,i-,.,,
   painting by, 476. Greenwich, glass-house
   XIII.,GrGta5aPe5o86tgarr,n75eory,,egkr3ywo5,b578ru63t9yhi6-.plet,a,Xl5GeGaI36Vlcrr3m7eee0.,ees,.nn5apPw6wtP,lo8aiioc,cpnp2hhet7se,e,9,l,dh1H,d0o9e8532s379s.8p35i;3gi»t.n;aG5clt,»rhhoe»Geag,f-p5ro5e6eobr81elybu,3,n,si.lwed55r1Miivnc0681rhag24...,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    awv3HLHSH7baoteeoa.5aonr,aiov.nwldntdisrstha,k,teiiao,huiHH3ntSn,sdu6esa,iMee0,rGau,.WorrsoGDSdfss,vmir,i.eaoerHa,,a5nr.caSJn,3;3e..yMi,0o,3,re3.mr4.s3l6cI.e,so00iodtatH.n;ftaeSa,eueH,diclrmarhiees,bHhtilJaesrhi,aeo4savn,maf7mir,tsl5d6y,ie5iib.a,7dMss3crfe,11oarh,40-.bHrre36,4toye6,u5mM,8a.n3H.rcxe&brtcauH8.shahr,wc,,ee-arHt,dllpa3e2ea3fee37£ox5ynyl6d131r,,,,*.,.,..
   iff,Ji4nu0s0tth.iecef,iGrer5e6os8h.f aLmoG,nrdeoSnnair,diTe3r.2s,1,.   introduction of,
                                                                         statue preserved

                                                                             Gresham Col
   mlS5dLGMCe7oeiargaar9olrpel.rddtJt,yioC.iu,,,,has3,nnG47G7340e3,1irMo5,1,o7v,.o3.o1anNm04nsGa.G8b.nproririlfi,(iedffasGiFfsug8t4irr,htn6e9aih,m,4n,o.1.a3P2,f8lL8rH(d7.i5oK1ni,.u3°rec64dgfen.3-Ga,o,8tmu)G8)5,a,3,5iGnlr03y31ndr.47,3eda.430ya-.73.D,lGaG3,a.,GrrmiAiGfLfrffobaraG3iitetts7pdhhtry,9o,i,,y,-,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;               Dr., 26a.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M14r0..,   Henchman,                                                                        Henchman,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              366.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Henrietta Maria, reception at Tours, 66, aot,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    370, 2*9 averse to the Duke of York's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    mvisairtreiadgeM, r.326Evelayrnri,va3l 87in;  England, aoo
   office of,  384.       Guercino,       painting by,                   156.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     compliment to
   Guesclin,     Bert     rand du,       his sepulchre,                   41.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       him, 301. Henrietta, Princess (dan. of
                                                                                                INDEX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    76S

Chas. I.), 369,        370; married   to Duke of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              oott4tt4uuoo14rfsrn09edN'.As:MeessaShiwaaePtoplcrnhaurmaa,e,bsnseosait3nibsrld3eiahrce1ot,bu,n.uyostlg3en, 4hht,Ht6otieos6.f3rr7oss24roveH7R.e«eh.oos,re,rpysaH5aeet7Holc4h5mts6o",i1k.rnaS.signnHoLe,sscoosh,i,r6reisHd5pte0TyS,o.A,uirbrritDaliHkicJi4unitoous3ekgr.h8lde-,-,
                                     France, sta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              la74HJcBao6t3ipeu7h2s.RCl.nl:o,hoomhaff3HHirs3eifooWt8u,esu.heop,blo1,riu1ltco9Hsa34en.el36os,,0.tuoe.bHnrc5t,6aHooH7Elnot.l5oepe,t4udhpl2nai.MnHDsmCgrloioe.,hu,HwurFgio,scmohutoraH'le.esmlniersecdDmatsh,tH.raHah.4onn,,o4sdtat0p,cmee.iarts4laampS0ddleo6,ipeer,f
Orleans, 360.         Henry IV. of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ooRHfno,o,wy4pae0u,l0,b,li]pcg.ou,or,vdcei5noy1nmo0er.psrslaHionroeuef,gsdeu2hl9ao4ot.fledd,B, pHc.oo4mu3B8spue,thrrnoo4ellld3te0,rs.
topmHufeee,arsrno3irt3ri,y0omf,1,;e5P04cr.1ihin,nitmHce5ere3ne,sn;etyhrsly,iesptVit6cee7IocrI0elsIl.e., ,cb7teHKi3o1lieonnnn;grogy,aifntactgnVeoinnI'tIOtso.i,v,,ffei36ec49me3t8o*'.-

Hcnshaw, Thos., 76, 133, 140, 144, M7, 171,

173, 107, 300, 230, 346, 247, 250, 25*, 367,
3E9v0e:lyrne,co3m68m;enadnedd   for an embassy by Mr.
                               as French secretary to
the king, 277 ; his history of saltpetre, ib. ;
return from Denmark,               386, 416 ; letter of
   Mr. Evelyn to,                  the Arundel library
Heralds' College,     739.     of

                      part
pCHrheeirsebefenJtruets,dtiLcoetor,,d,b4o01l26d.65.,spHe3ee0cr4bh. ,er5tH0,1er;bLaeorrctdo,,mLm2o3ri7sd.
sioner for ecclesiastical affairs,                                                   50&2 c; ,  his
bLHaoeudrbsyee,rat3,t03OS,ai2trl0a8Hn. desn,Hrye5,r7b3e3;r2t0,a, ttAa3i0dn3mt.e.d,,             ib.
                                                                                     Herbert,                                                                                                                                                                                                                    book,                       boafroSn,ir5GR1..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Howard,   55A3n;nem, adweifea                     Silvius,
                                                                                     defeated                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     386,
    LthoerdFr1e1n.)c,h4,335,345.44.He*rHbeerrtc,ulMesr.in(nLeypdhieaw,'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a3r2Hhi94reio7sd3d.w,mCat3hoor4Hdat9hC.,roeloewrl,HsoaE,onrdd3wew28,l8a6a6.rGr,dBdr,e,a2HrhC0noa7ra2wma8r;v6ad,.er,hdno3,,2u7s83Hle6D,ao,wo3w4r8asoa65tu2,tri.hdDt3y,o8a,r6gkH,Laimno3oing9war5s,rd.t
by
of
aHrMdmMBeneeeiogrmlt.rnaic,ocvnnhipedebw,ehyedyroo3,,,,au6r,t7Js2eoh2.e5x7,1h7e61nc4.a;5Hu.,t8taee33nHrdC.4ed,il5fcHao,ekpHer3xdsh4r6eec0,,8acwu.3muSe.Llteei,rors,dHr,H,Wd5ceD5yitV30rnerlv.5i.i.ms,n,e8cp.y,o3lh,eHu3DisnqeHMr;wt.eho,,rwsof.c,3ous,eo9ensnr3aore,,.tf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              George Cson of sixth Duke of Norfolk by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mrs.      Bickcrton),                    Howard, Henry,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lord      (grandson           o3f86t.he  Earl of Arundel,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              afterwards sixth Duke of Norfolk), 263,
at Ruckhott, 261. Hieroglyphics, stone                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        285, 286, 337. 339 ; at Padua, 173, 175 :
   inscribed with, communicated by Mr. Eve                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    villa at Albury,              poifctuhrises,gr3a4n3d,fa3t3h3er;'scomof
Higlbl3RFyu7iho.snl2Rllmea.;ddtneSoas,d.eu,rbKgm1yih34rDo4tc3ne.rh3oasre,n,greoH,b4o5yi3s0n,8o1t4s,o7.f3,1i2r.e67th,H53e53i2H5.mgC4ih1r,g;iatg;mitiqiHbnwhu,.siiopes, pRdDoHSoeedufiiavrlrtlto.cS,hTmhi,mhmMMo3oe7rsnra3.n.,..,t,                                                                             pounded a debt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          385 ; Mr.          Croone        recommended
   677. History, hints for the study of, 631.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 £200.000,  Evelyn to            travel       with his sons,
   Historiographer, Royal, recommended,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              by Mr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              615 ; permitted the Royal Society to meet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              at Arundel House, and gave them the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Arundelian library, 326, 339 ; presented the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Arundelian marbles to Oxford University
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              at Mr. Evelyn's request, 178, 179,333,340,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lord   on his embassy to Mo
657. Hoare, Rich., 200, 375.                                                       Hobbes,                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r3o41cco; ,cre3a3t4e,d         conversation with Mr.
a4M0gr6a.i,;nsovtifsiVtheeisdnic*eb,yLemvEievaretchlyhanan,n,'t,2131337, 54..  345 ; book                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             340 :  marriage of his son, his
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Evelyn respecting
                                                                                  Hobson,                                                                                                                                                                                                                     own    caotnnNeocrtwioicnh,wi&thc,M3r5s9, ,  Bickerton, his
                                                                                  Hobson,                                                                                                                                                                                                                     house                                        360. Howard,
the Cambridge carrier, 340. Hoefnagle,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Henry (son of preceding,                     afterwards se
III.tlpDtLpd2aoelore4narri3nrn.Wdn,,d.t,mo2fDof47Db,.5Sr0rye6,i..,nr3,r47ez3v10ibJ1lo1Hilu6c,:,oh.oailn4lndr3ls0ai7,heno2nH2irg,,3sfdmo3,4l6Dab3o26cL.een0c8opi,e.nEntsH4o,adfsof5Hioor,or1llnondHl,al,,,l4a5ono7n0f3dw33,537s8.,1a3,,93.6y.69,E;91491mHc.HH8J.hou,booladadHlHlir3lsgeeaaoo3ssrecr8lyl,,-,,,  venth Duke of Norfolk), 286, 297, 328, 616.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Howard, Philip (afterwards Cardinal), 386,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ppo3(b43Es4ere5f9os4ear77nB.ctct.,)enhe,oen3rcf2kddHHk58sHe4o,ol4,rewbwc,,3n'yaoa43r2rnr42yS5d,d44c,8i,,,2er35,sr.37WniSM448xei40,t.rrdHh5,.6PoR13;eiTDw4n6onhh4u.ba,oiketsr;shde3r.H3tep,h6oloo(a(fswusR;yLoosNyanon'eerboardhrydnooa,fo,fotfuul3tLTksnAhS2o)heei5si,vorrhedm;pEtr3e,Rliaso8amdoaor6ts,ll,,f
5*7. 53' 3-   Holmby House,        ruins of, 386.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ; Alger
Hio<l-mes,   Sir Robert, 340,      362, 370, 378,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               witness,
HoT4l8hy6uw. resHdll,oalynt,eaatLroRMrodamlvCee,hrin1e4f3H.Juislltsic,e3,345. 67.       Holy                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and  discovered his associates, 445
   ancient edition of, 573. Hondius,                                                 Homer,                                                                                                                                                                                                                   non  Sidney executed on his single
                                                                                     of Am                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Hsoonwaorfd,firsMt rEs.ar(lwoidf oBwerkosfhiWrei)l,liaamnd,
sterdam,                   Honywood, f**eut.f 35.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             £453.
Hooke,                43H<9ot5.o,pe3Hr0o,9op;7e3r1,b. uilDtHro.p,Meo,snertmTaghoun.,
House,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        fourth
of, 439.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      her daughters, lawsuit against her son,
             Mr3.9,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ho3y86,. Dr., Mr. Evelyn's opinion of his talents,
             389,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             n23is8t- ereHdudthdelessatocnra, meantPotopisKhingprCiehsat,rleasdmIIi.
              Bp.
bCvoiaufstr,iLasoeotniair,tdofc,taoH7lml3oe3dpb. tooDHfne,o)ep1,pt3od32ne,0,n01,,3S424i.r8453A..HrtohrHHnuoeorpcr(skab,,trioicDtuahlrnte.idr,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              iHnuegxhterse,miMs,ar4g65.,.     Hudibras         .CBhu.tleIrI).,,  695.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             mistress of                          324.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Huguenots, persecution of, in France, 493,
766 IXDEX.

   i4n93E. n4g9l$a,n4d99.fo5r°»r.el5ie°3v.in5g,",   5*3.    5»4 :                                                brief                                                                                                     nation at the landing of the Prince of
                                                   49S,    499 ;                                                 book                                                                                                      Orange, and proceedings thereupon, 520,;
   exposing the perscution burnt, 573 ; released                                                                                                                                                                           ac5ne22de,dsi5ne2cgo3sn; dfrohmfilsighfhltiig,sh5rt2e, 4tu;rerntaucrctnoouWtnothiWotefhhihtaieslhl patrllio,ll
   and driven out of France, 573 ; remorse,                                                                                                                                                                                            flight,          pr1o8t7e,st,689&c,coamgpaainrsetd   to
   and massacre of those who had conformed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 his
   to the Romish faith,            ib. and                                                                                                                                                                                 his second   527
Hull, town of, 239.                Hume,            C51o3.l,   assumed                                                                                                                                                     Maxentius,                          ; ; in
                                        583. Humorists, aca                                                                                                                                                                ;                                         ;
   the name of Evelyn,                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           having vacated the government, 5*©, 531,
   demy of, at Rome,                                Hungcrford,                                                                                                                                                            fd5dtCoi3oeoo3rnfnuesd,naeectat5ritslr3iasyn0it,sg;atent5hid3dhne4imbItBryheadoelsFeyairdcnnaQeledan,,u,rcaee55te542ion093n3, ;hosrliesefSutscprtIppoeraiertrrsisdcsh'tteooinndreeg,xPapL5rse3oiotvd5hnnyies
   Ed., of Cadcnham,                135,  701.      Huntingdon,
                                   229,   333.
   Earl and Countess ot, 34b. Huntingdon,
   tL13o49ow64r..nd,HoH3uf9u,3rs.tcb,uaMsHntrduo.rrm,ycpotuaattrn,,cdhm1ag3sa9ae.nrddoerWnHoaifunr(nglWetyoionrfcgMettshoateuegrrn}eaa,,n,-
   thbcSoiiaucsntnhtdtoumsrus,ya,b,7rat243ny524rd,89d.r7oy;3,m2hH,,4iu2s7$s34.s36ge1ry.;eH,aoutbMsHssareu,.tr,stvJeshoaenihtsytiino,oan,ntstPmaetrceoethedlmaarh,tleiuvnoosetff                                            JamWlJhpJdnJCPLo15HLaeea27ioirafoooeenfnsnen1.etrfmrsprn.dkemrigluddd,ciaeri,anmnseye,ryRmaJsd,5CaMJJseioCoen,a6soQt,he4ry4shshrcfnsn73anua.iuyi,e82o,tu,entalShi8y,Dent5fcad,aaioi5,O8,reesrrtnn453famrL.Jyl43Sfd.aul,tro-oEw53hLtef,so7rosreasiot3P.mn,sudrio0rrcatJMbik,leliQainecrinsm,cnKinytJh,ub,osiceeesets2ia,lieofnchrett2,te.roeoteidees434taupinineke5.rnr7Lacse30ydmi.,gsoftm,3,ariteorr4p,'ig5JsIdcor.afileoc4nteaD4a,lft5ofol9lvi,oA2rfnCfnadJ.fe.o,splea,ishtAihnrtfasfaihr.i4daiofntefpmmiSeofnmenhtBis84ahmhrr.cti,iao3epimbiynrlrnoraJn.ane,4essu,o.gr,rf9ec,rimnudacl3eEa555SntJgsisabvianai601aoniyedyc5rs8ngro.nt,,eia*,..--.o.,f;:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      s

   to Mr. Evelyn's daughter, and death, 4S1.
   Hussey, Mr., married dau. of Geo. Evelyn,
   C55o9n. staHnutitnceh,eso29n7,   Lady,      346. Huygens,
                                   ; brief     notice of, 356.
   Huygens preferred wax to other candles,
                Hyde,     Dr., brother of Sir Henry,                                                                                                                                                                                 ;
   6&54c.,               1. Hyde, Anne, married to                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;
               123, 34    of York, 208, 270, 504 ; her
                         the Church of England mis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;

   JdaemseerstioDnuokef  6L72oa31f.d5;yE;HiHsryetadvrierHei,cowtrtsLaeia,nlc,dy3y,4169.S2F.2r6a,HnHcy2ey4d1sle-,,

   represented,
               Hyde,
   P37a3r. k,  toll at,
   diard, Henry,
   544; his sons, 198, 217.                                                                                                                                                                                                JIu7m8.es, the second  bs3cty0rha2oC,noshlslaaa,ntrelde&dsncoaI,tIne.ad,tfpoA6ur2n3btitwl,iseh3Mr0epr3d,..

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           by Mr. Evelyn,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Evelyn thanked
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Jesuits, church,
Jackson, Mr., heir to Mr. Pepys, 586. Ja                                                                                                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;;
   maica, design of the Dutch upon, 1673,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;
   pJa353a5*8r7*m1oo08.f»;ea; s3nv7Jee7aiIsla,Imyi.rt)t3se,hm8s0qh2,i,umi0m2aD3i,kc8u9ake3kte0e;6da,Ddto,aie3stf0pc17oYtt6,hfuo9oer32rsr,2kdeS9,o/(5ua5w23t1f48ht,i92etw.hr7;wa03rEa9a°k,vc5rdec.Fsol73ya1u6nK0inr°,,..t;  33, 34    act&hcRu.ro,cmhaeta, nR1do1m3c, oe1n,3v69e.1n, tJe1a0st9usPaCrEiosnl,lgel4gis5eh,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           church,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           college
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rfnCVSoeauealumonnmiTnrdio,.c,bonerh,oyi,dMifsegoatmxTeofroa,aqrcytnruiirr2cgeic4aoisue0gfps,mr,,elsa4,c,bn1i2ys7t1s0.4i7o194En7o...v,fJee, 1lwly1nI1Inmn3s2c,,5dhp.iai1aeqt43nru83aIR9imtn.aio,.mpmJeobeIFLwsna,eotcssorrschdrdaaesii-,\,-t
   of engagement with the Dutch, 1665, 305,
               reception of Evelyn, 31: opposed
   £»6                                             ;
      ;                                                    ;;
     ying up men-of-war,                  t3h36e330, Pr3o7t3feosrtbaneneatgrslweocretrs
   ceiving the sacrament,                                                                                                                                                                                                  dors, 1682, 435, 436. Indian Queen, play,
   henceforward to attend                                                                                                                                                                                                  b9--E9ev5ae. ulhytoniuf'uIssnlefiwrpmalrtaiatnirYnyogfrokrf,o,of,r2331272s3..i0c.kIInnangInnoligdscohel,ndwtsobEuXysn,td,heShediri,sr,;
   sshainpc,y3,89406C; olmibmelolonuss  vote against, for recu                                                                                                                                                                                                        ;
   407; his case as to;                  tphaepesrsu,cce&scs.ifona, ga4in2s6t,,                                                                                                                                                                                               1

   4rI6aIe57c.17cm,eass4rhoik6ofia4nfsib,,caelec446c65ooe5fus,ncA4atsd6pop6meef,etirhacfahnerlo,dlmaisnn&totshcecho,oiupurrwsnpecrrsooeitlfccoClkraoe,hindma4rel3htedo5iss,,;                                              election, 83, 84 procession to St. John de,    ;J a
   ;;                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JJJL4ooo2ahhn3tenne, sssra,4oo2nnn4,,,S. irS1M0iJ8orHr.n.e--,ens.I,,naeusMxet3eho5rco7.su,.artetoid,ofJofGSnatoer'JacsuT,iyeylisbtaySunIirn,ron'nf,,,W3547m5540553.1..,..;,;
            :
                                                           and opens
                        ;                                   468, 469
                                                        ;   Customs,
·  467, 468       goes publicly to mass,
   a popish       oratory at Whitehall,
   lets to farm duties of Excise,                                                                                a                                                                                                         tones, regicide, executed, 268. Josephus,
   &mtcCiir.Pa, ac4lre6li8sa,msecenoctro,onnda49t3sioignh, td,4i7s5rceoluiqrhsuiesesfi,rres4ts8p5se,pce4te8icn6hg        ;;                                                                                                his tory                     bark   of trees, 82.   onus,
   ;                                           ;                                                                                                                                                                           Paulus,   of, on the           of,   79. Joyliffe,   Dr.,
             :                                                                                                                                                                                                                         museum
                                   ;
                 ;
   reception at Portsmouth,                                   remarks                                                                                                                                                      physician, 198, 250, 253. Ipswich, 249,
   on his character, 527                                   to Parlia
                                           486, 487        ;                                                                                                                                                               Ire3l9a3n*d,394r-emarks respecting natural history,
                                           speech
                                        ;

   ment, 493 anniversary of his accession,                                                                                                                                                                                 383    map by Sir Wm.               Petty, 382 critical
   p49u6tatiobnirthfrdoamy,                        speech      to                                                de                                                                                                        state  of, 1689, 530, 533,          534 parliamentary
                                1696, 503  ;   thanking        him                                               for                                                                                                       proceedings respecting forfeited estates,
                                              ;
                             Coventry,
   liberty     floeeft,co5n1s4cienecnej,oins511the  alarm at                                                                                                                                                                      576, 578 Lord Galway removed from
   Dutch                                            readingof                                                    the                                                                                                       1700,  Lieutenancy, 582 paper relating to,;
                                                                                                                 his
                             :                                                                                                                                                                                             Lord

   declaration for liberty of conscience, and                                                                                                                                                                              1587, 593. Ireton, Henry, regicide, mur
   threatens the six bishops, 515; const ema                                                                                                                                                                               ders by, at Colchester, 220, 248; death
                                                                 INDEX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     767

mPQ2M1auoo7leanne;zgsznf.eu,ornsode'faFrHnaaCaclra,nilnsle2,tg1sild8eemi,,n:and6s1e6ti1ser98ir..na, tt,e4IrI3s1tm26ias,7le,i14an,7nts1,t3.a52to7u7.pIe1es.raaIbos,Ifear,olaliancnin,,                                                                                 o5sKbKe3ufnn4ala.ilMl,g,tchr2h.St9b,.iKuErnlvMli,eKfNrelno.y-,Ssenrtw,ilorloeanfTlr5,l,o.3N,w4So,seicreror6trsGmhm8,9aoommdn;fi,psro3estf0oiy&o,n,Bncs.pehh,2r.iis8rboe6Bpy,f,ou,rprtnra23rieaa38vt639iyt,.,.
troduction of into England, 377. Italian
· Julstdioioen, sgcienRrriop,1mt7fie0oa3mn,naol5eo,8,f5.5gP2rr.einacteJuennHciuoesun,rraygP'seamtrcieconilultescg, tiivohenin,s                                                                                                                                       Knightr Sergeant-surgeon,             o3f64C.harKlensigIhIt.,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mrs., singer, and mistress                                                           Knox,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V26ic1c, s3i2m4u;s,comanpadssThoofmhaesr,vomicaes,te3r8s0.                         of Tun-
698 ; his son Francis,                        Jupiter, temples                                                                                                                                                                                                        bridge school,          306. Koningsmark,                                    procures
»f, at Rome, 87, 88                     ib.   Terracina, 121.                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mr. Thynn's             murder, 433.
                                        ; at
         and toumamentat Rome,                              Juste),
ioIuosnts., 434, 455, 460 ; arranged                  144.  library                                                                                                                                                                                                   LaclDceooamrrTeenideegi,darn,id,Miseo,nnpusedm.r,rfuoegrrma22tais0oo.nncecLoaaflo,lgef,od6,6289d2,09i. 76. A69Lg.anLdaainecLosya,,,
                                                       the

at St. James's, 543. Justice, statue of, at
Florence,                    "Justin, corrected by Isaac
Vossius,     152.             Justinian, gardens            of,
           643.              Juxon, Abp., 271.                   142    ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lago
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            peti
statue of, ib.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        II.Naples, 128. Lago di Garda,                                               178.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   525
Kalendarium Hortense, by Mr. Evelyn, 704.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Maggiore, 184. Lake, Bp.,                                                          :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     against reading the                                     De
DKer.e,pe3,16H. enK.,eipgahmtlepyh,letThboym, a48s,5.          Keffler,                                                                                                                                                                                               ctiloanreadtionJamoefs  Liberty of Conscience,                                                                                                                                                                 ;
Mr. Evelyn, 226. Keightley,                                 cousin of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       515
                                                            Mrs., her                                                                                                                                                                                                 sent to the Tower. 516; tried and acquitted,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              himself from  Parliament, 531.
green old age, 426. Keisers Graft, at                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5L1a6ki:na,bsDenatns.,    pamphlet    by, 280. Lam-
Amsterdam, 28. Kello, Rev. Bartholomew,                                                                                                                                                                                                                               bard, Mr., estate at Westmin, 226. Lam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      beth Library,                    Lambeth Palace
o3bK1nye0,nC. a.hgaBKarplieen.mssotpfI,IBR.aoMitmnhr.ah,anisnodsCficaWSktonheeulolstslshi,c, sh,M4is6a&4ailcti;nt,esgen,1rd6maSo1n6n9-c7s6e,.                                                                                                                         assaulted by a             609.                                               Lantedrati,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              moo,     1L6a40m, o2t,3.                             Mons., ser
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      sea-horses by,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                81.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      m3tGi7nro3'esn.e, now5fL,i5ac15hn,1c0a.5sH7t*eo,Lrs,ap5mi7t7apD.ll,ru.g, hL$,6av3ni,cDea,rr.L,SoaifnsreeSr,Tmt..o,nMMaraosnrf.d,,
485, 498, 507,               5p0e8t,it5io1n4,ed525ag: aoinnestofrethaedisnigx
bishops who
declaration for liberty of conscience, 515 ;
           thoisthsecrTuopwleesr,on51K6.:Wtriilelidaman'ds  acquitted,                                                                                                                                                                                                loyalty    of, 217.     Lanfranco, Giovan., works
sent  ;                                                     accession,                                                                                                                                                                                                of, 94,    122, 137,     140. Langdale, Sir Mar-
517                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   maduke, 202. Langham, Lady, a kins
d53io1ce: sdee, pirbi.vedK, en5d4a3l;,  much beloved in his
Alderman, a fanatic                     DLro.,r2d29.      Kendrick,                                                                                                                                                                                                   wmLaoonmdseadrnno,wonMf, rM. rL.EovrEedvly,enly'snC,odu2in4s2tc.ouorLsfaenogGnue,armg6e7as6n..
                                                      Mayor, 220.
gC5WK6aoei5runld.lnsieaitnnemKgsse,ts,onn5s5o8i37nf,.7gP;t3ao4flKnia3r,e.ceen,aMtK,t,rep.Enu5at4rW,rc7l h'irs;aoiesfsp,i'ensicdg2t9uh6orb.ieunyss,e,KK1e&6iann4nct8gd,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Laefnoomacrordpdo,iorneSdai;arnhdVRisinh.,dicse3i,a4s9to1h.nS,s1,-4L6sa1tL.s,itatu5t8einS2.uopfh,pise1tr1o,6r.iabnyLs,aLesliohs-t
200. Kentish                 amt,e1n74001iam,, p4r75is31o.,ne51dK4.ewfo,Kr epySesitr,itiToH.n,.                                                                                                                                                                       "of, 631.      Lavaran, Madame, singer,
to Parliament,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Laud,     Abp., Chan, of Oxford, 23;                                                 211.
Capel's house                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                his
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      lghiifastel.adcoJeeof,ahtahn7t,1'tsa27c,1Ck27eo.1dl3l.,bL; yajOuutxbdhfieeloerrdedra,alobe2,bf 3let0Dh,:euk2WJ3eehs;oaufgr,ittiofs2tn9o't2sno,
KiAtTde3Coo5xibfhdt0eapu,,bEcr.selunCe,tg3oasea5lfpa31db4.tnIDsa0Idof..uion,lburi,KnltishKenippl,ii,aligelirmpneha58cogot00heprt1.re,l.eeyinanx5,soKy7Ko5,1inin.6Lmn,48gog60u,r,5,K3rd6d.iEa5,lDed.dsrrsaw2K,.e5r,ia8rner.tbrg,diney,,glLiKeoDeChivxrnoeirdemg.ld.,,  *95. 354. 384 '· his house at Ham, 402 ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      libels against,              ; historical letters and
   fCcMouarrtm,.e,db2o6rfi5dfAog;srehg,htreieg2da3h,t9.2p5tr8ree. aKsssiKo,nnign,4g'4s'2s5.E6Cv5.ioKll,ilnerKggoieyn'sagCl,hhtoaoRupuesecevlh.,                                                                                                                       papers lent to,         407  Mr. Evelyn, and lost,

  WrhPLKeoioieesnlrpdrssdrte,eamcplateHioinnn,aisncgttsitteeu,ornrn,rti,etE.sndua2dep2r5esl9p5ri,gl9yono. ff,,oKof£,fi2K4r022biK0n.7y,ig0n,.sg4tK3oCi0KnraC,b,ipnhyt5ga.,,1-rsEl0set,cversoeae.5utelI7yrtIot1,n.-.f .                                                                         by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ; his library, 700.          Lauretto,                                Cavalier,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      o73f1  Rome, singer,             148. Law                                       against
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rSLeoinrvceJe.r,,s,Dparag.,etamrnaagtsia-tsceorLmooerfddyBM,aall2tyo9o0lr.,    Lawrence,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    301. Law
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   College, 20,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      St- Lawrence, President of Oliver's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      council, 252. Laws, a Scotchman, duel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LafoIwoLfy,u,egrreh5sc5t,0o.bm&ym,cLe,a5n5zdrz6eea.qdrui, iLr7ae(2wcd9as.l,lteodmrueBnnriaocmuipnaacnle,ti)J,astmupdeasy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      laces  built    by,     B1o3h6,tin1's40h; oucsheu, rc&h c,buatil,t                     by,
martial on,        and shot,           585. Kircher,        Father,                                                                                                                                                                                                   180.   Lea,   Mr.                                                                     436,
E10v5e,ly1n09a, t                      his attentions       to Mr.
                   1R3o9m, 2e4,3    ;   ; communications by                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~*hL4ee4aa8d.k,e,LpeiDcatrgu.ur,eehiasatnddthaeucgohSvtewenara,nnt3In9a0nb, ,jur3Le2ed7a,.th2e8Lr7c-.
                                  01                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LLCMeehreea.c,t.hB,SaMirrooMnnHr,s..e,annardnpydhGysrMeiacoeri9san.nw,:,icS3h12ir962H,.To2hs5opL8mei.tcaahls,L,emee45dr26es38,,..
Mr. Evelyn on his John'ObeliscusPamphi-
   lius,'
Kiviet,    S17ir1,Jo2h4n7,.  account    of,   326     ; his proposal
to wharf the Thames with brick, 327, 340.
project relative to draining, 347. Knatch-
768 INDEX.

Duke of, 569 ; commissioner of Greenwich                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ment, 33 on proclamation of peace, 1642,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;;
Hospital, 561               subscription to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   38 cross at Cheap destroyed, 39 pulptts
Leeds Castle,              Kent, prisoners
                        ;                  ;                                     kept 56a7t.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ;;
                                                           it,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;;
cTNV3tXhf3e»ele3r3'5s>  331- Leeward Islands,                                          Sir                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of the churches tilled by mechanics,                                            249   ;;;
                        indiscreet government,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Lord Mayor's Show, 1661, 379; 1603,                      ;                      389;
                                                                                      36c*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              draught of an Act ;
36s. Le Febure, Mons., chemist,                                                       195.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2664, 301 1686, 504;                      of smoke in, 382       ;;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              against the nuisance
Legg,   GMCeoor.rl.g, eW, 4.m,87ao. sftetrhLeeogfhBtoherednc,ohradamncabcneocure,n,t4343o12f..,                                                                                                                                                                                                               fast on Jan. 15, 1663, ib. commission for
Legg,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .  regulating buildings,                     384,  C2h8a6rlesprIeLs,en3t84of
Legg>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pthleagCueit,y1t6o65t,he30Q8u, e3e09n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              308; dreadful increase                    of
el7pEHLLol8eaeayni.liii.rgclng,leithnSestSgLortoiree,ufnirr,ct,rP1(oee0te,shSyE8tt.,eeiae3rrr4r,1l,1Eg7Lol.reif3eac,n5ais8tnh,lty,ei)oe,tpu3trosre3,foe49r,3,jseJ9aec9tar4t3o4nP51mvod.e.afne,sps,ea3hLL3pupe7eoerai.nsrcisctneN,e,Ltseiet72nveb33igetr13ehs,,..                                                                                        fast on account of,
possessed by, 333. Lent, 1665, obse vance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :                      of, 309, 310. 31a;
of, and recommended, closing the theatres,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;
                           ';                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 II.frDCaiubrhueianattcsreinhl,se,sa1nh6da636v1pX,inl,aa3gf1nt7e3sla1--r1fnot3dhr2ee1dr,mpe,l6baa4ug3y33uiol1edr,inaglsciabuor.rtmnhvgeetriynhace,tioutogfylfaretttbehhaeseyt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L»r Wren and Mr. Evelyn, 30a,                                                    fast on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              occasion of the conflagration,                    631                           plague,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and             Th30a2mesa,lar3m37,               Dutch enter
1839, X37> Leonaenus, Athelsteinus, ana                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ing       war,     ;                      on the  rebuilding of
(litpsPLLniaoae*uargfmimrcnEtn,veatsci,acorste7wtra,,oa3la4r7nVbry7.cgdapa5,oe.sntrlt,e4L,lle7peec5SawCpt.rioiLaoeraofciu,ntnnyiLnR,ot6deito7noneet6gsSftgns.eeas,rrpmbs,ba,Lyyuoie3,n,fe3a0st4lm,li,651ine,37bRg34,aios1.3tn.,i7todLh7pnae3rL3sidSLnoe3)heyi.,torfiysspp,dJoWra5eOiLln87ndnbie30tle,,*.-               the           :                    328                                burnt in
Liancourt, Count de, palace, garden, and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Corpora
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ;                                             warranto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ettihfoleingytc,oity1h6i7sb3e, Mg3ua7nj7e,st3yp43etointitohtneheoPfqotuphoee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              against their charter, and submission to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              his pleasure, 427 their privileges dimin
                                                                           ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                   ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ished, ib. and judgment entered against
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              them, 449 inscription on the Monument
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a&gca,inosnt  tJhaemPeaspisIIt.s   erased, 479; rejoicings,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   birthday, forbid, 503:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IIIproceedings of Common Council on the
ptErniacgntulsarlnaedtsi,.on51,,69517a9.--7.70L1iL.biebrrtayLriigeansned,   Servitude,' a                                                                                                                                                                                                                     approach of William                               688, 6S0 re
                                                                           in Paris and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,                               ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;                      ;
                                                                              Prince de,                                                                                                                                                                                                                      joicings on the accession of William and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mary, 5*9 charter of the city restored,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              540 earthquake felt at, 1692, 709 increase
   Ambassador         from     Spain, 367.                                            Ligon,                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;
   Capt., 337.      Lilly,                                                              Lima,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :
   earthquake       at, 516.                                                        Thomas,
   Governor of                 astrologer,                                 S5i7r4.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of, 1696, reprobated, 720.
Lincoln, and                       Linch,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  London frigate blown up, 304, 306, 62s a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lon
                    Jamaica, 353,          370,                            389.Lincoln-                                                                                                                                                                                                                       new       frigate so called, launched, 314.                                     Jewry,
                       Cathedral,          338.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               don       Institution, house of, in Old
                    L3i3n9c. olnL'sin-cionlnn-'fsieldInsn, ,threeavterles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     370; mansion erected for, in Moorfields,
hire    Fens,                                                                         at,                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ib. London, Mr., gardener to Sir Chr.
1661,                                                                                 in,                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :
        381.
bLES1e7iaisr0rrlgelG,,oM.M,fLp,oro.unr2tsd0,P.3o.toSv(sewoydnLe'eidsnaidosthshhfaoyubERs,ye.es,oiLIdrfoee3rLtn9doe7t,n.i,c,e413s93L7t.2.ien0r,d)LL,siisa3olh4yen8i,,s-.                                                                                                                                       bWByarreJbanam,deo5s7e1s.,II.,1L8o65n.3d4o; LnoS, ncWdhooilnmlidabemerrr,gy  letter to, on
        :                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     surprised
                 ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           sent to its
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              rLeolniegfu, e5v35il,le5,36D. ukLeonogf,fo3r5d3,. LLoortdh,ia4n0,0,Lo4r0d6,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

house at            oDfSehCpehteafnorl,reds,40II3.3.,6403L.3it. cLhiftLiteilteltdtleo, rn,,LaMdSry.i,,r                                                                                                                                                                                                       dt13e64u98rny6, e,, ,25616n760.u04n,ssL5uo5opt6fpt,e,rer5syi5ms8ipoionnsfrtue1or6qfe9,us31e, 6n05cp95y,r4ao5cf7t3islso.teatttdeeLriolbeouyst,,-;
daughter
vicar of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ''
   Charles,       and his house            at2S1h8e. enL, lo5y14d.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;
Lloyd, Sir         Richard, 3oo,                                                      Dr.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ;
afterwards Bp. of St. Asaph, attended the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     348.          Love and Honor,' a tragicomedy,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              280.          Love in a Tub,' a play, 469. Love,
English court in France, 316 sermons of,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XII.,Captain, duel fought by,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              equestrian statue of, at

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XIII., his sepulchre, 41.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              forms in a masque, 210
                                           ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4B8Ll0oo.ius,isLo6X2u.iIsVL. opueirs
                                                                     ;1
389, 413 Bp. of St. Asaph, 334, 408, 416,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               procession to Par
418, 432. 437, 480,                        DJ3e»c.la5ra3t9i.on5*1of
petitioned against             493. ?*5,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :
                               reading                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;
Liberty of Conscience, 515; sent to the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       liament when out of his minority, 313. 3x4
Tower, 516; tried and acquitted, 517; his                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     his ambitious career, 446, 457, 501, 551.
interpretation          of prophecies,
sermon on the           deliverance of                                     533,  C5h40u,rc5h41of                                                                                                                                                                                                           Luttp3pMLDcoh0lioaatar8euasct.,r,h,evlsv,,ern4piSeo3ah5T3,lili6ry1rsn7e3se,a.3iaCatsc.s3,ui,au4PbL63nrpaso.1y,Lucr0y,uir.tos5ib,p55lait86tco,.1iLdeo,oerdns,w5eILcg6anro8tntidobb.hwaeeimstdGsiLu,b,arogsyenMwr,ee,t4ranIh7.rhtMw,.eeisrsitrcs,oe.hk,nLcbiSo,rlouleHwifrr2tieoat3aJohrr.s0l,ny-e,,
                                                                           the

   LElnogyladn, dM, r.5,36370, the clergy ejected, 571.:
Locke, John, secretary to council of trade and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;

plantations, 370, 377. Lock hart Lord
a4ri1mv6eb.rasBLsoraegdngotaran,tion300IFt,raalyn,Lcoem,16b53a.7r7d. iLuos,ftLuoTscu,klslMiuros.n,,
                                                                                    ,
                                                                                                   ,

sculptor, 166. Lombart, engraver, 336.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3M48r..,  Lucas, Lord, 537,               543. Lucas, Rev.
Lopnrdoocne,ssipoenstoilfenCchea,rle1s635  and 1636, x8, so                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             560. Lucca, city                of, 150. Lucretia,
                                           through, on open
                                         ; I.

                                                                                  ;;
                                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                                                 it,
                                                                                                                                                                                          ;
ing the Parliament, 32                      tumults,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Signora, a Greek lady, 200, Lucretius,
processions on opening                     the Long                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           first book translated into verse, by Eveiyn,
                                                                                      32, 23                                                                                                                                                                                                                  247 bis own remarks upon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              247, 670
                                                                                      Parlia
                                                                                              INDEX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                769

observation! on     it        byiaJ8e.remLyudTiayCliorcre, ns5e5s5,.                                                                                                                                                                                    AI52nI83tnIc39d.u..)rse, aCMM,3aaa9nrrp0oyya;n,,i,n'QtQmiun&u.agecrsoer,finebSd2yc6,o(act2,sot4,on86.sh7oet8hrr.tMeb. ouaMfrPritaraiiWrnnlt-cpe,ilelglaiMancmareo.,,f
Lucrine, lake       of,
cfvLaoiusmlmoiouill.ycrsyP, orwifn,oLcroen2r,5d8b,.hyi3s1Lc1uo,vmtitlbcl4aar7et9ala,ln,tts5,0RM9o.rm6.8,e3.,Lpua9minL2,tluein9dy3gi,-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Orange, 397; her conduct on her accession
by, 558. Luxembourg, palace and gardens,                                                                                                                                                                                                                MaCtrltesoiachoclu,atntilrh,oal5eenr5ssD9ocorI'rf.Iof,.cwbhhesenhihnr,icsaacov,5huih2ar5io9t5ruu,a3r:sce3;th,i0ene3hrr,,e2hrc2i3eba32dr..b7tei.asn5iteM6cht0kMas.nasaenqsasdusnsyed,,fsupcnSaoaerilrt
, 56. 57. 58- Luxembourg, surrender of, to
3oF9fr,9e.6n8c,hL,6y9t4,c5o17t9,t4,.56M9.Lry.,rLa4y,9o6n.Ds,oncitEymoaf,nuaeccl oudnc,t

MaooibwSncfyfiogcrrlSEeGtSMchsvceof,erooite'ltlryallSgdaEnnei,nvrd,dec, lhHoLybin5ounsy2trm,,5aEd,i5psn,3sh35i2an92hr6.e6ygi,syo;,5hMnd3pie9anaSa4dtrot;6shtdl8ii,Lcotf.ououxrrdl5,ad5eMhr5Msi.aaAscrndr.ktes,vreMswaopnlevcaeezetarcciteeltteksed,,r-  Edward, Governor of Jamaica, 368 Mas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tiff dogs draw pedlars' carts in Holland,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MPHlareuittnttghechreas,,ci oaf2Hr,5co.h7ri3tt1ei-,cMta,at xMwRimaooxrmiwlkiaseen,lol.f1,35MI.2I.9r..8,,ME43a01mu71,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r3i7c.e,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        peror,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        May,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        n3275a63r.d. ,3M0L9oa.rydn4,a1r5cd.o,m43pM7tr-ro.,lleMsreargoyefah2no9t,,usfe4e2hs3ot.ilvda,Ml 4ao6yn8,-.
599. Madrid, palace of French king, 51,
W20i3n.dsorM. aes3t8r0ic.ht,      siege represented                                              at
                              Magdalen College                                                and                                                                                                                                                       Mazarine, Cardinal, 209, 228, 271 ; alluded
Chapel, Oxford,     2o135f16,.D3u0Mc0ha.eimsMsbaoogufnrYgiao,nrikF, a, tMphueabrr,-                                                                                                                                                                     to, 271. Mazarine        Library,                                6C0h7a. rleMs aIzIa.,
quis* of Bologna,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rine, Duchess of,      mistress of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        poom53fo79f,e13vs,.hesaiars4st,6y7hMs1io5as;on3tzf,.ho,zeroir52ct46tMai78d,le..earaedetcMMoxhowc,cereasddal,taslnhe,lSdsn, 6,itr9Ba2Waiic,nsncmh6coo9i.uPe3,pnincmt;tot,froaw,aurfrrt1iitiha6leCi5egtroy6rse-,,
     tended letter                          Maison, President,
fhiirissehpeadlacbey,ne4a3r5,Pa6r7is2,.  201. Maison Rouge,
MnMDeaurasiktr.leaPnBadaor,itfsh,sLuL5oaa4r,.udd, seMclrihdaboairtaollearl)yn,doof,fl,(eat27nt0e0c0re0s.s. torMoMfa,aoiklfiin7nt3gsh1,,e.
South, church consecrated, iS ; impro                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and others skilled in      tbhoneooktsiuscebeljdlee,crt,r6e39s83p7,e, c6t69i9n24g.;
priations, 106. Malpighi, Signior, presents                                                                                                                                                                                                             various collections
sa3ee3atr4rrvt.ehaaqttiiuoMseanaknetcoohft,eahtse,7te4R5r1o.,6y93aE,lMaaSr5llo5v,2ce.ireLntoyMr,dHa3li3vlC9lesh.z,azMmi,vabileteoawbr,,                                                                                                                 Medals, letter to his
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        discourse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        inclosing       othna, t71p3a,rt71o4 f;  to LordGodolphin,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the work which re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        lates to clipping and the debasing of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           coin,
MaDlMManriaanc.n,n,innne2im,,7rs0a,S,Msit3greg0.nr,1eio.norre,efrMcaBoolaafrndldcieoRehrlopemrsaoCtevefo,irlt,lye1Ipg3669seo.4w,f.,ic5Mh573,2a7,nd;35e8s9r0o3,..                                                                                        Mede,     7:9,  7in20te. rpretation      of                      prophecy,  534,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mr.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        540. Medici, palace of, at Rome, 86.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Medici, Cosmo di, Duke, statue of Justice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e8r1e.cteMd edbiyc,i,  79, 329 ;  eIqI.u,estimriapnrosvteadtue              of,
                                           Manton,                                                                                                                                                                                                      Palace of                Cosmo                                              the
                                              Manu                                                                                                                                                                                                      Cardinal,       Paimttib, a7s9sa;dsotratufreomof,                th3e39.DMukeedicio, f
cI)iert.y,  for reformation of, 575, 577.                                                                                                                                                                                                               Florence to Rome, 144 ! fireworks at his
            presbyterian, sermon of, 257.                                                                                                                                                                                                               pM31ao6lat, hcee4,r0,7.114654.M1,egM3ge1od.ti,cisM,Dere.Mr,easDr,iaeaSnidre.TohfQomuWeaiensn,
scripts in the Bodleian library, 230. Maple
mtDtrheraee.g,,waomzaiftnaeerVrb-eslfriopnorogn, uaati,net r1tL,h7ae8m2. 0wb9oe.Mothda,Mroc3fah,0ra1d6.n1e3dn.,,MFMaSlroaicrrreibalRllnoeo,,,
boLeufrctrFerCtailana,cyeto, bno'ssoekvseearbittyy,at,ionf3,9p6r.6a7i6s.eMaorMifnaewrionmLealelwan,,s                                                                                                                                                   chester,   3M51e56l3,f.o4rd5M6, ,eLt4lo,8r5d,M, 5pr0i,1ctu;mreuthsseibcieaslenor,nmg2oi2nn3sg,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of, 506.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        to, sold,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        246. Melos, Don Francisco de, 328, 370,
Ma61r67l98b..oroMMuaagrrhlibu,os,rLoouCrgdahi,u(sa,tfotewvrinwctaoorfrd,ys2o3fD8, .uk14e0),,                                                                                                                                                            Mercator, Nicholas, mathematical instru
                                                                                              177,                                                                                                                                                      ments by, 317. Merbers'                   Chapel (London),
                                                                                              dis                                                                                                                                                       120 ; Italian sermon at,                 1M97o.ns.,Meprecerfroiarm, eart
II.ismbe.irsts;eedmdaJsaftremormesofofofircdenwahfnoocrehe,axd5t8o0artdi:ovhnai,nsc5he4do7n;houidmres,                                                                                                                                                  Venice, 160. Mercure,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        on   thaCeoplllureotgejee,c1toi9of5n.PhyoMsf,iecrica3u2nr8sy.,,
and emoluments, and reflections on his                                                                                                                                                                                                                  be                                                                a ring said to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the                                                              Meret, Dr., of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         288. Merrick,
boc5oh7f*rah7oriuas5gc8ath5et,tr;e, Snd5at8iero5aanht;h,tomoDMfaurchrrh.iiaseEgsvsesoenoloy,ff.nh5,28is58539d;,0a.3ui8ng0sh,Mttae3an8rrcs1le,,                                                                                                          Mr., of Parson's Green, 271. Merick, Sir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        William, 294. Merwell, Dr., 20. Merton
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        College, election      to         the Warden ship, 371.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Messeroy, Mons.,                  Jersey, 366. Metel-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of                                                Meteor,
      5A8r8u. nMdealr,moEraveOlyxno, n.  Arundeliana,                                                                                                                                                                                                   lus, sepulchre of, at Rome,                                              Mewes,
548,                                     Howard.                                              M3a31r.-                                                                                                                                                  one which appeared 1680,                                         135.
See                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dr., of St. John's College,                                      426.
btmaroxidugsoteine,ro, v5e6a1r,b. b5e2M.yarosMf,eailrl6rei4sa.,gesaM,cacrboauuern,italsfoa,fm, &o7uc0s,,                                                                                                                                                Michel), Robert, estate at                                       NOoxrtfohrdS,toa3k4e3,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mickleham, notice of,                                              Middle*
ii ; Galley-slaves,                          Marshall,                                                                                                                                                                                                  273.      Lord, 329; Secretary                                   o24f4.  State, 459,
  larshall, Mr., book         570.       flowers made                                         200.                                                                                                                                                      ton,       Middleton,  NCeow!.,Ri3v5e5,r                         o3f5,7.501M* idMdilde*-
                                                                                               by,                                                                                                                                                      509.      Sir Hugh,
                               of                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ton,
436. Marsham, Sir John, 296 ; his Chro-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               49
   770 INDEX.

   MiMdlaeildntd,olne,dtoeMnsc,rrsi.pD,tirdo.a,nu.Itoaofl,fiaSn1i8r0sR--e.rm1N8oe3ne;dbhcyaa,tmh1,e9d74r.4a7l,.                                                                                                                                                          eMM3ThM8xhoooa8eourrr,cmsdgyue3aa,at8unos9na,,r,3t,t84,6004C9A1,05os8L.:ln3,.a,7sM4d2tM1erye3.don,x,,roEpg4tvhela1oe3e.n6i1lrty.,0sn, cMMaMh5aortao1.rtr,rd1riPdt.uabyaasuo,nutnteaMnatemn,t3o.i2fasro5te,Lr,,L,.aa3a32ddS755ny268dyi,.r,.
      1S0: church of St. Celso, 181 ; the Great
   Hospital, ib. ; Temple of Hercules, ib. ;
   monastery of Madona della Gratia, and
   picture of Leonardo da Vinci, ib. ; Am-
   brosian Library, ib. ; church of St- Am                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Morghen, Raphael,                              fine en
   brose, 182 ; citadel, ib. ; Signior Septalla's                                                                                                                                                                                                                        357, 380.            i8t. Morice, Mr.                           Secretary,
   ncuerl,ioasnitdiesm, e1l8a3nc:hcoilvyilitaicecsideonf t                                                                                                                                                                                                               graving by,                                                      Morice,
                                                                Scots   colo-                                                                                                                                                                                            M27o8n, s.3,08p, ro3f2e6ss; olribartarGve, n2e0v4a,,            270, Mo-
"                                                           a  which   befell                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  337.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                193,
   hMhWMinaimgioimln.to,ogd,5inrc5bc5o,6.l5-,tieC1a1.,h,8Mr4wi1.siM9olt6lmoie.lMplerinhin,llgeMeRtrono,eifnin,vutb,.m,4rMo1,Ct9Srho.d.ie,rmervlmuMTioshciifitanootmJrnenooe,ahfrseMnE,fso,fprfr.ei45,nc40rgte0o1..f                                                      rine, Mons., his garden and collection of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M orison.           Dr.. professor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         insects, 59, ato.   Moriand,            Sir Samuel, his

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of botany, 384,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Molaihenrsolyvseui.eyssetn,DtihAorai.nsgtsnb,GelLisena3,omd3.s1nbc.ehe(saot3shf0o,t5,le,5rfw6o424u4a.22nr9dd;se; hdiBsibnpyfv.a,etxhnoeet>firo, nMWs33oi1nrto-;
   Tg3d3qV1e54hu3uen731olinata,,.mitt,ceie4nad30M,sgS,8,D,0.o.1uc5G72ch539ohM1Mi.4ve,.,ioessshe2rIMn'M9numoo5unoolr,.s,ifl,n,i,3no1oosL,4r3t,foau.7tr7CiJunad.SoMesm,ingiradnoabtiMcicrnfyoiaode,rd,d,tdoehil1,feao03,Dar2S5dnco.5pP,idg,taiycenM3uiaS5ssooc^o6hfi-,r,f    csoehnremtshoteenr),cbhya2, r0g22,e74a2g;9a8li,entst3te1r4h,oimf38M8rre.;spEcevocertiolnyngnatitothone,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Duchess   of York       dheissevritnindgicatthioenC, h/u$r.,chfo,o.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         England,            s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    475,672   ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Morley, Col., one of the Council of State
   ambassador, 307. Molten, famous for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   165?, 320, 242 : Mr. Evelyn attempts to
   m5M6oa8nk. einvgM. olusntcekas,,rcGi1t5ye6o. orgf,Me,oinnacfntEeunrygwslaa, rndMdsonDinsu.,k1e63946o8,.f                                                                                                                                                              bring him over to the King, 262 ; the colo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nel hesitate*, anrl loses the honour of re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sdsptooenrc,intiigbn.gt;hethEevKeinlRygnin,'g2s's62n,ere2g6so3ttoi:aratiptoiornonsc, uw4re1it6sh  par
   Albemarle, his march from                       Scotland,              263   ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            re
   broke down the gates of                         the city,               ib.  ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ; re
   marches to Whitehall, and convenes the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                flections. 450. Morocco ambassador, au
   old Parliament, ib. ; letter of Mr. Evelyn                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ditMboi.oe, rn;4oc3se2aind;oim,fa,itctc1eao6dm8u2nb,otaf4so3st0fah"de;hoiemrRnotyefararnotladmiSnhmoiVcseienenrtteyict,gienS4av3ee5t,ao.
   to, 130. Monk, Dr., Hishop of Hereford,
   the funeral of, 280.
   Monmouth, Duke of, 201, 348, 371, 380, 411,
   429, 465, 480 ; his unexpected return from                                                                                                                                                                                                                            France,   2C13o.untMesosrrios,f,  Mr.,                s2c0r8iv. eneMr, or3n9s7,
   Holland,   and great  4p4o4p:ulsaurritrye,nd4e1rs3,                 ;  pro                                                                                                                                                                                            Morton,
   clamation   against,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    202,
                                                                          451                                                                                                                                                                                            Mons-, an eloquent preacher, 282, Mos
                                                                                                                 ;

   pardoned, and banished from Whitehall,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                cotafo,gwu67e.b, uDMrnuotku,elin2os6f9,,9,Mhi.s5-7p4sa.ulargceMeooanut,linB1s0l,o0.oamcMscbooouurnnyt-
   452 ; sets up his standard as King, 478 ;
   proclaimed traitor. 479 : defeated and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mus4(mhtEnrcc9eaicaro6cririr.kwpnlrtdiiegiooeoMdtofnahf,o,eAtthuorSo,un1MBif4ntg5a7rd1ani.g3ter.i.u,syl)eh,V4,EM5eMv11Mnoe7oMwe1luuyt.rbsbnin.aerut,,anuerymbnoa,aatft)mtn,WotkoLbr3o,noa8otesr0hddsyae,ca,t4odgxc(ohrs,R3rooi,osun;3m3n4sd4do6e3eo,n,,f
   taken prisoner, iff. ; committed to the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ;;
   Tower and executed,       4;81ch; aaraccktneorwolefdhgiemd,
   his base extraction, ib.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   it,
   482, 604 ; account of his mother, 201, 482,
   andtwte. Monmouth, Duchess of, 371, 390,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :
   iodc1w6oefl9ous,3Ancnmlr4t--bi,8peo11tmu6i,2ot066ahn623r,,l,7eoc,Ef;3o,a0sn95e4rcrl51em;5.or,fon,nMiM5n5so66go61nb,n.teyatsa5ghtM8gaue2tuoereen,c;,shlsetaLrufetpLobulorbsaidcryli,ndr,i,DpbttVu5rirok3iiiaes7enlf.                                                                                                          a

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         350    entertained by Mr.          Evelyn,                      3g3a7rdehnis,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         entry  into London, ib.           Mulberry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2M2u8 ndaMnuulsg,ravpeh,ilosLooprhde, rs370e. lix41ir1, p5r5o3j^e. c5te54d.
   crtoeomvGearrreekrenowoffi,pchho7s3Hp8.hoosprMuitsoa,nl,1ta565lb.67a.nMo,oMnotDentraF,ieglntdreies,,                                                                                                                                                                  bcERMoyvouu,ebrnley5otrn9t6,,to.of,ro4tn7oM1e17.u1ao.ntfciMRtuhMuosemruaMrfenoi,ul,ullonied1,nb3ee9rrpas.iasri,notMVifnegut;nphrireocaeeliyRmy,.o, ya4Sbac5clyr.
   Count and Countess, 448. Montford the
   player, murder of, 551. Montfort, Lord,
            Montgomeryshire,                dwfieelrliyngsexohaf laintihoan
   347.  555- Mont Louis,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Society, 271, 275, 287,           295,                          297, 303, 346,
   >n,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     226. Mus-
   bitants, 68. Montpelier, celebrated for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Muschamp,     Mr.,
   perfumes, 599. Montrose, Marquis of, 212,                                                                                                                                                                                                                             g37r3a>ve,71?S- ir  Philip, 202.  Musical instru
   694, 731. Monument (London), building                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ment,     new invention,                                          Muscovy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a                          207.                          200. Mas-                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1602,
   of, 427 ; words on against                                  the Papists                                                                                                                                                                                               ambassador, audience of,
   erased, 479. Moore, Bishop                                  of Ely, his                                                                                                                                                                                               covy. Czar of, his conduct to the English
   Mofrindeaulinbtr,aryM, r.5,73.acquitted                                                                                                                                                                                                                               tailambassador (Earl of Carlisle), 201 net*.
     daunt. Lord Viscount,                    1658, 257.                  Mor-                                                                                                                                                                                           Mustapha, a tragedy, by the                                                                       of
                                            251, 263, 270,                                                                                                                                                                                                               'NpOaakrrienedtriyn,gTrb3uy0t,5h, 9,'23.24p.amMphulteiat nos,o   Girolaxno, a
                                                                            271,                                                                                                                                                                                            Nantes, Edict of, revocation                                 of,caalnledd,con3*a8e.
   T27a3y,lo28r0,in2v9e2st;igcaatseedbebtywetheen  him and Capt.
                                                   House of Com
   mons, 325 ; Mr. Evelyn a trustee for, 372.
                                                                 INDEX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  771

qNuaepnltes,pienrsscerciputtiioonn,ove4r99th. e  Nanteuil,        306.                                                                                                                                                   Dutch East            India      NCionmevpeahn,y,re3m5a0in; sp, o&liccy,
                                                 ga t e of the  king                                                                                                                                                     of his nation,
dom, 122 ; account of the city and its envi                                                                                                                                                                                                    262.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         °ofdHoffe<o,lknu3,,9s7J3eT7o.,.hho4Sn1mNu,0ira.sarsmec,yNce,uisofr,oaabuccerycctoihatuonynfdDthohiuosfe,fk,rme53af9a1op9m0,f.,, i4l3y3l1eN,81t.o.tsentarsNNstuuooceohrrsf-,
rons, 123 -- 132 ; Castle of St. Elmo, 123, 138;                                                                                                                                                                         so7Ht3feo1rn'.eMrdya,N,rmos2ri8oxf0rotahl;k,DOhuTxikhsoeonmd'oeafpas,rt,e3hs5,fe0ifn,t3ht49e08d.1D, ut5o1k,1Neob:oryffc,ootlrhpkeey,
the Mole, ib.\ Cathedral and churches, 124;
Monastery and church of the Carthusians,
to. ; Viceroy's Cavalerizzo, 125; Imperati's
Museum, ib.; Carnival, ib.\ Vesuvius, ib. ;
Pausilippo, 127: Lago di Agnano, Grotto
del Cane, 128 ; Court of Vulcan, ib. ; Pu-
tcoli, 129 ; Lake Avernus and Cave,                     Cuma ;
F13ie0ld; s,Baiiba.c,;     ib. ; Miscnus, 131 ;         Elysian                                                                                                                                                          MUnrisv.erBsiictyk,crto3Sn9,     married    to his concubine
                           general observations          011 the                                                                                                                                                                                       ;  398, 399   ; his house and

CWS15iirti3lylJio:aahmonnnd, thoJtoefh,uegraenmnoadallonngoheyfi,srso7s1fo,2on. 7f0G7thN.reaavspeNseaaourMpb,laerPo,ururiign1c3hce2e,,,                                                                                  pictures at Weybridge, 401,                 402,       573  ; pre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sents the Arundclian library                  to      the   Royal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Society, ib., 403; collection of pictures,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         441 ;      his skill  in horsemanship, 461.                     Nor
monuments, 27, 276. Naudxus, Caspar,                                                                                                                                                                                                Henry,      seventh Duke of, 570                     ; bill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         folk,
on Libraries,              translated            by Evelyn, 2S0,                                                                                                                                                         for his divorce thrown out, 548, 551 ; his
t6h9e6,ir6O97r,ig7i2n7a.l  ' Navigation           and Commerce,                                                                                                                                                          kindness tr> the Evelyn family, 555; suc
                           and Progress,' by Mr. Eve                                                                                                                                                                     (chMeiserdsds.eaBintihck,oeb5r6tt4ao.inn)i,nNg3o9r9hf,ios4lk0d,1i.vthoerceD, u5c7h7e,ss578o;f
lyn (part of his History of the Dutch war),
NeK53Se57eicrS9ah.pR;aoomblibNutea,eilnratDtol,erS,.,eavnJMCaedsranp.r,LleDoarL,id,aoyplts2t,ae,4i9rn2,i5et55e3s48,r1,,1s528e.595t9.Su,Npae2neb0ddy4,h,na54om54te47,..,
JNtlNaaeeecmnepeedteduals,entwe4GI,o8Ie5r.kn.l,oaraueN,nslaeocn7glh3dvr,seoocds7af,4ps.ethoHipiNoeh,fre,ao4ivln42e,1y6S.9m.itrhoeNPmNeaderueogll,,c,rho2verpe7issas5,.                                                   NorNNSK9re6meioo5sre,rprapttenhDhe4cb,8r,uty,4idLnD, log;er4r.y2MddL,8(,eoas;aror3aqdtn8cnhu9hdi,oaCsof4rhhfa3Liio8cseCfo.t,fehrbracdJN,ruroo\losnetihbtrvssit.eece,hrrerI,s4mI,a.(SR,ot44oiin.or0^5n9F5eso8rNrf:a,,,ownL5cr34iott5i88shrh994,d,,.,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Northampton, Earl of,                     260, 268 ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3E9a1r.l  and Countess, 519 ; his seat,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ampton, town of,                                      ib. North
tiges of, 30, 131, 133,            13L9o.rd,Ne4v6e1rs. ,        notice                                                                                                                                                   Pas.- age, attempt to                         North-west
of, 194. Newburgn,                                              New                                                                                                                                                      umberland, Henry                 385, 519.  3e9ig0h. thNoErtahrl
castle, Marquis of, seat                         at Welbeck, 236.                                                                                                                                                                                         discover,
Newcastle, Duke and                              Duchess of, at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Percy,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of, suicide of,                               Northumberland,
Qerkenwell, 327,           328 ;                 dress of        the                                                                                                                                                     Algernon, tenth                  E44a5r.l  of, his pictures at
Duchess, 337, 328 ;                              the Royal       So                                                                                                                                                      Suffolk    308H. ousNe,orth2u5m8,ber2la72nd;,         House at
ciety,                     visits                                                                                                                                                                                        Sion,                                                   Joceline,
ship,   3c323o78ll,e;6c6tthi9oen; Dmuoakferr'liseatgtbeeorsookfaonhndisHdpooaresuemgmshtaentro,
559 ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                    eleventh Earl of, his daughter's marriage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CtoouMntre.ssThoyfn(nLea,dy4E29li.zabeNtohrtHhuomwabredr;lanwdi,fe
the Duke and Duchess, 668 note ; panegy                                                                                                                                                                                             Earl), 270,
   rical letter       DoufkEeveolyf nB,uc6k6i8n--gh67a0m. 's)N,ew249H.all                                                                                                                                                of tenth   Countess of                                   Northum
Ne(wthme agrrkeeatt,    Charles 1 1. 's house at, 347;                                                                                                                                                                   berland,                                   429, 589.  of eleventh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         oEfar(l)n,atu45ra1l.                        (widow              Duke
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Northumberland,                tIhI.e),
stables and heath, ib. ; court at, and races,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              391,
                        revelling at, 360; collection for                                                                                                                                                                                      son of K. Charles

r1e6b7u1,ild3in57g ;                                                                                                                                                                                                     456. 459, 49s-                              Lady, conduct
Newport,               Newmarket after fire,                                                                                                                                                                             Norton,    CChoal.r,les48L7.,      Norton,  Norwich, brief
                      Andrew, 413. Newport,                      E4a49rl.                                                                                                                                                   of, to                        218, 226.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         account of, 360. Norwich, Earl of, ambas
of, 273,     478, 485 ; his        pictures, 463 ;               trea                                                                                                                                                    sador to France, 42 ; at the head of the
surer of    the household,                                        530.
Newport, Viscountess,              1685,         46'SN;e1w68*9,  from                                                                                                                                                    rCfor4rrieef3saLo,fb9iutt.ne.hcs3gelse3s5std6,2sNi.rn81aot,o9lraK8wN5gsoeo;o2aifnt,oti9hnttdiP;io,nsn,autg1rsCsi6heseCot4al,h8ulosme,nil4n.4c,,1.Kai9l3Ebe67EdnpwN1ias;p.cioitrnaithtnlttgriiziNntoeoPogndfoanF,htpoarbiro4esmeet0tffosso8,Dt,r,J,eaaKtm55mo3i22twn4e4h2e3gsen,,;;
Brussels unmasked,'                 407.          Evelyn,         363.
                                                        Newton,
                                      by                Newton,
Newstead              Abbey, notice of,
                        monument of,              236.
Sir Adam,                                        220.
SleNNax-iiis7rccc,.eehHl,oSleeliNarnnDicirac,Eeyendo,,loewfafL,aiRlnloruodnsmhS,iitoasehnv,eSscosevoyicnitl,orlogeel,iecbtnat3rr,i,i2roey30n1f8,40o8on2,.f2of46tS1ci,Nc2otea3ii.nc4tshNeo4,o,f,i,cl2a26h974o7o3279,..,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         William, 537          ; quarrel with Admiral Russcl,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         551 ; resigns          as Secretary of      StNatoev, a38Fo; sfsiar©,
N37ic8h;olWase.stMrH.oJrosehlney,   purchased by,                3N00i .                                                                                                                                                 at his house          at Burleigh, 589.
                                   son of Secretary                                                                                                                                                                      monastery at, 120. November, fifth of,
cholas, allusion to,               67N. icNhioclhso, laCso, l.,Fri3e5r5,,                                                                                                                                                forbidden to          Dbue tckheprte, s4p9e3c.tingN,ut6m73e.gs,  jea
of Pans, chemist,           60,                                                                                                                                                                                          lousy of the
                           200.
666. Nicholson, Dr. William, Bishop
of Gloucester, 2S0. Nicolson, Dr., Bishop                                                                                                                                                                                Oakham,    tenure             of Barons Ferrers at,
of Carlisle, 584 ; letter from Mr. Evelyn                                                                                                                                                                                Oakwood    Chapel,            endowment and repair               23o6f.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         561, 582. Gates, Titus, conspiracy dis
   to him,  729.                                                                                                                                                                                                         covered by, 404 ; character of, 405 ; accuses
Nieuport,   Dutch          ambassador,           253, 259, 261 ;                                                                                                                                                         the Queen, and several Popish Peers, 406 L.
brief notices of, 248 ; bis account of the
77* INDEX.

    evidence against Sir G. Wakeman, 408 ;                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ossory, Lord, 204, 212, 366, 380, tot, 3*7,
    his conduct,            ib.. 409,        425 ; a witness                                                                                                                                                                                      412, 414; adventure of, 204 ; attack on the
**  against Lord          Stafford, 434      ; Lord Stafford's                                                                                                                                                                                    TcSormimnymirtnyaandHfleoefuots,rec3,e6s337,i1n36; 3Hm, oa4ll2sat9enr;d, ,b3r84o30th0;;ergdooeefespthltyeo

    remarks on his evidence, ib. \ his knavery
    and impudence, 443 ;           tried     for perjury, 474,
    476; his punishment,           475;      writ of error in                                                                                                                                                                                     affected at being appointed to the expe
    the judgment of,                      acquitted of perjury,                                                                                                                                                                                   dition to Tangier, 417, 418; his sickness
    534; his reviling              533 ;  against King James,                                                                                                                                                                                     alOenstdtseodrrye,oatfEhc,aoridnl .so;ofcla(hstaoionrancottfeotrh, tehtbeg.,rCe4oa1ut9nE;taeEsrvls)e,,ly46n3761's,.

                                   book
    tacw5wzuao6ciisot5udllh,.aso,:,,w1o,O3113f9364b3.578Ce7.7ol;8i,s.nObcs5bruOto0laOsibu8gnde.gatalihtinPrsitotOoak,n,mfbrsrMop1oiam4hrfn3&.il,,iOEu; TLcgsiLentayaostpvtirCnestiduitr,sbcsdyueiA3ssc9ApgCr8eueayCtgne;poasustrrhaesiayr-id,,s-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4nmO3oua8tdtich:aeerhtm,iosfa,Mmt3ico4ain.ansns.i,,oOn2t2t3od06b7e, o.s2nt4rio,4Oy.ueegldeOh,cvttr5eied4dd,2,.PMoWepOteisall,tmiea5nmo3dr6,,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  pMOShiwaroresgCena*h,raeorDtlf'er,s.s,i,nR43m14ic53eh..xazrOod-uOr,etwrliaaeemvnso,e,, qDuSe1rir4.s,6t.eJvoriechdOanur,smeolifesnoSyisnt,..
    317.     Oesters House, at               Antwerp,                                           35.
    Oitley,   Mr., groom porter,             225, 258,                                        320,
    Oiiley, Dr., rector of Abinger, 320; sermon
    tcboOLChaefafo,otfcdulirkeo5pyn,0ynet,1,,,wo;h3Mffii4ah,ds7rmio.s.3w,7idl3ygad.O,iouuftlfge5dOhlL7to4togfeBo.rlreuadO,gi,alOehAk4Tytjwn2ph,anbloob,eyommy,,4d,a3a5s1n83,,JC5o64.hph8'3ora.ne3pfOs.,esgPelpn,OOidnuiggaibcbllree.lhtii,o,;     ter, 199, 320, 223, 234, 230, 243, 358, 297;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  asfaebmrlmeoounossne,Ino2df,0e0p2.e2n6Od, ex2nf2ot7,r.d,339EO. awrelnOo,fx.,   Dr., the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   remark

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 291, 394;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ox3PhS2f0o2hits.90rydJ;smo;,icthishB-ntgveor'ieasdsts,rihlsdtee,ei2aatn3ont20,r,Se;1,iL2,CnA3ih3b1l12rlr6i4;as5S.t4rvo,yiusC,l2isht3'Au,0tnro,c.a,Mh3t3o,ian3mgMd1;ya6atl6gheS4ednc,ah,Aol3e5oc94nlta,0,,,,
    death at the, 223.
Oldenburg, Anne, Countess of, letters of,
   Oldenburg, Mr., secretary to Royal                                                         731.                                                                                                                                                A3247r12un;;dCegloiiafutnrttoanmdwarobPulaensrdlieadmpersonact iulorheresdl,d
                          othf6e5E2vJee;sluycniotns,ftion,4e03d92. 2.inOOlltiihvveear, ,       So
    ciety, 389,                                                                           Tower,
    3G3e1ne; lreatlteorf                                                                  Padre,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  at, 106$,
                                                                                           Peter,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                316 ; the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 for, by
    miniatures of,        C1h9Ou6r,Nceh2a4l4eo, ,f,26M9it,»r9..2, 76b.uOilltOonliBnveeel-,-                                                                                                                                                       Evelyn, 332 ; Mr.                        Evelyn thanked by the
    tani, Padri,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  University,                              decree of convocation,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and letter   of33D4 r:.                  Walker, ib. ; thanks to
    Count d\ 213.                    Onion,    Spanish, 651.                                                                                                                                                                                      Mr. Howard, afterwards Duke of Norfolk,
    sOizneslowho,useA,rthu39r0, .  seat at   West Clandon,
           Onslow, Denzil, his house at Pur-                                                                                                                                                                                                      3otcho3fe5nthfA:eercErtnethdc; eamaeotannrrieba,leD3asu,t4,k0e,i1b6.36,o4913,f42;oOntr;emdtrhrooaecnetdocf,ruo'rnsaiEspda,eiergoiirbeoo.enf:
    349.   428. Onslow, Sir Richard, 544, 568,
    ford,                                                                                     Mr.
    O5427g08l..eth5oO7r'n»puef,5ri8o15,8, 5.5C8a3r,dOinn5s8al0lo, w; ,odufEealRrolwmiotehf,,
                                                                                              252,                                                                                                                                                Chesterfield, Mr. Spencer, and Mr. Eve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  lyn, ib. ; visit of Mr. Evelyn, 1675, 384;
                                                                                              137.
    Opera at Venice, 1645, 164. Optics, letter                                                                                                                                                                                                    III.Dr. Plot's curiosities, ib. ; Parliament at,
    on science of, 652.
Orange, Henry Frederick, Prince of, 396.                                                                                                                                                                                                          in x68x, 350 ; the reception of William
    JsWtPOaiiersmriisatnlelenciorasegfmseosA,IIfm.M.PCPsrahtr1ienia6rnrcy8rcd5el,ee,asmo34f98,,o7I2fI,34..;55,05aO2,2c6r;7c43a0u1f9no,s,7gra,ec2t23e,8i4o9s5.nP8.sre;ionnOOfctmerrDaabsansneyrgrpg,ieoueetfs,os,                                  at, UTX695, 563.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Packer, Mr, aSS ; his seat and chapel at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Groomsbridge, 223, 379. Paddy, Sir Wil

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     liam, 288. Padua, description of, 265, 166.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  267, 169, 170, 173, 173, 176; inscription
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  oStsttuiucvnthrreeanors,Aoa,lnalsib,tg.ohdanoi;itsbyseo.'p,Gsri;drt1eaeG6aclr5sasht,r;udHart1ecot7a,nhm4l,.lo,b27cf2a1oP6stna:i9mSvgaet;pe.nnltea,LtMsto,ooorLmnefo1tnie7rczS0daot,l:P,. iJnxealo6eotm6sacc-.:
    raPacriicsnoecuden, tipnaolfEa, ncge6l0aa,nndd6,1g. a4r0d6eO, nr4leo1af1,n, 7s45,.79D.OurklOeenaansso,,f
    (prisoner temp. Hen. V.), 223, 379. Or
leans, Duke of, 1651,              O2r1m3. ondO,rleaMnasr,quGeasss
ton, Duke of, 504.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                bassador, 551.  Paine,                   Coafpat.d, d3in1g8.                    Painters
    (afterwards Duke of), 204, 258, 275, 383,                                                                                                                                                                                                     and sculptors,  custom                                                         their own
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  names to portraits, and not those of the
384, 285, 297, 298, 301, 304, 336, 371, 383,
4x8 ; his estates restored, 266 : remarks on                                                                                                                                                                                                      sapHcevarraislbrlo,iencdse,3o0xfXrte.oEp.nrgeslPiPesaanhitinnetdptiin,angign,,tebrlposa,elmdr7fe3ed1Rc,.toiom6nP9aa0n,oi*nft,6e0drbs2e'y:
natural history of Ireland, 280 ; chancellor
of Oxford, and            laDyosctdoorw, n35h7is;  anecdote re>
specting, 381 ;                                    commission,                                                                                                                                                                                    Mr.
                                   Ormond, Duchess of,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Palais OHisr*'. ax
           Orrery, Earl of, plays by,                                                         Os-                                                                                                                                                 Paris,  Evelyn, 337.
391.        Sir Thomas (afterwards                 39K2a. rl                                    of                                                                                                                                                          59 ; Royal                     masque at, axo. Pabsss
born.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Royale, Paris, 46.                          Palais, Isle do. Parrs.
orsmoDeurfa,ilrnene9Laibrs1es,ty,eer,dad3ts,Mi7)o,34an5r,3;q50.u84se3,t1srisO3c;0st8uihCr,riiaess5,rsm3i7mra,eorpnmt,rh5ia3esr8onk3n,a7; m5balle;eonnrdhdt,issDtat4urtaeu5kdea3e;                                                                 ib. Palazzo Vecchio, at Florence, 70, tie.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  81. Palazzo delta Cancellaria at Roane,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  136. Palladio, Andrea, works of, ror, r64,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Pab1ly7n6,r,r531,78*1.*9r8.JPaamlmesa,,  Jacopo, the painaaja

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           198. Palmer, Mr,, of
                                                                                         INDEX.                                                                                                                                                           773

      Gray's Inn, the curious clocks, &c.f in his                                                                                                                                   Parma, Duke of, his palace Caprarola.wQ.
      eploescsteesdsioPno, pe27(7In. noPcaemntphXili..),Jo8h4,n85B.aptPisatma,-                                                                                                     Parmensis,    Baptista,                   52 ; drawings      Dofr,.,178o. f
      II.ophf ailiRo.omCaarndicnoarlp,se1,454.3.   Pancirollus, account                                                                                                             Parquiou,     letters of,                  241. Parr,        on Dr.
                                                   Panegyric, poetical,                                                                                                             Camberwell,                       funeral                    to, 498.
                                                   coronation, by Mr.                                                                                                               Breton, 188,           429     ;  visit of          sermon
                                                                                                                                                                                                           363;                                   house,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Evelyn
      on King* Charles                                                                                                                                                              Parson's Green, Lord Mordaunt's
                                                s                                                                                                                                   371, 416. Pasquin, remains of the statue

      Evelyn, 375.                  Pantheon at Rome,                                    137.                                                                                       of, 137. Passignano, Domenico Cresti,
      Paper, process                 of manufacturing,                                   401.
      Paper-office, ravages                        committed in,
      Papiilion, Mr.,                              Papitlon, Mr.,                        731.                                                                                       ?aaisnttoinng, SbiryR, o5b3e. rt P(Easasrpl oorft,YarSmpaonuitshh),,  174.
      Papin, Mons.,           247.                                                       442.                                                                                                                                                             340,
                            .account               of his. Digestors,                                                                                                               t39DlPii3e5oae70rnua,,.sln23V3t14oo.o337,.f-.oPu5Por0ePp3tPCaee.auo,rtln5berc4fio,aeh3rrs-oacMsuphiogersP.nhl,,a,,o2"f20lE, 483a999.Hs35.t.eI;.PrP,PnaBaa,uPuptloll.ro,sipc,uoeCkb,fTh,scueED1rvll3ilrypa.9.,,.,
      434. Papists, conspiracy                     of, 1696, banished
   t  ten miles from London,                       564 ; law                              dis
      possess of estates after                     18 years                          to  age,

                                                                                    of
Pa41P*r76i3as04:r,°9a», dCd2iase05te17sh,8c--e.rdai2pnr0at6ilePoxan; hpo1il6fboe5fiw0tN,,iiooc12nkt6ro,4e3o3--,fvaD2i4en1a3w7imm--;ea5Pf,lr3oso,1nm45t34,67N;--7c.25Ju3e06f;,.
                            and                          ; the Sor-                                                                                                                 bust of, 160. Pausilippo, near Naples,                                227.
                            ; the                        Palais. St.                                                                                                                Peake, Sir John, lord-mayor, 1687,                                    511.
                                                                                                                                                                                    Pearson, Dr. John, Bishop of Chester,                                 371,
      suits' Church                        College, 45                                                                                                                              377, 33o- Peat, or turf, use of, proposed,
      bonne, 45, 46                        Exchange,                                                                                                                                330. Peckham, Sir Henry, feast at the
      Chapelle, ib. ; Isle du Palais. 47; Mara is                                                                                                                                   BJThoe99um.seplePa,et,m3b3493e0.rt,on4P,2e8c.LkohraPdmei,reCshSkiiieurfs,TJu. sLtiBficeoendoo'fs,f
      de Temple, St. Genevieve. Palais Royale,
      viRbro.ey;,ailHbe,o, t; etHlheodiesPaldalaecCeVhainoricfteet"nh,neeibTs.,,hu42i70ll4e;r;itehJsea,rdLioibnu.e;
      pitaslagcaerdaennds,pic4t8u, re4s9,                                                                                                                                                reland.  40E9a,rl45o0f.,     seat    near     Aldermaston,
                                                                                                                                                                                    Pembroke,

                                           ;   Count   de Liancourt's                                                                                                               229,        2L3o0,rd50P9ri;vsyeaSteaatl,  Wilton, 333 ; fire at,
                                              51, 52;  Fontainebleau,                                                                                                               589
      53- 541 palace of Luxembourg, 56; gar                                                                                                                                                  ;                                565   ;  sPuebns,crSipirtioWnmt.o,
      dens, 57 ; view from St. Jaqucs' steeple,                                                                                                                                                                               567.
      58; St. Innocent's Churchyard, 59 ; Mons.                                                                                                                                     Greenwich Hospital,
      Morine's garden, ib., 210; Palais Cardinal,                                                                                                                                   impeached, 336 ; blasphemous book by his
                                                                                                                                                                                    son, 399.     Pen, Admiral, 242.                            Penitents,
      59, 203; Presi-jcnt Maison's palace, 201;                                                                                                                                     procession    of, 143. Penshurst,                          brief notice
                                                                                                                                                                                                 MPre.ppeSra,mG.,uinAead,m65ir1al;tJyamSaeiccare, ta6r7y4,.
      audience of the English Ambassador, 1649,                                                                                                                                        of, 223.
                       St. Stephen's Church,                                        ib. ; Ma                                                                                        Pepys,
                       ; ordination of English                                       Divines.
,     902,      203 ;                                                                                                                                                               c4ht35hh0o34e7e48u,,rs;Aye35,ca,78tc10s3ci,,7bu:3.33sc,95e;u03d4,t8p;o34ofot0fs:ws6rbe,iccesto4sehimne4edg3Mm.saaitstSoPtDt0neea6eedrp.,ainso53tteof34'80tsath,nhe;de5'4TCAoT,r1leofri,nrtwtkri5ete4yraoo2,-.ff
      drid,       204

      220056;;  Samaritan or Pump                      at Pont Neuf,
                Convent of Bonnes                      Hommes, 209;
      Frier Nicholas, ib. ; Torture at the Chate-
      let, 310; opera at the Palais Cardinal, 311 ;
      ceremonies        on Corpus Christi                                                                                                                                           Shipbuilding, 432 ; accompanies the King
      Procession                                           day, 212                            ;                                                                                    to Portsmouth, 484 ; impostures' of the Sa-
                       of Louis XIV. to                  Parliament,
      313; audience of English                                                                                                                                                      ludadors confessed to, 485 ;                               account of
      King's gardens, 214 ; Mark                         ambassador.                                                                                                                                                                   hIiIs.  respecting
                                                         Antonio the                                                                                                                hCihsacrloensveIIr.sabtieoinngwaithCaJtahmoleics,
      III.,dboBeeinfissaahhCtmoohoppnedoiloeeffo*r,W.,fh2i2oOl21lu0i7xasfe;mo; rrbdaee,tjosSiiec5gti0ne1dgG5s;o41eihno.sins,16Pt45dh8a2ee.rabistryhe,P,pPaArorikr5rnctexce3hred, ;                                                     48S, 685 ; por
                                                                                                                                                                                    trait of Mr. Evelyn painted                        for, 534, 689 ;
                                                                                                                                                                                    his remonstrance against suspicions enter
                                                                                                                                                                                    tained of him, 540 ; sent to the Gate-house,
                                                                                                                                                                                    ib. ; enlarged, 541; hishouse at Clapham,
      character, ib.        Parker, Archbishop, 731.                                                                                                                                580 ; his death, account and character of
      Parkhurst, Sir        BRaollbioelrtC, ol4le28g.e,   Parkhurst,                                                                                                                him, 585 ; his library,                   E5v8e6,lyn697to;,  allusions
      Dr., master of                                     so.                                                                                                                        to him, 702; letters of                                      641, 671,
Parliament, the opening and dissolution of,
                                                       whole                        night to                                                                                           675,     679, 683,   689.      Lady          Elizabeth,
      1640, as  ;       1648, sat          uWpigthhet  treaty,                      but were                                                                                        Percy,                 411 ;                                          589.
      conclude         the Isle of                                                                                                                                                               Lord,
                                                                                                                                                                                    Perelle, engraver, 203. Perfuming rooms,
      surprised        by   thCehaRrelebselIIA. rminy,pe1r9s7on;,                   proro                                                                                           whimsical method                  of, in Germany, '245.
      gation of,        by                                                            1665,                                                                                         Perigueux, City of,               P72e.rkinPse, risShiort,      Mons.,
      304; Roman Catholic Lords excluded, 1678,                                                                                                                                     collection of, 52.                                           William,
                                                   influenced by the                                                                                                                executed, 565. Perpetual motion, 337.
      4C0o6u;rt,ele4c6t0io,ns4,75,  1685,                                                                                                                                           Persepolis, ruins of, 419. Persian                           habit
                                      478;          King James II.'s                                                                                                                adopted at Court, 1666, 324, 325.                             Per
      speech to Parliament                        ot4nh9e3hiP;srasotctecedesfstasasinotnnte, sfas 4it7h7o;f;
      proceedings of, 1685,                                                                                                                                                         spectives, remarks on, by Honorati Fabri,
      members in behalf of                                                                                                                                                          653. Perugino, Pietro, paintings by, 80,
      ptLarootrerdoscgounreeddsu,pcet5c0to7in,fg5t0hR8ee;gCeodnemcbyma,teon5s2i,n7  House of                                                                                        116, 140,150. Peruzzi, Baldassare (called
                                                                                    ; precipi                                                                                       Baldassare da Siena), 113. Peter the Great
                                                                                                                                                                                    ibodnfer,ibet2Efs7,v1ne,o1lyt62in8c7'0e6s,,34o7hf62,o8: u, 2s53em49,8.ar;5ri7Pas1aeg.lteeeroobfPfoehrlotaiseunrdgdbahsou,rotgouhEgtpeaharr,y,l
                                                                                    1669, 530 ;                                                                                     ib. Peterborough, Lady, 257, 280 : house
      prorogued and dissolved, 1690, ib. ; pro
      cW5e7i0elldi;ainmMgsr.IoInIE.vd, eisl1cy6on9v5's,ery5s6eo4n;ftcimoPnaesrnlpitaisrmaocenyntaPga1ar7iln0ias5t,
      mentary Reform, 721.                                                                                                                                                          at Ryegate, 343. Peterliouse, Cambridge,
774 INDEX,

SCjhoa. rlePsetIe.r,s,    incites the rebels to                                          murder                                                                                                                     lajuolo, Antonio, sculpturt by, rot. Pol
                        197; executed, 263.                                                Petit,                                                                                                                   lard, Sir Hugh, 290, 325,374. Poll Tax,
Mons., of Rome, 66. Petit, Old, paintings                                                                                                                                                                           268, 534. Polythore,                                           a musical instrument,
LoghtPrfoleiios,ftrisoedss1,dk,9a8i,lch.Mloufimromn.uPmasnenhiHtdtitiepetbondboatrudt,yiyfl,do,SJior9hn3bhePg.euno,riPp,nld2eeise9seth3tsrn,,,ap;Cmlo3obe35mtul37,i6.mld.4b0ies7yrs.,PPiooeenf2ttPrte6rhaee9r,e.,,  2P7o7r.dagPeo,meMgrra.,nahteis,                               a hardy tree, 6s1! 653.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pomfret, Mr., a£6.                                             excellent voice, 463.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pont Neuf, the, at Paris, 43, 206.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PoaPntot nVStaatl.qe,nAcneMn,eo7,n0s. P.,arPios4,n45ta4. 3n.o,PopPnaotienn,ttinSFgtr.abnEycs,ep1sr5ict3o,.
   first  SfriirgaWteil,lia5m3S,.  309, 389,            ;                                                                                                                                                           da (the elder Bassano), paintings by, 5a,
Petty,                                             438     wimithprotvweo                                                                                                                                           125, 133, 406, 565, Pont Giocomo da 111
ments of shipping, 280 ;                          ship
          395, 301, 382 ; character,                       381Ph--id3i8a4s,                                                                                                                                         Bassano), paintings by, 133. i°3. 553* P**1*
keels,    Peyton, Sir Thomas, 206.                                                                                                                                                                                  tefract, 336.  SPoN.oonrtmiPuoaspnePd,iyla,Wtea,l5t4ep.ra,lavPceeornseotosf,rnb6o9y.,,
438.                                                        Phillips,                                                                                                                                               Pontoise, in
and Praxiteles, horses               of, 93.                                                                                                                                                                        paintings of,
Edward, preceptor of               Evelyn's                son, a94,                                                                                                                                                      Pope, palaces of, Mont Cavallo, 93,
          preferred       by his recommendation,                                                                                                                                                                          Vatican, 105, 157; chapel in the
304 ;     Phillips,                                                                                                                                                                                                 381.
396.      335, 339.     Mrs., her tragedy of 'Ho                                                                                                                                                                    121;
                         Philosophers Elixir, pro
race,'                                                                                                                                                                                                              Voo1Pn4fao3trti.tchchueaepnPiP,nAooenpp,1nhe5ua8dntmeo;cs,iaacSrrtmiCtipo.ootnilJr,oooynnhe1no3lo,f9,fde;h1o6ono3uLens,a;etLe5par3rado9o.cnfy,e,sDsP12iao4o2y8n9r,-,;
jcbGeiycoatvniMoesn,rrn.CoooBrfl,oleyo5g8lfee8.,No7ef1,wP5,h44il70Eo1.ns6go. lpaPhniPaydhc,,eipdnpi5sts5icn,1oo.vS,eirrGPiWeihusylmisoini,,,
painting, 136. Pichini, Sign., his collec                                                                                                                                                                           denone, paintings of, 152. Porta, Baccio
tion, 87. Pictures, auction at the Banquet-                                                                                                                                                                         della (Fr& Bartolomeo di S. Marco*,
iPniger-hceo,useD,r.,55P3.residPeienrtceo, f      paintings,                                                                                                                                                        - painting by, 154. Porta, Giacomo de la,
                                                  Magdalen                                      233.                                                                                                                works of, 91, 212. Porter, Endymion, 200%

                                                                                                Col
lege, Oxford, 249 ; letters of Mr. Evelyn                                                                                                                                                                           Portland,    Earl of, 360, 568.                                           Portland, Dor
to, 393, 616, 617; sermon at Whitehall,                                                                                                                                                                             setshire,  earthquake at, 563.                                              Portman, Sir
399 ; another, 406.                 Pierpoint, Mr. Evelyn,                                                                                                                                                          William, Duke of Monmouth taken by,
510, Pierpoint,                    Mrs., married to Mr.                                                                                                                                                             II.Po44Cr70tl91sa..mreonuPPdtooohrrn,ttm,raso6iite9rs4eg,.e,   David    Colyer, Earl of,
Chcny, 537,             549P.ierrPcipeorrincpt,oinMt,r.,   Hon. W.,                                                                                                                                                                                                               list of,  collected by Lord
                                                            his house                                                                                                                                                                                                                        486, 487 ; James
200, 510, 571.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of, 38,
   at Nottingham,
Pierson, Dr., his                  33' 6E. iblia  Polyglotta,*                                  324,                                                                                                                of  's visit to,                                            526. Portsmouth,      Duchess
in,34a, 276. Pietra Comessa (inlaid marble),                                                                                                                                                                            (Madame                                                 Querouaillc), 350,    357, 358,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    384, 464, 467 ; apartments at WhitehaU,
80, 99, 103, 104,                  118, 146, 131, 152, 167,
339, 269; artists in, at Florence, 153.                                                                                                                                                                             hi3n8eg6r-r;aopMoamortrmoebcncytos,thaem43b2Kasi;nsagvdi,osrit4e5d0e;nitnehrtheaerinr eaddpreasrats t
Pietra    Mala,         a burning                 mountain,
Pietro,   ' Sign.,        musician,                422, 470,                                      154.                                                                                                              mgaeln, tsKibnugrnto,f,541368;3,al4lu65J.ed
PPPiiinqneue,d, e3Qil3ou7e. en(P,Pinifctracodamod,ilBlryao)rob, madpohaevusinn,gg2w7^oitfh,; ,                                                                                                                                                                                                         Portu
                                                                                                K4i7n2g.                                                                                                                                                                                    to, 619.   earth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Portugal,
                                                                                                 316.                                                                                                               quake in, 1699, 576. Portuguese ambas
                                                                                                  286.                                                                                                              src3PpLP1ea1oi4ol.nad7m8uv.co,cWneaoret,yrl.d2nk,,0P.S's6soit,5n3-uaM14olfi70n4enfr,,L2o,,.n4o,r5-.5dnH7f36i,d37ee82.2o.ln94Pd.nr02osPy,,3,Pwo,P,oue2o32w9m4sl36tl72s,t57ea4i,,9lnn.;l,,a,MSg3nCri48eer.09PraaN7orp-iGJ;ucautTeh.gs,BtoohtnaPrirol1ecioeagnu6yetnse5sas,,,t,ett,foosVe1dr6S57siidsi3s1,iin.r,,,
Pisa, City of, 76, 77, rjo. Pisano, Pietro,
p60a3in. tinPgistenb,y,th1e05J.esuPiits,m5ir3e3,.  memory of,
                                                   Place, Mr.,
bookseller, letter of Evelyn to, 7 33. Plague,
in London {1665), ravages of, 308, 309, 310,
311,633. Plantations, Foreign, Council for,
appointed, 1671, 351, 353, 354; proceedings
of; 35*--354, 360--                36a, 365,
stituted a Council                                368, 369 ;                                    con
                                   of Trade,        370, 371,                                   378,
63orFi85nrd0e0i.n.nMgc0sh5Pta1slact, snhK6,to5iin3on7.,l2g5o,s.fh,Pol6aCpP4otl..otesfs,,sP3iPs5Slli,.einrsDysP,uHisl,adu,neghtahosMt,u,hsoeSTnoprsfeoa,.anf1ti2idsts6hhuee,,;                                       247. Power, essays on balance of, 581.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pozzo, account of                                             DhuiskecololefctiFolno,re1n0c7e. ,  Pra-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       toline, villa of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pratt, Mr., architect, 243, 317 ; built                                                            133.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Horseheath, 346
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Presbyterians                        Lord
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Clarendon
Ploosttf,atSuDtear.f,foofhrdiEss.hniMaret.uraPanlldincyuO,rxiof1os7ri8td.ieshs,ire38, 4                                                                                                                             AUington'sat                                                                   ;   Scotland,
   cretary of Royal Society, 430 ;                                                                                                                                                                                  House, 641.
                                                                                         ; history                                                                                                                  character of, 530.                                               Pressed      of
                                                                                         385 ; Se                                                                                                                   ishment inflicted,                                            223, 268.   to death, pun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Preston, Lord,
                                                                                           Wood's                                                                                                                   509; Secretary of State, 523 bis; tried and
Athen. Oxon., 706; letters of Evelyn to,                                                                                                                                                                            condemned, 543 ; released, 544. Preston
710; letterof, in answer, 710,711. Plume,                                                                                                                                                                           mSBiearcnk,JohhMenlrv,.y,nhu,onucmsleeanoaoftrMDorfsr,y. fiE1e9vld6e..lyn23,P3re1;9ty6P,mre1at9ny9,,
nPwMoaargnt.e,gt,riosMearoItmm,nospn.7e,6r.ioaoflfe, PP, al3yar2mti2s.,FoluohtrPhiesl,nycmceoEo,llaue1trc3hlt3,i.oonfb,,Preo4aa1ingk1..                                                                             029, 243, 501. Price, Sir Herbert, 120.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pndeaux, Dr.Humphrey,37i ; editor of his
Poland,   incursion                of the Swedes into,                                                                                                                                                              * Marmora   Oxomensia,'                                                         Primaticcio,
Poland,   King of,                 embassy to Charles                                           2I4I5..,                                                                                                            Francesco,  paintings by,                                               399.  53. Prince, of
267 ; raises the siege of Vienna,                                                               Po-                                                                                                                                                                                         $2r
lemberg, Cornelius, paintings of,                                                               Pol-                                                                                                                90 guns, 387. Prince frigate, loss
                                                           449.                                                                                                                                                     Pnnting-types procured by                                                      0^314, 315,
                                                            52.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sir Henry
                                                              INDEX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                775

cScohalavleirldcl t,ifooDnrro.h,f,issree*crmComhornmyesnoodfs,etodm3, 8,9' 6. 9669P,4.r6i9v7yP. rSiPnertaist,l-,                                                                                           chard III., King,            tomb of, 235.              Richard
commission for executing the office of, 1685,                                                                                                                                                                                             Richardson,              the fire-
                                                                                                                                                                                                           son, Judge, 19.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           eater, feats of, 37a

491 ; proceedings of, 1686-7, 49*>j 49&, 499*                                                                                                                                                              Richelieu, town of, 66. Richelieu, Cardinal, "
                                                                                                                                                                                                           palace at Ruell, 49 ;                         at Richelieu,
   500, 50a,         o50f 4,th5e06P. ope  to  St.  John de  Late-                                                                                                                                          Palais Cardinal, 203.                         Richett, Mr.,                              66 ;
Procession                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          en
ran. too ; of penitents at Rome on Good                                                                                                                                                                    graver, 335. Richmond, Duke of, funeral,
Friday, 143 ;        of  Lewis XIV. to Parliament,                                                                                                                                                         1641, 34. Richmond, Duke of, ambassador
313 ; funeral        of  Ircton, 218             II;.,ofib.Cr;oamqwuaetlli,c                                                                                                                               Dnt6VRo7aiuIc,tIkhuD.e,mr6ea8no.lo3mnf3,ds9ao,.R1rnk6oC,6bRo?oin,ifudlsinee2Cota9,nhet3,ash.SsrlierAooRslffdH,i,ceIuhIm3r.gmmS,oh6oat.,4hnn3ed23r,0R,3Sioc.D4ifhr5um5HRkJ,ooeeon4han3donnr9,fy,,,.
259; coronation          of Charles
procession           in honour            of Catherine, Queen
of Charles                                Prophecies, interpre
tations of,          II., 257.
                                             Protestant French
                      533, 540.                     Prujcan,  Sir
Church at Charcnton, 5a.                           Sir Hen.,  his
Francis, 377. Puckering,                                                                                                                                                                                   247, 393 ; pageant of, 289. Roches of
(steceuaasltl,eadJtoGW.,aaemrtwaoinucokn),t,ebp1a9a6nin.kt,in2Pg7u7s.lsboynP.eu,1r0fo6S.rcdi,pPioMunnrc.-                                                                                                  Poictiers,     Catharine dc, 669. Rochester,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Earl of,    a  Hpyrodpeh, anEeawrlit,of3,504.63;Rocchoemsmteirs,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Laurence
Dcnzil Onslow's house at, 438. Purgatory,                                                                                                                                                                  sioner of treasury, 413 ; a favourite at
gates of, 129.       Puteoli (Puzzolo), 129, 130,                                                                                                                                                          mlCooradurrritet,rde4,a3si7bu.;re;mrp,arde4es6i3d;Eeanortlp,opfo4st3hi8te;ioCnhoiustondcWailu,igll4hia5t9emr;
131. Putney,         schools at, 200. Putti (boys'
heads), paintings of, 198, 201, 206. Pye,
Sir Walter, 200 ; seat of, 232.                                                                                                                                                                            and Mary, 530; Lord Lieutenant of Ire
                                                                                                                                                                                                           land, 5S0.          15R700o1.c, h5eR5s2ot.egre,rRsCo, ogueDnrrst.,e, sDsacro.c,fo, uc1no6tn64sou--fl,
Quakers, the new sect of, 149. Queensberry,
  *Dukc of, 476. Qucrcci, jacobo, sculpture,                                                                                                                                                               16S6, 209,
   105. Querouaille, Mons., and lady, 384.
   Quinquina, brought into vogue, 558. Quin                                                                                                                                                                at Padua,
   tal Metsys, blacksmith, painting, 19S.                                                                                                                                                                  437 ; Harveian oration of, %b. Roman
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Catholics, machinations of, 16S6-7, 499,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           506, 507. Roman medals found ne.tr Ban-
                                                                                                                                                                                                           stcd, 2-9. Roman money, observations on,
Ralnniere, Admiral, his funeral, 367. Rad-                                                                                                                                                                 147. Roman painting at Cardinal Bor-
cliffe. Sir George, 2o2. Raffaclle (Raffaelle                                                                                                                                                              ghese's, 1 10. Roman temple at Leicester,
Sanzir>, di Urbino), paintings by, 52, 53,                                                                                                                                                                 336; Romano, Giulio, paintings by, 52,
54 Ur, 80, 100, 113, 114, 133, 139, 152, 153,                                                                                                                                                              Ro9mx1m011u5--8e.l,,u1s1d2,3R0e3,Fos;acmru1tia3spen3tmtioi--nop,anlea,sPto7a8f;7r,oi,sfa8, F8nPa9de;5maa.eecrvcezehe,ntosJufPSpai.nilta,Secer1ev,6,e4nR48i-os56,,,
156, 178, 180, 206, 223, 276, 284, 392, 420,
                     architecture                  153 ; his burial-
44 r. 565 :             Rainbow,            of,    sermon  bWya, lt2e6r9,.

5lLaaclee,igh1,38.   Mr. Carew,           Dr.,     of Sir

                                          son
      Raleigh, Sir Walter, 226: his cordial,                                                                                                                                                               the Capitol, ib. ; Ara Cceli,
358.  Rand, Dr., 20, 251. Randolf, letters                                                                                                                                                                 palace, 118; Jesuits' church,                 9C01h2;i3cB;saaMrNbeeodrviinaci,i
388.                 Ranelagh,            LRaadtcyl,ine5,40,Sir54G7e, or7g1e8.,
                     Mr., 208.                                                                                                                                                                                       and gardens, 91, 110;
oRfa, tc7l3if1fe. ,                                                                                                                                                                                        farlainccee Luvodisio's villa, 124 ; Sign. Ange-
vbo3e0ne3nfo.sfrbiesohuReFrsaan,tsttlMe4-9isIl8nlns.da,kiaDeRcsCap, yotfnVmooirrpldgda,isnn,y3ia3,n6D.,2r5.42R,.5a3sy.eR,remDRaordan.,-                                                                    loni's study, 125, 133              ; Monte Cavallo                                       and
                                                                                                                                                                                                           the Pope's summer                   palace, 93, 11 1 ;                                   Dio
                                                                                                                                                                                                           cletian's baths, Fontana delta Therme, St.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Susanna, and        Maria delta Vittoria, 93,
ing, Sir Robert, 401, 454.                       Reccii, Andrea,                                                                                                                                           Mont Alto's         villa, St. Agnes, and                                                  94 ;
mezzo-relievo by, 166.                        Reeves, Dr., ser                                                                                                                                             stanza, ib. : St. Maria Matjgiore,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           9CP6uodn; csntaatminapt,ihniaetnh, de9aP7trr;aexVeoidlfleaisV,eBs9op6rga;shaiearsnci,h,  Con-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     95 ; St.
mon by, 282. Reeves, famous for per                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of Titus,
spective, 220. Regency, debate respecting,
i411n567g884h.9. a, m5*R2,7Re.e3n6hi1,e.RaGergsuRagidlci,oon' ,,cpiaSpla,iagyinnA.btniynPngiaeDs,turokbse,iynm,goeu9frs3,Bi,cui71ac60kn47,,,                                                                                                                                                        9a8r,chnoo;f
                                                                                                                                                                                                           bCSa10aant.4epd,stPaio1serb0t,t5eee,r9lryi9'1ss--0k6o,af1ni;b0Sdc.4t,o;.oll1bJeco0ec5rhltyiisnpo;k,ntSdt1oo.e0ff4JdoSCicht;a.avnStaPecldeadiectlaerotLro'aSsPta,Jeuonrzl1caizu1tnoa3s,,,;
118, 140, 156, 223.
Revels in the Middle Temple, 1642, 36 ;
1667, 334 ; Inner Temple, 1607, 570 : at                                                                                                                                                                   107; St. Pietro in vinculi, ib. ; procession
Lincoln's Inn, 1661, 281 ; at Court, 1C61,                                                                                                                                                                 of the Pope to St. John de Lateran, 10S;
cin3G1bo06oi.u1u6ld,3;snse,c,31pi2l66spU967e28p.,,..a,t,s93RRe63ere,55my2.vn7o1o.an0lulR4dt.eboiRoyv,en,iRey3whmP5oir4neif.nosicnc1,e6eR8,rCh8Ho,oesy3ln,.7ddo7ie.,stBhtureCaPlaRlcaevfteriiaernkysld,,.t  nj;ofirfewHo. rkVsi,tti1le09sc;o,Jesuniots;'  College ; collection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ghisi palace, 113,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           133; St. Mary's,                            ceremonies on Christ
                                                                                                                                                                                                           omfacsirEcvuem, ci1s1i3on;,                   Ghetto ;  ceremony
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the    Jews'     Vatican,  114 -- 117;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ib.   ; the
                                                                                                                                                                                                           St. Paul's,              : Tre Fontana,
in England,          4R5h9o. dnRmhaondtees,,       Siege    of, an                                                                                                                                         Hospital,!          117  fountain called      118 ; Christ's
opera, 281.                                        Sign.    Paulo,                                                                                                                                                             19;                       Acqua Paula,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CCcesctiiulisa,'s,13413;3         : Mons Testaceus,
RoREfniiccghhVli,,eshntMihceeKr.,i,nRg1ef5,eb8ae.esltp, itRaa2itp4ah7lt.LoaintcRLaoiuctlnhc'caVsared,n,Ii1nc5ne0S,,. t,31R05a49in..                                                                        119;  St.                                     St. Maria in Navi-
                                                                                                                                                                                                           tomb  of
                                                                                                                                                                                                           cuta, Horti Mathari, Egyptian obelisk,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           H13u5m; orSistt.s,  Sebastian's, 136 ; academy of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 135 ; English Jesuits, hospital
776 INDEX.

   of Pellerint della S. Trinita, ib. ; palace of                                                                                                    hpp4aia3sl7ian,ccteo4in3llg8ea,sbct,t4ybi9o4y8nt9,h,,.e5371537R,A.1u.r5mgR5iRny3u,ui.b,me2nRp6Ss2ui,geP:nSlal,,ridrliiasPRosmeifoctleevhVnereetdlP,ineaiducubie'lssy,,-
   Cardinal Spada, palace della Cancellaria,
   136 ; Piazza Navona, St. Giacomo di Spa-
   gnoli, ib. ; Pasquin, church of the Capu
   chins, column of Antoninus, 137; Pantheon,
   or S. Maria della Kotonda, ib. ; monastery                                                                                                        Srsoendk, 203. Rupert, Prince, 287,
   aonf dTroinbietlaiskd,el1M39on; teM,ur1o38  ; St. Augustine's,                                                                                                                                                                          293,
-                                              torto, Mausoleum,                                                                                     3p*la7i;ns3J4th. e31mJ. ez3z2o4t.int3o29.    349. 4<>i;                                ex
                                                                                                                                                                                                engraving.
   Augusti, ib. ; Sapienza. St. Andrea della                                                                                                                                                                                               271,
                                                                                                                                                     RuC2s7as2estl;,le,aLr3ro4ar9ndgeWs illtihaem,firea-paprmresheantdeWd,ind44so3;r
   valle, ib. ; St. Maria sopra la Minerva, tb.\
   Trajan's     column, St.        Cross of Jerusalem,
                 Lawrence,         141; Carnival, ib. ;                                                                                              stKpwibrhrii5.oaet>hp,c;drdt4i)oarsL,4efeno7sdd,4trCo4da4rc7bep5o.yde1nN,,,do4eV4t3Rm8et45iu.r:n5n.ds4eg.sid,he,RaRl2,umuR84ss0u,s4s.Wse5es,llm,eR5,45luA,42Cs,6dos;CmLi:aeap.bnmt,ueh(uthboAnqealrciauaclalmdesabierdiaBdrneose,ig,lf-
   140; St                 garden of
   Greek church,           Lady Day,
   ceremonies on                               Justinian, 142 ;
                                                Pope's portion
   to the Zitelle, ib. ; ceremonies on Holy
   Thursday, Good Friday, and Easter day,
   X43 : Roma subterranca, ib. ; opera by
   Prince  fGroamlicanLouc;catou;rnbaemneendtic, t1io44n ;    ambas
   sador                                                      of the                                                                                 sador,   entrance of, 1662, 290 ;          CtahkaerslesleaIvIe.,,
   Pope, 145 ; Frescati, formerly Tuscula-                                                                                                           292;    curious present by, to
   num, H. ; Card. Scipio Borghese's house on                                                                                                                audience of,
                                                                                                                                                     lust ate, Tobias,?04  b16e6n7e, fa3c3t2ions16o81f,,;                                  430.
                                                                                                                                                        ;                                                                                  417.
   iMb.on; dmraogdoelnse,of14R6 o;mPealawcheend'Eisnte*itsatbTeiavuotlyi,,
   147 : cascade of the Anio, ib. ; mountebank                                                                                                       Ruvigne,   Mhoa4ur9sq3eu. isa,t,R5y02e24g,3a. 5t0e9,R, y5eL3-a6hd.oyuRseyPceaPtuelotr,t
   in  the Piazza Navona, 147                  ; observations                                                                                        Sir Paul,
   on  Roman coins and medals,                 ceremonies of                                                                                         borough's
                                                                                                                                                     d44e7tectethd,anks4g43ivingd, e4c4la8r.ation concerning,
                                                                                                                                                                    ;

   Greek church,           ecxetleenbtr,ate&dca, rtoisftsR. o1m48e;,  exe                                                                                ;
   cutions, ib. ;                                                     ib. ;
                                                                                                                                                     Sacheverell, on Lord Stafford's trial, 423.
   earthquake at,          1703, 585.                                                                                                                Saffron brought from Greece, 674. Saffron
Romney, Lord,              offices held        by, 561, 581.
   Ronquillos, Don Pietro, visit               of Mr. Evelyn                                                                                         Walden famous for saffron, 347, 441.
   to, 417.     Rookc. Admiral Sir Geo.,                                                                                                             Sailor, fortitude of, under amputation,
   dron of,     564, 565 ; Spanish galleon                    squa                                                                                   St. Albans, Earl of, 266, 274, 287, 293,                                              364.
                                                              taken                                                                                                                                                                        312,
   by, 585. Ross, tutor to Duke of Mon                                                                                                               cL4aIIoo4t.l8n)le,.dBcootn4uiSo5,rtn6g. s,c4As6l40,bo5af9,6n.7sS2.,t0.S6D.t.GSutekC.reSehCt,a.oepfmcMG(llesooeonne,ntss',.s,oPafohCroCfishuhP.suaearr4crl6heios,sf,
   mouth, 48. Rosse, Lord, divorce of, 344.
   Rosse, Alexander, divine and poet, 180,                                                                                                                          ;
   200. Rotenhamer, painting by, 198. Ro-                                                                                                                                                                                       ;
   therham, Serjeant, a trustee for Boyle's
   lectures, $48, 565. Rotherhithe, dreadful                                                                                                         Archbishop of Paris, 49. St. Cross at
   fire at (1699), 573. Rotiere, Moris., his                                                                                                         Rome described, 140. St. Denys, Pans,
   excellence in graving, 400. Rotterdam,                                                                                                            42. St. George's, Hanover Square, 545.
   the fair at, 1641, 27. Rouen, cathedral,                                                                                                          St. Germain, Naples, natural stoves of, 139.
   chapel d'Amboise,               SGt.aiOllowne,n's5, 45.8.  Rouen,                                                                                 St. Germain,   Mons., 214. St.             Germain's en
   Abp. of, palace,                                           Roupel,                                                                                Laye, 49, 50,  51. St. James's             Church, Pic
   Mons., of Paris,        226. Royal Exchange,                                                                                                      cadilly, 461. St. James's, library at, 563,
   London, built, 377. 'Royal Slave,' play,                                                                                                                  St. James's  Park, collection of rare
                                                                                                                                                     69S.    and fowls    in, 304, 614 library in,
   638.                                                                                                                                              beasts
RoIyI.alanSoeccliieptsye,  origin of,                                                                                                                126. St. John's College, Oxford, 230. St.;
                           of Saturn,  715*;    shew Charles                                                                                         John's College, Cambridge, 239.; la                                St. John'
                                       275 ;    incorporated,                                                                                        rje Lateran. church of, at Rome,                                   104, ros,
                                   and arms,    ib., 2#8, 289 ;                                                                                                                                    :
   277, 286, 287           ; mace  287 : first  anniversary,                                                                                         Wm1S0t.au6.lrtJdueersS,rttib.n2y9aJo9,,.h4cn6h2,uS.rtLc. ohJSrodtoh.,fn,Jo3,a4ht0sn.oPn,adRoSufetag.S,iiJcroi1db6We7n,.a,lt-2eSS3r9ti,r..;
   address the
                           King,                                                                                                                                                                                     ;
         : allusions to the Society in
   995   at Arundel House after the             1665, 634 ;
   met                                          fire, 1666,
                : Evelyn to Cowley on the useful
   326,  3o77f  the Society,                   Ho64w6ar; dAarutnMderl.                                                                               St.LMeagMreiaar,riasLoapdMraya,ggainotMriepi,natehrayvta,toRoraomtseeRs,,om3945e.5,.
   ness         presented by        645,
   Library                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  St.
   Evelyn's                        Mr.                                ; re                                                                                                                                                                 140.
   quest to                                                           with
                suggestion, 326,               o3f39t.he40M3, S6S9.8                                                                                 St. Mark, at Venice, Piazza, 160; Church,
                exchange some
   the University of Oxford for mathematical                                                                                                         161; Tower, 163.      St. Michael, Island of,
   bAGfoorlrota,eknrsdvi,eeitssl6e,i5g'8snae; nEd' dvNaeetNlyAenprrlvuupensrsed,seuellnt3rt5aHs5,o'tuai5sbn8el3e,dse;3foe3Cfn6Vcoe;leleiDngosref,.,  near Venice, 171.      St. Michael in Bosco,
                                                                                                                                                     at Bologna, 156. St. Paul's                (Old) Cathe
                                                                                                                                                     dral, surveyed for repairs,                317 destruc
                                                                                                                                                     tion of, by the great fire of London, 318,
   and Stubb's book        atog,aibnystC, h64a9r,les650II.: ,C3h4e0l ;                                                                               57h1i701n1n7019i.s,. hep3dSSu2,ttb0...li5Pc5Pe8atSLeuitbrl.''rsosa,prPyeanacteuhredRlu'csorocmmfhoeCmr,aoepftn,hpudiebaendzdleizrcaaarl,asbetR,erocvfmoh7icr0oeee0i,,r,,
   sea College given
   Evelyn chosen secretary, 370 ; meet at
   Gresham College, 377 ; regulations re                                                                                                                   description             crypt, 113; ser
   specting electing Feitows. 431 ; experi                                                                                                                 at, on Good           and Easter Day,
   ments relative to earthquakes, 706, 707 ;                                                                                                         99;                of, 101
   'transactions of, 377, 280, 289, 296, 297, 301,                                                                                                   vice
                                                                                                                                                                         Friday
                                                                                                                                                     143. St, Pietro in vinculi, at Rome, 147,
   3»3. 3*8, 336, 339, 343, 382, 423, 434, 436,
                                                                                    INDEX.                                                                                                                                                    777

      US. St. Ruth. General, slain, 546. St.'                                                                                                                                     TfaNuphilcoohsmLtoaaaltaedss,y, ,caufnaprdametrhoefoiusrosmsfefaoPanrtucthSneicseooyltfu,s, th4e2a9s7l9,0l,..15269.SS3c.cooSntcS,voccrSolntti,r,
      Sebastian's     aSt t.RoSmusea,nn13a5,.        chuSrtc. hSatet pRhoemn'es,,
      Paris, 203
      79. St. Thomas's Hospital, 1664, 301.
      St. Vincent Rock, Bristol, 239.                                                                                                                                             Lady Catherine (dau. of Earl of Norwich),
Saladine, Mons., 191. Salisbury Cathedral,                                                                                                                                        200, 206. Scot, Major, 363. Scot, regicide,
      933; Plain and city, ib. ; Stonehenge, ib.                                                                                                                                  executed, 361. Scots, Parliament against
      Sallust, viridarium and gardens, 92, 94.                                                                                                                                    their settling in Darien, 69.
      Saltpetre, Commission for regulating, 315,                                                                                                                                  Scotland, conduct of       baisnhdoApslaroyf,,                     ;
                                                                                                                                                                                    declares for William                             1689,     506
      v3dSi1aaa6dltv.io,artFsSircaaoolntf, cwSeDpasract.eoi,nr,,oRfroiimsvPsupail,odecsuttaaulo,lrefe,d1sa7S2to,afPl,v1isi74at58ot5.ii,.a,wSoaS1Tr5aku0ls-.-                                                                         $33 ;    com
                                                                                                                                                                                  missioners offer the crown, 534 ; episcopacy
                                                                                                                                                                                  again voted down in, 535: Presbyterians of,
                                                                                                                                                                                  539. Scotus de la Marca, painting by,
      of, 87, 136.        Samuel,  Mr., architect,                                                                                                                                mc2SuSior8tre.A.dnS,Mdc2rrr6eiv.8w,e. ,n2e04Sr0s6c,,2r.oc3o2o8pmS.ecp,raoSnLoeyapadeo-,ycf,o,ra3e49l,5g71.icp.irdSoecjSer,cocuotedpxaeeo-,f
      Sancroft,       Dr., Abp.    of Canterbury,                                   347.
                                                                                    317,
it- bL4a9ay3dm*eKbcijelnoatogrh*a,tJia5o5°mn2*,5.e, s5S,25O32"5.62; a;5mx;t1eh,reaet5nqin3ku4gsi,reo5Edf5v8eBtlo;iysnshpe,ounpbt5sl2ifs5ohr;
                                                                                                                                                                                  charring, 349. Seas, dominion of, and
                                                                                                                                                                                  fishery, Evelyn's thoughts on those sub
      III.,protests against the crown being given to                                                                                                                              jects, 679. Second sight, instance of, 48$.
      William                 ;  refuses to attend                                  Par-                                                                                          Sedans      introduced      into England,
   -  liament,  1689,   530   ;  conversation with,                                 532,                                                                                          Sedley,     Sir Charles,   and his daughter                 1C3a2.
                         531
      533 : suspended, 536 ; deprived, 543, 544 ;                                                                                                                                 66dth99u58em.r;inaheSri,besolCf'r-oedTuseitcnnleteyensisnss,gof4oA2fH9cDo.tn,oorcScuohernle,d'tseetsne2t4r, ,3aJbo3; oh7lu3nibt.,,ra53rS35ye11, ,.-
   advice to Dr.        BSte.veMridagrtei,ns543. church,
Sanctuary of                                          Sanderson,                    50S8i.r
      Sanders, Captain,                              Sanderson,                     Dr.,
      Wm., funeral of,            561.                                                                                                                                            Sembrador, brought out     oafio.SpaSine,nsi3t3iv7e.
                                 390.                                                                                                                                             Senetan, Mons., of Paris,
      sermon of, 262. Sands, travelling, ac-
-     count of, 396.    Sandwich, Earl of,                                                                                                                                                     experiment    on, 377. Senten, Hai
      3°9i 345. 694 ;    East India prizes,                                         308,                                                                                          plant,      gallantry of,   666. Septalla, Sign
                                                                                    and                                                                                           tian,                                                             ,

      courage,   310,   314, 336        ; observations                              at                                                                                               collection of, 183.     328 ; accounts of ser
      Madrid,   337 ;   President       of Commission                                                                                                                             Sermon in blank verse,
                                                                                    of
      Trade, 354, 355 ; death at battle ofSolebay,
      366 ; character of, 367 ; funeral, 368 ; com                                                                                                                                apmSSnaeeoirrnnhmmsto,ioonunngr2e4cat2oanb,n,dy2t,5rah0xDs,aot3ale6f0.d8lo,(wnGS3gie4itr,4vho,el4an41tmh45o8Do»s,eio4a6olldSs0f-,,ifc1a5i6bos18htu03a,,iiolnd5nt4i1ene43)gd5,.;
      munications about Spanish horticulture,
      6so49v,ino65, 0J.acoSbaon, dsycsu, lpRtuerve.  Mr., 576. San-
                                                     by, 137, 139, 142,
      166; Piazza of St. Mark, by, 160; his                                                                                                                                       of, 558. Severus Scptimius, arch of, 88 ;
      burial-place, 160. Santa Clara, Fra. de,                                                                                                                                    baths, 133. Sewers, commission of, 359,
      4M(A8o5n.ndsre.,aSagpVoilaednnsnmzuaicthcahtio),fRPopamariein*,t,in41g93.s9.     Saracin,                                                                                               Sextus  Empiricus, 602,                 Seymour,
                                                                                    Sarto, Del                                                                                    L39o2r. d,   house  at Marlborough,                338. Sey
                                                                                    by, 54, 8o,                                                                                   mour, Mr. Conyers (son of Sir                      Edward),
      GS1a5e1tou,rrgne1,52(e,Mclaip1rs5qe3u, isof2o,5f81H6;a60li,fbaux27n)5,la. -2p8t8Sa.acveiS,llaev, i1ll5Se1i,.r                                                               killed in a duel,   573. Seymour,                  Mr., im
      Sir Henry, edition of Chrysostom, 694;                                                                                                                                      peaches Earl of     Clarendon, 334.                Seymour,
                                                                                                                                                                                  Mr., speech on      elections, 1685,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        . Sey
                                                                                                                                                                                  mour, Sir Edward, 553, 583. Sfrondati,
      MSS. of,        699S.aviSlleavill(eC,ouvnictees-cshaomfbeMrolaninte,                                                                                                        Cardinal, Church built by, 133. Shaen,
                                                                                                                                                                                  Sir James, 389. Shaftesbury, Earl of,                       337 ;
                468.                                                                                                                                                              president of Council for Plantations,                        369,
      §4e4,ltre), 448.
Saumcurs, Mons., 203. Savoy, persecuted                                                                                                                                           370; anecdote of Lord Clifford related by,
      Christians of, collections for,                                                                                                                                             3Y6S79ho65ar.kr;p),c,SrahatfaDttreyprm.,cpotM(natdrofut.escritSlweaaonmfrc,deus4,e4l5,50A.1r,scu5hSr0bhg2iaeskoh; snospe,perma3ro7eno0,.f
      Savoy, Duke of, his persecution                                               o2f4P2r.ot5e3s7t -
      ants, 500. 537, 340- Savoy hospital, sick
      aGRno.dttBorwropow,unneDd'usekdheouloosdfe,ga5et0d,3.aaftte,Sraw3y0ac6rsd, s3C1Eo7.vuertly,Sna'Ssx,ier
                                                                                                                                                                                  before the Commons,        1689,                   53S8ir;  other
                                                                                                                                                                                  sermons of, 553, 565.      Shaw,                            John,
                                                                                                                                                                                  house at Eltnam, 207. Sheen, Abbey of,
      '97. s*5. 270, 271, 284, 393, 361 ; garden at,                                                                                                                              Lord Brouncker's, Sir William Temple's,
      335,441,454,733; amoleforshipsdesignedat,                                                                                                                                   and Lord Lisle's, 401, 402, 514. Sheerness,
      345 : letto Peter the      Great, 571 ; let to Lord                                                                                                                         arsenal at, 315; fortified, 330, 364; curi
      Carmarthen, 581.           Scala Sancta, at Rome,                                                                                                                           osities dug up at. 336.
      poP1flr0a,i4nc,1ce7e1,80s5;3. 0ho.iSsf ceSaVucleliaogrlgeoigyrn,eaor,J,of sVJemeuprloohiunn,usa4m,4C1iebane.;tsahSri,ocsfa,bsliutgare1it7aru7il,e.-
                                                                                                                                                                                  Sheldon, Abp., 304. 310, 316, 337, 340, 343,
                                                                                                                                                                                  365 ;       tr2a9n4s;lattehdeatfrreo,m&Lco,ndaotn     to Canter
                                                                                                                                                                                  bury,                                              Oxford built
      Scaramucchio, Italian, performance at                                                                                                                                                   30R0aS, lhp3e4hl0,do; nmc,oollneMucmtrio.enntE,od5fw7ac9ord;in,sse,rm45o65n05,.
      sS3WMh2cha4.hPi,lot,.et3th4if,a54o4lrl;0,scSl:ih3bu8orrea6rlxae.rpryye,, Sod5ci5ft6aRi0o9Kr..bnirocrhSoStecoucarhg.wohIemr,en1Sbl2,a3einr.rSdgCi,r,hSaWcMri5lpmea3iso5r,,.  by, 299,
      Airicanus, statue of, 66. Sclater, Edward,                                                                                                                                  of, 271.            Mr. (nephew of Archbishop),
                                                                                                                                                                                  Sheldon,             Sherard, Lord, 346. Shere,

                                                                                                                                                                                  694. Sheldon,
                                                                                                                                                                                  his house, 401.
                                                                                                                                                                                  Mr. Duncomb's house at, 372. Sherlock,
                                                                                                                                                                                  L>r., 493. Sherwin, Mr., trial with S.I
-778                                                                                                 INDEX

    bbWyyal.CSriCor lmaArwgneetlshl,,on53y748a..    Ship of 06 guns built                                                                                                             quarterm g of, in private                boSoosleitsudpree,veMntaecd
                                                      Shipbuilding, art of,                                                                                                           in 1685, by Evelyn, 482.
                                                                                                                                                                                      kenzie s Essay on, 326. Solomon., Proverbs
,,  JaMmress,,   his  ' Young                     DAMedram.n,ier4,a1l,6'43;2a9v.0e.sseSSlhhiirrblleeuyyil,,t                                                                             of, exquisitely        mwaridtetenL, o2r3d0.
                       Shish,                                                                                                                                                         Somers, Lord,                                    Keeper,
                361,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        55s;

    by,   33S5h, o4o4t1er;'sShHoeisll,,           various fashions                                   of,                                                                              elected President of the Royal Society,
    344.                                          mineral waters                                     at,                                                                              57i ; charge brought by Parliament against,
    Sho5Dr7evr4ew..,rs,bScSuohirnorysr,Teu,l.EteSTadiyrrlrbroByefa,lrCl't4shh1ao1hrl,oole6mus9se4e.IwIa.,t,,S4h53658r68e4...wsSbShuhororytt,,-
    the abandoned Countess of, 310, 410.                                                                                                                                              £5555Sla7898on61.9md..;,eSrs6sSoe1eSora9btoml,,simee6reD2retsr3a,ues.kekteM,ten,SDeonuofLrscrfb,ooho,mrendehsnssishetai,omJtvofe,,ohPy7an5l3aen7,2gf8ste,:";8tleo6tatrot,,cticaeE2orl71nu03oong^0fft,,,. "
    Shrewsbury, Duke of,                          561, 567, 578. Sib-
    bald, Sir Robert, 501.                         Siciliano, Jacorao,                                                                                                                °C 45, 46. Sovereign, ship of war, built
    painting by, 04. Sick and Wounded, and                                                                                                                                            by    ship-money, 34            ; burnt,                   Sooth,
    Prisoners of War, Commissionersappointcd,                                                                                                                                         Dr.,   $01 ; university          orator,           563.  sermons
    1664, 301, 302. Mr. Evelyn's proceedings                                                                                                                                                                                           340 ;
                                                                                                                                                                                      Tfoarrfme,eepa2st9souc4nrh,e.o3roD,0l9u.2ak0te,3S,1oo93fu,.9t73h,9Sa13om.0u3ptS,thoow3nu3a,t0hr,koE3va7er4Frl.,aoirSf.,Suos1Lus6ote6hrx0d,,
    as Commissioner, 30a, 306, 307, 309, 310,

    33o61ff75ic., e33s6*8*h,\e33l*d679.,b3y37,375(i.n6333I9r*e,. l6a34n30d*.,,-3S:5ijd54n3. ,e3y56,433.L, o53r65d44,..                                                                3iBRn6ro7abneI;rrdetel,sanunbpdoup,nrrgehs5s,*4eWad4,a;1t6e5;Pr5,r'1eS.seid3c8ereS4ntotau: rtyhoewnfoevlflo,RySotyaSattueol*
    Sidney Algernon, apprehended, 443, 445,
                                                   character
    455 ;  beheaded, 453 ;                        Sir Philip,                                   of,  ib. ;
           of, 48a. Sidney,                                                                    203,  223.
    story
    Sidney, Lady Dorothy (Waller's Sacha-                                                                                                                                             PISseolitcneigert,toyn,e, n5g45ra0a1,vin5g5S$p,abyd5,a7,1x, C8ai.7r3d3in.Sapl,SaouptWamleaalclnse^^*
    rissa), 223. Sidney, Colonel, alleged father
    of the Duke       ao;rfcUhMnibovyne,mrs8iot3uy. ,th,S8i3e3n9;n6Ca. ,ataShcieecdnorunanal,,t
    Baltazar di,                                                                                                                                                                      of, 136.
    of, 82, 83, 84                                                                                                                                                                    Spain, Queen of, catafalcoof, 1645, ib. Spain
    ib,t 84,          ; Hospital, St. Francis's                                                                                                                                       and      Portugal, umpirage                                  1000,
    Church,      149   Silk stockings, engine for                                                                                                                                     313.      Spanheim, Ezekiel,               between.      *
                83.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Trea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               author of
    weaving, 275. Simon, Father, his Histoire                                                                                                                                         tise on Medals,' 387, 728. Spanish Galleon,
    Critique, 677. Simon, Abraham, medal                                                                                                                                              weighed up near Hispaniola, 1687, 514 :
    engraver,   Mr3.2, 6.hi_s                     Simplon, Mount,
    Simson,                                       agate cup, 243.                                      186.                                                                           ats(hSasenoiokrrdumensnoHeTonerfaanettEoeryafVsW,),ri,gi3lmo7o6,ab35f.4l0eS71,Sdu.7po6n0en53diS1,,em5,pr82ale5a68nn.n53,c3d.e.M)r,.S,rpS.Sipnapprt[neaeeginrnssrrcaehdoennewrdtd.P,slEoLamInaonjartrtrolsd,.f

                                                                                                     Sinn,                                                                            riage of, 437 ; character, ib., 519; alluded
    Switzerland, observations on, 188. Sion,                                                                                                                                          otSopf, e5En4cvaeer;l,ymnaLrtaroida, yge71,1A5n5;n9Me;,rl.i,bmraa3rr3yr3i,a, g5e37a48t;,ole7tttihere.r
    Duke of Northumberland's seat, 308.
    SixSMtiuraasrnqivu, .i,sEhliodsreas,ebselotstoasno, f,MpoaantintpetlearyC,,av31a95l61lo..    Sissac,
                                                                                               repaired
    bstya,nt9in3 e:'s aqpuileladrucrte,-e9re4c;tecdhabpye,l,                                         Con-
                                                               95 ;                                  139;
                                                              105,
    statue of St. Peter on Trajan's column, 140.
    Skaits, introduction of, into England,                                                                                                                                            Earl of    Arran, 512.                     685,  o7f03S. unSdpeerlnacnedr,.
    ago. Skippon, Sir Philip, his account of                                                                                                                                          Charles,    afterwards
    Wotton's early talents, 408. Sky, remark                                                                                                                                                                                   Earl
                                                                                                                                                                                      5'9- 585. Spencer, Martha, 414. Spencer,
    anSS28boiirr8rle,NAo3ricaf1thhp7Puo,porle3a,ra3stsr1,am,2n0h3oc09iues0;th,mih,n4ia,s0r04r,1li0oa694tg4.1t3ee1,,r, yS234,l8i96n90.2.g9s;7bmSyS;lia,lnasggntoseMivnbrergyo.r,,,f    SRpoiblbeurtr,gh,34Ja.,,          Spencer, Col.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                384.  by, 335. Spinola,                      367.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                view
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mar
                                                                                                                                                                                      quis, river cut by, 37; gardens, 75;
                                                                                                                                                                                      letters, 731. Spragge, expedition against,
                                                                                                                                                                                         and   the Smyrna        fleet, 363.
    the mint, 390; house at Burrow Green,                                                                                                                                             Spratt,    Dr., Bp.                                      342, 386,
                                                  council for trade, 354 :                                                                                                                                      (of Rochester),
    a34l6ov: esreocrfetmaruysictko.               380, 412; in decayed                                                                                                                413, 422, 441, 453. 475, 503, 503: » com
                                                                                                                                                                                      missioner for ecclesiastical affairs ; resigns,
    circumstances, 57J. Sloane, Sir Hans,                                                                                                                                                        prayer,    1688, on the young                  Prince s
    secretary to Royal Society, 571 ; his col                                                                                                                                         tiigrth;,            his observations on                 Sorbiere,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    517 ;
    lS5Se5mmc8tii.ittohh5n,,5,9-M5M4r3r.S..,mRoiSStbhpme,eraatS,lkl-iepr5ro6J7xeo,r:f.,mraHbavorraarugivsaeeegsreyoofofo,ff,,C136o3297m343, .;                                        f1a1Id9r..deBnaSypanrttinoLgna'sm,Gba2e2rt8dh.e,n,3S7q71u.6i5rr4i,Seps3,y38a;Pt aWrSkep,srtieSnrgi-r
                                                                                                                                                                                      ham in Kent, 258. Stafford, Viscount, 343 ;
    mons, 590 ;       Smith, Dog, benefactor to                                                                                                                                       antipathy to              roses, ib. ;           4c2o3m--m4i3t5ted;   for
    Surrey, 712.      Smithtield, woman burnt in,                                                                                                                                     Popish plot.              407 ; trial,                                be-
    1652, 220. Smyrna Fleet, attack on, 1672,                                                                                                                                         Saviour on his trial,
    3S6n2a,pe3, 6K3 in; g'esafrathmqeura, kefathaet r Somf Dyrrn. a,Sna5p2e0,.                                                                                                        SSttaanlyd,steiexledc,uJtoehd,n,40137,.  42S5ta;nbdeishhea, dDedr,.,  426.
    WS4SE4nodm1cew.iyea,d,tryedSar,nm,fao-bkrpaseacps,ihsrnoaVotpdioinraolggmgrisnaaittsaoibtnneygCr, ortana5ht2stet.tlaeSGn,ootS3uisn5otpo3haep.omllv,eee,Sasr,ln,l4oaS8w1t4t9ir,..                                                                        483.
    ance to Missionaries, 1702, 584. Soldiers,                                                                                                                                                                                 18. Stanhope, Lord,
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SLoUfiar,sdhRy5eo5,r5,b,3e93r04t5.,66.2t.rSaStntaSasntlnaalehtnyooh,rpoepM,oerf,.D,JueM7va5rne1,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                      205, 208 ;
                                                                                                                                                                                      discourses
                                                                                                                                                                                      Gentleman
                                                                                                                                                                                      Stapleton,
                                                                                                                                                                                      nal, 338 ; Stapleton, Col., Gov. of St.
                                                                                                                                                                                      Christopher's, 365. Stationers' Company!
                                                                                                   INDEX.                                                                                                                                            779

      their great loss in          the fire of London,                                             32M0..                                                                                     Supper, Paschal, represented in' wax
      Staves, Evelyn's             correspondence with                                                                                                                                        work, 364; of Leonardo da Vinci,
      Casaubon respecting his father's Treatise                                                                                                                                               181. Surrey, address to the King, 1697,
      on, 659, 660 ; fragment by Mr. Evelyn on                                                                                                                                                570, Sussex, address to the King, 1660,
      this subject, 600. Stawell, Sir Edward,                                                                                                                                                 a6j. Sussex, Earl of [tent/. Q- Eliz.),
      443. Steenwyck,                Henry,                   paintings by,                                                                                                                   3dSS4aui9ruttg;ohEnxtde6wir6nai,orSdf2h,7Ce2rh.eas,rklSeMilsulrs.sIoIeHn.x,u,s3sIC9re1oiys,u'hns43te2hhs.oasurspoSef,,u, t3t43o8231n98,,.;
      35, 52, 198, 200.            Stephen,                  King, tomb at
      Gloucester,                     Stephens, Mr., cousin
      of Evelyn,           334.    225, 233, 249. Stephens,
                         200,      284, Stephens, William,
      Mr., attorney,
                                                                                                                                                                                              Swearing, declaration against, set forth,
                                                       Stern, Dr., Arch                                                                                                                                   Sweate, Dr., Dean of the                   Arches,
   sermon      oDcferY.n,sourDrkee,da,5n5T5o7. 6f.  St Paul's, sia, 317;                                                                                                                      577.         Sweden, Cecilia, Princess                 of, 731.
   bishop                                           Sir F., house at                                                                                                                          2S9w4i.ss,    the, observations relative               to, 189,
Stewart,                                            fleet, Bp., $15,

      hMtisckdleeahtah,m,319.241.StidSotlipllihn,g                                                                                                                                            o19r0.DiscSoyudrseenhoafmF, orwesetllsTraete,s,  387.    Sylva,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 by  Evelyn,
                his library, 513.          Stoake, North,                                          Sus                                                                                        289, 295, 343; letter of Evelyn to Lady
      548   ;  estate at, 4x3.          Stokes, Dr., 341,                                          249 ;
      sex,
      perpetual motion,                             Stola Tybertina                                                                                                                           CSuhnadrleerslanIdI., ,  704 ;  Evelyn           thanked by
      (at Rome), 133.                   337.         Sir Robert, 37.                                                                                                                                                   300.   Sylvius,         Sh* Gabriel,
                                        Stone,                                                                                                                                                326, 386, 397, 441 ; his mission to Denmark,
      4dS1eto3s.nceri,p41tio4op,ner4oaf',t$io;2n34.LfoardS, yto3n0Se4ht.oonuesSheto,ounSseierh.eJon3hg8ne9,,.                                                                                 473. Synagogue at Amsterdam, 37.

      Stoope, Monsieur, speech of, 268. Storm,                                                                                                                                                Tabema Meritoria of the Romans, 113.
                                                                                                                                                                                              Tacca, Pietro,              statue by,           TaxmrXtxa,
      in 1652, 323 ; 1662, 283 : 1687, 509 ; 1689,                                                                                                                                            Utpi. by Isaac               Vossius,    381.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      684.     Talbot, Sir
      535 ; 1690, 537. Strade,                                 Count de la,                                                                                                                   Gilbert, master of the jewels,
      liberal conduct of, ai3, 220.                             Stradling, Sir                                                                                                                668. Talbot, Sherrington (son                    2o8f7,S3ir7J0o, h6n67),,
      ccWf1oue3irdt6ldli.iio,nangmS,S,u,tp52r3a1e321fr7.f,io.or2rd1S,oS3t.rtfEraaEaffdnSrolgltrirnldoeigsf,e,h,t2eL0rJDo2e, rrsd;M.u,,tirrt.3iss,a9ol4nap.taanoiRndfSotitempnrxrgaeeesf,      killed in a duel, 4S0. Tangicrs, expedition
                                                                                                                                                                                              to,  D4u1c7h. esTsapoef sPtoryrtsamt oHuathm'sp,to4n50C. oTuratr,g2o8n5 i,;
                                                                                                                                                                                              at
                                                                                                                                                                                              altar by, 106 ; Tatham, John, pageants by,
                                                                                                                                                                                              YtDl3ah7eone9ww,d,,n2U8rs1oa3u5b,nr0bpd.2ea8Crt9iy,Tooanno3yn,0f,1loo.r1r2)6,4,94T2M.a,Dxrr5-.T.m5aE1Jox.evnureeselTy,ymanxyofersrossm{DpBdiepruSi.artciudonaoltgylf
      s°ftSoetyoirrr.noeT3r,ef5h2goT3>u7mr9li3an.a7tsi°itn,iygS34,tc51r7he1.2ae.8pt44sSe3,tlo°,ri2fns^8eLg6to,rofmner3mdlo9loo3ne.nwsn,,tbecSyMdo,trmriw.5c,m4kit5mlhia,sins5nti5diho5s,en",  asaindndv, is2pe4rr4o,,c2u244re37 ,s;2h5diami,sp2ou5rt3de, isn35aw7tii,toh4n1, 5Mib;..o;LnehoisFrirgcaainnsceas,l
                             Stroode, Sir           ofNiDcohvoelars,Cas2t9le8,.
      559. 57°-          Col., lieutenant
      Stroode,
      303. Stuart, Lady Catherine, 378. Stuart,                                                                                                                                                  o6lcc2oa5o0fr7s7m,eco;;m6antblesgeorcn,atitedLien6niierns0csutge6,t, ,oLh6ofi0s3or57fdp1M, iTe6Mr;ot0.yows9,rEeed;rv5ram9elue4ilonnty.nttne,sfTrasavot3ooyf2t,,ulo5or.52r93Eo, 57fvC,, eaTl26pay04tyn63.,,,,
      Mrs. Frances, the celebrated beauty, id.                                                                                                                                                Teignmouth, French troops landed at, 541.
      Stuart, James,               Regent of Scotland, 731.
      Stubbe, Henry,               hostile to Royal Society,                                                                                                                                    pPSTlueiermr,bPpe5uec6rks7bt,,eac5,tk7rA7,ian. l5to6wTn1iei,tohm5, 6ph3wlee,o,r5r7kn7eS.opirfh, TeW1ew0mi4,ll.ipaMlmeTr,e., mTL4epa3mldexy,,.
      65a Sturbridge fair,                                      Suffolk. Earl                                                                                                                    468 ; his house at Sheene, 395, 402, 574
      of, hispalaceat Audley                        E24n0d. ,  240. Suffolk,                                                                                                                     Temple Bar, human quarters set up at*
                                                    Suffolk House,
'     Countess of, 1674, 385.                       Suidas, ancient
      near Charing Cross, 241.
      MS. of, 573. Sun, eclipse of the, 1652,
       220; 1699,
   Sunderland,           5E7a4.rl  of,      hts      widow,         1652,                          223.
      Sunderland, Lord, 442,                        461, 484,       572 ;                          am
      bassador to Spain, 1671, 358 ; and France,
      1672, 370; his seat               3a9t9;Alstehcorrept,ar3y8$of;           Vos-                                                                                                          565. Temple, Inner, revels at,                   57T0e. neTjieffme,
      terman's view of it,                                                     state,                                                                                                         ple, Middle, revels at,                          vicar of St*
      411 ; his unfeeling conduct respecting Lord                                                                                                                                             Peak of, 371. Tenison,          38A, b3p35.,.
      Ossory, 417 ; sunk by gaming, 1681, 428 ;                                                                                                                                               IMartin's, 422, 440, 456, 474, 480, 481, 507,
      president          of the council, 168s,                 a4ff9a4irs; ,a                      com                                                                                         17. 545. 547. 552. 558, 562, 573. 576" : li-
      missioner           for ecclesiastical                                                       502                                                                                    ;    rary founded by, at St. Martin s, 455»
      knight of the garter, 50.J ; marriage of his
      daughter, 512 ; the seals taken away from,                                                                                                                                              456, 481, 546, 609 ; sermons of, 457, 468,
                                                                                                                                                                                              4C7o5n.du4i9t-8s.treSe0t8,   530, 545. 552:                    in
      K16iKn8g, 'sS>h2 a;nmd eodnitahteiss          flight,  524 ;  kisses the                                                                                                                                            opened by, 545 ;     cBhiashpoepl  of
                                                    return           Holland,                                                                                                                 Lincoln, 547 ; a trustee for the                 Boyle lec
      Wi6oilfl,iam544II;I.                                   from                                                                                                                             ture, 548, 555, 588; on the                      author of
                            his     library,         561;           entertains
   "                         at    Althorp,         563 ; a         favourite,                                                                                                                'Whole Duty of Man,' 551; tabernacle
      and obnoxious to the people, ib.                                                                                                                                                        near Golden-square                      uCpombmy,iss5i5o3ne; rAbfpo.r
                                                                       Sunder                                                                                                                 of Canterbury, 558              set
      land {Lady Anne Spencer), Countess of,                                                                                                                                                  Greenwich Hospital,             ;a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              561 ; visit of Evelyn
      1671, 358, 370, 388, 389, 406, 412, 417, 427,                                                                                                                                           ATaWtenarxtLrsuaaomrn,d,bie15Lt26ha18,v. o; r5loT6e,1ctrtre;1ar2oss3sp.ooinf,TiEoevnMreraalyrrcencisnopa,teo, c, ltfa7ion0prg6imd, ae7Br1rypl1y,..

      4le4t7t.ers46o3.f  rM4e7lri3g..ioE4u7vs5e.lyb5no°4o»tkos5, °e5fo.nrc5l3oh5serirn5gu4s4ae, ,  566 :
      logue of                                                                                     cata

                                                                                                    586,
      C70o4unt:ecsosnsoofliAnrgrahne, r70o3n. the death of the
                                                                                                                                                                                              175. Tertullian's observation upon dress.
78o INDEX.

7msp4e8en.cttainTl,ger1rt6ea7lk3la,in, g3n7o3itt.,ice4T0eo6fs,t;,34r13e6.m78a,Trkedssotu,obnstasctrrhaee                                                                                                                                                                                                                Italy, hints for, 599, 60a Treade, drags
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        used in manufacture of, 262. Trean, mer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        chant,   his   collection of pictures,
TetmTsseihtgseaatnn,cmte,1oeu6fss8N,,9we, rwhMiv5a,o3er»fnri,,insn.g5f,r3ov4zu-faerltongmaRroovimehLreae, ,tT1ine614,m384,pM. le1S9.7T,teo;s5ttd6ha0ee.                                                                                                                                                                 Treby   (Lord   Chief Justice), recorder                             19o8.f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        London,                                                     Trees,   ana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tomy of,  433,   450, 507, 580.                          motion,     6ts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and    vegetative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Trelawney,     BLpib.,eratgyaionfstCoJanmscieesnceI,I.'s              De
Tower,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  claration of                                                                       ;
booths,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      515
          3c1o6ac;hefsr,ozen&co, vearn, danadmussteremeetsnts,of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TrTSsTeiMnernrinreriiltn.atmJy,roi,tge.ataelo,lpidPusdp,lestearh,cl4etero5heM3nelt.TeionastondrttywseteTererdso,erfM,vafsootoStrraf5,,SRt1et.6oh,S7me3;i5cr1e5ao.Jp3,ocn.loqhc1t3uenTT8rir,r1t.ncet6ie3n8nnd35ccg,4,hh,a4a55t4r6rh13dd8e7,,.,.;
JTuTmdR«1ahh8p°uoma09ieormss.5iean,ntielsge,,TRti5hthDLo5,oe9we9po0*tfn.taf.,to1iB,t6roe5ad8f64T,4lT,01lh,ih.3oaDte.lWnoar4ew.Tot5CT,rnhr4teohc.,essleeeolaeosrf5tmgCt,br5esee5oao3hr,nul9,od:3onui.2,tfol0edcff,Msr,obTos4nuah3z0bsri7ie,lccecd0onkei6.ifennt6,cnl,geulotTossiv17osshbe17eueoya41r,ds,,t..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T56rian. ityTrinCithyapeClo, lleCgoen, duCitambSrtrideegte, ,        239.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5* 5-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Trinity House, incorporated, 283 ; great
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        bgtdhriivneoenthpnelerargsbuayet,,(SS3i1ir1r656R5R; ,..b3nB0Bdr5orow;fwonrnreeet,-haes3siar5en3mdalb:mleySsohiruonuaJgsfeteeerrs.r
scruples, 551. Thomond, Lord, house at
TNmT36hhea3oown.rump,ecaT,hrhPkyrrsemoeetcasi,ksitdtm,oe3onf4r8t7tt0h.o.end,er,TeThghS2oioc0irir5rndn.heWheiiuSlTlllsith,a.ermriJs,Mo,chro.na,,l,etGM22tee34r9rr4..,s.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Smith masters),    371,                                  373; account of a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        meeting, 1685,     482.                                  Triplet, Mr., 747-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Trollop, Mrs., marriage of, 421. Trout,
of, 731. Thuilleries, Palace* account of,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               excellent, in the    Rhone,                                           Truffles,
Thu51rla; ngda, rdeSnirs,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               earth-nuts,        Tudor,                                M1r9.1.  Quinquina,
                            51.               386 ; a                          trustee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  introduced,  69.    Tufton,                              Sir  Jo-,
                                        336,  Tetters                          of Eve                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                558.  portrait                                         H3o4l3b. ein,
                           Edward,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of,  by
for the sale of Albury, 592 :                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tuke, Sir Bnan,
lyn to, ib., 603, 610. Thynn,                 Lady Isabella,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            403. Tuke, Sir Charles, 357,
painting                   Thynn,       Mr., his marriage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               birth, death, and character of,                                   541, 61a ;
with the  of, 198.         of Lord      Ogle, 429, 430;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   . Tuke,
           widow                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        George, 345, 252, 260 ; marriage ; letter of
murder    Aofb, be4y3,3    ; his     monument in                               West                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Evelyn to, 612. Tuke, Sir Samuel, 263,
minster                    ib.        Thynn, Mr.,                                D49r4.,.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3R9o5m;e,his613p:rosaet lyPtiasrmis,                     to the Church   of
Tilbury   Fort built,               363. TiUotson,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                301; harangue  in

Ap254I351I405a634le3844i74n,(..,,,Gt;i53t_n29T3ha4Tg230ricis3so8i.ot:..pim4aiRA4nbnor0uTT.yc,iil,hpteR(5MlbpToe43ioci7rb5szstf.,hiut,a:,osoFon5stpnfnoiea)Sir,,tmtHhihorV,ooe1pfenn:Ja0ocC6Poi,en4haaubl2tpnnlri1iy.,nit,5s,eg2thdr,ss5bTbia,s5yiun31Cb4nrt5.ySo0yea3,5,erp,dTe,hlodtie5411rttew76eh46on5633).,e,,,,,,  behalf of Papists,  2D65uk; esentto                           to break the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        marriage of the                                                 the Queen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mother, 368 ; sent to Paris on the death
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of Card. Mazarine, 371; play by, 390;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        his marriage, 396,                                       ; christening of his
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        son, 360 ; speech   336                                  House of Lords in

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tu7lbMlel3ietor9th.l-eaar,lEfoTvdfueoaklMfyuengr,sthh.LteteaoErd,vPyoea6,fl3pyC1ni3si,7,ct3es,6,r74o333,8738.;s7,u1hp4ip;s5o6ds, elee4dat7tt3htec,,or4r77p35s8oe,f.'
168, 238, 406, 420,             463,    565 ; tomb of, 168.
Titus, triumphal                arch                                           baths and
         ofrfom' K, i1ll0in8,g  10n9o.  oTf,itu9s6,                         ;  Col. Silas,                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of, discovered,           Tully, Dr., suspended
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        from his cure,               Tully's Offices, an
statues                                 Murder,' 340, 354,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               195.
author     Tividale, Lord, a Scotch noble                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   501.
           412. Tiviot, Lord, a Commis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  eV3Rt3ssoxhae^c57iofesrrh379mmle3.,yoE.»ofeoliynpe,l3"T,,5lrS0du5i317tbn9,03.arDyt*69kfe,.e.4fedo6aT1ywTrnuT.dbThuru,oeubroFrnokneTlfk4ekb,ru3sev,Wrr3B,aiitnd5.lpil7energc.9ordd,eo..pTessoseoutWftl-rDrryTed,okRevurayoilnednle4scdebqcc4,Fhnhuer3reicrib,radpiessebmngstt4ayeeoce5eunir6anstc,e,gist,aeFdstals44orlie59Bnero63mdsepaift,n-,.t;;
423, 517.
man, 395,
sioner of Privy Seal, 495, 686. Tivoli. 146,
147. Toledo, Peter de, 128 ; Palace of,
TJ11eo63sm79u.9si,to,3Tn6o,3cleu.mrraieoTtrsicooihtmniae,bnsst,,ucnooiMfvnGers.rei,sgnanolheaidds, e7cgt3loa.arrdTaheotisinmo,nsc9oa2onr7fe,.,
from China, 296. Tong, Dr. Ezrael, Popish
conspiracy discovered by him and Oates,
To4Po0rka4ec,;ticBeaeccnoojfautmnhtien,Jeofsleutihttiesmr,',o3f0ib2M.. ;r.  his ' Moral                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 II.other sermons, 460, 496 ; petitions James
                                                                             Evelyn to,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             against Declaration of Liberty of con
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        science, 515 : sent to    the                            Tower, 516  ; tried
713 ;  admitted to         a share in the ' Silva,'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and acquitted, 5x7 ;      at                             a meeting   of Bi
726.   Torrington,         Earl of, imprisonment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        shops in 1689, respecting the Succession,
of, 541.  Torso of         Aomf paliiomnaleafancdtoDrircuen,de8r7.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      535 ; deprived   for not                                 taking the oaths to
Torture,  account                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       William and      Mary,                                   ; 5o4af3,lltuhde5e44dB;isthoao,tp4B9op7f..
going the punishment of, sio. Tours,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WTEulhyri)nt,ee'srse, rmfDuornn.erb(aybl,,ro4t50h75e1.r
account of the city of,             63, 64. Townshend,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     --
Lord, creation of, 272.               Trade, Council of,
                                    Tradescant, John,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Turn ham Green, Sir John Chardine's head.
rMeucsoemummenodfe, d3,53,7340". -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      589. Tuscany,       Prince of, visit to Royal
                                    Trajan, Column of.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Society, 340.      Twickenham Park, Lord
at Rome, 140, 676, Travels in France and
                                                                    INDEX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    781

rB3a1en0rn.kueslTe,yyp*o*or gstrehaaept,hMy3o,89d.ein, vTeawnitpsiodanemnp-,ohf.lSeit3r1bR. yogMTeyrr,.-                                                                                                                                                                          Venipont,    staJotuhens,of,Ca25m3.paVnielenusboufilCtorbreyg, gi7o6,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Venus,

Evelyn, 280, 744 ;                   anecdote relative to,                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Vtn5a5ee4rury-eil,loeVf,SesiDtrnauutHekso,teir,a5oc7Mfe.8a.3r0ac7neV. ldelrooVF,nerpaarann, iocndinste,i,nscgM6rs9irp4.bt,.iyos,neVc1re3oer9f-,.
334. Tyrconneli,                     Earl, 540, 54a, 686 ;
                              in Ireland, 1686, 500,
powers given to,                Lieutenant, 505 ;                   5I0r4e                                                                                                       ;
appointed Lord
- s5lSao3hnn1od.,toDevTrney.rd,r,aean3lnlg9,a9et,rSoe3mid8r4isT.bti,ymT4.hy6,i0srm.illaa,rrmMriayrg.,,e,1360h84o9.u, se5T7ya9t,                                                                                                                                                   f2o6r4m6, er17m8, ag1n7i9fic: eanmcep,hitihb,ea;trCeo, unrtemGaiiunssti'osf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  . nvWVfriieelcilsnraacrd,,ioos,o1S7rpt,8.Sa,i4;ign0aSnt0ilc.n,t,aag4lr2si4,g20e1,xbr4o';ys4s,3h,;pisar4ath8igsa4eaHns:rdudAksetoetnfoCr,,cnahi,sb4ihe.23i0fo2,,b8Vu4e;1r1r4y7oa3,.t;
Vaga, Pierino del, 138 ; paintings                            bVya,loi5s4,,                                                                                                                                                                                                       415 ; Chiswick, 442 : Montague House,
   206. Valence, city of, 69, 70.
Margaret of, novels of, 669. Vambre, near                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ;oAf shhistedp, a4i5n7tin; gWs,hit4e4h2al;l,   505 ; charac
Paris,    w2o0m4,an2, 053.53.  Van beck, Barbara, a                                                                                                                                                                                                                               451                                                 settled at St.
hairy                            Vanbrugh, Mr., Se                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5V0e2r.ulamVe,rroLcohriid, ,  Andrea, statue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ter              temple of Peace,               297, 716. Ves

cretary to the Commission for Greenwich                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           iaym, e1s6'8s.,                                   built by, 87;
Hospital, 561. Vandall, painting by, 27.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          pasian,
Vanderborcht, portrait of Evelyn by, 34.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Paamdpuhai,th2e7a0t,re273o,f,1749,7.335V. eVstelisnugviuiuss,,  Dr., of
Vander    DVoauiside,erMvoro.,rs4t4, 1   ; letter of Evelyn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mount,
to, 615.                                Mr., of Venice, his                                                                                                                                                                                                                       account          ofa4,r4c01h.3it5e, cVt2,3ie6n, 9n1e2,2,7.24a9c,Vcoie7un2nn3t.a,ofV,siiell6ge9e-.
books,    174. Vandyke, Sir Anthony, paint                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of, 1683,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Vignola,
ings by, 337, 358, 339, 393, 406, 463, 463,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,
f5Hi1ne4en,dr5yi5n3t,Chae3r9i3syb.oruonoVgkaenrCe, a, saotlledP,rSiv2i4yr9H.CaoVruranyns,ee,lclooSnri,r
ppo5T<aifrc7iotnc»umotri5nnpe5fg,4esb-ryrAi,bndVygm1a,3ni3r1Ce.a3a,6l,Vr, Sda1iinnr53n3a2W.il6,'s.aVCltaheuVtarrai,ttcs,iauan6sr96,,i9,6c.1; e0Gd6r.eieVomsarcgnVorinainopiny,,                                                                                                   Vm4fFrc7roc.awnni,caVi,sin,incaecsnclFaotli,aunnn,Sdtie2ro9rfs6F,,.ra16n4V3c65ii,ns. ,c1e75n64nV,4eil.2lsi7,e7rs;B, ohiasLllodroed,f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  justice, theatre, 276               ; piazza, Count Ulma-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  run's garden, 277.                   Vinci, Leonardo da,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   by, 52,            80, 256, 180,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  paintings        Domini   54,                       h3i5s8d, e3a92th,;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  his Coena                 at        Milan, 282 ;
Ptiroonteostf,an1ts1,3--c1o1ll8e;ctliiobnrarfyo,r,            Vaudois                                                                                                                                                                                                             281. Viner, Sir George, carving by Gib
                                                    116.      restored                                                                                                                                                                                                            bon purchased by, 353. Viner, Sir Robert,
                                                    537    ;

nhitp7tlnaoie3orcgnir1renvtds.,hece'bssee3my,si3Uhr,,1aodt,ncaui15onsb61s7huel9e4e2in,5s..p.ta,rDtyoV,Va,fV5ae,4'9aua25.(upg9u4Gx.uh0,ihora;cVavnMUrhlea,ela,.inSc,nsneaseLSiih,ldovdiireNrsinaddSbaoryaatn,bCmcenyEarlheuiidveG)iteeee,tselem,flpryrMmasyJnauionaonrsaotnfd-,tf  obVdmMeafieornnnong,kntsi,ee3l.',,3rs,746c.t145oo20V.mn.7ic.rbegV,Vrinit2Voii2rail7agnn.dteil'yaiurhmaVaisrsotidtrrl,egeEh,io-vnspuanasenQaecmg,kuueeeulli,eisa3zin30rac5,8an3.plsb.l,yaiVnVnDsisti2ttisrrn2eyeug5l,--.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  lesco, Hippolito, his collection of statues,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  200. Viterbo, brief account of, 86. Vitru-
Padua,          p1r9e9se; nletendt       to College           of Phy                                                                                                                                                                                                              vius, statue of, 178. Ulefield Oxenstiem,
sicians,  174,                          to the Royal          Society,                                                                                                                                                                                                            Count, 622. Uimarini, Count, of Vin-
          334;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Union, afinesoit of pearl,
        b58r3o.theVr eolfe,t4ri4,2.i3oV.eneVteianndoasmmbea,ssDaudkoer,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    College, Oxon, 385.
325,      idnetoscLriopntidoonn,of1U69O64,5-$66),5. 158,                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ucennizvae,rs2it7y7.  a wnter, 732. Volaterra,                                           133.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Voiture, as
of, a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F.t

   entry                                                      167,  168,                                                                                                                                                                                                          Vchoultrecxhrab,uiDlt iby(D, a2n3i9e. le  Vol pone, a play, 229.
Venice,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ricciabelli), paint

169,      1o7f0--Ve1n7i5c,e,  343    ;  the   bagnios,        of15t8he;                                                                                                                                                                                                           ings by, 236, 238. Vossius, Isaac, 372, 388.
                                ib.  ;  the  espousal
origin
Adriatic, 151 ; gondolas, ib. ; Rial to ; taking                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  389 ; Justin corrected by, 643 ; notes and _
the air on the canal ; Fondigi de Todeschi ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      f6tUir0epe9dma,,tais7ne30,2s00. ,oMf,Vr3.o6,as8ltl.ue39dr0me. dUapntpnoUi,,npgnp6ha8oai0rnmt;C,i#nahgsistRlbeuly,ibt,lrfaao3nrr9ytd9i'.,,
Merceria, 160 ; piazza of St. Mark and
clock over the arch, ib. ; church of St.
Mark, 161 ; Tresoro di San Marco, or reli
quary, ib. ; exchange, senate-hall, 162;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          brief notice of,         e2x3e5c.uteVdr,at4s3,3,    Col ,  assassin
mZeacrctainorAsmceinnts,iontowweereko, fcoSstt.umMearokf,Ve16n3e ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                VofIMII.r,.  Thynn,      public works                434.    Urban
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pope,                                  of,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             88, 101,
tian ladies, courtesans, citizens, 164 ; the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               138 ; his  monument, 203 ;
opera ; Ghetto de San Felice, ib. ; the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           102.  227,                Ursino,   Fulvius, museum                                         sta
arsenal, 167; execution, z68 ; church of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tue,  120.                                                                                   of,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  87. Usher, Archbishop of Armagh, ser
St. Johanne and Paulo, ib. ; St. George's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         mons of, 199, 200, 330, 439 ; conversation
(a Greek    church),                 1M6a9g;gioortehear ndchcuhrcuhrcehs,,                                                                                                                                                                                                        with Evelyn, 343 ; his annals, 633 ; library,
island of  St. Maria                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              lI6iaf9ei9n,;anh3di6s2,dleat4ut3eg9rhs.t,er4,V0u83l:9c9anD; , rp.rocPpoahurerrtcyhoiosf,f,   493 ;
ib. ; other islands, ib. ; island of Muran                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    chap-
and glass manufactory, 170, 1*1 ; island of
                                                    ib.;   Sign. Ru-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           zs8 ;
                                                      the  carnival;
St. Michael and church,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           the temple, 239.
gini's collection, 173, 273;
operas, 273; the Ghetto;                     paoliJceywoisfhVemniacre                                                                                                                                                                                                             Wade. Capt., court-martial                on,       585. Wains-
riage, 174 ; lapidaries, 275 ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ford, Mr., 309. Wake,                               (afterwards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Dr.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Archbishop), 58s; sermons of, 504, 5*8.
with regard to Vincenza, 277.
782 INDEX.

    Wakeman, Sir George, his trial, 468* 475-                                                                                                                                                                                                      Webb, Mr. architect,          W3e7l9b-eckW, eMesaerq-huoisuseo,f
. DWIIr.a.,l,dbe3in6rts4he. so,fW,da£el2se0tsr.,u5cP4t8rioi,nnc57eo6f,o;5f,J3a3ms.oenWsoafIldI.Jraomcnadell,ss                                                                                                                                     at Amsterdam, 28.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   woLNofeorwrBdtchr,ea, tsoL1tln6ae4'd9sl,yansHe2ga0eut1n,a,rg3iee21t3it3.tao,;,W13em68l6s4i3sh.,t,re2rsWe9ss2ee.nmotfwbWlDoanreutcnhket,e
    council to   testify his birth, 523         ; sent to                                                                                                                                                                                          oBmWafiennsMsstttomeenrdimn,sAotbeuMbrthe.,yPH,.3a8bll0fu,o,rri4sa8hl5So.puosrfreWCfyooe,rwsmsl5eee8yl3rLl.yinMi,Wnr,.e3, 3s2o1t7..f
    Portsmouth     with treasure, 534.              Wall-                                                                                                                                                                                          Westminster School, exercises of boys
    grave, Dr.,
                 physician, his skill on        the lute,
    3aaWm8nia0espl,sckeide4eoro5rn,,6te, -t44ooD96f6r1..t.hLaOoWnWrbkdaaaldlkgiEeCarrvalh,iefv,feloy,Sr1nd9ir8S, fEitoro2dr1lwdH7 a.p;,rbrdoyicn,c,ruecra23oi9tn7me36gd.;
    Arundelian Marbles, 334 ; University Col                                                                                                                                                                                                       lgbMWaoenreit.ndhs,g,trJaoLcmtaooonnr,dt,Cee,osasottllaeaeltdetgehaere,anoltee,f,1cd26t52i6o561l5a.n,.dWy2f,o7cW6rt3.he3eSs8tr.uWohrnoreeW,rsnyte,,mEsltoi5Dozr7naer8.,*
    lege repaired by, 385 ; dispensation granted
    to,       : perverted several     young gentlemen
    to   499  Romish faith, ib.    ;    license to print
         the
WmLpMmaooleeulnp,ddndisaadJoholl,sns.,db,iinenoar5orcIC6ktyca9a)o.,mlruyendfdaWuteensnaaeod,lftdk,hF,e7r1r4a59,o5n0.f,0c, Me4:564raWh..0f,it.saelWkraTedhrardeil,slaiettierDoi,ssncersa.Ep(oedto.nof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W'epeyhybysriidcigaen,,  263. v             house          at, 401,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Duke of Norfolk's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   403. Whale, immense one, taken near
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   miGL1n6orot9ereu9cens,in,dwme537diac25ht.0h,L.eifm2WeW5a7hthoai;acflirayatnA,onorn,cCt,hh3oeb1l.S6ri,s.ihrin2o5WpG4tehh- eoaLrraWgtuoTehhnd,aa,,marMt7eo1fsrna2,.,,,
    5dttRS1oh5i7iinc4er5Eah.i nraWyR1gr7dWoli6al,ly,antiaaald1lolmle,9ef4rn,,.2tSGs11oS3r79co8io6iro;.ef,m,taH1ysW9,ac5b7ro5ar,d6mil7drl2.e3emg0r3se8,.si,Ws,,s2aiM1o32lW2ln82re.ae3ar,;..,rlhliiosesWWM,fxrttaraerr.lalaDt,lldeueorerrrro.,,n,,f             Wharton House, Nottinghamshire,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   713.       Wheeler, Sir Charles, governor of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   236.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   St. Christopher's,             357 ; his  removal recom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   mended, 360; an               executor    of Viscountess
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mordaunt,                5044.12.WheWehleere,lerP,auSl,ir    George,
    mathematical professor, 368, 299, 341.                                                                                                                                                                                                         453i 4^4.                                                  musician,

    Walnut-tree, marbling in the wood of,                                                                                                                                                                                                          346.  Whips, harmony produced by smack
    6hlWeSista5tl.etBerisrbW,sh,aa73lsM2Pin.orgslyh.gaWlmoLatu,tlatce,ySr,,i2r32F94Sr1.ia.rnWcWWisa,ialltlloita6onm9n4,,,heB7a433pt18h..,,;                                                                                                              684. Whistler, Dr., F.R.S., 389,400,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ing,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   438. Whitbread, Thomas, Jesuit, anec
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   dote of,                      Whitfield, Sir Ralph, 40.
    sRtoemadanHoAunseti,quSitiireJsosifaohunCdhioldn,'s,25493.9.                             Wan-                                                                                                                                                  White,       406.             ofnaPmeetderbDorro.ugCho,sins,erm2oxn4.
                                                                                             War,                                                                                                                                                  White,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bishop,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bishop
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of, 498 ; petitioned against liberty of con
    pWraisrodn,ersDro.f, Sctrteha, tyafftoerrweaxrcdhsangBiinsgh,op30o6.f                                                                                                                                                                          psfa5uc2hnin5eidle,norcsaaeoWlc,p,qhhu5xei16ittr5eot,8eo;,dfsD,5Per7an5.1*r3t.i5stB,o;iWsathhenheoni.tpeTt,oohWwefMheNrrit.,oR,ere,w5pv1rMio6cielhrus:.,tt,tiroatihhnneiedd,s
    Salisbury, 229, 377, 442. Ward, Mrs., so
    licits an  Order of Jesuit esses, 148.       Warley
    Magna,      Essex, manor of, 2oo.           Warner,
         , officiated at the touch for the King's
WeaLoWStvorfoi,riralre,MdrnaPw,,rrhm.i6dciDl8seEkip8ra,v.,,to,ehE5f2l,y3as6o3ne6rf3.l,,r3mo512on6o9f9;n4,3R,,Gooi63rf5y,o695at5r55,l,.0aa432in.9dW7d62,a,.W6rwc33a8h6Wir6c.arkaipn;,regwlWlte,iGoctantkuteo,r,yr.                                     engraver, 714.        in   occupation    of rebels,
   wick, castle and town of, 234, Warwick,                                                                                                                                                                                                         Whitehall, when                                            1650,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   207 ; state of, 2656, 246 ; goods pillaged
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   from, restored, 265 ; ball and play at, 1671,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   35a ; library at, 410, 439 ; popish oratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   at, 1685,469;              new chapel    1a6t9,65, 0454;3,QuWeehnit's-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   apartments,              506 ; fire at,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   locke, Bulstrode, Queen's house given to,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   by the rebels, aso. Whittal, Tom, and his
    Constant,    frigate,                Warwickshire,                                                                                                                                                                                             brother, anecdote of, 554. Whole Duty of
    address to  Charles    II.5,382.65.  Wase, Christo                                                                                                                                                                                             Man, Dr. Chaplin supposed to be the
    pher, 2x7, »3o, 339, 340. Washing           of head,                                                                                                                                                                                           2oba8urfa3tBhh. oaormmW, ,bi5gaM3hy7,tr.,.,4W74Is54il.1be.uro'nWfW,, itidlrSdeoi,awrt,yDJ'oorfh.a, n(la,1e0fwgt7eo.drvwepaWrlnardioyls-r,
*.  benefit from, 653. Waterworks,              by Mr.                                                                                                                                                                                             Bishop of Londonderry), 343, 345, 340, 350-
                 at Chelsea,                    Watson,
    Winstanley,   Bp. of St.            565.     suspen
    Dr. Thomas,                       David's,
WadMyer-d.,fokwreisseiepmre,orndyoe,fsc5Ar6ip8potti;ohdneecpaorrfiivetehsd'a,tg5ian7r4sd.treunWm, ae4tnt8st3,,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   259, 363. Wild                House, Spanish               ambassa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   dor's residence,              437. Wilkins,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Dr., a.-..

    252. Weather, observations on, 1649, 2oa ;                                                                                                                                                                                                     lcs3yer4anr6mt,etood3n,47B6b,4py23..,0o8afn;WCdhhilinelsiosattmmeicree,cthho3ea3f7nChic;iomanlel,qttgu3eee4rn5sriou;ros,,cf otEon3vm3se1eb;
         325 ;   1670,   350 ;    1684,  453. 454, 455 :
         458.    459t   460;    1686,            478, 479;
    4",1666,

    1685,
    1687, 500, 501, 50a ; x688, 509, 5x1 ; 1691,
    514;. 1692, 546, 5471 l093. J47-551 : I&94,                                                                                                                                                                                                       of, at  CaIIeIn.,,
    S53-555; i°95» 555. 557, 558, 559, 560, 561-                                                                                                                                                                                                                            56.  landing     in England       re
    563; 1696, 563, 567-570; 1697, 568, 569;                                                                                                                                                                                                       William
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            bis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   II,p53o3rte; dh,is52p0ro; gmreasnsifetsotoLoonfd, o5nx7,  ; landing of,
    1699, 57»» 57*. 575 ; »7oo, 577, 578 ; 170X,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             524 ; James
We--5a8--t1h, ef5r8c2poac;ikns1t7in03fgi,xse£d8i6n,on5h87istr;eepXs7o,0s5s,e3s6s50i^8o9.n.,                                                                                                                                                              invites him to St. James's, 187; pro
                                                                                             Webb,                                                                                                                                                 ceedings thereupon, ib. : Convention vote
                                                                                                  xo8.                                                                                                                                             the Crown to nun and the Princess, 506 ;
                                                                                             INDEX.                                                                                                                                                        783

his morose temper, 528 ; declared King, ib. ;                                                                                                                                   erected       at, 329. Worcester,                               Marquis of,
proclaimed,       529; his        accession, 530,                                                                                                                               345, 400.       Worcester, battle of,                            214. Wor
coronation,       ib. , 53a ;      his birth-day                                             5a3n1 d:                                                                                         brief  nontoitcieceof,of,2362. 34W. orlWd,orkestoepr
                                                                                                                                                                             '  cester,       brief
anniversary,       536  ; resolves   to go in person                                                                                                                            abbey,
to Ireland,       537,  538; sets    out, 540; buys                                                                                                                          WonthtitetoynP,olafnDttrha.eti,oWn6is0ll,3ia. m361W.(osorsnleoyf,   Dr.,
Kensington 537 : Tus victory at the Boyne,                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rev.       377 ; on
540; wounded, ib. ; embarks for Holland,                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Henry),
                        in the North, 56a ; fireworks                                                                                                                           ht5H5o65uan88sm,b;;paLsnowtdrleedhrtay,etdenr,osnoafydyoortafch. iheniEilWndavg.noe,tclyti4oen30n4n87,ts;;,tSohu,si7res2rr4em7h.y1oo,4unsmW;e baoonyatnt,
353   : progress        563 ; entertained at Althorp,
on   his return,
ib. ; conspiracy to assassinate, 564 ; entry
WiWiSlnliitairolmliJaLosmo,snesdp,oDhnAr,,.r,co5hf6fbBi9cioesy;shlohepihs,ellddee2c3atb9uty.hr,e, 3r5,0W8:3,i.lCl3i5a83m,1,so346n136,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                sion of the Evelyn family, 17, 18 : im
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ; hospitality of,
331,340,381,      b3o8a9:,  his   a4*d3v.ancWeimlliaemnts, ta3d7tS,                          ;                                                                                  provements at, 31, 230, 569                  Wotton, admi
Pres. of Roy.                                                                                                                                                                   at Christmas. 569, 570.                      1694, 557 : Dr.
                            398,                                                                                                                                                nistration of Sacraments,
brief account of, 3a. Wiltoughby, Lord,                                                                                                                                      WrCBeoanhp, ut.nS{iprsroenCsehonrftiesSdtoirpthCoehrrt,hise.)2,li9v91i,n7g63,,5215,7891,3. 513W9,3r.3a8y9,,
W35i8l,m2o8t5, .     Governor   of   Barbadoei,
killed in         Lord, 3oi,            Wilson,                                              M36r5.,.
                  a duel, 47,  317.  Wilton, seat of                                                                                                                            b3Sta9ytl8,e,nP1ta34su31,;l9's2.,a304c,L5o5o2m,n32dm4oi;5ns6s,t,hioe3n5a1e7t71rr:,efova7ret3rr6seOep:sxafhiorbirsdyo, efb3au8or1illlyd;t
                               48.
Sdtchhoireenl,sEHeEaauar,mlrlporouhfifrnyBPs,reiomsft,3bo0lra'1osn,k.eh3o,5u43sW,e3i3n3,a7ct0h5, ,8c29l8s4. 3e°.7aW-,WimLiWnobcrlihden,,-
ambassador to Constantinople, 244, 365,                                                                                                                                         AcstChohsoenhul,lmreRc4goho0eley7c,saa,;l4n3Sb5SotuM.;ciliudcePsoitaneymug,ulm'ms4,i3bs0ysm,bi;ouondin4leteu2rs7mifgb:eonynrp,tGro,erf4sea0Cien1dhndee;wnlftsiicfhethoiaysf
       Winchclsea, Earl of, seat at Burleigh,                                                                                                                                   Hospital, co 1, 566, 567; letter of Evelyn
433.    Winchester, Bishop, 168?, miracle
336.
related by, 485 Winchester, Marchioness
of,   16S0,                Winchester,  38 ; palace to
be                423.  449. Wind,      tempestuous,                                                                                                                            tWo,re6n2,5.    Wren, Dr., Bishop of Ely,                                  E2l7y1,.
      built       at,                                                                                                                                                                         Matthew, son of Uishop of

Wi1n6d58s,ora58Ca:st1l7e03,an5d37.Chapel, 228 ; Charles                                                                                                                         L2M5oa0rj,des3tky0e,1e.p1e6r6W,1,r5e73s82t.l7i.ngWWrimgrihgatht,ct,hC, hSieibrfefNoJuarestthicaehn,i,s
l.'s burial-place, ib. ; ottering of Knights                                                                                                                                    517. Wright, Michael, 206 : paintings by,
of   trthehepeaeGirxeapdretnesrbeyatoPfrtihnRecuescthaRatu,ppe4el,1i6t3,,<3S441;97a;;bspotuaaittnutteo                                                                          260, 288. Wriothesley, Thomas, Earl of

be
at
ings in fresco, carving and improvements,                                                                                                                                       Southampton, 451. W'ych, Sir Cyril, pre
44a ; church service, 1685, 484; painting in                                                                                                                                    sident of Royal                     Society, 45 r, 549, 574,
the hall, .484: hunting-house, 4S6 ;                                                         cathe                                                                              736 ; Lord                         in Ireland,
S3d5traa0n.l,leibyW,. i\nMnairlal.ug,dtoe3nd8,3t;o,Swi5r5a0Ft.erarwnWcoirisnk,sds4o2br3y,.,  Lord,                                                                              Lady, wife          JoufstSicire  Cyril, and                    n5ie5c4e.   Wych,
                                                                                              Win*                                                                                                                                                         of Eve
                                                                                                                                                                                clyonr,ru5p4t9io, n5s74o. f5t7h6e.   Wyche,                     Sir P., on the
                                                                                                567;                                                                                                                English                     language, 628.
built the Edystone light house, and perished                                                                                                                                    Wye, Mr., rector of Wotton, 581.
owcinfhi,nait1rter6,ir5n8g5o,6f83.s15e07a8;3-Wc, oipant>alt,ypereE,2rv49e5Jnyinr ,WthJoei4nh5ten7ef.,fre, cptsrsoejoevfcetrtihtoyef
                                                                                                                                                                             Yarborough, Sir Thomas, 44*. Yachts first
                                                                                                                                                                                rainentmdroadmrukiacnebsdltyerin, ltao2r3gE7en. golanYneo,dr,k292H37.7o.usYeY,oerkwS,t-rtarecniedt,y,
WiJpgirunteaesnrtmiiNioscbhueeus,w,rg3,s94Eh75ni.Pp2gr.wlianWrncigodeWhl,ltebo,ylfd5,,5i3n117.Rg63h4e. 6va,.mWW1iDt7iht4crhe..hir,nusg,r2Wcs1h,ia7tn;chMaaeninrtds.             «45- Young,          Capt., capture by, 251 ;
                                                                                                                                                                                the death and        character of, 554. Youth,
                                                                                                                                                                                advice to, $99.

tended the English Court in France, 216.                                                                                                                                     Zacchary, of Genoa, marvellous anecdote of
tWbhWiciiosro,tmlhAs3epet3hnl9yae, c;neadCs;,uia,ntr2gid4e4ui49snl5.aaorlf;W,, mWo7mh3ao8irosa.kdns,W,bouhoSnraoiiairdrtly,hHepAe2lann5ac3trrehy;m,,og,nimgy233a4a5na7r,-.;
                                                                                                                                                                                his shipwreck, 73. Zenno, Sign., Venetian
                                                                                                                                                                                ap44mr8ob.caesssZsaiidononzre,onf,d4oa0rt5f.,RoCmZoienu,nnat11r-d3t,er,e1e44,24.aq. uZauZlictictyealrloeof,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    by, 87, 138, 140. Zulestein,
nage,    317. Woodstock              palace, destruc                                                                                                                            pMaoinnstiinegusr,  350. Zulichem, -Monsieur, 273,
tion   of, 398. Woolwich,
                                       battery, &c,                                                                                                                             375. *97-
SAVILL, EDWARDS,           LONDON :   CHANDOS  STREET,
                  AND CO., PRINTERS,

                   COVENT GARDEN.

                  IJtOI 073
3 2044 020 541 181

                                  (

THE BORROWER WILL M CHARGED
AN OVERDUE RE W TH I S BOOK M>

NOT RETURNED TO THE LIBRARY ON
Oil BEFORE THE LAST DAT! STAMPED
·CLOW. NON-RECEIPT Of OVERDUE

NOTICES DOE* NOT EXEMPT THE

BORROWER FROM OVERDUE FEES.

