THE LIFE AND LETTERS
    OF HUGH MILLER

            By PETER BAYNE, m.a.

                                TWO VOLUMES.-- I.

f .All

                " ^"^ in wh.ch Hugh Hiller *** ***             r

STRAHAN & CO., PUBLISHERS

         56, LUDGATE HILL, LONDON

                                                         1871

                            [All rights reserved]

'

             CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

                 BOOK I.--THE BOY.                                   PAGE

                           CHAPTER I.

Birth, Parentage, and First Impressions      .. .. .. 3

                           CHAPTER II.

Dame School --Uncles James and Sandy -- Beginnings of Literature

and Science      ..        ..            ..  ..       ..             19

                           CHAPTER III.

The Doocot Cave                                                      28

                           CHAPTER IV.

First glimpse of the Sutherland Highlands-- Experiments in Self-

Amusement-- The Rebellious Schoolboy         ..       ..             37

             BOOK II.--THE APPRENTICE.

                           CHAPTER I.

Boyish Magazines -- A Lad of his own will -- Becomes  Apprentice --
Hardships -- Alleviations
                           ..            ..  ..           ..         53
                                                                     64
                           CHAPTER II.                               73

Early Friendships -- Swanson, Finlay, Boss -- Pleasures of the Im
agination -- Two of Nature's Gentlemen
                                             ..       ..

                           CHAPTER III.

Conon-side -- A Maniac Friend-- Life in the Barrack -- Wanderings
in the Woods -- Scenery of Conon-side -- At Home again
                                                          ..

vi CONTENTS.

                  CHAPTER IV.

Returns to Conon-side-- Makes himself respected in the Barrack-
   Companions --Attempts Geometry and Architecture -- Hardships --

Experiment in Necromancy-- Dream-- The Bothy System-- Lite
rary Recreations -- Tedium -- End of Apprenticeship -- The Blessing
of Labour -- Practical Philosophy
                                         ..  ..  ..                     80

BOOK III.--THE JOURNEYMAN.

                  CHAPTER I.

Favourable Opinions from Old David Wright and Uncle James --
   First Work as Journeyman -- Aunt Jenny's Cottage -- Sends Poet

ical Pieces to Ross-- Self -Delineation      .. ..                      97

                  CHAPTER II.

Gairloch -- Letters descriptive of his Journey from Conon-side and
   of Gairloch Scenery -- Love-Poetry -- The Carter -- Old John Fraser
   -- A Dream -- Magnanimous Revenge -- Gairloch Landscapes --

Back to Cromarty  .. .. .. .. ..                                        105

                  CHAPTER III.

Comes of Age -- Sets sail for Edinburgh -- Parting Reflections --Morn
ing on the Moray Frith --First Sight of Edinburgh -- Absent from
Church for five Sundays and ' a few more '-- Holyrood, Charles

II.'s Statue, Effigy of Knox, the College, Ferguson's Grave, Dr
M'Crie --The Panorama, the Theatre
                                             .. .. ..                   127

                  CHAPTER IV.

Niddrie -- Blackguard Workmen -- Miller prejudiced by them against
their Class --His Opinions on Trades' Unions -- The ' Boatman's
Tale ' -- Returns to Cromarty
                                    .. .. .. ..                         144

                  CHAPTER V.

The Stone-cutter's Disease -- Lines to Sister Jeanie -- Renews his

Friendship with Swanson and Corresponds with Ross-- Writes an

Ode on Greece and offers it to the Scotsman      .. ..                  156

                  CHAPTER VI.

Poems addressed to Ross -- Serious Thoughts -- Correspondence with
Swanson -- Freakish Humour -- Descends into the Tomb of the
Urquharts -- Is catechized by Mr Stewart -- Writing in the Open
Air-- A Proselytizing Bore -- Correspondence on Religion
                                                          ..            171

                  CONTENTS.                                                vii

                  CHAPTER VII. .

Poverty, Honourable and Dishonourable-- First Impressions of the
   Rev. Mr Stewart -- Looks into his Father's Bible-- The selfish The

ory of Morals -- New-year's-Day Musings -- Important comment
upon and addition to these ten days afterwards -- The Change ef

fected in his Spiritual State      . . .. .. ..                            206

                  CHAPTER VIII.

Miller at twenty -six-- Letter to Ross -- The blessing of a True Friend
   -- Romance the Shadow of Religion-- Former and present Views of
   Religion -- Free-thinkers who cannot think at all--Christian the
   highest style of Man -- Project of going to Inverness -- Schemes of

Self-culture  .. ..                                                        220

                               CHAPTER IX.

Seeks Work in Inverness unsuccessfully -- Resolves to print his Poems
   -- Makes the acquaintance of Mr Carruthers -- Is asked to Enlist
   -- Corrects Proof-sheets of his Poetry, and decides that it is poor
   -- Retains inflexibly his first opinion of its merits, and resolves to
   cultivate Prose -- Deaths of Uncle James and of William Ross --

Dedication of his Poems to Swanson          .. .. ..                       235

                                       CHAPTER X.                          242
Resumes work as a Stone-cutter at Cromarty -- Intimacy with Mr

   Stewart --The Literary Lion of the place -- Writes for the Inverness
   Courier-- Letters on the Herring Fishery -- Extraordinary Shoal of
   Herrings -- A Night on Guilliam -- Emigration of Highlanders to
   Canada-- Science at last . . . . . . . .  .

                               CHAPTER XI.

Miller and his new Friends -- Introduced to Principal Baird -- Will not
   go to Edinburgh for the present -- His Poems do not sell-- Corre
   sponds with Mr Isaac Forsyth-- Will not relinquish Literary Ambi

tion  ..      ..               ..   ..      ..  ..  ..                     259

                                  CHAPTER XII.                             2G8

Miller's Political Views--The Cromarty Chapel Case-- In character
   of Village Junius . . . . . . . . . . . .

                               CHAPTER XIII.

Miss Fraser -- Her Parentage, Residence in Edinburgh, Position in
   Cromarty -- Society of the place -- Miller's Manner and Appearance
   -- A fascinating Companion -- He and Miss Fraser become Lovers --
   Glimpses of Romance --Metaphysical Love-making-- A new Ambi-

viii CONTENTS.

tion awakes in Miller --Fable of Apollo and Daphne reversed --         PAGE

Letter to Miss Fraser --and to Mrs Fraser  ..  ..  . . 273

                                    CHAPTER XIV.                       290
New Outlook in Life -- Difficulties of Publication -- Letters to Miss

    Praser

                                      CHAPTER XV.                      314

Letters to Miss Dunbar of Boatli-- Mr J. R. Robertson's Recollec

   tions of Miller . . . . . . . . . . . .

                         CHAPTER XVI.

Two Letters on Religion  ..  ..            ..  ..  . . 397

                         CHAPTER XVII.

Miscellaneous Letters    . . . . . . . . . . 411

      BOOK I.

   THE BOY.

               ' Hardy, bold, and wild,
As best befits the mountain-child.'


CHAPTER I.

BIRTH, PARENTAGE, AND FIRST IMPRESSIONS.

AS the voyager passes from the blue expanse of the
      Moray Frith into the land-locked bay of Cromarty,

he sees on the left, crowning a swell of green upland

which runs crescent-like along the coast, a pillar of red

sandstone, rising fifty feet into the air, and surmounted

by a statue. The few white houses, embowered in

garden foliage, which form the better part of the village

of Cromarty, cluster beneath ; and the sea, faced by a

row of thatched fishermen's cottages, comes rippling, at

every flow of the tide, to within a bow-shot of its base.

The statue represents a grave, strong-built man, of

massive head and thoughtful face, who seems to look

out steadfastly upon the waves. Statue and pillar con

stitute the monument reared by his countrymen  to
Hugh Miller.

Almost at the foot of the pillar stands a humble cot

tage, and on the sward from which it rises is placed the
village churchyard. In that cottage Hugh Miller was

born ; and during his boyhood and early youth he was

dependent on a widowed mother, who maintained her

self and her family by the ' sedulously plied but indiffer
ently remunerated labour ' of her needle. In that

4 THE BOY.

churchyard are several headstones chiselled by his hand
when he earned his bread as a journeyman mason.

     Hugh Miller broke suddenly upon the public of
Scotland in the prime of his years. He was already a
man of ripe thought and confirmed intellectual habits,
betraying none of the extravagance of opinion and spas
modic vehemence of language usually characteristic of
self-trained genius. Solidity and sobriety of judgment,
sensitive dislike of paradox, contempt for the catch
words of political sciolism and free-thinking conceit,
purity, vigour, and elegance of style which reminded
critics of Goldsmith and of Addison, were the results of
his self-education. Possessed of large stores of literary
information, an original explorer in science, with definite
and firmly-held opinions on religious, political, and

social questions, thoroughly understanding the character
of his countrymen and ardently sympathizing with its
nobler elements, he no sooner found a medium for the
communication of his ideas than he became a most in
fluential guide of opinion, and continued to be so to the
hour of his death. Adopting literature and science
henceforward as the business of his life, he produced a
series of unique and remarkable works, in which were

intermingled racy and sagacious observations on men
and manners, with delineations, exquisitely fresh and
vivid, of nature's facts and beauties. They were at once
pronounced by eminent critics to belong to a high and
rare order of literary productions ; they became popular,
and have retained their popularity, with the best class
of readers in Britain and America ; and they have been

translated into most European languages. It will be

admitted that they bear the impress of an original, de
terminate, and admirable mind ; noble in all its ground-
tones, richly endowed in respect both of intellect and of

'MY SCHOOLS AND SCHOOLMASTERS.'  5

imagination, penetrated with reverence for God and for
the revelation which God has made of Himself in

nature, providence, and Christ, full of brotherly sym

pathy, of candour, intelligence, and affection. A re

putation thus founded is not likely to prove ephemeral ;
and the name of Hugh Miller, we may safely presume,
will be his most enduring monument. How the son of

a sailor's widow came to address and retain an audience

as wide as the world of culture, -- how the Cromarty

stone-mason qualified himself for achieving a European

reputation,-- is a question fitted to interest wise curi

osity, and deserving an explicit and careful reply.
     Hugh Miller, as all the world knows, was the author

of an autobiographic work entitled, My Schools and

Schoolmasters, and it may have occurred to some that
he thus anticipated and superseded biography. But
there are no good grounds for this opinion. The book
which has been named, recognized by all judges as one
of the most captivating and able of the author's per
formances, has a place in English literature from which
it cannot be moved ; but it is no substitute for the
biography of Hugh Miller. In the first place, it deals
with but one portion of its author's career, and that the
portion which preceded his emergence into public life.
In the second place, a considerable amount of bio
graphic material relating to Hugh Miller, unencroached
upon in the Schools and Schoolmasters, is in existence.
From early boyhood he was fond of jotting down par

ticulars connected with his personal history, and for
many years previously to his being harnessed to steady
literary toil, he took great delight in letter-writing. In
the third place, it will hardly be disputed by any one
who reflects upon the subject, that biography is neces
sarily a different matter from autobiography, and that

6 THE BOY.

the latter is to be regarded simply as one of the sources
from which the biographer constructs his narrative.

Mr Lewes, whose Life of Goethe has a place of honour

not only among biographies but among the select
masterpieces of biography, may be held to have settled
this point. He had before him Goethe's celebrated
autobiography, in three volumes, a work which its
author declares to have been composed in a spirit of

austere veracity, and yet Mr Lewes finds it characterized

by ' abiding inaccuracy of tone.' Goethe, looking from
the distance of half a century, beheld his own face
through a medium which softened, brightened, or ob
literated the features. Hugh Miller, when he wrote the
Schools and Schoolmasters, was not so old as Goethe

when he wrote Poetry and Truth from my Life ; nor

am I prepared to say that the former departs from

literal accuracy to the same extent as the latter : but in
the case of Hugh Miller also, the impression made by
an event or spectacle, as set down at the moment by the
boy or lad, and the account of that impression given by
the man of fifty, prove often to be two different things.

' It is possible,' says Hugh Miller himself, ' for two

histories of the same period and individual to be at
once true to fact, and unlike each other in the scenes
which they describe and the events which they record.'

     Hugh Miller was born in the town of Cromarty on
the 10th of October, 1802. The occurrence appears to
have acted on the imagination of his father, as he had a
' singular dream ' respecting his first-born. The mid
wife remarked that the conformation of the head was
unusual, and indicated, in her sage opinion, that the
child would turn out an idiot.*

            * Letter of Miller to Mr Isaac Forsyth, Feb. 30, 1830.

CROMARTY.  7

      Cromarty was a more important place seventy years
ago than it is now, but its dimensions never exceeded

those of a considerable village. It is one of several

miniature towns which stud the shores of the Maolbuie

or Black Isle, a peninsular block of land, washed on the
north by the frith of Cromarty, on the south by the frith
of Beauly, and abutting on the German Ocean in a green
headland, fringed with pine, known to mariners as the
Southern Sutor of Cromarty. On the landward side of
this headland nestles the little town. The Maolbuie,

stretching westward, rises from encircling sea, occasion
ally in abrupt crags, generally in gradual undulation.
Here and there, along the watercourses and in the hol
lows, are glimpses of green field and leafy wood, but the
general impression is that of a huge swell of brown
moorland, over-blown by sea-winds, traversed by chill
fogs, and constituting, on the whole, one of the most
bleak and ungenial districts in Scotland. The natives of

Cromarty have always been a hardy, long-lived race.
The climate, though salubrious, is severe. The town is
exposed at all seasons to high gales from the North Sea,
laden with mist or sleet, and even at midsummer keen

blasts from the Atlantic make their way through the
western hill-gorges, send the spray of the frith whistling
through the air, and pierce to every nook and cranny of
the shivering town. But there are fertile spots in its
immediate neighbourhood, and in sheltered nooks the
elm and poplar flourish ; the air, except when darkened
by sea-fog, is clear and bracing ; a chain of hills, run
ning along the frith on the north, leads the eye to
the heights of Ben Wyvis sleeping in the pearl-blue of
distance; there are brooks rippling through wooded
dells, and caves hollowed in the rock ; and at all times,

and from almost every point of view, there is a gleam

8 THE BOY.

ing of green or purple waters, wreathed with snowy foam.
In favourable weather Cromarty is a pleasant place ; one

who had passed in it a kindly childhood and youth

might love it well. Nature, as seen in its vicinity i if

not clad in Alpine grandeur, has many aspects of beauty

and tenderness, and at least one aspect, that of ocean in

calm or in storm, of utmost sublimity.
     Like all towns on the eastern coast of Scotland,

Cromarty is inhabited principally by an English-speak

ing race, substantially identical with that found in the
lowlands of Scotland. Hugh Miller never spoke the

language of the Scottish Highlanders, and was apt in

conversation to lay emphasis on the fact of his being a

Teuton. But there was a dash of good Celtic blood in

his veins. Donald Ross, called also Donald Roy, or the

Red, the grandfather of his grandmother, was of the best

Gaelic type, with the vivacity, courage, and religious sus
ceptibility of his race. The history and character of
Donald, as portrayed in the revering narratives of his

descendants, were among the sacred influences of Hugh

Miller's childhood. The figure of his grey-haired sire,

standing up in the Church of Nigg, and defying the
Presbytery, in the Name of God, to join a minister, not

called by its people, to its stone- walls ; the ring which

Miller's grandmother had received, at the time of her
marriage, from Donald, as her spousal ring to her other

husband, the Head of the Church ; the mysterious hints

which would pass round the fireside circle in the evening,

that this patriarch, like the men of God of old, had been

privileged with  visions of   the unseen   world,   with whis
perings out of   the abysmal    deeps of  futurity
                                                    ; --all this

was stamped upon the child's imagination, predisposing
him, in the dawn of his sympathies, to look with rever

ence on the religious character, and preparing him to

         HIS FATHER.                                        9

become, one day, a leader among the evangelical religion
ists of Scotland.

      Strong, however, as the influence of his Celtic
ancestry may have been on Hugh Miller, it was not so
powerful as that derived from his Lowland fathers. He

was descended on that side from a long line of sea-faring

men, whose intrepid and adventurous spirit had led them

from their native Cromarty, to sail, in the earliest times
of Scottish history, with Sir Andrew Wood or the ' bold

Bartons,' and at a later period to voyage and fight under

Anson, or to engage in buccaneering enterprises on the
Spanish main. For more than a hundred years before
the birth of Hugh Miller, not one of his paternal ances
tors had been laid in the churchyard of Cromarty. To

the latest hour of his life, he cherished the profoundest

enthusiasm for his father, the hardy and resolute seaman
whose name he bore. He was only five years old when
Hugh Miller, the elder, perished at sea ; but he had

already learned to love his father with an affection
stronger than is common in childhood, and ' long

after every one else had ceased to hope,' he might be
seen on the grassy knoll behind his mother's house,
looking wistfully out upon the Moray frith for ' the
sloop with the two stripes of white and the two square

topsails.'
     Miller has left us, in the Schools and Schoolmasters,

a powerful and vivid sketch of his father, and the linea

ments are those of a remarkable man. Very gentle, very
brave, serenely invincible in every change of fortune,

patient to endure individual wrong, but with a flash of

keenest fire in him to avenge the cruelty or injustice

which he saw practised on others, he was great without

         it,

                                     is
knowing  and what                        also perhaps an advantage,

without its being known. Miller says finely that there

10 THE BOY.

was a ' bit of picture ' in all his recollections of his father,

and most picturesquely has he arranged the pieces
in the mosaic of his narrative. We see the bold seaman,

bronzed by the southern sun, asleep in his open boat on
the Ganges, and mark him start on awaking as he meets
the glare of a tiger's eye, its paws resting on the gun
wale. We behold him afloat for three days in the open

sea on the bottom of an upturned boat, sharks glancing
around him on the crests of the waves. He bears

meekly the oppressions of a cruel captain, until his kind-
hearted Irish comrade is being chained down to the deck

beneath a tropical sun ; then, the genial warmth in his

bosom kindling into electric flame, he faces the tyrant.
' The captain drew a loaded pistol from his belt ; the

sailor struck up his hand ; and, as the bullet whistled

through the rigging above, he grappled with him and

disarmed him in a trice.' At the action off the Dogger

Bank he does the work of two men, and, when the action

seems over, is utterly prostrate ; but no sooner does the

sign of battle  fly

                     if

                                             a
                                                is
                again along the line, than he springs

to his feet, fresh as he had awakened from morning

slumber. Not less characteristic                                          the steadfastness of

his manly ambition to realize competence. As wave

after wave of adversity meets him, he rises through the

swell, his brow showing clear and proud in the light of

victory.

          was the deliberate conviction of Hugh Miller

that his father was an abler man than he. To this
It

         it

                is
                                                                       ;
opinion few will subscribe but the more we study

the character of the son, the deeper will be our convic

tion that       essentially the character of the father,

developed, on the intellectual side, with more of sym

metry and completeness, and seen at last under softer

lights. Physiologists would probably have something

EARLIEST IMPRESSIONS.  11

 to say on this point. Modern science tends to show

that there was more in Mr Shandy's philosophy of cha

 racter than Sterne's humour gives account of, and that,

if we can rightly estimate the effect of local circumstance

and other influences to modify or to transmute, the
ground-plan of a man's character may be found written
in his bones. Hugh Miller's father was at the time of
his birth a man of forty-four ; mature in every faculty ; of
marked individuality and iron will. His mother was a
girl of eighteen, who had been brought up at her hus
band's knee, and had learned to revere him as a father

before she accepted him as a lover. Throughout life she
displayed no special force of mind or character. The
first child of such a marriage was likely to bear the in
delible stamp of his father's manhood.

      Fancy delights to construct oracles from the earliest
recollections of men who have become famous. We

must guard against attaching too much importance to

the infantile reminiscences of Miller. Those he mentions

are graceful in themselves, and form a singularly appro
priate introduction to the life of a man of science. He

remembered going into the garden one day before com
pleting his third year, and seeing there ' a minute
duckling covered with soft yellow hair, growing out of
the soil by its feet, and beside it a plant that bore as its
flowers a crop of little mussel shells of a deep red colour.'
The ' duckling,' he tells us, belonged to the vegetable
kingdom, though he could no longer identify it ; the

mussel-bearing plant was, he believed, a scarlet-runner.

If there is in this incident anything unusual, it is the

circumstance that natural phenomena of form and colour,
so simple and common, should have powerfully affected
the imagination of a child not three years old. The

rincidents first stored in memory are generally those of

12 THE BOY.

change or excitement, --a storm, a removal, a journey, a

visit to a puppet-show or wax-work. The forms of those
natural objects by which a child is surrounded, leaves,
trees, flowers, fall faintly on the mental tablets ; pro
bably not one man in a thousand retains a more vivid
recollection of them than of the curtains round his cra

dle. During Hugh Miller's life, the observation of a
new fact in nature afforded him a thrill of pleasure
which never lost its freshness, and it seems probable
that the first consciousness of this pleasure arose in the
breast of small, toddling, large-headed Hugh, when he
opened wide his eyes to take the bearings of the myste

rious duckling and the vegetable mussels.
      More definitely important, in a biographic point of

view, are those incidents of Miller's childhood which

formed what he calls a ' machinery of the supernatural.'
About the time when the incomprehensible duckling
grew out of the earth before his eyes, he thought that
he beheld the apparition of his buccaneering ancestor,
John Feddes, ' in the form of a large, tall, very old man,
attired in a light-blue great coat,' who stood on the
landing-place at the top of the stairs and regarded him
with apparent complacency. He was much frightened,
and for years dreaded a reappearance of the phantom.

     Still more circumstantial is his account of what he

saw on that night when, far away on the North Sea,
his father's ship went down. ' There were no fore
bodings,' he is careful to tell us, in the Cromarty cot
tage. No storm agitated the air, and though the
billows of a deep ground-swell broke heavily under

leaden skies, the weather occasioned no alarm. A

hopeful letter had been received from his father, written
at Peterhead, and his mother sat ' beside the household

fire, plying the cheerful needle.' Suddenly the door fell

APPARITIONS.  13

open and little Hugh was sent to shut it. ' Day,' he
proceeds, ' had not wholly disappeared, but it was fast
posting on to night, and a grey haze spread a neutral
tint of dimness over every more distant object, but left

the nearer ones comparatively distinct, when I saw at

the open door, within less than a yard of my breast, as

plainly as ever I saw anything, a dissevered hand and

arm stretched towards me. Hand and arm were appar
ently those of a female : they bore a livid and sodden

appearance ; and directly fronting me, where the body
ought to have been, there was only blank, transparent

Ispace, through which could see the dim forms of the
objects beyond. I was fearfully startled, and ran shriek
ing to my mother, telling what I had seen ; and the

house-girl, whom she next sent to shut the door, appar

ently affected by my terror, also returned frightened, and
said that she too had seen the woman's hand ; which,
however, did not seem to be the case. And finally my

mother, going to the door, saw nothing, though she
appeared much impressed by the extremeness of my

terror, and the minuteness of my description. I com

municate the story as it lies fixed in my memory, without
attempting to explain it. The supposed apparition may
have been merely a momentary affection of the eye, of
the nature described by Sir Walter Scott in his Demon-
ology, and Sir David Brewster in his Natural Magic.

But if so, the affection was one of which I experienced

no after return ; and its coincidence, in the case, with

the probable time of my father's death, seems at least

curious.'

       Men who believe in a ghost-story seldom favour us
with unqualified avowals of the fact. Hugh Miller seems
to have been persuaded at fifty that the livid hand he
saw at five was preternatural. The incident is thus

14 THE BOY.

invested with interest in a biographic point of view. It

affords us a glimpse into the subtlest workings of Hugh
Miller's mind. We must, therefore, consider it care

fully.
      The appearance, to begin with, is to be classed

among the more easily explicable phenomena of optical
delusion. The child, from the day his mind began to
receive impressions of any kind, had been encompassed
with an atmosphere of superstition. In days of steam

ships and telegraphs, sailors and fishermen continue a
superstitious race ; but it is only by the strongest effort
of imagination that we can realize the extent to which

the natural and the supernatural were confounded in
remote fishing towns like Cromarty at the commence
ment of this century. Teach a child to look for ghosts,
and he will be sure to see them. Hugh had learned to

associate the idea of his father with a special manifest
ation of the awful and the supernatural. Often, while

the embers were burning low on winter evenings, and
every inmate of the cottage listened in awe-struck silence,
had he hung upon the lips of ' Jack Grant the mate,' as
he told how his father had sailed from Peterhead beneath

a gloomy twilight ; how a woman and child who begged
a passage were taken on board ; how the wind rose and
the snow-storm lashed the vessel ; how a dead-light
gleamed out on the crosstrees ; how a ghostly woman,
with a child in her arms, flitted round the master at the

helm ; how, when dawn glimmered over the sea, the

ship struck and rolled over amid the breakers on ' the
                              '
terrible bar of  Findhorn  ;     and  how the corpse  of the

woman, still clasping the babe in her arms, was floated

out through a hole in the side of the wreck.

Turn now to the passage quoted. His father being

away at sea, the child is sent, as the dusk thickens, to

THE LIVID HAND.  15

close the cottage door. The night-mist is creeping up

from the sea. I have seen that mist, seen it through the

eyes of childhood, on the moorland of the Maolbuie, a
few miles west of Cromarty ; and no one who has seen
it can wonder that a vivid imagination should evoke

spectral forms from its twilight imagery. The same
power of fantasy which called up the ghost of old John
Feddes, to stand upon the top of the stair, revealed to
the eye of the boy, as he peered into the mist on that
melancholy evening, a dissevered hand and arm. There
is one little circumstance which renders it matter of

demonstration that his mind was preoccupied by expect
ation of the marvellous. ' Hand and arm,' he informs
us, ' were apparently those of a female.' How did he

know this ? A child of five could not distinguish be
tween the 'livid and sodden ' hand and arm of a man and
the 'livid and sodden ' hand and arm of a woman. His

imagination, haunted by the woman of Jack Grant's nar

rative, created her.

      The whole affair, then, resolves itself into a strong

mental impression of little Hugh's throwing itself out in
bodiless form on the mist of the night. And as was the

boy so was the man. A sustained intensity of mental

vision, a creative power of fantasy, characterized Miller
to the last. Not powerful enough to overbear or to per
 vert the scientific instinct with which it was associated,

 it had a pervasive influence on his mental operations ;
 the feeling, belief, impression on his mind, had for him

 a substantive reality ; and there was an antecedent pro

bability that, if the steadiness of his intellectual nerve were

 shaken by disease, or by excess of mental toil, some fixed

 idea might obtain the mastery over him and hurl his
 reason from her throne.

     It has been said that his mother was not remarkable

16 THE BOY.

for mental power or for strength of character. She had,

however, one intellectual faculty in extraordinary vigour,

to wit, memory, and she loaded it with knowledge of a
peculiarly unprofitable kind. Her belief in fairies, witches,

dreams, presentiments, ghosts, was unbounded, and she

was restrained by no modern scruples from communicat

ing either her fairy lore, or the faith with which she re
ceived to her son. Her faith in her legendary per
it,

                                                                ''

                                                                            a
                                                                          in
sonages was inextricably involved with her belief the

angels and spirits of Scripture, and to betray scepticism

as to apparitions and fairies was in her view to take part

with the Sadducee or the infidel. Such was the power
ful influence,' says Mrs Miller, to which little Hugh

was subjected for the first six years of his life -- kind of

education the force of which he himself could scarcely
estimate. Add to everything else that much of his

mother's sewing was making garments for the dead.

Fancy that little low room in the winter evenings, its

atmosphere at all times murky from the dark earthen
floor, the small windows, the fire on the hearth which,

though furnished with regular chimney, allowed much
                       a

                         it
smoke to escape before found passage. Fancy little

Hugh sitting on low stool by that hearth-fire, his
aa
mother engaged at large chest which serves her for                             is a

table on which stands  a  single candle. Her work

dressing the shroud and the winding-sheet, the dead

irons click incessantly, and her conversation as she passesis
to and fro to heat her irons at the fire of the departed,

and of mysterious warnings and spectres. Suddenly, as

the hour grows late, distinct raps are heard on this chest

-- the forerunners, she says, of another dissolution. Her

tall thin figure drawn up    an attitude of intense
is
                        in

listening for these signs from the unseen world. The

child has been surrounded and permeated with the

HIS MOTHER.             17

weird atmosphere. Then a paroxysm of terror super

venes and he is put to bed, to that bed in the corner, in

a recess in the wall, where he can still see the work pro

ceed, and hear the monotonous click-click of those irons,

till his little eyes close, and the world of dreams mingles
Iwith that of reality.
                        have no doubt that the over

powering terror of those early times, the inability to dis

tinguish between waking and sleeping visions, returned

in his last days, stimulating the action of a diseased

brain. The peculiarity of his mother's character told

against him. There was plenty of affection, but no
counter-balancing grain of sense of a kind which would

qualify these tremendous doses of the supernatural. He

did not learn to read so early as most children --though,

as he has told me, he learned his letters first when almost

in arms, off the sign-boards above the shop-doors --so

that, until after six, the marvellous in its lighter and

more harmless forms, as in Jack and the Bean-stalk, &c,

did not mingle with its darker and stronger shadows.

From his mother Hugh undoubtedly drew almost all the

materials for his Scenes and Legends and Lykewake, &c,

Iand every minutest touch have given you has been

gathered from his lips and hers.'
     Hugh Miller's mother was evidently one who, in

the jargon of the spirit-rapping fraternity, would be

called a good medium. Interpreted into the language

of persons who are neither knaves nor fools, this will

mean that she was one who, having long permitted

fantasy to be sole regent of her mind, had fallen into

the habit of mistaking the pale shapes and flitting

shadows of its ghostly moonlight for the substantial

forms of noon-dav. Mrs Miller closes her account of
this singular woman with the following anecdote. ' She

told me that, on the night of Hugh's death, suspecting

                                                             '

18 THE BOY.

no evil and anticipating no bad tidings, about midnight

she saw a wonderfully bright light like a ball of electric

fire flit about the room, and linger first on one object of

furniture and then on another. She sat up in bed to

watch its progress. At last it alighted, when, just as

                                   in
                                      a

                                         it,
                                                     it
she wondered, with her eyes fixed on what might
               was suddenly quenched, -- did not die out,
portend,it
          it
but, as were, extinguished itself          moment, leaving

utter blackness behind, and on her frame the thrilling

effect of sudden and awful calamity.' The power of
          a

distinguishing between visions seen when the eyes were

shut, and actual phenomena seen when the eyes were

open, had manifestly been impaired in this woman         ;

and we cannot believe that the influence of so super

stitious mother upon Hugh Miller was not powerful,
;
merely because he has refrained from saying much
  aabout her in the Schools and Schoolmasters. Had he
                      a
completely emancipated himself from that influence, we

might have had           full statement of its nature and

extent but, though he evidently believed some of the

ghostly sights of his childhood to have been preter

natural, he would instinctively shrink from the con

fession that his notions of the night-side of nature, and

of the boundary line between the visible and the in

visible world, were to the last modified by what he had

learned at his mother's knee.  It        fair to her to add

that her power of enchaining the attention of listeners,is
                                       in
while she told her tales, was quite extraordinary, and

that her son assuredly owed to her, part at least, his

genius for narrative.

             

             CHAPTER II.

DAME SCHOOL  UNCLES JAMES AND SANDY    BEGINNINGS OF
              LITERATURE AND SCIENCE.

THE brave, kind father, then, is dead, and the boy,
      gaze he never so long across the waves, will not again
clap his hands, and run to tell his mother that the sloop
is in the offing. The girlish widow, with her son of five
and her two daughters just emerging from infancy, must
face the world alone. Of fixed yearly income she has
about twelve pounds, but she is skilled as a seamstress,
and applies herself industriously to her needle. By way
of substitute for a father's authority over her children and
for a husband's counsels to herself, she has the vigilant
superintending friendliness of her two brothers, known to
readers of the Schools and Schoolmasters as Uncle James

and Uncle Sandy. These occupied a single dwelling,
into which they took one of the little girls, and in which
Hugh lived as much as at home. He could hardly have

been more happy in fireside guides and instructors.
James, the elder, was a saddler; Alexander, a carpenter.
In any rank of society they would have been exceptional

men. Thoughtful, sagacious, modest, independent ; ar
 dent in their love of knowledge and with no inconsider
able stock of information ; reverent towards God ; mind

 ful of duty; they were such as the best Scottish peasants

20 THE BOY.

Iand mechanics of the olden time used to be. ' never

knew a man,' says Miller, 'more rigidly just in his deal
ings than Uncle James, or who regarded every species of
meanness with a more thorough contempt.' What a
grand contribution to the education of Hugh Miller was
made by Uncle James in leaving that impression on his
memory and his heart ! When Miller first heard Dr
M'Crie preach, he wrote to his Uncle James, ' In age

Iand figure know not where to point out any one who

more resembles him than yourself.' Collating this with
his description of the military bearing and combined
modesty and dignity of demeanour of Dr M'Crie, we are
led to form a favourable idea of Uncle James's outer man.

Uncle Sandy had been in the navy, had fought in many
engagements in the great French war, and had settled
down in his native place to a life of happy industry, dig
ging his sawyer's pit in summer in some protected nook
of the green wood, and finding entertainment at eventide
in the wonders of the field or the shore. He fought his
battles over again and yet again for the benefit of little

Hugh ; but it was from others, not from himself, that the
boy heard of his personal exploits ; and his estimate of

Imilitary splendours was not extravagant. ' Prophecy,

find,' he said, ' gives to all our glories but a single verse,
and it is a verse of judgment.' In after life Miller thought
of writing a life of Alexander Wright.

     Such were Hugh Miller's instructors from the end of
his fifth year, instructors to whom, as he justly testifies,
he owed more than to any of the teachers whose schools
he afterwards attended. The tales with which they
charmed him called intellect and imagination into genial

and healthful exercise. I' remember,' he says, in an ac

count of his early years, composed for Principal Baird
when he was twenty -seven, and largely drawn upon in the

BOOKS.  21

ISchools and Schoolmasters, ' remember that, from my
Ifourth to my sixth year, derived much pleasure from

oral narrative, and that my imagination, even at this early
period, had acquired strength enough to present me with
vividly-coloured pictures of all the scenes described to
me, and of all the incidents related.' His eye had not
yet opened on the world of books.

      Hugh had been sent to a dame's school before his
father's death, and in the course of his sixth year, after
much labour and small apparent profit, he made the dis
covery that ' the art of reading is the art of finding stories
in books.' Did ever child in Eastern romance light on

so wonderful a talisman ! The gates flew open and the
gardens of knowledge stretched before him, the trees
drooping with golden fruit, the earth radiant with
flowers. Hugh Miller had made what he calls the grand
acquirement of his life : he could hold converse with

books.

      Now at last, like all children of talent, he revelled in

the traditionary literature of the nursery, Jack the Giant
Killer, Blue Beard, Aladdin and the Wonderful Lamp.
Two other books gave him equal or greater delight, the

Pilgrims Progress and Pope's Homer. I' saw,' says

Miller, ' even at this immature period, that no writer
could cast a javelin with half the force of Homer.' Pope's
transmutations of the Iliad and Odyssey have often been

favourite reading with children. One of the choice
sports of Arnold's early boyhood was to act the battles
of the Homeric heroes, and recite their several speeches,

according to Pope.
      Hugh was now promoted from the dame's school to

 the parish school, and introduced into the society of one

 hundred and twenty boys. These, with a class of girls,
 bringing the whole number up to one hundred and fifty,

        '

22 THE BOY.

were under the superintendence of a single master, and

when it is added that the competence of that master's ac

quirements and the excellence of his character were

qualified by sluggishness and associated with no force,

fineness, or sympathetic richness of mind, it will be evi

dent that little deserving the name of education could be

had in the place. A boy of six, however strong his in

tellectual bent, requires a certain amount of well-applied

compulsion to induce him to prefer his lessons to his play.

Hugh, left to do as he chose, preferred the latter ; but
                         '
                                       a

                                                                                 a if,
in his lessons, he was an egregious trifier,' he was intel

lectual enough in his sports. In addition to the nursery

treasures already mentioned, the narratives of Cook, An

son, and Woods Rogers afforded him inexhaustible de

light, and inflamed him with passionate desire to be

sailor. He spent much of his time sauntering about the

harbour, or peering and prying aboard the ships. One of

his amusements was to trace on the maps of an old geogra

phical grammar the path of vessels to and from the coun

'                                             by

     I                                               I'
                     bytries visitedhis father or Uncle Sandy. He began

to compose before he could write.                        was in the habit,'

he says, in the account of his life previously referred to,

of quitting my school companions for the sea-shore,

where would saunter for whole hours, pouring out long

blank verse effusions (rhyme was discovery of after
                                                       a
                                                                       a
date) about sea-fights, storms, ghosts, and desert islands.

These effusions were no sooner brought to close than

forgotten and no one knew anything of them but my
;

     I;
self for had not yet attained the art of writing, and                      I

cgouuisltdiccoemxpproessesioonn,ly--wthhaetn  alone.'    That passion for  lin
                                              rapture  in fitting thought
                                                                           and

emotion to words, -- which nature seems to point outby

the born literary man, was already characteristic of

Miller.

SCHOOL.                                                  23

      Following this child, whose very amusements are
intellectual, into the school-room, we perceive that he is

in a fair way to earn the reputation of dunce. Accus

tomed to learn by the eye, --to stray down vistas of

picture constructed for him by his imagination from the

materials of his favourite books, --he takes no interest in

the mechanical operations of memory. The Latin Rudi
ments in particular prove incapable of imaginative illu
mination. The sluggard schoolmaster never tells him
that, if he be but brave enough to grope for a time as
through a dark passage, the classic wonderland will open
on his sight. An intelligent and spirited boy, to work
heartily at his tasks, must know what he is about, and
have some conception of the guerdon which is to reward

his toil. It never occurs to this schoolmaster that he

 may be the dunce, stolidly inapprehensive of the re
 quirements of the case, and of the nature of his duty

towards his peculiar pupil. He takes the more obvious,
 comfortable and human-natural course of deciding that

 Hugh's uncles have overrated his abilities, and that he

 is a mere ordinary dullard.
      Miller's trifling proved infectious. He had one day,

 on some impulse of the moment, taken to relating, to the
 boy who sat next him, the adventures of Sir William

Wallace. A group of fascinated listeners soon hung
 round the interesting dunce. To narratives from Blind
 Harry succeeded tales from Cook and Anson ; and when

 these were exhausted, imagination was called upon to
 supply the article in request. The improvising practice
 he had enjoyed in his solitary walks now stood him in
 good stead, and he regaled his auditors with

                                      boyish histories,
Of battle, bold adventure, dungeon, wreck,
Flights, terrors, sudden rescues.

U THE BOY.

' In a short time ' -- these are his own words --' my narra

tives had charmed the very shadow of discipline out of

the class.' In his English reading lessons he appeared

to some advantage, the master contriving to make out

that he could distinguish between good and bad in style ;

but on the whole he looked upon school attendance as a

mere curtailment of his freedom, made no progress what

ever in  sspoemlleingreosrpepcatrss,in--g,alwanadys  in  Latin failed utterly.
                                                         excepting those for
    In
which it was specially intended, --the school was not

amiss. In the company of one hundred and fifty boys

and girls, there is likely to be not a little that will con

tribute to mental and physical development. From the

windows could be seen at all hours ships and boats,

entering or leaving the harbour ; at certain seasons the

turf before the door glittered with myriads of herrings,

the air became alive with bustle of curing operations ; a

pig-slaughtering establishment was at hand, where Hugh,

turning characteristically from the slaying processes,

could look inquiringly into the mysteries of porcine

anatomy ; and there was a chance at any moment of

taking part in a glorious expedition sent forth to exact,

arte vel Marte, the tribute of peats which the boatmen of

Ross, as they arrived with their cargoes, were bound to

pay to the school. An annual cock-fight was celebrated

by the boys and their teacher, but in this he took no

more interest than in the killing of the pigs ; the tender

ness he had derived from his father forbade him.

In his tenth year, the spell cast over his imagination

by the narratives of the sea-captains had been broken.

He had read The Adventures of Sir William Wallace, by

the Scottish Homer of the fifteenth century, of whom we

know only that his name was Harry, that he was blind,

that he earned his bread by repeating his poetry in the

BLIND HARRY.  25

laird's hall and by the farmer's ingle, and that he pro
fessed to base his narrative on a history of Wallace, writ
ten in Latin by his chaplain, named Blair. The poem is
Homerically crowded with incident, and its hero-worship
of Wallace is as fervent as Homer's of Odysseus.
There is no trace of that sentimental delicacy which

glows in the chivalrous romances of the nineteenth
century ; no cosmopolitan sympathy ; not the faint
est surmise that anything can be said on the other
side of the question. National bards are ruthless par
tisans from ' the Ionian father of the rest,' downwards.

Homer does not apologize for Ulysses when he lays waste
the town of the harmless Cyconians, and distributes their
goods, wives, and children among his followers. Homer
has not one tear of pity for the tortured Melanthius,
tortured for no fault but his courage ; or for the female
slaves, cruelly murdered for not having been incon
ceivably faithful to their master and mistress ; and it
never occurs to him as possible that any one can think
the slaughter of the suitors themselves, for the sole fault
of continuing to pay their addresses to a woman who
would not frankly say No, and whose husband, they

reasonably trusted, was at the bottom of the sea, rather
startling in its sternness. Compare the return of Odys
seus with the return of Enoch Arden, who, by Homeric
law, ought to have cut down his Annie with one blow,
and her Philip Ray with another, and you will perceive
the difference, in what may be called emotional atmo

sphere, between the time of Tennyson and those periods
of national life in which poems like Homer's Odyssey
and Blind Harry's Wallace come into existence. In

general poetical capacity the Scottish minstrel is incom
parably inferior to Homer ; but it was owing doubtless to

the entireness and intensity of his patriotic devotion

                                                                               '

 26 THE BOY.

Scotland and to Wallace, that his book was for centuries
' the Bible of the Scottish people,' and that it profoundly
affected the boyish imaginations of Robert Burns, of
Walter Scott, and of Hugh Miller. The fiery patriotism
of this book inspired those national songs of Burns, and
those magical tones occurring at intervals in all his
poems, which will thrill readers to their inmost hearts
so long as love of country endures. Its effect on Hugh
Miller was to make him a Scottish patriot to the finger
tips. Affection for his country was from that time a
ruling passion in his breast, and his ideal of a great man
was a great Scotchman.

      No wise critic will dispute that this was an im
portant and an auspicious advance in the development of

the boy. It appears to be a law of the feelings that, to

be sound, strong, and healthful, they must proceed from
the particular to the general, philanthropy rooting itself
in household kindness, cosmopolitan interest in the hu
man race growing out of undistinguishing ardour of
affection for one's countrymen. He who, as a boy, is in
different to his own country, will as a man be indifferent
to all countries. Hugh Miller, we need not doubt, owed
much of that home-bred vigour, that genial strength, racy
picturesqueness and idiomatic pith, which characterize
his writings, to the early influence of Blind Harry.

      Meanwhile he has been learning to read in a book
whose lessons he could not outgrow, and whose illumin
ated lettering, of gem and flower and shell, has a charm
for eye and heart which had been absent from the
Latin Rudiments. Upon the sands at ebb-tide, when
the slant sunlight strikes ruddy from the west, the boy
may be seen trotting by the side of Uncle Sandy, hunt
ing for lump-fish in the weeded pools, hanging in
ecstasy over the sea-mosses, that glance through the lucid

THE SEA-SHOBE.  27

wave with more delicate splendour of rubied flush and
scarlet gleam, of golden tress and silken fringe, of ten

der pearl and beaming silver, than graced the jewelled
princesses of his fairy books, and drinking in with eager
attention every word uttered by his guide. We can
picture him a kilted urchin, probably bare-footed, with
bright auburn hair, glowing blue eyes, cheek touched
with the crimson of health, the face marked by quiet
thoughtfulness and incipient power. His uncles were
doubtless perplexed with their nephew ; but, on the
whole, despite the head-shaking of the schoolmaster and
Hugh's manifest lack of interest in the Rudiments, they
could not believe that the boy who, since the dawn of

his faculties, had been a good listener, a voracious reader,

a quick and intelligent observer, was the dunce his peda

gogue pronounced him.

                                                              '

                                                           28

                       CHAPTER III.

                                  THE DOOCOT CAVE.

HE was twelve years old when the notable adventure
        of the Doocot Cave afforded him the subject of his
first verses. The incident, slight in itself, happens to pos
sess extraordinary interest in a biographical point of view.
' Man in immediate presence,' says Goethe, ' still more
in remembrance, fashions and models the external world
according to his own peculiarities.' An event which im
presses the mind strongly in boyhood becomes entwined,
as we proceed in our life-journey, with innumerable as
sociations, and when at successive stages in our path we
attempt to recall its precise circumstances, we fail to place
them in their original bareness before the mind's eye.
Suppose, then, that in endeavouring to know a man, to
realize what, in the stages of his growth, he was and
what he could do, we met with successive accounts from
his pen of one and the same incident ; would we not
feel that a curiously instructive opportunity was afforded
us of taking the observations necessary for our purpose ?
How glad would the biographer of a great painter be to
light upon a series of pictures from his hand, the subject
the same in all, but the occasions when they were painted
falling at different dates in his history, from the morning

FIRST VERSES.                                         29

of life until its afternoon ! It is this advantage we possess
in connection with Hugh Miller's boyish adventure in

the Doocot Cave. There exist at least four accounts of

the incident drawn up by himself, --four successive paint

ings of the same scene by the boy, the stripling, the man

of twenty-seven, and the man of fifty.

The first is that referred to in the Schools and School

masters, as executed in ' enormously bad verse,' a day or

two after the occurrence. The copy before me is the

identical one which excited the admiring wonder of Miss

Bond, mistress of the Cromarty Boarding School. At

tached to it is that pictorial representation of the scene
which Miller describes as consisting of ' horrid crags of

burnt umber, perforated by yawning caverns of India-

ink, and crested by a dense forest of sap green.' You

can see what is intended ; the sea is below the cavern,

and the sward and wood are above ; but the whole is

not superior to the ordinary daubing of child-artists.

The verses exhibit internal evidence of having been

written within a day or two of the event they record.

The agony of distress and terror experienced by the boy

of twelve when he and his companion --a lad still

younger-- found themselves, as night came on, with the

sceaavebrnefobree,hiinmdp, a--sstahbisle,   rocks on  either hand, and a dark
                                           and their  contrasted rapture when

the boats hailed them at midnight, supersede all reflec

tion on the beauties of the landscape or the wonders

of the cave. The grammar and spelling are about as
bad as possible. Here are the first two lines : --

' When I to you unfolds my simple tale,

 And paints the horrours of a rocky vail.'

He forgets to say what will happen when the dreadful
revelation takes place, and strikes presently into descrip

30 THE BOY.

tion of the cave.  We need not retain the childish mis

spelling :--

' There stands a cavern on the sea-beat shore,
  Which stood for ages since the days of yore,
  Whose open mouth stands forth awfully wide,
  And oft takes in the roaring, swelling tide.

  Out through the cavern water oozes fast,
  Which ends in nothing but white stones at last.
  Two boys, the author one, away did stray,

  Being on a beauteous and a sunshine day.'

     The contemptuous ' nothing but white stones ' hardly
betrays the future geologist, and the naivete of ' the
author one ' is charming. The three last stanzas relate,

in very flat prose fitted with rhyme, that the boys went
to the cavern ' for some stones,' found that the water

had filled in round them, tried to get out but could not,
were doubly pained when ' the night came on, down
poured the heavy rain,' and 'ran so very fast' to the

boats when they came to rescue them. Nothing here
but the sternest historical realism. Fancy has not

gilded the clouds, nor enthusiasm softened the colours ;
the fact stands simply out as an experience of un-

romantic misery.

     For several years this version seems to have con
tented Hugh, the revision it underwent extending only
to verbal alterations. The lad of nineteen, however,

discards the whole, and produces a more polished and
melodious ditty. The friend who shared the ad
venture is dismissed, and the interest centres in the

' author,' or as he is now more poetically styled, ' the
Muses' youngest child,' or, with a touch of remorseful
pathos, ' the Muses' rude, untoward child.' He has

 learned to sketch in Scott's lighter manner, and there is

 something of gracefulness and vivacity in his handling :

SECOND EDITION.  31

                   ' Well may fond memory love to trace
                       The semblance of that lonely place,
                       Much may she joy to picture fair
                       Each cliff that frowns in darkness there ;
                   For when alone in youth I stray 'd
                       To haunted cave or forest glade,
                   Each rock, each lonely dell, I knew,
                       Where flow'rets bloom'd or berries grew ;
                       Knew where, to shelf of whiten'd rock,
                     At eve the sable cormorants flock ;
                       Could point the little arm to where
                        Deep the wild fox had dug his lair ;
                       Had mark'd with curious eye the cell
                       Where the rock-pigeon loved to dwell ;
                       Had watch'd the seal with silent ken,
                       And, venturous, storm'd the badger's den.'

     In the following lines there seems to be an echo

from Byron's tales.

                        ' Oft had our poet wish'd to brave
                        The giddy height and foaming wave,
                        That wildly dash'd and darkly frown'd
                        The Doocot's yawning caves around.
                        For many a tale of wondrous kind

                     With wild impatience fired his mind ;
                        Tales of dark caves where never ray
                        Of summer's sun was seen to play ;
                       Tales of a spring whose ceaseless wave
                        Nor gurgling sound nor murmur gave,
                        But like that queen who, in her pride,
                        Latona's ruthless twins defied,
                        To meltless marble, as it flows
                        Through stiffening moss and lichens, grows.

                           Before he deem these marvels true
                       The caves must meet his curious view.'

      Considerable progress here from the ' water oozing
fast ' and ' nothing but white stones ' of the first edition.

In that performance the arrival of the boat had been

emphatically chronicled, ' the author ' dwelling with

manifest satisfaction on the event. It would not, how

ever, have been poetical enough for 'the Muses'
youngest child ' to be taken off at midnight by mere

32 THE BOY.

terrestrial fishermen. In the new edition, accordingly,

he remains until ' Aurora ' makes her appearance, --

                      ' And clear and calm the billow roll'd,
                        With shade of green and crest of gold.'

The second of these lines is finely coloured.

    A moral now coronat opus in the tone of Scott's in
troductions to his cantos. It turns on ' art and guile,'

' vice attired in beauty's smile,' and other matters which
the reader may imagine.

      In the vigour of early manhood, Miller described
the adventure of the cave in his letter to Principal Baird.
He writes in prose, having estimated his talents with
the coolest judgment, and decided that, for the present,
he will quit poetry. The picture has become full in de
tail and glowing in tint. ' The cave proved a mine of
wonders. We found it of great depth, and when at its

farthest extremity, the sea and opposite land appeared

to us as they would if viewed through the tube of a
telescope. We discovered that its sides and roof were

crusted over with a white stone resembling marble, and
that it contained a petrifying spring. The pigeons
which we disturbed were whizzing by us through the
gloom, reminding us of the hags of our story books,

when on their night voyage through the air. A shoal of

porpoises were tempesting the water in their unwieldy
gambols, scarcely an hundred yards from the cavern's
mouth, and a flock of sea-gulls were screaming around
them, like harpies round the viands of the Trojan. To
add to the interest of the place, we had learned from
tradition that, in the lang syne, this cave had furnished
Wallace with a hiding-place, and that more recently it
had been haunted by smugglers. In the midst of our
engagements, however, the evening began to darken ; and

             FIRST PROSE VERSION.              33

we discovered that our very fine cave was neither more

nor less than a prison. We attempted climbing round,

but in vain ; for the shelf from whence we had leaped
was unattainable, and there was no other path. " What

will my mother think?" said the poor little fellow
whom I had
             brought into this   predicament,  as he burst
into tears.  "                   nothing for
                 1  would  care                myself --but

my mother." The appeal was powerful, and, had he

Inot cried, probably would ; but the sight of his tears

roused my pride, and, with a feeling which Roche-
foucault would have at once recognized as springing

Ifrom the master principle, attempted to comfort him ;

and for the time completely forgot my own sorrow in
exulting, with all due sympathy, over his. Night came

on both dark and rainy, and we lay down together in a

corner of the cave. A few weeks prior, the corpse of a

fisherman, who had been drowned early in the preceding

winter, had been found on the beach below. It was

much gashed by the sharp rocks, and the head was

beaten to pieces. I had seen it at the time it was

carried through the streets of Cromarty to the church,
where in this part of the country the bodies of drowned
persons are commonly put until the coffin and grave be
prepared ; and all this night long, sleeping or waking,

the image of this corpse was continually before me. As

Ioften as slumbered, a mangled headless thing would

come stalking into the cave and attempt striking me,

Iwhen would awaken with a start, cling to my com

panion, and hide my face in his breast. About one
o'clock in the morning we were relieved by two boats,

which our friends, who had spent the early part of the
night in searching for us in the woods above, had fitted
out to try along the shore for our bodies ; they having

34 THE BOY

at length concluded that we had fallen over the cliffs,

and were killed.'

        Last of all, written when he was turned of fifty, we

have the narrative of the occurrence as it appears in the

Schools and Schoolmasters. The passage, too long to

quote in its completeness, is one of the most rich and
elaborate in the works of Hugh Miller. The ' nothing
but white stones ' of the first description, and the ' melt-
less marble ' of the second, have become the blended

poetry and science of the following sentences. ' There

were little pools at the side of the cave, where we could

see the work of congelation going on, as at the com

mencement of an October frost, when the cold north

wind ruffles, and but barely ruffles, the surface of some

mountain lochan or sluggish mountain stream, and

shows the newly-formed needles of ice projecting mole

like from the shores into the water. So rapid was the

course of deposition, that there were cases in which the

sides of the hollows seemed growing almost in proportion

as the water rose in them ; the springs, lipping over,

deposited their minute crystals on the edges; and the

reservoirs deepened and became more capacious as their
mounds were built up by this curious masonry.' The

idea of the telescope, which occurs first in the third
description, is finely worked out in the fourth. ' The

long telescopic prospect of the sparkling sea, as viewed
from the inner extremity of the cavern, while all around

was dark as midnight, --the sudden gleam of the sea

gull, seen for a  moment from the recess,   as  it flitted past
in the sunshine,                                the grampus,
                  --the black heaving bulk  of

w " it threw up its slender jets of spray, and then, turning
     '  nwards, displayed its glossy back and vast angular
.

           even the pigeons, as they shot whizzing by, one
engagem

SECOND PROSE VERSION.                                35

moment scarce     visible in  the gloom, the   next  radiant in
                  acquired    a new interest,  from   the pecu
the light, --all

liarity of the setting in which we saw them. They

formed a series of sungilt vignettes, framed in jet ; and

it was long ere we tired of seeing and admiring in them

much of the strange and the beautiful.'

The scenery of the heavens is hardly referred to

in the first sketch. The fact of a rain-storm having

aggravated the horrors of the situation is mentioned,

but the boy thinks of nothing except the additional

pain it occasioned. When Hugh Miller had watched
the sunsets of forty other summers, he ' put in the

sky ' of his picture thus :--' The sun had sunk behind

the precipices, and all was gloom along their bases, and

double gloom in their caves ; but their rugged brows

still caught the red glare of evening. The flush rose

higher and higher, chased by the shadows ; and then,

after lingering for a moment on their crests of honey

suckle and juniper, passed away, and the whole became

sombre and grey. The sea-gull sprang upward from

where he had floated on the ripple, and hied him slowly

away to his lodge in his deep-sea stack ; the dusky cor

morant flitted past, with heavier and more frequent

stroke, to his whitened shelf high on the precipice ; the

pigeons came whizzing downwards from the uplands and

the opposite land, and disappeared amid the gloom of

their caves ; every creature that had wings made use of

them in speeding homewards ; but neither my companion

nor myself had any; and there was no possibility of
getting home without them. . . . For the last few hours

mountainous piles of clouds had been rising dark and

stormy in the sea-mouth : they had flared portentously

in the setting sun, and had worn, with the decline of

36 THE BOY.

evening, almost every meteoric tint of anger, from fiery
red to a sombre thundrous brown, and from sombre
brown to doleful black.'

     All these things were seen by Hugh Miller as he

stood on the threshold of the cave, or looked out from
within through its rock-hewn telescope ; but it was not
the Hugh Miller of twelve years who saw them ; it was
the Hugh Miller of fifty who was transported by imagin
ation to stand again in the entrance of the cave, or
gaze again from its interior, and to see ' what the eye

brought with it the means of seeing.' It was as if

Turner at fifty had taken it into his head to paint the
first sunset on which he had looked with boyish delight,
and in so doing had thrown upon the canvas the science
and subtlety of a life spent in the observation of nature.

                         37

                     CHAPTER IV.

FIRST GLIMPSE OF THE SUTHERLAND HIGHLANDS EXPERI

MENTS IX SELP-AMtSEMENT      THE REBELLIOUS SCHOOLBOY.

               after the occurrence which has detained us so

SOOlonNg, the boy proceeded on a visit to certain relatives

in the Highlands of Sutherland, a visit which was re
peated in two successive autumns. His faculties were

thus exercised by new scenes and new acquaintances ; he
listened to discussions on the poems of Ossian, and

began secretly to think it probable that the famed Celtic

bard belonged to the ancient clan MaePherson ; he

added to the picture gallery of his imagination a few

fresh subjects, --long, low valleys in tender blue, en

livened by green wooded  mknisot,ll--s raenadchdeeslicoafteqlyuietdralpaekde
with wreaths of morning
with grey ruins nodding on slim promontories, -- water

falls glancing by the silvery boles of birch-trees, and

sending up a steamy spray to fall gemlike on their

drooping foliage ; and he laid the foundation of that
thorough comprehension of the character of the High

landers, and of the condition of the Highlands, which

made him in after life one of the best authorities on all

Highland questions.

Whether in Sutherland or at home, his mind was

constantly active, constantly growing. His school-fellows

38 THE BOY.

wondered and derided as they beheld him launching on

the horse-pond a succession of mysterious vessels con

structed from the descriptions of Anson, Cook, and

other voyagers. In the Schools and Schoolmasters we

hear of one of these, a proa, similar to those used by

the Ladrone islanders, but this was no more than a

single specimen of his ship-carpentering.                  ' I used,' he

wrote to Baird, ' to keep in exercise the risible facul

ties of all the mimic navigators of the pond, with slim,

fish-like boats of bark, like those of the North American

Indians, awkward high-pooped galleys, like those I had

seen in an old edition of Dryden's Virgil, two-keeled

vessels, like the double canoes of Otaheite, and wall-

sided half vessels, like the proas of the Ladrone islands.

Nor could     I,'

                       I

                                           a
                                                     '
              he proceeds, derive, like my com

panions, any pleasure from the merely mechanical opera

tion of plain sailing.  had story connected with every

voyage, and every day had its history of expeditions of

discovery, and cases of mutiny and shipwreck.' Navi

gation gave place to chemistry, but his experiments were
 woefully unfortunate.' Then he tried painting, but as
'

                it
                                                        a
the art seems to have required boiling of oil, and as

he boiled so effectually that the flame found its way

out at the chimney -top, and                               'sublime fire-scene,'

threatening to become more sublime than agreeable,

was the result, the brush was thrown aside. The found

ing of leaden images was next attempted, but one of the

busts being waggishly like neighbour, and troubles
                         a
arising in consequence, this also was abandoned.a                                                My
                                                           a

                                                                  I

                                                                                     '
                                                                                              '
ingenuity gained me such reprimand that flung my
casts into the fire.' He now took turn at mosaic

work,' and this was followed by attempts to fashion

watch-seals.  When       had worn the points of my
              '

                      I

fingers with cutting and polishing until the blood ap

AMUSEMENTS.  39

Ipeared, forsook the grind-stone.' He fell in with a

book on natural magic, palmistry, and astrology, and for
a time went wool-gathering upon that particular range
of the mountains of vanity. He became a sufficient
adept in palmistry to make out, from a perusal of the
mystic characters inscribed on the palm of his left hand,
that his life was to be strange and eventful, that he was

to become a revolutionary leader, and that he was to
die, like Wallace, on the scaffold. Verse-writing, prose-
writing, and ' a third sort of composition which imitated
the style of MacPherson's Ossian,' were engaged in,
probably with fitfulness, but with passionate enjoyment.

      His principal amusement at this period, however, was
one of which he has singularly enough omitted mention in
the Schools and Schoolmasters. He drew the map of a

country in the sand, and, having collected quantities of

variously-coloured shells from the beach, arranged them so
as to represent its inhabitants. Appointing himself king
of the miniature community, he designed its towns, roads,
canals, harbours, and other public works. He ruled his

dominions by every different form of government with
which he was acquainted, and attacked or defended
them by every stratagem of war with which books or
his uncles had made him familiar.

     In his fourteenth year all other amusements yielded

to that of heading a band of his school-fellows, with
whom, in the harvest vacation, he spent every day, from

dawn to sunset, in or about a deep cavern, penetrating one
of the steepest precipices which skirt the southern base
of the hill of Cromarty. One of the brotherhood brought
a pot, another a pitcher ; the shore supplied shell-fish,
 the wood fuel, the fields potatoes, peas, and beans ; and

so they went a-gipsying the long summer day.
      ' The time not employed in cooking,' says Miller in

iO THE BOY.

his letter to Principal Baird, l or in procuring victuals,

Iwe spent in acting little dramatic pieces, of which

sketched out the several plans, leaving the dialogue to
be supplied by the actors. Robbers, buccaneers, out

laws of every description, were the heroes of these
dramas. They frequently, despite of my arrangements
to the contrary, terminated in skirmishes of a rather
tragic cast, in which, with our spears of elder and
swords of hazel, we exchanged pretty severe blows. We

were sometimes engaged, too, in conflicts with other
Iboys, in which, as became a leader,
                                      distinguished
myself by a cool yet desperate courage. Nor was I
entitled to the rank I held from only the abilities which
I displayed in framing plays and in fighting. I swam,

climbed, leaped, and wrestled better than any other lad

of my years and inches in the place.'

     With schooling, in the mean time, it fared as ill as

possible. Hugh had made up his mind not to learn,
and he could neither be coaxed nor beaten out of his

determination. Sooth to say, he had become a self-
willed, turbulent lad, and the haziness of conception on

the subject of meum and tuum, indicated by potato-pilfer

ing and orchard-robbing, was not the darkest shade

which we have to bring into harmony at this period, as

we best may, with the idyllic brightness of his boyhood.

In the letter to Principal Baird and elsewhere, he

mentions a fact or two which he omits from the Schools

and Schoolmasters, but which cannot be withheld con

sistently with biographic veracity.

Setting his schoolmaster, his uncles, and his mother

at defiance, he played truant three weeks out of four,

and cast off every trammel of authority. Distressed and
alarmed, his relatives tried force. The stubborn will and

intrepid spirit which he had inherited from his father

THE TRUANT.  41

were roused to fiercer opposition. He carried about with
him a long clasp-knife, with which to repel any attack
that might be made upon him by his uncles. They next
had recourse to expostulation. They represented to
him, with affectionate earnestness, that he was losing
his sole chance of escaping a life of manual labour, and
urged that the possession of faculties whose right use
would enable him to rise in life, made it the more

disgraceful in him to sink actually below his father's

 station. The arguments were unanswerable, and Hugh
 seems to have made no attempt to answer them ; but
 he held his own course. His mother, profoundly afflicted
 by the seeming disappointment of her hopes, gave
 him up altogether, and bestowed her affection on his
  two sisters. In the winter of 1816, both the little

  girls died. Hugh loved them, and was deeply af
  fected when the music of their voices, which had

  cheered the cottage so long, passed suddenly away for
 ever. But keener far was the pang which struck to
  his heart when he overheard his mother remarking how

  different would her condition have been, had it pleased

  Heaven to take her son and leave one of her daughters.

 ' It was bitter for me,' he says, ' to think, and yet I

  could not think otherwise, that she had cause of sorrow,

  both for those whom she had lost, and for him who

 Isurvived; and would willingly have laid down my

  life, could the sacrifice have restored to her one of my

 sisters.' A noble impulse and sincere, but an impulse

  merely ; in a few weeks he was again at the head of his

  band. ' A particular way of thinking,' he remarks, ' a

  peculiar course of reading, a singular train of oral nar

 Iration, had concurred from the period at which first

  thought, read, or listened, in giving my character the
  impress it then bore, and it was not in the power of

             -r

42 THE BOY.

detached accident or effort to effect a change.' He had

at this time cast all religion to the winds. We have it

explicitly in his own words that he became an atheist.

'A boy-atheist,' he writes to Mr John Swanson in 1828,
' is surely an uncommon character. I was one in

reality ; for possessed of a strong memory, which my

uncles and an early taste for reading, had stored with

Ireligious sentiments and stories of religious men, was

compelled for the sake of peace either to do that which

was right, or by denying the truth of the Bible to set

every action, good  and  bad, on the same level.' His
atheism, however,   was
                         a mere affectation --a drossy

scum on the surface of his nature, with no real basis

either in head or in heart. It was one form of his

rebelliousness at the time. He was obstinately wilful

and irreligious, and he thought it bold and fine and

also logically consistent to call himself an atheist.

Three schoolmasters in succession had an oppor

tunity of exercising their talents upon Hugh, and in each

case the failure was signal. His schooling ended when

he was fifteen in a pitched battle with the dominie.

His gains from ten years of nominal education were

small. Penmanship clear and strong, a smattering of

arithmetic, spelling of which a boy of ten might

be ashamed, syntax which joined substantives in the

singular to verbs in the plural and vice versa, were

his scholastic acquirements. His miscellaneous read

ing, however, had been extensive ; he had stored up

a vast amount of information in a capacious and re

tentive memory ; he composed freely in prose and verse,

though there is hardly any sign of vitality in his writings

of this period except the delight they evince in the work

of composition. Before the close of the day on which

his conflict with the schoolmaster took place, he had

FIGHTS HIS SCHOOLMASTER.                                                           43

avenged himself in a copy of satirical verses, which,

to say the least, show a great advance, in flexibility and
in command of language, on those in which he first
recorded the adventure in the Doocot cave. As given

in Schools and ScJtoolmasters, they are much improved,

the epithets freshened and burnished, and the best

line in the whole,                                                      Observer,  a

                                 ' Nature's born fop, a saint by art,'

added. I find the lines in The Village

manuscript Magazine in Miller's boyish handwriting,

dated Feb. 1820.

      Such was Hugh Miller at the time he left school.

A rugged, proud, and stiffnecked lad, impossible to

drive and difficult to lead, his character already marked

with strong lines, and developing from within or through

Iself-chosen influences. ' saw,' said Baxter of Crom

well, ' that what he learned must be from himself,' and

the observation might already have been made of Hugh
Miller. To his friends he was a perplexity and offence ;

to his uncles, in particular, who knew him too well and

were too sagacious to accept the off-hand theory of his

schoolmasters that he was merely a stupid and bad boy,
he must have seemed a mass of contradictions. In

tellectual in his wildest play, fond of books and ca

pable of discerning excellence from its counterfeits in

thought and style, passionately addicted to the observ

ation of nature and forgetting no fact he once as

certained, how could he be dull in the ordinary sense ?
If, again, capacity to influence one's fellows was a test

of power, could it be said that he, who was undisputed

sovereign of the boys of the place, was the stupidest of

them all ? A dunce who from childhood had enter

tained his companions with tales of his own invention,

who fitted his play-fellows with dramatic parts by way

                                                                                       '

44 THE BOY.

of pastime, who was never weary when his pen was in his

hand, who possessed more literary information than any

one twice his age in Cromarty, was a phenomenon new

to the experience of Uncle James and Uncle Sandy.

It was a puzzle for them, and it is something of a puzzle

for us.   a few --

     Not  thinkers  among them men     of the  highest emin
                                       decide  with impatient
ence as             and writers--will

emphasis that Hugh's rebellion against the tyranny of

grammar was the genial assertion of his native force,

the bursting of the flower-pot by the oak sapling,

the most propitious thing which could have befallen him.

There is much to be said on this side of the question.

The boy who was dux of the school in Cromarty when

Hugh Miller was dunce --the model boy, who was the

delight of the schoolmaster, and who carried off the
highest prizes when he went to college -- the boy whom
the story-books designate for a Lord Mayor's coach and
a handsome fortune -- became a respectable and useful

minister of the Church of Scotland, and would probably

never have been heard of beyond the circle of his

parishioners, but for the circumstance of his having

been mentioned in the works of his friend, the dunce.

The name of the dux has been touched by the pen of

the dunce, and is likely to live as long as the English

language. By taking the bit into his teeth, leaping the
fences, and scouring the plain at his own wild will,

Hugh Miller obtained that freedom for his faculties

which is necessary to all vigorous growth, to all beauty
and capricious grace of movement. Had he received the

technical training of a college professor, would college

professors have said that they would give their hand from
their wrist for the curiosa felicitas of his style ? Take
young creatures, colts or lambs, mew them up, feed

WAS IT WELL f  45

and fodder them on the most approved scientific princi
ples ; you will have them sleek and fat, but will there
be buoyancy or elastic strength in their limbs, will
there be the light of health and joy in their eyes, will not
the ' poor things,' like Tennyson's hot-house flowers,
' look unhappy ' ? The law of freedom applies to all life,
human as well as animal, and the finer and fresher the

mental qualities, the greater is the risk that constraint
will benumb or pervert them. The grand thing to be
secured is mental force, and it is possible that laborious
effort to attain skill in the expression of force may draw
fatally on the original force itself. The faculties, like
over-drilled soldiers, may have no strength left to play

their part in life's battle. It is a Shakespearian opinion

that

                               ' Universal plodding prisons up
                        The nimble spirits in the arteries ;
                        As motion, and long-during action, tires
                        The sinewy vigour of the traveller.'

The worst possible result of school discipline is to take
the edge from that exultant ardour with which a strong
youth thinks of work, for mind or for body, as the su
preme of pleasures. Hugh Miller's freedom was not un
redeemed trifling ; it was his native force developing in its

own way and seeking its own nourishment. If he turned

from the Latin Rudiments, he found a literature in which

 he never tired to expatiate, a literature whose teaching he
 accepted with enthusiasm, a literature which acquainted
 him with foreign lands, and caused him to thrill at the
 deeds of brave men, a literature whose inmost spirit he

 vitally assimilated and made his own. If attention to

 his grammatical task in the dingy schoolroom pained
 him, his powers were concentrated in highest action when
 he accompanied Uncle Sandy in his researches on the

 46 THE BOY.

 shore at ebb-tide, or when, in solitary rambles, he looked
 carefully, constantly, lovingly, into the face of nature. Even
 in those doings with his brethren of the cave which

 seem to have occasioned his relatives most alarm, he

was acquiring habits of self-possession, courage, fidelity,
reticence, which are not always imparted by artificial

training.
      And let us not forget that stubbornness of purpose, in

flexibility of will, the unpardonable sin in the eyes of most
pedagogues, is after all the indispensable basis of charac
ter for any man who will do much. Acquire it as he may,
the ability to go forward in the path he has chosen, to face

the pelting shower and the scorching sun, to do wholly,
heartily, inflexibly what he deliberately wills to do, is of
sovereign importance for a man. Quicquid vult valde

vult ; this is the diploma of masterhood in nature's Uni

versity : ' unstable as water, thou shalt not excel ; ' this

Iis the hopeless doom. ' sowed flower-seeds,' wrote

John Sterling respecting his management of his garden
in boyhood, ' and then turned up the ground again and

planted potatoes, and then rooted out the potatoes to in
sert acorns and apple-pips, and at last, as may be sup
posed, reaped neither roses, nor potatoes, nor oak-trees,
nor apples.' The words are an epitome of Sterling's

biography. Hugh Miller even in boyhood had a pur
pose and held to firmly resolved that he would not
have his limbs straightened on the procrustean bed pre
pared for him, conscious that he was neither dunce nor
reprobate, but growing in his own way.

        must be carefully noted that the character of Mil
ler always remained sound in the vital parts. Of mean

ness, untruthfulness, cruelty, avarice, he showed no trace.
Had his sensual passions been vehement as those of
Burns or Mirabeau, the probability that he would have
It

                        it,
                                                       is

THE OTHER SIDE.  47

fallen into debauchery ; but his wildest passion was a
passion for freedom ; his dissipation was to wander in
the wood or by the wave. Neither morally nor intellect
ually was he, at any time, dissolute.

     And yet it is impossible to hide from ourselves that

there is another side to all this. It is difficult to believe

that insubordination, turbulence, habitual neglect of
tasks with which a sentiment of duty is more or less
associated, can be other than disadvantageous to the

mind. To check the lawlessness natural to man, --to
break self-will to the yoke, --to change the faculties

from a confused barbarian herd or horde (heer of the
old German tribes) into a disciplined or exercised com
pany (exercitus of the Romans) must ever be an essen
tial part of the training of youth. Educated human
nature is more natural than uneducated. Shakespeare

says again,

              ' Nature is made better by no mean
                But nature makes that mean : so, o'er that art,
                Which, you say, adds to nature, is an art
               That nature makes.'

       Does not this throw us back on the reflection that

education of the highest kind, based on nature, guided
by nature, yet raising nature to heights otherwise un

attainable, is not to be easily attained? In every case

where an original mind is concerned, education is too

subtle a process, requiring too intimate and individual a
communion of soul with soul, to be managed by the

rough common methods. A boy of genius would re

quire a teacher of genius, one whose perceptions were so

keen, whose sympathies were so fine and true, that he
could understand the exceptional mind, obey its moni

tions as he led it on, apply to it a constraint which
would be felt as gentleness, and a gentleness which

                                                                 -'"

 48 THE BOY.

 would tell as constraint. Had Hugh Miller found such
 a teacher, the advantage to himself and the world might
 doubtless have been great. He had capacities in him
for consummate scholarship ; an exact and tenacious

 memory, great attention, great application, true taste
and clear judgment. Learning could never with him
have been pedantry ; and it is indisputable that the man
who can converse with the ancients in their own tongues
commands a wider intellectual horizon than the man who

knows only his native language. One cannot help wish
ing that Hugh Miller had seen Homer himself lead out
Achilles to poise a javelin, or had perceived how different
a person is the brawny, broad-shouldered, highly unrhe-
torical Ulysses of the Odyssey, from the Ulysses whom
Pope taught to look and speak ' in a manner worthy of
the times of civilization.' Had Hugh Miller's father
survived, his shrewd sense and peremptory authority
might have given a new colour to the schooling of the
boy ; and, without sacrificing his freedom, Hugh might
have taken enough along with him to go to College.
Once at the University, the ambition of scholarship would
have laid hold on him, and with genius unimpaired and
materials extended, he might, in the first bloom of his
manhood, have taken his place among the foremost intel
lectual workers of his time.

      There is another consideration which lends a melan
choly emphasis to these regrets. Hugh Miller came of
a long-lived, strong-boned race, and we have learned
from himself that he was the most athletic boy of his
years in Cromarty. Had he proceeded to a University

\he would have avoided those fifteen years in the quarry

and the hewing-shed, during which his robust constitu
tion was shaken, and the seeds of ineradicable disease

were sown in his frame. In that case, the tear and wear

WHO KNOWS t  49

of the severest of the intellectual professions, journalism,

though combined with unremitting attention to science,
might have failed to prevent his attaining a green old
age. In his letter to Baird, he refers to the obscurity
and hardship of his life as a mason, as ' punishment for
his early carelessness.' But why follow these specula
tions further, or launch into the vainest and vaguest of
all philosophies, the philosophy of what might have
been ? By natural endowment and the action of cir
cumstances, in one word, by the will of God, Miller was
fitted for the work appointed him, and this is all we re

quire to know or can know.

s

                       BOOK II.

           THE APPRENTICE.

   'Consider how, even in the meanest sorts of labour, the whole soul of a man is com
posed into a kind of real harmony, the instant he sets himself to work.'

                                ' Befreit der Men sen sich der sich uberwindet.'


                                  53

                               CHAPTER I.

BOYISH MAGAZINES A LAD OF HIS OWN WILL BECOMES
               APPRENTICE HARDSHIPS ALLEVIATIONS.

BOYan-LceIFoEf ,delwigihthts,  its freshness   of   faculty, its exuber
                                 its opulence   of  wayward force, lies

behind Hugh Miller. In the autumn of 1819 his

mother, after a widowhood of fourteen years, accepts a

second husband, and he removes with her to the house

of his stepfather. ' I had no particular objections to the

match,' he writes to a friend a few years later ; ' but

you may be certain that it gave me much disgust at

the time.' It compels him to realize the fact that the

world has changed for him, and that duty now demands

that play shall  cease            and work     begin.    Half   a year,
however, glides  away             pleasantly   enough          own ex
                                                       --his

pression is ' very agreeable ' -- in the house of his step

father. He still continues those sportings with litera

ture which have from infancy been among his choicest
Ienjoyments.                                             II., and III.
                 have before me Nos.                I.,

of tiny Magazine, written in Miller's hand, and en
a

        '
titled, The Village Observer, or Monthly MSS.' They

are dated January, February, March, 1820. Hugh                 is

the editor and principal contributor.               It       in February

                                                         is

of this year that he enters on his apprenticeship, and the

March number closes the series. The pen gives place
to the hammer -- for time.
                               a

 54 THE APPRENTICE.

        These Village Observers are absolutely authentic

 documents of Miller's history at this time, and en
 able us to realize the circumstances of his life before

 any tint of fancy, or association from the pursuits of
 a subsequent period, had softened their harsher fea
tures. In the three numbers there is not the remotest

 allusion to his apprenticeship. This may be imputed
 to the disagreeableness of the subject ; but it is some
what remarkable that place is not found for a brief
 description of those rare and beautiful birds discover
ed by him in the quarry on the evening of his first day
of labour, and delineated with enthusiastic minuteness

in the Old Red Sandstone. The one was a goldfinch --
very uncommon in the highlands of Scotland--with ' hood

of vermilion and wings inlaid with gold ; ' the other a
bird of the woodpecker tribe, ' variegated with light blue
and a greyish yellow.' Neither does Hugh, in capacity
of village observer, give us, in his March number for
1820, any hint of that ' exquisite pleasure ' which, as we
are told in the Old Red Sandstone, he derived from con

templating the adjacent landscape when resting, on the

second day, from his toil at the hour of noon. ' All the

workmen,' he says in that book, ' rested at midday, and

I went to enjoy my half-hour alone on a mossy knoll

in the neighbouring wood, which commands through the
trees a wide prospect of the bay and the opposite shore.
There was not a wrinkle on the water, nor a cloud in the

sky, and the branches were as moveless in the calm as if

they had been traced on canvas. From a wooded pro
montory that stretched half-way across the frith there

ascended a thin column of smoke. It rose straight as the

line of a plummet for more than a thousand yards, and
then, on reaching a thinner stratum of air, spread out
equally on every side, like the foliage of a stately tree.

             BEGINNINGS OF TOIL.                   55

Ben Wyvis rose to the west, white with the yet unwasted
snows of winter, and as sharply defined in the clear at

mosphere as if all its sunny slopes and blue retiring hol

lows had been chiselled in marble. They reminded me

of the pretty French story, in which an old artist is

described as tasking the ingenuity of his future son-in-law,

by giving him, as a subject for his pencil, a flower-piece
composed of only white flowers, of which the one half

were to bear their proper colour, the other half a deep
purple hue, and yet all be perfectly natural ; and how
the young man resolved the riddle and gained his mis

tress by introducing a transparent purple vase into the

picture, and making the light pass through it on the
Iflowers that were drooping over the edge.
                                                   returned

to the quarry, convinced that a very exquisite pleasure

may be a very cheap one, and that the busiest employ

ments may afford leisure enough to enjoy it.' This is

beautiful writing and excellent philosophy ; but there is

not a word in any degree resembling whether descrip
tive or philosophical, in the Monthly MSS.,' edited
Hugh Miller at the time. Nor mention made of the
ripple-marked sandstone, on beholding which, on the
same day, he felt as completely at fault as Robinson

Crusoe did on his discovering the print of the man's
             '
                                                      '

                                            is
                                                  it,

                                                                            by

foot on the sand.'

   What      perhaps still more surprising, there
         is                                        a

similar absence of reference to ornithological, geoloI
                                                            is
gical, or aesthetic alleviations of his early toil in the          a

account of this period, written  ' byhim ten years sub

                                                '
sequently for Principal Baird. My first six months

of labour,' he writes to Baird in 1829, presented only

a  series of disasters.  I  was at the time of slender

make and weak constitution and soon found was
                            ;

                                 I

ill fitted for such employments as the trundling of loaded

56 THE APPRENTICE.

wheelbarrows over a plank, or the raising of huge blocks

of stone out of a quarry. My hands were soon fretted

into large blisters, my breast became the seat of a dull,

Ioppressive pain, and was much distressed after exertion

more than usually violent by an irregular motion of the
heart. My spirits were almost always miserably low ;

Iand was so wrapped up in a wretched apathetic ab
Isence of mind, that have wrought for whole hours
Itogether with scarcely a thought of what was doing

myself, and scarcely conscious of what others were doing

around me.'

      Both these narratives may be strictly consistent with
fact. In that case they afford a striking illustration of
Miller's own remark, that two varying descriptions may
be given by the same person of the same events, and
yet both be veracious. He said nothing, in the earlier
documents, of the rare birds, the beautiful landscape,
the rippled-marked stone, because it was not until after
wards that he regarded them as of importance. He
mentally associated with his first years of labour feel
ings which belonged to a later time. He was an ob
server from infancy, and his observations gave him joy ;
his memory became stored with facts ; but not until he
studied geology did he apprehend that these facts had any
scientific value. When geology took possession of Miller,
the possession was complete. He thought, talked, wrote of
geology ; his leading articles, his discussions of political
and religious questions, were full of it. From the boyish
magazines he edited, it is absent ; from the poems which
he composed in boyhood and youth, it is absent ; in the
letters which he wrote to his favourite associates, of

which we have an uninterrupted series, beginning a
year or two later than the time at which we have arrived,
we look for it in vain ; and in the narrative composed

THE ' VILLAGE OBSERVER.'  57

at the request of Baird, there is not one throb of scien

Itific enthusiasm. It was, believe, at a time much later

than that of his apprenticeship that Hugh Miller, though

his eye had always beamed with delight when it rested

on an object of beauty, learned to take a geological in
terest in the ammonite, ' graceful in its curves as those of

the Ionic volute, and greatly more delicate in its sculp
turing,' or to read, hour after hour, with scientific
curiosity, in the ' marvellous library of the Scotch Lias.'

      Boys and girls are moralists and politicians before

they care about science. Charlotte Bronte and her

brother and sisters also played at Magazines, and

wrote solemn essays lauding the Duke and execrating
the Whigs. Hugh Miller and his boy friends in 1820
were ardent politicians, censuring the conduct of govern
ment, bewailing the horrors of Peterloo, sternly criticis
ing the motives and proceedings of the Reformers. One
of the most important articles in their Magazine is a
' Retrospective Essay,' in which the events of the time
are reviewed in an ethico-historical spirit. There is no

name attached to the piece, but I take it to be Miller's,

and it is at all events a specimen at first hand of the
kind of speculation and of talk which went on in the

circle of his acquaintance. The retrospective essayist
thinks that the cruelties committed at Manchester in the

Peterloo affair ' will be held in as much detestation by
future ages as the firing upon the inhabitants of Toulon,
or the massacre of Glencoe.' A clever simile, however,

catches his eye, and he follows the bright game even at
the risk of inconsistency. ' Smollett,' he says, ' has some
where observed that an English mob, like a dancing
bear, may be irritated to a very dangerous degree of rage,
yet pacified by firing a pistol over his nose : such was it
with our British Radicals ; those whose vivid harangues

58 THE APPRENTICE.

were inspired with all the spirit of heroism, and whom
we would have supposed lions in the field, slunk
frightened at the hostile preparations against them, and
were heard of no more.' Severities comparable both to
the massacre of Glencoe and to the firing of a pistol over
a bear's nose are not easily imagined, but it would be
hard to debar boy litterateurs from saying all the fine
things which turn up, in discussing a subject, merely be
cause they occur on opposite sides of the question. Very
young and very old politicians are generally Conservative,
and the former invariably express the highest moral and
religious sentiments. Our retrospective essayist has little
or no sympathy with the patriots. ' Reform,' he writes,
' was but the name which a few designing men had affixed
to a daring rebellion ; and whose aims were that after
having pulled down with the teeth of a deluded multi
tude those men whose tyranny was most obnoxious, to
set themselves up as rulers, and in their turn be tyrants.
Happily their conduct and principles were of such a
nature, as to exclude from their meetings men of piety
or true independence : the religious opinions of Cobbett
held back all true Christians from his standard, and the

enthusiasm with which Carlile was defended disgusted

all men of sense or feeling. At their meetings it was im

possible to be an oppositionist ; and though they termed
themselves men of liberty and forbearance, the man who
dared openly to oppose their schemes ran the risk of
having his brains beat out. Indeed, the liberty they
would have secured for themselves was of no universal

kind ; it was a liberty which only bad men would have
profited by, and from which the virtuous would have
turned with disgust ; those laws which bind the victorious
would no longer have existed ; and instead of a few there
would have been a multiplicity of tyrants.'

          ENGAGES WITH DAVID WRIGHT.                             59

      The last number of the Village Observer contains a
few verses on criticism, headed ' extempore,' which seem

to be by Miller. The two opening lines are not without

spirit :--

          'Critics, like lions, make not carrion game ;
           The work has merit, or they'll ne'er condemn.'

Perhaps the most significant trait which the number
                                                                   '
presents  of Hugh  is  this  from  a  ' Journal  of the    Week
                                                                 :
-- ' Wrote a moral essay upon the advantages of indus

try, but  tore it in pieces on considering       that its author
was one   of the most indolent personages
                                                 on earth, -- did

nothing, but still determined on reform.'

Farewell, then, to the busy idleness of verse-making

and magazine editing. In the last days of February,

Miller still has leisure to put together the number for

March, but no other number follows. He binds himself,

verbally but by no legal instrument, apprentice for three
years to ' old David Wright,' stone-mason, brother-in-law
of his mother. Old David was something of a character.
The man who, standing on the thwarts of his boat, which
had just sunk, the sea water being at the moment up to his
throat, could so accurately appreciate the points of his
situation, and retain so clear a perception of the thing to
be done, as to say, on seeing his snuff-box floating off,
' Od, Andro man, just rax out your han' and tak' in my

snuff-box,' must have had an enviable firmness of nerve

and quietness of self-possession.
      Miller's uncles, who had taken the right measure of

his capacity, and who had loved and watched over him
as a son, have done their utmost to oppose this decision.
Their sure instinct tells them that the place of this recruit
is not in the ranks ; they have earnestly wished to see
him enrolled among the brain-workers of the community ;
and like all Scottish peasants of the old historic type, they

60 THE APPRENTICE.

regard the ministers of the Church of Christ as taking pre
cedence of all others in the intellectual aristocracy. They

have told him that if he will only return to his books, and
prepare for college, their home and their savings will be

at his command. They have tried to appeal to his pride
and desire for advancement. Uncle James has gone the

length of hinting with some bitterness that if he has

found books too hard for him, he may find labour harder
still, and may turn from the latter with the same incon
stancy with which he turned from the former. But
Hugh, as James Wright knows and has said, is ' a lad
of his own will,' and his mind is made up. As for
his declinature of the clerical profession, he satisfies
both himself and Uncle James on that head, by the con
sideration that he has no call to the sacred office. The

feeling of independence, strong in Hugh Miller as in
Robert Burns, rebels against the idea of his going to
college, dependent on the bounty of relatives. Strangely
enough, too, that passion for literature, whether in the form
of reading or of writing, which had marked him from
his childhood as the predestined author, drove him to the
quarry. The conception of a literary career founded

upon a complete University education, and commencing
with the instruments and furtherances which ages have

accumulated, had not dawned upon his mind. Literature
had been to him a coy maiden, radiant, fascinating, but
free and light-winged as a forest bird, and he shrank from
formal irreversible espousals. He has observed that
' Cousin George,' a mason, though hard worked during
several months in the year, has the months of winter to
himself. This decides him in favour of the trade of

mason. In winter and early spring he will return to his

beloved Muse, to dally with her in a life-long courtship ;

or, if it is to end in marriage, -- for the thought of rising

HARDSHIP.     61

by literature does lurk, deep hidden, in his heart, --she

will take his hand as a beneficent princess takes that of

a knightly though low-born suitor, and lift him at once

to fame and fortune. Uncle James's remark on the pro

bability of his failing at labour as he has failed at study,
he takes note of; it may be pleasant to teach Uncle
James that he can will to work as well as will to play, and

that, though others have lost the mastership of him, he

has not lost mastership of himself. Enough ; he declares

unalterably for stone and lime, and becomes apprentice to

his uncle, old David Wright. The engagement is un
derstood to be for three years. In the chill February
morning of 1820, he takes his way to the quarry.

       Relieved or not relieved by touches of romance,
 Hugh Miller's first season of labour proves to be one of

 sternest hardship, putting to the strain his whole faculty
 of endurance. The dark side is given in all his con
 temporary or nearly contemporary renderings of the

 subject ; the lights in the picture come out only when
 it is seen through the vista of years. Still quite a boy,
 slender and loose-jointed, unintermitted toil presses hard
 on him both in mind and in body. His spirits fail.
 He is constantly in pain, often prostrated by sickness.
 He shows at first no quickness or dexterity in acquir
 ing his trade, and is the most awkward of the appren

 tices. Uncle David begins to be of opinion that this
 incomprehensible compound of genius and dunce is in
 capable of attaining the skill of an ordinary mechanic.
 The lad is sorely tempted to become a dram-drinker.
 We have two accounts of his triumph over this tempta
 tion, the one harshly realistic, of date 1829, the other

 more picturesque, dated 1853.

      ' It is probable,' he writes to Baird, ' that the want of

 money alone prevented me from indulging, at this period,

           "

62 THE APPRENTICE.

in the low vice of dram-drinking.' He thus describes the

affair in My Schools and Schoolmasters : --' In laying

down the foundation-stone of one of the larger houses

built this year by Uncle David and his partner, the work
men had a royal " founding-pint," and two whole glasses

of the whisky came to my share. A full-grown man would

not have deemed a gill of usquebaugh an overdose, but

it was considerably too much for me ; and when the
Iparty broke up, and I got home to my books, found,
as I opened the pages of a favourite author; the letters
dancing before my eyes, and that I could no longer
Imaster the sense.
                    have the volume at present before
me, --a small edition of the Essays of Bacon, a good

deal worn at the corners by the friction of the pocket ;

for of Bacon I never tired. The condition into which I
I Ihad brought myself was, felt, one of degradation.

had sunk, by my own act, for the time, to a lower level
of intelligence than that on which it was my privilege

to be placed ; and though the state could have been no

Ivery favourable one for forming a resolution, in that
hour determined that I should never again sacrifice jny

capacity of intellectual enjoyment to a drinking usage ;

and, with God's help, I was enabled to hold by the de
termination.' It was, therefore, not ' the want of money
alone ' which prevented him from becoming a tippler, --

but we may be permitted to think that this little cir

cumstance was a valuable auxiliary to Bacon.

Soon, also, there come alleviations of his hardship

more practical than those derived from geological dis
covery and admiration of Highland scenery. As he

does not sink under exertion, his physical stamina gradu

ally asserts itself, and makes labour a source of strength.

It was a characteristic of Miller during life that he pro

gressed in anv Dursuit not by little and little, but by

            ALLEVIATIONS.  63

ieaps. His master and fellow-workmen, who, during

the first months of his apprenticeship, have regarded
him as too awkward to learn his trade, are suddenly as
tonished to find him one of the most expert hewers in

the squad.  ' So flattered was my vanity,' he writes to
Baird, ' by the respect which they paid me on this ac
count, and such satisfaction did I derive from emulating
them in what they confessed the better department of

their profession, that the coming winter, to which, a few

weeks before, I had looked forward as good men do to

the pleasures of another state of existence, was no longer
an object of desire.'

     To throw down the tools, however, could not but be
a relief, and the leisure of winter is hailed with satis

faction. After a pedestrian journey to Strath-Carron, in

company with his cousin, George Munro, in the course
of which he makes some observations not of an im

portant character, on an old Scotch forest of native pine,

he returns to Cromarty. The education of toil has

already done more for him than any previous education,

and the unruly boy has become a thoughtful, docile

young man.

                           a

                                                          64

                       CHAPTER II.

EARLY FRIENDSHIPS SWANSON, FINLAY, ROSS --PLEASURES OF

       THE IMAGINATION TWO OF NATURE'S GENTLEMEN.

              his early boyhood Miller had given proof of

FROMthe blended faithfulness and tenderness of his nature

by the affection with which he clung to one or two
chosen friends. His friendship with John Swanson,
him of the Doocot cave, already warm and confiden
tial when Hugh was twelve and John ten, continued
in freshness and intensity until the hour of Miller's
death. Finlay, whom he describes as a gentle-spirited
boy, who loved to share with him the solitude of the
caves by moonlight, seems to have held the first place in
his regard in the period immediately preceding his ap
prenticeship. In The Village Observer for January,

1820, I find 'The Farewell,' a copy of verses in which,

on departing for the south, Finlay bids adieu to Cro
marty, and which is alluded to and partly quoted in the
Schools and Schoolmasters. The five stanzas of which it
consists, though boyish, are not without a certain pensive
sincerity and sweetness.

                ' Ye pleasures of childhood, farewell,

                 In which I have oft had a part ;

                  Where mirth and where gladness prevail,
                      Without affectation or art.

WILLIAM ROSS.  65

                ' How oft when the school set me free,
                      I've wandered amongst these green woods,

                  When nothing was heard but the bee,
                      Or the cataract pouring its floods.

                 ' Ye shepherds who merrily sing,
                       And laugh out the long summer's day,

                   Expert at the ball or the ring,
                       Whose lives are one routine of play ;

              ' To you, my dear crook I resign,

                       My colly, my pipe, and my horn ;

               To leave you indeed I repine,
                 But I must away with the morn.

                   ' New scenes may arise on my sight,
                       The world and its follies be new,

                   But never such scenes of delight

                 Shall I witness secluded from you.

      By far the most remarkable, however, of these early
friends of Miller, was William Ross. There are many

memorials of Ross in Miller's papers, and I can per

ceive that the account given of him in the Schools and
Schoolmasters is not too highly coloured. The child of
parents crushed into the dust by poverty, his father
half-imbecile, his mother feeble in health and broken-

spirited, his own energies depressed by perpetual sick
ness, he had received from capricious nature a mental
organization of exquisite delicacy, enriched with fine and
tender elements. Modest, gentle, affectionate ; tremu
lously alive to the feelings and claims of others ; de
preciating everything in himself, exalting every capacity
and accomplishment of one he loved ; unaffectedly re
ligious, and unmoved by utmost calamity from simple
faith in a Divine care and a Heavenly love ; William Ross
was the very ideal of a bosom friend. There is a letter
dated Nigg, 10th July, 1821, from Ross to Miller,
which, unimportant as it is otherwise, will serve to in
troduce him to the reader. He had just lost by death

66 THE APPRENTICE.

one of the very few who had been kind to him in his

boyhood.

I' Where think you have sitten down to write you ?

In my grandmother's room, and before the very table at

Iwhich once used to read (in happier days) a chapter in

the big old Bible and sing a psalm every night and morn

Iing. I cannot tell you how feel. The remembrance

of the innocence and happiness of the days that are gone

has softened my heart, indifferent as it has become to the

pure feelings of devotion. I have done reading just now

the three last chapters of the Gospel of St John, and with

Ithe history of the sufferings of our Saviour was never

more affected. I feel my soul raised above the things of

this world in the contemplation of the truly God-like

patience with which, in His human nature, He bore the

terrible evils which were inflicted on Him, and His

resignation to the will of His Heavenly Father.

    I' Oh that could fix the present mood, and render

it permanent. What a world of happiness dwells in the

bosom of the devout man ; amid all the storms of adver

sity he has a fortress and a God. His hopes repose on

that Providence who has the disposal of all events ; not

knowing himself what is good or evil of the things of

this life, he does his duty, and trusts to his Father for the

rest. How far different is God from man ! If we ask

His favour He will not withhold it. " To the poor He is

a friend, and He will not hide His face from the needy."
I find we must love Him before we can truly love one
Ianother.  see this love as the master principle -- as the

purifier of the heart ; it warms our affections to our

friends, makes us grateful to our benefactors and forgiv

ing to our enemies. Oh, my dear Miller, bear with me

Inow as you have often done before. am weak as a child.

WILLIAM ROSS.                                       67

' My mind is filled with recollections of the joys that

are gone, and the dear sainted friend that has left me.
I went to her house, but I did not see her waiting my
Iapproach, her feet did

entered the door ; " my
not sound in                     the  passage as
dear Willie "                    was  not heard on

my unexpected appearance. The good hand that once

nursed me was not stretched out with an air of tender

affection towards me ! I looked to the place where she

used to sit, but she was not there ; in her bodily shape

I did not behold her, yet her image was before me, and

all the good she did me was present in my view. What

a vacancy is here ; what a change has death made to

Ime ! But nrast have done ; the last light of evening

is taking its leave. Good-bye.'

The difference between the character of Miller, who

met every check and insult with pugnacity, and that of

Ross, whose gentleness was feminine, and who could not

bear to be thought ill of even by those who acted to him

meanly and unkindly, tended probably to cement their

friendship. The proceedings of Ross on completing his

apprenticeship and commencing practice as a house-

painter on his own account, illustrate in a touching man

ner his simplicity and kindliness. The master who had

enjoyed his services for five years, -- and valuable services
they were, for William's talent in his vocation was
eminent, -- seems to have quite cast him off when his
term expired. He writes to Miller :--

      ' Want stared me in the face, and, having determined

not to be a burden Ito any, meant to leave, if I possibly
could, the place ; for though I had no prospect of em
Iployment, deemed it better to starve among strangers

(if nothing else awaited me) than in this country         ,

IOn the Tuesday after you had left me waited on Mr

68 THE APPRENTICE.

and told him what I meant to do if he would trust me.

He would not ; and after so downright a refusal you

cannot imagine the perturbed state of my mind. What

hurt me most was that he should have doubted my pro
Ibity.
        then went straight to Mr  to see what he
Ithought of me, for after the first shock was over was
indifferent to what I might meet with. He was not

quite so direct with me, but what he said amounted to a

Irefusal too. Before evening had paid them both, which
so reduced my slender finances that I could go nowhere,
Iand here without money or employment could not well

stay. The friend who would have sympathized with me

was gone, and perhaps 'twas better that he was. The way

Iin which have been treated could not but have hurt you.
    ' Now that you have my worst news, I will tell you

better. Colonel G       sent for me to refresh the walls

of his dining-room, and gave me 5s. when I had done.
Soon after I saw Mr     I, who asked me whether was

employed, and told me, on my replying in the negative, that

his brother-in-law, Mr  , had bought paint at London,

and was looking out for some one to paint his house for
IIhim by the day.
                     would do the work most readily,

said, but as my old master had thought of getting it for

himself, I could not think of interfering. He assured

me, however, that that was out of the question, as it was

owing to the exorbitancy of my master's estimate that

IMr had procured the materials for himself. accord

ingly went and settled with Mr    for the work at 3s.

per day. This will make a sad change, I am afraid, in
Iall enjoyed of the favourable opinion of my master ; but
I can't help it.'

Was there not a delicacy of honour in the reluctance

of the lad, whom starvation actually stared in the face, to

accept work which his old master had ' thought of

                      WILLIAM ROSS.                      09

getting,' such as is rarely met with in any rank of life ? In

a letter written shortly afterwards, we have this note of

Ithat master's conduct : ' came here to furnish brushes for

the work, but my master would sell me none.' Brushes,

however, were obtained, and he proceeds : ' I am happier

in my mind than usual. There are glimpses of sun
shine breaking out upon me, and a less troubled sky

overhead. Oh, how grateful ought I to be to that boun

teous Benefactor who knows our wants, and can and will

supply them. I hardly know, my dear Miller, how to
conclude. I trust I am grateful to Him for you too.' It

must have been a sweetly -toned nature which unkindness
so bitter did not provoke to one angry word, and which
was so easily stimulated to childlike gladness and to
pious gratitude. In the deep forest one beam penetrates
to the wounded bird, and it breaks on the instant into

song.

     We shall take another extract from these letters of

William Ross. It is interesting not only from its refer

ences to himself, but on account of the few bold and vigor

ous strokes with which it sketches Miller's uncles, James

and Alexander Wright, and still more because of its

Ivivid glimpse of the boy Miller : ' trust I am no
                                           -- and on that one
misanthrope ;   but,  with one exception   to you--it is dead
                very  explicit in writing
I need -not be
and inanimate nature that I derive all my pleasures from,
Inot the world of men.
                        have but one friend
IReally, my dear Miller, am one of the weakest young
Ifellows ever knew. All that is worth anything in me
lies on the surface of my character --a little taste, perhaps,

a little fancy, and more than a little warmth of heart;

Ibut have no energy of will, no strength of judgment;
I Ifeel cannot come in contact with superior mer

out sinking into a mere nonentity, and losing al

70 THE APPRENTICE.

Iniand of even the few powers have. I always felt thus

when in company with your uncles ; they are both

strong-minded men --strong in sentiment and intellect--

and there is a depth and massiveness in their character

Iwhich common circumstances fail to render apparent to

the unobservant, but which have felt as if by instinct.

Hence, perhaps, my profound esteem for them ; but
hence, also, my want of sympathy with them. Had you
yourself been other than a boy when our intimacy was

first formed, I would not now, it is probable, be on my

present terms with you. We met in an hour propitious

to friendship. I could not feel myself inferior to the

wayward, warm-hearted boy, who besought me so
anxiously to become attached to him ; who admired my
bad drawings, and saw very superior sense in my simple

disjointed remarks. Your force of character at the
same time was shown in but mere boyish rebellion which
one could laugh at ; your firmness was but obstinacy.

You were a mere cub, though a lion-cub --a mere sap

ling, though sprung from the acorn.'
     Such was the young man with whom Miller spent

the greater part of his time on being relieved from the
labours of his first year of apprenticeship. He read his
poems to Ross, and showed him his drawings. Hugh had
formed a high estimate of both, and the under-current
of critical severity which invariably accompanied his
friend's applause, though not strong enough to damp
his ardour, was useful in giving precision to his ideas of
himself. Ross had penetration enough to discern that
a certain imaginative glow, which threw out objects, as
it were, in aerial perspective, and cast over them a pleas
ing light of fancy or association, belonged to Miller. In
their walks in the wood or by the shore, he encouraged
Hugh to cultivate literature, applauding ' the wild vigour

            MOONLIGHT FANCIES.            71

of his imagination,' and hinting that his word-pictures

of the moment revealed more of poetical genius than

the formal productions either of his pencil or his pen.

' There is in the vicinity of the town of Cromarty,'

writes Miller to Baird, giving him an illustration of

the kind of imaginative fantasia with which he used to
entertain his friend, ' a beautiful, thickly wooded dell,

through the bottom of which there runs a small stream

let. This dell was one of our favourite night haunts.

In winter when the trees are bare of foliage, the moon

beams, when the moon is at full, find their way to the

water, though the steep banks on either side are lost in

the shade. The appearance when viewed from some of

the overhanging thickets is exceedingly beautiful, and

when contemplating it in the company of my friend,
I have in the wild extravagance of fancy compared the
little moonlight brook to,--I know not how many
different objects, --to a pictured flash
-- to a stream of lava,--to a rippling     of pale lightning,
IBorealis.                                strip of the Aurora

            have termed the little dell a dark oblong

mirror, and the bright streamlet in its centre, the
Ireflection of the milky way.
                               have described the

trunks of the trees and the stones which were relieved

by the light from the shade behind, as fays and spectres
Iby which the place was tenanted.
                                          have even given a

minute detail of the particular expression of their

features, and the peculiarities of their attire.'

    Ross's advice to Miller on the whole was as follows :--

I' Your drawings have but little merit, nor can regard

them even as works of promise ;--neither by any means
do you write good verses. And why, do you think, do I
tell you so ?--Only to direct your studies to their proper
object. You draw ill because nature never intended that
you should do otherwise ; whereas you write ill only

72 THE APPRENTICE.

because you write seldom. You are possessed of talents
which with due culture will enable you to attain no

common command of the pen ; for you are an original

thinker, your mind is richly embued with poetry, and

though devoid of a musical ear, you have from nature

something much better, -- that perception of the har

monies of language which is essential to the formation of

a good and elegant style.' So far as I can judge, no

critic in Europe could have more correctly estimated

Miller's capacity at the time, or given him better advice.

    A spectator observing these lads, the one appren

ticed to a mason, the other to a house painter, would

hardly have guessed the nature of their conversation.

Had they been youths of aristocratic birth or University

distinction, could their intercourse have been more

completely that of gentlemen ? We may note how

steadily Hugh pushes forward what, without much

conscious   hreissollivfein, g--   on the subject,    has become the
purpose of                                            quiet persistence,
                                  self-culture. With

undistracted by the commencement of lifelong toil as a

mason, he cherishes the ambition of maturing his

powers of thought and expression. Attesting, also, the

radical nobleness of his character, and the high tone of

the society in which he had lived, this circumstance is to

be noted, --that the ambition of making money never

seized him. The big bells of Babylon dinning into all

young ears, never more loudly than in our age, their in

vitation to make fortunes, had no persuasion for him. To

extend the empire of his mind, to enrich and beautify

the garden of his soul, this was what presented itself as

a supreme object of ambition to our Scottish boy of

eighteen, with a mallet in his hand.

73

CHAPTER III.

CONON-SIDE A MANIAC FRIEND   LIFE IN THE BARRACK
   WANDERINGS IN THE WOODS  SCENERY OF CONON-SIDE

    AT HOME AGAIN.

IN the spring of 1821 Miller resumed his labours. In
     the latter end of May, his master had finished the
work contracted for in the district of Cromarty, and, as no

more contracts were to be had, was compelled to descend
from the position of master and seek employment as
journeyman. The apprentice he had taken at the same

time with Miller seized the opportunity of regaining his
freedom and setting up as journeyman on his own ac
count; and one might have thought that the wilful,
headstrong lad, who had set his uncles and his school
masters at defiance, would have followed this example.
But Hugh was no longer the turbulent schoolboy of
sixteen, and among the qualities which had ripened
in the wholesome atmosphere of labour, was a pro
found sense of justice. He continued to serve old David
Wright, and proceeded with him to the banks of the
Conon, a river which falls into the Cromarty Frith at

its western extremity. On reaching Conon-side, they
found that the scene of their occupation lay a few miles
farther to the west, and for four weeks they were em
ployed in building a jointure-house for the widow of a

74 THE APPRENTICE.

Highland proprietor. Miller describes the country

around as ' somewhat bare and dreary --a scene of bogs

and moors, overlooked by a range of tame heathy hills.'

    It was while here that he became acquainted with

that remarkable maniac of whom he has left an account

in the Schools and Schoolmasters. Looking at mid

night from the window in the loft in which he slept,

he beheld a light moving among the ruins of an old

chapel and the graves of the surrounding burial-ground.

It was carried in the hand of the escaped maniac. He

attracted her attention and secured her regard by in

terfering on her behalf when she was being chained
down on the damp floor of her hut. Of a naturally

powerful though completely disordered intellect, she
had sagacity enough to discover that Miller was of a

different strain from his fellow-masons, and entertained

him with stories of the Highlands and anecdotes of her

deceased brother, a preacher of reputation. She loved

to discuss the most abstruse questions of metaphysical

theology.  That every human soul is immediately

created by God, not transmitted from a human ancestor,

she declared herself to be fully convinced ; but, then,

how to account for the influence exerted on all souls by

the fall ? It would take a powerful theologian, sane or

insane, to answer this question. Miller informed her
that a great authority thought it might be ' by way of

natural concomitancy, as Estius will have it ; or, to speak
as Dr Reynolds doth, by way of ineffable resultancy and
emanation.' ' As this,' he adds, ' was perfectly unin
telligible, it seemed to satisfy my new friend.' A singular

Ipair on the black Ross-shire moor ! It is only, sup

pose, in Scotland that masons' apprentices and female
maniacs engage in abstruse metaphysical discussions.

     The jointure-house finished, Miller bids adieu to his

THE BARRACK.  , 75

mad friend and returns to Conon-side. He is now,

for the first time, introduced to the barrack or bothy

life of a squad of masons. A description of the barrack

and the scene it presented on his first becoming one of

its inmates, occurs in his letter to Baird. ' I followed,'

he writes, ' the horde into their barrack. It consisted

of one large apartment. Along the wall, and across
one of the gables, there was a range of beds rudely con
structed of outside slab deals, and filled with straw,

which bristled from beneath the blankets, and from be

tween the crevices of the frames, in a manner much less

neat than picturesque. At each bedside there were two

chests, which served not only the purpose originally in
tended, but also for chairs and tables. Suspended by
ropes from the rafters above, there hung at the height
of a man's head from the ground, several bags filled
with oatmeal, which by this contrivance was secured
from the rats, with which the place was infested. Along
the gable furthest removed from the door there was a
huge wood fire ; above it there were hung several small
pots, enveloped in smoke, which, for lack of proper vent,

after filling the whole barrack, escaped by the door.
Before the fire there was a row of stones, each of which

supported an oaten cake. The inmates, who exceeded
twenty, had disposed of themselves in every possible
manner. Some were lounging in the beds, others were
seated on the chests. Two of them were dancing on
the floor to the whistling of a third. There was one
employed in baking, another in making ready the bread.
The chaos of sounds which reigned among them was
much more complete than that which appalled their
prototypes, the builders of Babel. There was the gab
bling of Saxon, the sputtering of Gaelic, the humming
of Church music, the whistling of the musician, and the

76 .             THE APPRENTICE.

stamping of the dancers. Three of the pots on the fire

began to boil together, and there was a cry for the cook.
He came rushing forward, pushed the man engaged in

baking from out his way with one hand, and drawing

the seat from under the one employed in making ready

the bread with the other, he began to shout out, so as

to drown their united voices, for meal and salt. Both

were brought him, and in a few minutes he had com

pleted his task.'

    Wild companions, a wild lodging, and wild mode of

life ; nor can much bodily comfort be associated with

the idea of a diet whose sole variation is from oatmeal

in porridge to oatmeal in cakes : but Miller is not un

happy. He is now recognized as a good workman, and

his frame is more capable of labour than in the previous
season. His spirit is buoyant, and full of gay, hopeful
humour; and his readiness to take and return a jest,

together with his sprightliness and his obliging dis

position, secure him the good-will of his companions.
On the long summer evenings, when work is over, he

can wander about the district, climbing its ridges of
hill, exploring its ruins and natural curiosities, diving

into the recesses of its woods, and following the course
of its streams. He is still boy enough to enjoy the

raspberries which grow in the woods, and the poetry of

his nature finds aliment in the new and picturesque

aspects of hill and plain which every eminence reveals

to him.

The district of Miller's sojourn at this time, dreary

and bare though he callsa              not without its pleasing

                               it,
                                   is
and impressive features. Gaunt hills rise everywhere,

wanning at autumn, when the heather blooms, into

solemn glow of purple, but for the greater part of the

year presenting  surface of black-brown, fringed here

STRATHPEFFER.  77

and there with fir or plumed with birch. The grey
crag pierces the moor, the grey mist trails wearily along

the hill-summits. A marked feature of the scenery is

the gracefully drooping, delicately waving, birch foliage,
which stoops to the frequent watercourse or hangs tremul
ous over the surface of the lake, the white stems relieved

against the russet heath, or vying with the whiter foam of
the cascade. Over all towers the bald forehead of Ben

Wyvis, a thousand feet above the highest of the encircling
hills, and with a few white snow-gleams lingering among
its crags and corries even in the height of summer. Be
tween the ridges and in the basins of the hills, the lakes

are numerous, and from the higher elevations, as the eye
looks through curtains of mist, opening and closing in
majestic change, the broad flash of their golden mirrors,
girdled by the ebon hills, is seen striking upwards with

a resplendence never to be forgotten.

      The gentler aspects of the scenery appear, however,
to have chiefly attracted Miller. ' Strathpcffer,' he
wrote to Baird, ' one of the finest valleys in this part of
the country, lies within five miles of Conon-side. My

walks occasionally extended to it ; and I still retain a

vividly-pleasing recollection of its enchanting scenery,
with the more pleasing features of the scenes through

which I passed on my way to it. There is in its vicinity

a beautiful little lake, which contains a wooded island.

IAlong the banks of this lake have sauntered for whole
Ihours ; and from the green top of Knockferrol, one of

the hills by which the valley is bounded, have seen the
sun sink behind Ben Wyvis, without once thinking that

I was five miles from my place of residence.'

     But he was not exclusively engaged on these occasions

in view -hunting. I' have not even yet,' he adds, ' summed

up the whole of my evening amusements. They were

78 THE APPRENTICE.

not all equally poetical. The country round Conon-side

Iabounds with wild fruit, and have feasted among the

woods, during my long rambles, on gueens, rowans,

raspberries, and blae-berries, with all the keenness of

boyish appetite. The fruit furnished me with an osten

sible object for my wanderings ; and when complimented

by a romantic young girl, who had derived her notions

of character from the reading of romances, on that dis

position which led me to seek my pleasures in solitude,

II could remark in reply that was not more fond of

solitude than of raspberries.'

Thirty years afterwards, in the Schools and School

masters, he refers to his walks by Conon-side in these
Iterms
      --'     greatly enjoyed those evening walks.     From

      :

Conon-side as a centre, a radius of six miles commands

many objects of interest ; -- Strathpeffer, with its mineral

springs ; Castle Leod, with its ancient trees, among the
rest one of the largest Spanish chestnuts in Scotland ;
Knockferrol, with its vitrified fort ; the old tower of

Fairburn ; the old, though somewhat modernized, tower

of Kinkell ; the Brahan policies, with the old castle of
the Seaforths ; the old castle of Kilcoy ; and the Druidic

circles of the moor of Redcastle                  My recollec

tions of this rich tract of country, with its woods and

towers, and noble river, seem as if bathed in the red

light of gorgeous sunsets.'
     In a letter, otherwise unimportant, to William Ross,

Iwritten, as conclude, after he had returned to Cro

marty for the winter, there occurs this reference to the
              --'
same  period       When  the  task  of  the  day  was  over,  and
              :

I walked out amid the fields and woods to enjoy the
Icool of the evening, it was then that was truly happy.

Before me the Conon rolled her broad stream to the

sea ; behind, I seemed shut up from all intercourse with


78

 not att eqviaU?
  abounds vritY
  ^oods, dun

    Tasp\eTne9,

    boyish ao?
     sible objec
      \>y a Toma
       of charact

    Iposition
          could
        solitude

            Th'

        master
        terms
        Cono
         man
        spr'
        res

      K
       F

sea; be/,,,.

. Sir.. jAi>..

r

                                      I

     -r
rA

    It

  -r.-I

IN CROMARTY AGAIN.                                                                  79

mankind by a thick and gloomy wood, while the tower
of Fairburn,* and the blue hills behind
                                                  it,formed the
                                                                 a
distant landscape. Not                 a   cloud rose upon the sky,
not salmon glided beneath me in the river, nor leafin
It a
shook upon the alders that o'erhung the stream, but
      a
         inraised some poetic emotion my breast.'

                    inwas late the year when he returned to Cromarty.

                                    '
Nearly month of winter had passed. Ross was now

residing the cottage of his parents on the northern
side of Cromarty Frith, and Miller lacked the stimulus

of his literary sympathy. What remained of the season,'
he wrote to Baird, together with the greater part of the
                                       '

                                              in
ensuing spring, was spent                         profitless indolence.             I

neither wrote verses nor drew pictures, but wandered

during the day through the fields and woods, and among

the rocks of the hill of Cromarty and my evenings
a
                           in
                               in
                                     a
                                          ';

                                                             '

                                                  a

                                                                                 a

                                                                    a
were commonly spent either in the workshop of my uncle

James, where few of the more intelligent mechanics of

the place generally met, or                       the company of new

acquaintance.' This was the helpless cripple, described

in the Schools and Schoolmasters as poor lame Dame,'

who, with his old mother, occupied                damp under

ground room.' Miller formed                       friendship with the

suffering boy, and took delight alleviating the tedium

of his lingering illness.

      * The accompanying drawing was executed by Miller lew years
subsequently to the time when he worked in the vicinity of the old

tower of Fairburn.

                       80

             CHAPTER IV.

RETURNS TO CONON-SIDE MAKES HIMSELF RESPECTED IN THE

BARRACK COMPANIONS     ATTEMPTS GEOMETRY AND ARCHI
                       EXPERIMENT IN NECROMANCY
TECTURE -- HARDSHIPS

DREAM THE BOTHY SYSTEM LITERARY RECREATIONS

TEDIUM END OF APPRENTICESHIP        THE BLESSING OF

LABOUR PRACTICAL PHILOSOPHY.

THE working season of 1822 finds him again on
Conon-side.  He is now in the third year of his

apprenticeship, and he feels that he has a position in the

barrack. ' I had determined ' --the words are from the

letter to Baird -- ' early this season to conform to every

Ipractice of the barrack, and as was an apt pupil, I had

in a short time become one of the freest, and not the least
Irude of its inmates.
                       became an excellent baker, and
Ione of the most skilful of cooks.
                                    made wonderful

advances in the art of practical joking, and my bon-mots

were laughed at and repeated. There were none of my

companions who could foil me in wrestling, or who

could leap within a foot of me ; and after having taken
the slight liberty of knocking down a young fellow who

insulted me, they all began to esteem me as a lad of spirit

and promise.'
      The foreman of the squad with which he worked

appears to have exerted some influence upon his

mind. ' When a young man,' writes Miller, ' he had

THE FOREMAN.  81

bent his excellent natural parts to the study of his pro
fession ; and he became so skilful in it as to be intrusted

with the superintendence of a party of workmen while
yet an apprentice. His early proficiency was a subject
of wonder to his less gifted companions ; he was much
gratified by their admiration, and acquired that appetite
for praise which is of so general experience, and which
in many instances becomes more keen the more it is
supplied with food. He had too much sense to be open
to the direct flatteries of other people, but he was not
skilful in detecting his own ; and having attained, in the
limited circle to which circumstances confined him, the

fame of being talented, he set himself to acquire the
reputation of being generous and warm-hearted ; and
this perhaps, for he was naturally of a cold temperament,
from that singular weakness incident to human nature,
which has so frequently the effect of making even men
of reflection derive more pleasure from the praise of the
qualities or talents of which they are destitute, than of
those which they really possess. When treating his

companions, he was rendered happy by believing they
entertained an opinion of him similar to that with which
he regarded himself; and that they would describe him

to others as one whose head and heart were the warmest

and clearest they had ever met with. A few years expe

rience of the world convinced him that his expectations
were miserably unfounded. He saw, or at least thought
he did, that every man he came in contact with had
himself for his centre ; and though unacquainted with
the maxims of Rochefoucault, he concluded with that

philosopher that the selfish principle is the spring of all
human action. The consequence of this conclusion was
a misanthropy of the most sincere and unaffected kind.
So sincere was it that he made no profession of it ; unlike

82 THE APPRENTICE.

those silly would-be misanthropes who, while they affect
a hatred of their kind, take care to inform them of that

hatred lest they should fail of attracting their notice.'
I' was advised by this man,' proceeds Miller, ' to
Istudy geometry and architecture. With the latter
Ihad previously been acquainted ; of the former was
Ientirely ignorant.
                     had not even a single correct idea

of it.  The study of a few detached hours, though
        amid the distraction of a barrack, made me
passed
master  Iof the language peculiar to the science ; and

was then surprised to find how wide a province it opens

to the mental powers, and to discover that what is termed

mathematical skill means only an ability of reasoning on

the forms and properties of lines and figures, acquired

by good sense being patiently directed to their con
Isideration.
              perceived, however, that from prosecuting
Ithis study, could derive only amusement ; and that

too not of a kind the most congenial to my particular
Icast of mind.
                had no ambition to rise by any of the
Iprofessions in which it is necessary ; and chose rather

to exercise the faculties proper to be employed inI it     in
the wide field of nature and of human affairs, --in tracing
                                            it,
causes to their effects and effects to their causes; in
                                            I
classing together things similar, and in marking the

differences of things unlike. The study of architecture

found more amusing partly, believe, because tasked
II
              ;

                  it,

                  I;
                          it it I
me less --partly because         gratified my taste, and

exercised my powers of invention. In geometry saw

that could only follow the footsteps of others; and

that would be necessitated to pursue the beaten track

for whole years before could reach that latest discovered

extremity of    beyond which there lies undiscovered,

untrodden regions in which would be delight to
                                   a

expatiate. Architecture, on the contrary, appeared to me

             END OF APPRENTICESHIP.                                                    83

Ia field of narrow boundaries.  could see at one glance
Ihbgeroortdthe-bsqoouyv,eer--coiatttcaaagnvederonbfehyaaonlHfdivgehiitllea;d--ndovpeehraawsvaeitnht,fo--truantihldiengthhuapttlaontfthse,a
-- an opening in a wood, --in short, a countless variety

of objects of art and nature supplied me with ideas

is
                                                  it,
which, though connected with                           had not become part

of it.'

From mathematics, therefore, as previously from

classics, Hugh Miller turned aside. The circumstance

    perhaps to be regretted, and yet with the former

reservation, --that any severe and systematic course of

study would have interfered with that natural and

spontaneous development which made him what he was.

His apprenticeship had begun with trying experi

ences, and its termination was marked also by extremity

of hardship. In the September of this year, 1822, his

master obtained work as contractor on farm few
             A

                                    a
                                                                   aa

                                                                                    a
miles from Cromarty, and he and Miller bade adieu to

Conon-side.  wall was to be built and farmsteading

to be repaired, and as the season was advanced and

David Wright could afford to employ no labour in ad

dition to his own and that of his apprentice, Miller and

he worked from dawn until night-fall. Their work was

of the most painful kind day after day with wet feet
             '
                     '
                                   ;
                                 '
                                            '
in water-logged ditch,' laying stone upon stone until
if a
the cuticle was worn away and the fingers oozed blood.

In the Schools and Schoolmasters, Miller describes the

labour of this time as torture.' How these poor hands

of mine,' he says, burnt and beat at night at this time,

as an unhappy heart had been stationed in every

finger! and what cold chills used to run, sudden

as electric shocks, through the feverish frame                                         His
                                                       !'

                                                           f
health was affected;  a  dull, depressing pain weighed

84 THE APPRENTICE.

upon his chest, and there were symptoms of pectoral
blood-spitting. He lost his spirits and thought he was

going to die.

Of his state of mind at this time we have two

illustrations, the one given in the Schools and School
masters, the other in the letter to Baird. ' Superstition,'

we quote from the published volume, 'takes a strong

hold of the mind in circumstances such as those in which

I was at this time placed. One day when on the top of

a tall building, part of which we were throwing down to

Isupply us with materials for our work, raised up a

broad slab of red micaceous sandstone, thin as a roofing

slate, and exceedingly fragile, and, holding it out at arm's

Ilength, dropped it over the wall. had been worse than

usual all that morning, and much depressed ; and, ere
Ithe slab parted from                  said -- looking forward
                                    shall break up like that
to but a few months
                  omfylifhea--nd,I

sandstone slab, and perish as little known. But the

sandstone slab did not break up : a sudden breeze blew

it aslant as it fell ; it cleared the rough heap of stones
Ibelow, where
                  had anticipated it would have been

shivered to fragments ; and lighting on its edge, stuck
upright like a miniature obelisk, in the soft green sward

beyond. None of the philosophies or the logics would

have sanctioned the inference which I immediately drew ;

but that curious chapter in the history of human belief

which treats of signs and omens abounds in such pos
                                  I at
tulates and such  conclusions.           aonndcenoitnfdeirere;d"  that
recovery awaited                to live                           and
                  me : I was "
Ifelt lighter, during the few weeks afterwards toiled at

this place, under the cheering influence of the con

viction.'

In the letter to Baird there is no mention of this

waking experiment, but he records the following dream :

                   A DREAM.                         85

I I-- ' dreamed that was walking alone, in an evening of

singular beauty, over a low piece of marshy ground

which lies about half a mile to the north of the place

where I wrought. On a bank which rises above the

marsh there is a small burying-ground, and the ruins
I Iof an old chapel.
                   dreamed that                 arrived at the

burying-ground, and that it was laid out in a manner

the most exquisitely elegant. The tombs were of beau

tiful and varied workmanship. They were of a style

either chastely Grecian or gorgeously Gothic ; and en-

wreathed and half hid by the flowers and foliage of

beautiful shrubs, which sprung up and clustered around

them. There was a profusion of roses, mingled with

Idelicate blue flowers of a species never saw except in

this dream. The old Gothic chapel seemed roofed with

stone, and appeared as entire as the day it had been com

pleted ; but from the lichens and mosses with which it

was covered, it looked more antique than almost any

Ibuilding remember to have seen. The whole scene

was relieved against a clear sky, which seemed bright

and mellow as if the sun had set only a minute before.

Suddenly, however, it became dark and lowering, a low

Ibreeze moaned through the tombs and bushes, and
Ibegan to feel the influence of a superstitious terror.
Ilooked towards the chapel, and on its western gable

saw an antique-looking, singularly formed beam of

bronze, which seemed to unite in itself the shapes of the

Ihour hand of a clock and the gnomon of a dial. As

a                  turned slowly on its axis until pointed
            it,

               it
gazed on                                        it

at spot on the sward below.                 It  then remained sta

tionary as before. My terror increased, -- the images of

my dream became less distinct, and my last recollection

before    awoke    of wild night-scene, and of my
        I

                            is
                                         a

floundering on in the darkness through the marsh below

86 THE APPRENTICE.

the burying-ground. A few weeks after the night of

this dream, one of my paternal cousins in the second

Idegree, was seized by a fever of which he died. attended

his funeral, and found that the grave had been opened to
receive his corpse on exactly the patch of sward to which

the beam had turned.'                                 --

This  dream he  calls  'a  prophecy  of  contingency  ;

one of those few dreams which, according to Bacon,

men remember and believe because they happen to hit,

not one of the many which they deem idle and forget,

because they chance to miss.' To us it is interesting

as showing, especially when taken in connection with

the small experiment in necromancy previously related,

how strongly, even at this early period, Hugh Miller's

mental state was influenced by his physical condition.

Brooding on early death by day, wandering among
tombs in night-visions, his brain was rapidly approach
ing that degree of agitation at which will and intellect

fall under the dominion of mania.

Both in the Schools and Schoolmasters and in the

letter to Baird, he dwells upon the wretched and dis

solute life of the two or three (we have two in the earlier

account and three in the later) farm-servants who oc

cupied the same bothy with himself and his master. In
his twenty -seventh year Hugh Miller pronounced em

phatic condemnation on the bothy system ; he returned

to the subject when fifty, and it was to enforce his
opinion by the experience of his life. ' There were,' he
writes to Baird, 'two unmarried farm-servants who

lodged with us in the barrack. They were both young

men ; and the life they were almost necessitated to lead
was one of the most unfriendly possible to the formation

of moral character. All day they were employed in the

monotonous labours of the farm. Their evenings, as

FARM-SERVANTS.                                      87

they had no home, were spent either in neighbouring

houses, where young people similarly situated with

themselves were accustomed to meet, or in a small

village, about a mile distant, where there was an ale

house. Their ordinary pleasures consisted in drinking,

and amusements of a low and gross character ; their

principal enjoyment they derived from what they termed
a ball ; and scarce a fortnight passed at this season

without one being held at the village. It was commonly

midnight before they returned to the barrack. The

effects of this heartless course of life were apparent in
their dispositions and conduct. They were bound by

no ties of domestic affection ; and though they were

never apart, they seemed to have no other idea of friend
ship than that it was a matter of convenience which

substituted the pleasures of society for the horrors of
solitude. To a person of a degraded selfish cast of
mind it is misery to be alone ; and hence it will almost

invariably be found that the more careless a common

man becomes of his fellows, the less can he live without

them. The lads were besides extremely ignorant ; they

were of a gay reckless disposition ; and as they enter

tained no affection for their employer, and had their

moral feelings much blunted, the services they rendered
him were profitless and inefficient, as those services

Igenerally are which are extorted by necessity, and
regulated by only a dread of censure.  could not

think without regret that they were yet to become hus

Ibands and the fathers of families ; and at this time

was first led to perceive that the large farm system has

been as productive, at least, of moral evil as of physical

good. By the discoveries in the art of agriculture
which it has led, the soil has been meliorated

rendered more productive ; --but what have been

88 THE APPRENTICE.

effects upon men? So far as it has extended, it has

substituted two classes of character which may be

regarded as opposite extremes equally removed from the

intermediate line of excellence, for a class which occupied

the proper medium. It has given us, for a wise, moral,

and religious peasantry, gentlemen farmers and farm-

servants ;--the latter in too many instances a class of

debased helots of the character described ; the former a

body of men too often marked (though certainly with

many exceptions) by a union of the worst traits peculiar

mtoercthheantos,pp--ositnhge  classes of    country gentlemen and
                              supercilious  overbearing manners of
the one class, -- the unfeeling speculative spirit of the

other.'

To the same effect is the later statement of his views

on the subject. ' The deteriorating effect of the large farm

system,' he wrote, 'is inevitable. . . . Farm-servants,

as a class, must be lower in the scale than the old tenant-

farmers, who wrought their little farms with their own

hands ; but it is possible to elevate them far above the

degraded level of the bothy ; and unless means be taken

to check the spread of the ruinous process of brute-

making which the system involves, the Scottish people
will sink, to a certainty, in the agricultural districts,

from being one of the most provident, intelligent, and

moral in Europe, to be one of the most licentious, reck

less, and ignorant.'

    If two men ever lived who knew the Scottish people,

and were able to give an intelligent opinion concerning

them, those two men were Robert Burns and Hugh

Miller ; and their joint authority in favour of the old

system and against the new, viewed in relation to the

capacity of each to produce upright, independent, self-
respecting men, will hardly be outweighed by the con

IN THE BOTHY.  89

sideration that large farms, worked by men in bothies,

send most meat to the London market.

    It may be hoped that such bothies as that in which

Hugh Miller lived at this time are no longer to be found
in Scotland. The roof leaked ; the sides were ' riddled
with gaps and breaches ; ' along the ridge, ' it was open
to the sky from gable to gable,' ' so that,' he writes,

' when I awakened in the night, I could tell what o'clock

it was, without rising out of bed, by the stars which
appeared through the opening.' Even in this dismal
place, however, he contrived to supply himself with the
consolations of literature. From a wandering pedlar he

obtained the old Scottish poems of Gawin Douglas and
William Dunbar, besides a collection of 'Ancient Scottish
Poems ' from the MS. of George Bannatyne. These
books he ' perused with great interest, lying on the

barrack floor, with the page spread out within a few

inches of the fire.' At last, even this resource failed

him. The fuel used for warming the barrack became

soaked with rain, and could not produce a blaze by

which it was possible to read. There was nothing for

it but to stick doggedly to work, passing as many hours
of the twenty-four in sleep as was practicable. He found
that, by a little judicious management, a great deal of

sleep could be got into the twenty-four hours, and that

sleep was not a bad makeshift in the absence of livelier

entertainments. ' I restricted myself,' he writes to Baird,

' to two meals per day, that immediately after taking

dinner I might go to bed ; and in a short time this new
arrangement became such a matter of habit that I com

monly fell asleep every evening about six o'clock, and

did not rise, sometimes not even awaken, until near

Ieight next morning. Since this time have been ac
Icustomed to decide whether am happy or the contrary

90 THE APPRENTICE.

(a query of difficulty when one measures one's circum

stances by the standards of either hope or fear) by a test
Iextremely simple.
                     deem the balance to incline to the
Iside of happiness when prefer consciousness to uncon
Isciousness, --when
                     consider sleep merely a thing of

necessity, instead of regarding it as a refuge from the

tedium of waking inanity, or unpleasant occupation.

The converse leads me to a contrary conclusion.' In the

letter from which this is quoted he pronounces the

spring and summer of the first year of his apprenticeship
' the gloomiest seasons of his life ; ' in the Schools and

Schoolmasters, the closing period is declared to have

been ' by far the gloomiest he ever spent.' At both

periods he suffered about as much as man can suffer ;

but in the intermediate stages there were glimpses, nay,
abiding gleams, of enjoyment. On the 11th of Novem

ber, 1822, his apprenticeship came to an end.
     He was now an accomplished workman, and perhaps

in all his books there is no passage more weighty or

valuable than that in which he gives his estimate of the

importance of this fact, and impresses upon artisans the

supreme necessity of being masters of their trade. ' It

is not uninstructive,' he writes, ' to observe how strangely

the public are led at times to attach paramount import

ance to what is in reality only subordinately important,

and to pass over the really paramount without thought

or notice. The destiny in life of the skilled mechanic

is much more influenced, for instance, by his second

education --that of his apprenticeship, --than by his first
--that of the school ; and yet it is to the education of

the school that the importance is generally regarded as

attaching, and we never hear of the other. The careless,
incompetent scholar has many opportunities of recover

ing himself ; the careless, incompetent apprentice, who

APPRENTICESHIP EDUCATION.  91

either fails to serve out his regular time, or who, though
he fulfils his term, is discharged an inferior workman,
has very few ; and further, nothing can be more certain
than that inferiority as a workman bears much more dis
astrously on the condition of the mechanic than inferi
ority as a scholar. Unable to maintain his place among
brother journeymen, or to render himself worthy of the
average wages of his craft, the ill-taught mechanic falls
out of regular employment, subsists precariously for a
time on occasional jobs, and either, forming idle habits,
becomes a vagabond tramper, or, getting into the toils of

some rapacious taskmaster, becomes an enslaved sweater.
For one workman injured by neglect of his school edu
cation, there are scores ruined by neglect of their ap
prenticeship education. Three-fourths of the distress of
the country's mechanics (of course not reckoning that of
the unhappy class who have to compete with machinery),

and nine-tenths of their vagabondism, will be found
restricted to inferior workmen, who, like Hogarth's
 "careless apprentice," neglected the opportunities of their
 second term of education. The sagacious painter had a
 truer insight into this matter than most of our modern

 educationists.'

      During his apprenticeship the character of Miller
 began to reveal the essential traits which we afterwards
 find in it. ' Gloomy ' many of its seasons were ; the

' gloomiest ' of his life, --at least until he became a liter

 ary celebrity and editor of a religious newspaper : but
 both its gloom and its gladness went to the making and
 maturing of his character. The aching joint, the fevered
 pulse, the breast oppressed with pain, the eye swimming
 in bewildered trance of agony and exhaustion ; the
 meditative midnight hour, when his eye marked the stars
 as they crossed the rent in the roof, the evening wander

92 THE APPRENTICE.

ings in woodland and by stream when sunset clothed
in ruddy light the old tower on the crag ; these con
stituted the true education of Hugh Miller. Henceforth
we recognize him as the man he was, and are able to
trace in his countenance those lines of fortitude and re
solution which so strongly marked that of his father.
He had won the first decisive victory of life, earnest
of all other victories, the victory of reason and conscience
over momentary inclination, of intelligent will over lag
gard indolence and lawless impulse. He had disciplined
the wayward activity of boyhood into manly force. He
had chastened rude strength into ordered energy. Blus
tering self-assertion, juvenile conceit, had given place to
deliberate self-respect; and that rebellious disposition
which had perplexed his uncles and been the despair of
his mother was calmed and concentrated into modesty,
into self-command, into the gentleness of conscious
power. The flawed and brittle iron had become steel.
' Noble, upright, self-relying Toil,' he exclaims, with
grand enthusiasm, 'who that knows thy solid worth
and value would be ashamed of thy hard hands, and thy

soiled vestments, and thy obscure tasks, --thy humble

cottage, and hard couch, and homely fare ! '
     Not, however, to all men is toil an education and

hardship a blessing. Hugh Miller came to his appren
ticeship fortified against evil and prepared for good by
that training in courage and truthfulness, in just thought
and manly feeling, which he had unconsciously received
in companionship with his uncles. Those gentlemen of
nature's finest modelling were, though he knew it not,
the examples by which he shaped himself. He acted on

all occasions as he felt that Uncle James or Uncle Sandy
would have acted in the circumstances. Nor can we err

in affirming that the incidents and results of Miller's

PHILOSOPHY OF LIFE.  93

apprenticeship prove that there was a remarkable sound
ness in his original constitution, a fund of natural health,
moral and intellectual, of genial humour and of homely
wisdom. How bravely he makes the most of adverse

circumstances ! How cheerfully he accommodates him
self to his situation ! How kindly are the relations he
establishes between himself and his coarse and riot

ous associates ! There is nothing which he cannot
assimilate and apply to his mental nutriment, and he is
animated by a quiet, half-conscious, but steadfast ambi
tion for self-culture. He has a deep-lying conviction of
his ability to rise above the sphere in which he finds
himself placed ; but he has already got firm hold of
a very ancient philosophy of life, a philosophy which
has been of use to wise men in every age ; and it has
made him comparatively indifferent to what is called

success. According to this philosophy, happiness is
too subtle an essence to be purchased with gold, or
to be dealt out wholesale to one class of men as dis

tinguished from another ; the rude fare of the peasant
is as sweet to him as his dainties to the peer ; the
honest pride which warms the heart of the capable
artisan is as instinct with joy as the aristocrat's pride of
rank or birth ; nature's face has a smile for all who will

lovingly look into it; and rising in the world may

mean falling in all that makes life precious, character
illustrious, man happy.


             BOOK III.
     THE JOURNEYMAN.

' Here also is a man who can handle both pen and hammer like a man.'


        97

        CHAPTER 1.

FAVOURABLE OPINIONS FROM OLD DAVID WRIGHT AND UNCLE
   JAMES FIRST WORK AS JOURNEYMAN AUNT JENNY'S COT
   TAGE SENDS POETICAL PIECES TO ROSS SELF-DELINEA

    TION.

ON returning to Cromarty, Miller soon regains his
       health, and things wear for him on the whole a

pleasant aspect. Old David Wright, who had occasion

imally been morose to his apprentice (his own distresses

peratively demanding that relief) , now declares that, though
unsecured to him by any written agreement, Hugh had

been 'beyond comparison more tractable and obedient
than any indentured pupil he ever had.' Uncle James,
whose predictions of failure at work, as a natural sequel
to failure at school, had contributed not a little to the

support of Miller at the worst time --for it would be ex

quisitely gratifying to punish  aacntdionto--pldeoaesse  Uncle  James
by one and the same course of                            ample  justice

to the faithfulness with which, from a mere sense of

honour, he has completed his engagement, and owns that

there is in him, after all, the making of a man.

     His first employment as    a  journeyman is character
istic. To seek remunerative
                                   employment --to start in
life for himself -- would be his natural impulse. But the

better and homelier part of his nature has now ripened,

and kindness of heart, one of his deepest qualities, proves

stronger than the prompting of ambition. ' Aunt Jenny,'

TOL. L  7

98 THE JOURNEYMAN.

a sister of his mother, who had long wished to have some

dwelling which she could call her own, and in which her

spinning-wheel and knitting-needles might supply her

modest wants, had never surmounted the alarm occasioned

by the prospect of paying rent. Hugh inherited a little

piece of garden ground from his father. Part of this he
now devotes to the purpose of building a cottage for Aunt

Jenny. Money he has none, but the few pounds which

his aunt has saved are enough to buy wood for the roof

and to pay for carting the necessary stones and mortar,

and he builds the cottage. The worthy aunt is saved

from fear of rent for the remainder of her days, and Hugh

has his reward. The cottage is still to be seen in the

village of Cromarty, bearing witness, while stone and

lime endure, to the competence of Hugh Miller as a stone-

. mason, and to the simplicity, solidity, and kindliness of

 his character. It is in little circumstances like this that

one learns infallibly what is in a man. When the scenes

are arranged, the audience assembled, the attitude given,

it is easy to act the generous part ; but the quiet heart-

heroism, unseen by the world, unsurmised even by itself,
which makes Hugh Miller pause, on the threshold of life,
to build a cottage for Aunt Jenny, cannot deceive us.

This undertaking is completed in the spring of 1823,

and the day has now come when employment must be

sought in earnest. Some little time elapses--two or
three weeks at most -- during which he looks in vain. ' I
was a good deal depressed,' he writes to Baird. ' I was
somewhat diffident of my skill as a workman ; and I felt

too, very strongly, the force of that sentiment of Burns to

which  we are indebted for his excellent elegiac poem,
" Man  is made to mourn." " There is nothing," said the

poet, "that gives me a more mortifying picture of human
life than a man seeking work." '

WRITES TO ROSS.                           99

     During the brief interval between the building of
Aunt Jenny's cottage and his first engagement as a jour
neyman, he writes to William Ross, now in Edinburgh,

and copies out for him a selection of his poems. The

letter is not without interest from the enthusiasm of its

affection for the friend to whom it is addressed.

    I' have long since promised you copies of all my

little poetical pieces which you were so good-natured as
I Ito approve of, and now send you them.
                                          am too vain

to forget how much you used to praise them ; but was it

not as the productions of a half-taught boy that you did

so ? and if you loved them, was it not merely because they
Iwere written by your friend ?
                                now see that many of

them are extremely juvenile, and this could not have

Iescaped you; but dare say you did best in not telling me
Iso. would have been disheartened, and have perhaps
Istood still. And yet even now, when see many of their
Ifaults, like a true parent, love them notwithstanding ;

but it is more for the sake of the association connected

with them than for their own sakes. Some of them were

composed among the rocks of my favourite hill when I

played truant ; some of them in Marcus cave, when the

boys who had chosen me for their leader were engaged

in picking shell-fish from the skerries for our dinner ; some

of them in the work-shed, some in the barrack. And

thus, like the purse of Fortunatus, which was made of

leather but produced gold, though not rich in themselves

they are full of riches to me. They are redolent of the

Ipast and of you ; remember how used to run to your
Icloset with every piece the moment had finished

that you might say something in its favour. You were
the whole public for whom wrote. You will not deem
I
     I

                       I

                                                     it,
me paradoxical when say that the pieces send you are

full of scenery and character, though poor in description

100 THE JOURNEYMAN.

and manner, and rich in thought and sentiment though

meagre, perhaps, and commonplace. Your affection for
Ime will, dare say, make them poetry to you too. Do
Iyou think shall ever write what will be deemed poetry
Iby anybody else ?
                       deem my intimacy with you the
most important affair of my life. I have enjoyed more

from it than from anything else, and have been more

improved by it than by all my books. Since you left

me I have not advanced an inch ; --have you no means

of impelling me onward when at a distance ? or is it

necessary, as in Physics, that before communicating
motion to me, we must come in contact ? '

The poems are fluent and vivacious, but display

little original power or depth of melody. The following

lines, probably written among the woods of Conon

during his apprenticeship, are not without a certain

pensive sweetness and sincerity.

THE DAYS THAT ARE GONE.

I' On the friends of my youth and the days that are gone,

 In the depth of the wild wood ponder alone,

IAnd my heart by a sad gloomy spirit is moved

When view the fair scenes that in childhood I loved.

Harsh roars the rough ocean, o'ercast is the sky,

voice of the   wind
winter reigns    wide
IThe                   p;a--sse"thsurme o'utisrnwfuilnlytebr yw;ith  me,"

For
But a spring to my winter never shall see ;

For aught of earth's joys 'tis unmanly to moan,

Yet bursts the sad sigh for the days that are gone.

The fair flowers of summer have vanished away,

The green shrub is withered, and leafless the spray ;
Yet memory, half sad and half sportive, still shows

How bloomed the blue violet, how blossomed the rose.

ISay, shall not that memory as fondly retain
Hold of joys have proved as of charms I have seen ?

Yes -- Nature's fair scenes are more dear to this heart

Than the trophies of love or the pageants of art,

Yet more to this bosom those friends are endeared,

By whom in life's dawn the gay moments were cheered ;

                          POEMS.                                    101

More cherished, though darker their memory shall be,

Than that of the rose or the violet by me.

       Ye rocks, whose rough summits seem lost in the clouds,

Ye fountains, ye caves, and ye dark waving woods,
In the still voice of memory ye bid me to mourn

For the joys and the years that must never return,

The years ere the gay hopes of youth were laid low,

Or hope half-despondent had wept o'er the blow,

The joys, ere my knowledge of mankind began

       proving the toils  and the             of man.
       Yet why should       sorrow             child of
IBy                                 sorrows              decay,

                                    ?-- poor

Myself, like my pleasures, must vanish away,
And life in the view of my spirit may seem

The tossing confused of a feverish dream.

Yes, life is a dream, a wild dream where the will

Striveth vainly the precepts of right to fulfil ;
A dream where the dreamer to sorrow is tied ;
A dream where proud reason but weakly can guide :

It controls not my spirit, despite of my will,

The joys of the bypast are haunting me still.

     And oft when all bright on my night slumbers break

The spirits of pleasures I prize when awake,
When I seize them with gladness and revel in joy,

Comes the beam of the morning my bliss to destroy ;

Away on the light wings of slumber they fly,

While their memory remains, and I languish and sigh.
0 days of bright pleasure ! 0 days of delight !
From me ye for ever have winged your flight.---

But the calm pensive Muse still remains to beguile

The day of dark thought, of affliction and toil ;

By the gloom of the present the past to endear,

By the joys of the bypast the present to cheer.'

IIn a poetical epistle to a friend, whom take to be

Ross himself, we have a significant glimpse of Miller's
feelings with respect to the lawlessness of his school,

days.

       ' Oh ! well to thee are all those foibles known,
Which to a stranger I would blush to own ;
                                              I strayed
For we*ll you  knew me when         in youth              ;      
                                                       #
                            #             #
When of untutored genius weakly vain,

1 spurned instruction with a vile disdain ;

Yet dared t' expect, unskilled in classic lore,

To song's proud heights the untutored Muse would soar.

Vain hope ! These rude, unpolished lines must show

How weak my thoughts, how harsh my numbers flow.'

102 THE JOURNEYMAN.

     It is a deeply characteristic trait that Hugh Miller

should, as a schoolboy, have been so conscious of his
genius as to feel himself empowered to spurn instruction,

and that, as an apprentice, a year or two after leaving
school, he should have already convinced himself of the
feeble vanity of the idea.

      Occasionally there is a vividness of conception in
these pieces, which presents the individual figure or pic
ture in outline so distinct and colours so brilliant, that
it flashes in clear visibility upon the eye of the mind.
The raven in the following sketch is as palpably bodied
forth as Tennyson's wild hawk staring with his foot on
the prey.

   ' Foulest of the birds of heaven,

   O'er thee flaps the hungry raven ;

   Hark ! his loud and piercing cry,

   Pilgrim, hark ! that faint reply ;

   Soon, on yonder rocky shore,

   Shall he bathe his wing in gore,

   Bathe each wing, while dives his beak

   In a cold wave-beaten        cheek ;          ;
   Cold, -- the fierce tides    o'er it flowing

   Cold, though now with life 'tis glowing.'

    A copy of verses ' written  at the   close      of the year,'
                                which    occur       in its most
is dated for us in two lines

mournful passage.

'  Shall ill indeed no    more annoy ?
      Is life in truth a  flowery plain
                                         ?--

   Ah, wherefore look for coming joy

   When all the past is black with pain ?

   That strong-wing'd Spoiler oft I've seen

   Around that checkered circlet flee ;

   (For, lo ! this weary world has been

     IThese eighteen years a home to me.)

   Yes, have seen him pass away

   Slow o'er misfortune's gloomy day,

   Stern joy seemed his when sorrow laid

   Her cold hand on the sufferer's head ;

   But ah ! when aught resembling peace

                  POEMS.                        103

For one short hour bade mourning cease,
Like light's fleet ray he sped him on,
And soon the tearless hour was gone.

    Still shall he fly, and joy and pain
Shall mark this checkered life again,
Till sorrow's soothing plaint be made
All lonely o'er the nameless dead ;
And all that Fate or Fortune gave,
Be summed up o'er my tombless grave.'

Not altogether tombless !--The melancholy vein soon

gives place to one of sprightlier flow, and perhaps more
genuine feeling. Here is a rhymed contribution to that
sad yet smiling philosophy of life to which allusion was
lately made.

' Let calm content, let placid rest,

For the wild joys of fame suffice ;

,Nor grandeur, clothed in gorgeous vest,

And tempting form, allure mine eyes ;

But let the lowly Muse descend,

   IWith fancied bliss to glad my view,

And shall hail her as a friend,

And deem her dear delusions true.

For life's a long, dark, feverish dream,

And he does best who dreams it well ;

Whose paths with fancied pleasures beam,

Whose  griefs*  no  sign of  woe      can tell
    *                                

Tis madness to anticipate

The dark-browed angry storms of fate.

Life of itself is hard to bear ;

But wherefore drop the doubtful tear ?

When gentle zephyrs fan the trees,

And daisies bloom and roses blow,

Why sad because the wintry breeze
Shall bring the bitter frost and snow ? '

      We may here take in the following somewhat high-
flown account of himself, which served as preface to a
second copy of his juvenile poems, with which he seems
to have favoured Ross.

104 THE JOURNEYMAN.

                                                    ' Cromarty, March 15, 1823.

        ' Dear Willie, -- ' 1823 would have sounded

oddly seven years ago, about which time we first got

acquainted, yet by the natural course of things it has

become the present time, and the bypast years live only

in the memory of the evil or good committed in them.
IIn 1815
          was a thoughtless, careless schoolboy, who

proved his spirit by playing truant three weeks in the

four, and his genius by writing rhymes which pleased

nobody but himself. In 1823, that same schoolboy finds

himself a journeyman mason, not quite so free from care,

but as much addicted to rhyming as ever. But is this

all ? Can he boast of no good effect produced by the

experience of a space of time which brings him from his

thirteenth to his twentieth year ? Has that time passed

away in a manner useless to himself and uninteresting to
others ? Not entirely so, for in that time he got acquainted
with William Ross ; in that time he changed the thought

less hilarity of nature for the placid, tideless composure of

sentiment ; and in that time the gay hopes of fortune

and of fame which engaged him even in the simplest

days of his childhood have changed into a less noble,
though not a less pleasing form. His happiness no

longer  depends upon   the hope of  the applause    of others
        even upon the  approbation  of his friends
--not                                               --he acts

and he writes for himself. His own judgment is his

critic --his own soul is the world to which he addresses

himself; but do not imagine that his own tongue sounds
I Ihis own praise, which
                       am afraid, if went on any

longer in this strain, you might justly say.'

105

CHAPTER II.

GAIRLOCH LETTERS DESCRIPTIVE OF HIS JOURNEY FROM
    CONON-SIDE AND OF GAIRLOCH SCENERY LOVE-POETRY
   THE CARTER OLD JOHN ERASER A DREAM MAGNANIMOUS
    REVENGE GAIRLOCH LANDSCAPES BACK TO CROMARTY.

                                                                                                                                    

                midsummer work turns up, and Hugh starts

ABOagUaTin for Conon-side, whence he is ordered to Gair-

loch on the western coast of Ross-shire. A month after

his arrival he is confined to his barrack with a crushed

foot, and takes his pen to write to a friend in Cromarty.
There is one letter complete, and part of another. Read
ers will, perhaps, like to have these compositions as they
came from the pen of Miller in his twenty-first year.

     ' Gairloch, July, 1823.

I' You may expect a very long letter.  was so un

lucky, two days ago, as to get my left foot crushed in a

quarry by a huge stone, and I am now completely chained
to my seat. My comrades are all out at work, I have

no books, and the hours pass away heavily enough ; but

I Ihave just set myself to try whether cannot beguile

them by conversing with you. You are sitting before

me on a large smooth stone, the only spare seat in the

barrack (my own --for I love to sit soft--I have cush
ioned with a sod), and I have to tell you a long gossiping

106 THE JOURNEYMAN.

Istory --which, after all, is no story -- of my journey hither,

and of what I have been seeing and doing since came.
IDraw your seat a little nearer me, that may begin.

    I' came here about a month ago, after a delightful
journey of two days from Conon-side, from whence I

have been despatched by my employer with another

mason lad, and a comical fellow, a carter, to procure

materials for the building. Though the youngest of the

Iparty, am intrusted with the charge of the others, in

consideration of my great gravity and wonderful com

mand of the pen ; but, as far as the carter is concerned,

the charge is a truly woeful one. He bullies, and swears,
Iand steals, and tells lies, and cares for nobody.
                                                    am

stronger, however, and more active than he, and must

Igive him a beating when have recovered my lameness,

to make my commission good. My comrade, the mason,

Iand have been living in a state of warfare with him

ever since we came here. On the morning we set out
from Conon-side he left us to drive his cart and went to

Dingwall, where he loitered and got drunk ; we, in
turn, after waiting for him for two long hours at the
village of Contin, drove away, leaving him to follow us

on foot as he best might,--for at least thirty miles ; and

he has not yet forgiven us the trick.

    I' You have never seen Contin, and so must show

it you. It is a beautiful Highland village, pleasantly

situated on the sweep of a gentle declivity, which ter
minates behind the houses, on the banks of a river, and

is covered atop by the mansion-house and pleasure-
grounds of Sir George McKenzie of Coul, a gentleman

not quite unknown in the literary world. Towards the

north the gigantic Ben Wyvis lifts up his huge burly
head, like leviathan among the lesser inhabitants of the
deep. There is a much smaller, but more beautiful, hill

LANDSCAPES.  107

on the north-west, which rises out of the middle of a low

valley, and is washed on two of its sides by the rivers

Conon and Contin. It is of a pyramidical shape, and
so regularly formed that one might almost deem it a

work of art, and regard it not as a little hill, but as an

immense pyramid. Farther away, and on the opposite side
of the valley, there is a range of steep precipitous moun
tains, barred with rock and speckled with birch, and

varying in colour, according to their distance, from brown
to purple, and from purple to light-blue. In a corner
of the landscape, and at the base of one of these hills,
though considerably elevated above the river, we see the

old time-shattered tower of Fairburn --tall, grey, ghastly,
and like a giant eremite musing in solitude. It is five

storeys in height, with only a single room on each floor,

turreted at every angle, and irregularly perforated by
narrow oblong windows and shot-holes. For the first cen
tury after its erection it is said to have been unfurnished
with a door, and to have been climbed into by means of
a ladder ; but when the times became quieter, and the
proprietors more honest, they struck out for themselves
the present entrance, a door scarcely five feet in height.
The earlier McKenzies of Fairburn (a family now extinct)
are famed in tradition as daring freebooters, and men of

immense personal strength. I have heard my uncle say that

the two strongest men in the allied army of Marlborough
and Eugene were Munro of Newmore and McKenzie of
Fairburn. The one could raise a piece of ordnance to
his breast, and the other to his knee, which no third
man of eighty thousand could lift from the ground. But

I forget my picture. See, there are the hills --steep,

abrupt, jagged at their summit, and here and there
streaked with snow. Two beautiful Highland streams

wind through the plain below, which is partially covered

108 THE JOURNEYMAN.

with woods of birch and hazel, and dotted with little

black cottages, while a line of large beeches and a snug

little village occupy the foreground.

     ' A little beyond Contin, the road enters a birch wood,

Iand forms the only object in view which reminds one of

man. It is but a few years since it has been made ;

even saw in a little recess in the wood the ruins of two

of the unwheeled carts (sledges rather) which were in use
among the Highlanders here prior to its formation. We

were met at the place by a company of men from Loch-

broom, with their grey plaids, as the day was extremely

warm, rolled up in a   knapsack   form on    their shoulders,
                      had folded   up their  breeches in the
--three of the party

same bundle. They were all travelling towards Ferin-

tosh to the sacrament. A little farther on the appearance

of the country is extremely pleasant. On our right there

rose a ridge of abrupt rocky hills, from the hanging cliffs

of which the hazel and mountain ash shot out their

gnarled and twisted trunks almost horizontally over the
road; on our left a small but beautiful loch filled the

bottom of the glen. After driving a few miles farther

we were presented with quite a different scene, --a bleak

extended moor, through which a few sluggish streams

rather oozed than flowed, with here and there a dwarf

oak or birch, --the upper branches decayed and bleached

white with the storms of winter. We saw at one place
some very large and very old oak trees -- one of them

standing, the others fallen. The one which stands is

about six feet in diameter, and is so entirely divested of

its upper branches that it resembles a green spire, and
so hollow at bottom that it reminded me of a large tar-

barrel. A still bulkier tree lies doddered and leafless

        and not many yards away there an immense
beside  it,
                                                                    is

heap of sawn timber, originally of an inferior quality,

           A HIGHLAND INN.   109

rotting on the ground --the property of some unfor
tunate speculatist. I thought at the time that I might

have met with many things less characteristic of the past

and present ages than the oak and the sawn wood. The
one spoke of an age of barbarism, in which whole forests
were either suffered to moulder on the soil which had

produced them or removed by fire as positive encum
brances ; the other, of the days of projectors and bank

ruptcy.                      behind one of the hills on
      ' The sun disappeared  yet several miles from our

our right when we were

stage, and the evening gave promise of a storm. The

clouds thickened as the night advanced, and there

came on a chill drizzling rain. I had untied the

bundle in which we had packed up our bed-clothes,
and with a thick coverlet which I raised on four pike
Ihandles,
           was forming a tilt over the cart, when a

sudden turn of the road brought us full in view of the

Isolitary inn of Achnicion, and ere had replaced the

coverlet, we had driven up to it. We found in it a cheer

ful fire and an obliging landlord, excellent things in

themselves, and particularly so in the midst of a desert ;
and it did not detract from our pleasure to hear the rain

pattering on the windows and the blast howling wildly

over the roof. From the door of the inn I saw a dreary

prospect of a barren and mountainous country stretching

away for several miles, and clothed in the black-grey
tints of a stormy summer evening. The hills were
covered with wreaths of mist, which, ever and anon,

rolling into the valleys, brought with them a fresh deluge.
And the sounds which predominated were well-nigh as
dreary as the scene. There was the sullen roar of a dis

tant river, the louder and more rattling dash of a large

stream which rushes over a rocky declivity beside the

110 THE JOURNEYMAN.

western gable of the inn, the howl of the wind, the
pattering of the rain, and, heard at intervals, the distant
bark of a sheep dog. The landlord of Achnicion is a
kind active old man of about seventy, his wife an indo

lent slattern of nineteen. The match was a love one on

at least one side, --will you believe it ? on the side of the

lady, who would have broken her heart, it is said, had
not the old man married her.

     'We were awakened next morning by the carter

storming in an adjoining room at both us and the land
lord, who strove to defend us ; and so terrible was the

noise he made that every person in the inn gathered
round the door to see what was the matter. He actually
howled out the story of his wrongs and of his sufferings.
He had been galled during his journey with a pair of bad
shoes and a large bundle, and knocked up about seven
miles short of the stage, where he had to beg lodgings
for the night, having drunk all his money before leaving
Dingwall. Furious as he was, however, we succeeded in

pacifying him,--partly by dint of threats, partly through

the mediation of a few gills of whisky ; and then set out
with him on our journey. The morning somewhat re
sembled the preceding night. Large volumes of mist
seemed sleeping on the distant hills, and the long low
moors that lie around Achnicion appeared more dismally
bleak beneath the shadow of the thick heavy clouds
which brooded over them.

      ' The weather cleared up as we proceeded. We had
quitted the highway immediately on leaving the inn, and
our path, which seemed to have been formed rather by
the feet of animals than the hands of men, went winding
for about seven miles through a brown moory valley,
 whose tedious length was enlivened by a blue oblong

LOCH MARIE.  Ill

lake, --beautiful in itself, but reflecting, like the mirror of                           .'

a homely female, the tame and unlovely features that

hung over it. At its upper end we found the ruins of

a solitary cottage, the only vestige of man in the valley.
We then began to descend into a deep narrow glen or
ravine, through which there runs a little brattling stream
let, the first we saw falling towards the Atlantic. The

hills rise to a great height on either hand, bare, rocky,
stripped into long furrows, mottled over with debris and
huge fragments of stone, and nearly destitute of even
heather. The day had become clear and pleasant, but
the voice of a bird was not to be heard in this dismal

Iplace, nor sheep nor goat to be seen among the cliffs.

wish my favourite John Bunyan had passed a night in
it at the season when the heath-fires of the shepherds

are flaming on the heights above,--were it but to enable

 him to impart more tangibility to the hills which border
 the dark valley of the shadow of death. Through the
 gloomy vista of the ravine a little paradise seemed

opening before us, --a paradise like that which Mirza

wcoantetermpalnadtedgrefernomislatnhdes.heig"htTsheoref ,"Basgaiddadm, yofcosmmroaodteh,
 " is Loch Marie ; -- we have to sail over it for about

 fourteen miles, as there is no path on which we could
 bring the cart with the baggage ; but the horse and
 his master must push onward on foot." The carter
 growled like an angry bear, but said nothing we could
 understand. Emerging from the ravine our road ran
 through a little moory plain, bordered with hills which

 seemed to have at one time formed the shores of the

 lake. A few patches of corn and potatoes, that, sur

 rounded by the brown heath, reminded me of openings
 in a dark sky, together with half a dozen miserable-

112 THE JOURNEYMAN.

looking cottages, a little larger than ant-hills, though not

quite so regularly formed, showed us that this part of

the country had its inhabitants.

' We found out and bargained with the boatman, left

the carter and his horse to make the best of their way

by land, and were soon sweeping over the surface of
Ithe lake.
            have already fatigued you with description,
Ibut must attempt one picture more. Imagine a

smooth expanse of water stretching out before us for at

least eighteen miles, and bordered on both sides by lofty

mountains, --abrupt, precipitous, and pressing on one

another, like men in a crowd. On the eastern shore

they rise so suddenly from the water that the eye passes

over them mile after mile without resting on a single

spot where a boat might land ; on the west their bases

are fringed by a broken irregular plain, partially covered

with a fir wood. At the higher end of the lake two

mountains, loftier and more inaccessible than any of the

others, shoot up on either hand as if to the middle sky,

and we see large patches of snow still resting on their

summits, --gleaming like the banners of a fortress to tell

us that they are strongholds held by the spirits of winter,

--and from whence they are to descend, a few months

hence, to ravage the country below. From one of these
mountains there descended two small streams, which,

falling from rock to rock, leaped into the lake over the
lower precipice, and, whitened into foam by the steep
ness of their course, reminded me, as they hurried
through the long heath then in blossom, of strips of

ermine on a cloak of purple. Towards the north the
islands seem crowded together like a flock of water-fowl.
They vary in character, some barren and heathy, others
fertile and tufted with wood. On the largest, which is
of the better and more pleasing description, and bears,

             ISLAND OF THE FAIRIES.                                                        113

by way of distinction, the name of the lake, there is an

Iancient burying-ground, and, as have heard said, a
Druid or Runic monument. I would fain have landed

' it,on but night was fast coming on, and besides, my

time was my employer's, not my own.                                                 I      large
                                                                                        a
      At the lower end of the lake we encountered

boat full of people.   piper stood in the bows, and the
                      A
wild notes of his bagpipe, softened by distance and
                          a
multiplied by the echoes of the mountains, formed                                          a
                          It
music that suited well with the character of the scene.
" wedding party," said my comrade " they areis
It                                                                     :
                                        it                                       ;
    is
          a

        I
going to that white house which you see at the foot of
             wish you understood Gaelic --the boatmen
the hill.

are telling me strange stories of the loch that know
would delight you. Do you see that little green island,

that lies off about half mile to the right The boldest
                                                                       ?

Highlander in the country would hesitate to land there

an hour after sunset.                                                  said to be haunted by

wraiths and fairies, and every variety of land and water

spirit. Directly in the middle of there                                a is         little lake,
                                                                            a
in the lake an island, and on the island tree beneath

which the Queen of the Fairies holds her court. What
would you not give to see her?" Night came on before

we got landed and we lost sight of the lake while yet
a it

       '

                                          ;

                        Is
                              it

                                                        a?

                                  it I

                                                                                a

                                                                                      by
sailing over it.      not strange that with all its beauty

should be so little known                                              never heard nor met

with so much as its name, until opened upon me with

all its islands, except once, in copy of verses written

  gentleman of the parish of Cromarty-- Mr William

son. The voyage terminated about an hour after night
fall, our journey an hour after midnight.

Good-bye.             My companions are just coming in

to dinner. Shall we not have another tete-a-tete to

morrow?'

VOL.   I.

                                                                    8

114 THE JOURNEYMAN.

                                                   ' Gairloch, July, 1823.

      ' 'Twas as well you didn't wait dinner with us yester
day ! We have quarrelled with the minister's wife, who,

to avenge herself, magnanimously refuses to sell us any

milk, and so our only food, in the material at least, is

oatmeal, prepare it as we may. The carter steals fish

and potatoes, and contrives to fare pretty well, but we
who are honest come on badly enough. For my own

Ipart, however, am not far from being happy, notwith

standing. --Do look round, just for one minute, and see

the sort of place in which a man can be happy. The sun

is looking in at us through the holes in the roof, --

speckling the floor with bright patches, till it resembles

a piece of calico. There are two windows in the
apartment ; one of them filled up with turf and stone,

the other occupied by an old unglazed frame. The fire

is placed against the rough unplastered gable, into which

we have stuck a pin for suspending our pot over --the
                                                   a

                                                      it
                                                               by

                                                                      a
                                                                            it,
smoke finds its way out through the holes of the roof

and the window. Our meal-sack hangs                   rope from

one of the rafters, at the height of man's head from the
floor, --our only means of preserving
                                                      from our thievish

cohabitants, the rats. As for our furniture, 'tis altogether
admirable. The two large stones are the steadiest seats

   ever sat on, though, perhaps, little ponderous when
we have occasion to shift them; and the bed, which
I                               a
                                                      formed of
                            is        It
pray observe,
                                               is
                                perfectly unique.                                a

pair of the minister's harrows, with the spikes turned
down, and covered with an old door and bunch of
                                a
                                                       is a
                                                              a
straw and as for culinary utensils, yonder                       wooden
       in ;
                       a
cog, and here pot. We are little extravagant, to be

sure, our household expenses, for times are somewhat

hard;  but meal and salt, and every                other item included,a
none   of us have yet exceeded half
                                                     crown per week. --

THE GAIRLOCH.  115

You may now boast, like a true scholar, who looks only
at the past, of Diogenes and his tub and the comforts of

philosophy.
    ' The Gairloch, as you will find by consulting your

map, is an arm of the sea on the western coast of Ross-
shire. Its length is perhaps somewhat more than eight
miles, its breadth varies from three to five. Where it

opens towards the sea the water is deep, and clear of

sunken rocks ; nearer its bottom there are several small

islands. The shores, with the exception of two or three
little sandy bays, are steep and rocky ; the surrounding
country is Highland in the extreme. The manse, beside

Iwhich reside, and at which I am employed, is situated

on the northern shore, and about two hundred yards
from the sea. There rises behind it a flat moory hill,
speckled with large grey stones and patches of corn,
somewhat larger than beds of onions, only not quite so
regularly laid out. Farther away there is a little
scattered village, composed of such hovels as one com
monly finds in the remote Highlands, and containing
from eighty to a hundred inhabitants, who are crofters

and fishermen. It is a fact that the Highlander of the

present day, and the Highlander of four hundred years
ago, live in huts of exactly the same construction :
and their mode of agriculture here has been quite as

stationary.

    ' I must enable you to form an estimate of it. The

arable land is equally divided among all the families of
the village ; a long brown moor which lies behind it
affords pasture to their cattle, of which every one has
an equal number, namely, two. The rents they pay
the proprietor, and which they derive from the herring
fishery, are of course also equal. There is neither horse

nor plough in the village, -- a long, crook-handled kind of

116 THE JOURNEYMAN.

spade, termed a cass chrom, and the hoe, supplying the

place of the latter, --the Highlander himself, and more

Iparticularly his wife, that of the former ; --for here (shall
   venture the expression?), as in all semi-barbarous

countries, the woman seems to be regarded rather as the

drudge than the companion of the man. It is the part

of the husband to turn up the land and sow it ; the wife

conveys the manure to it in a square creel with a slip

bottom, tends the corn, reaps hoes the potatoes, digsI is it,

them up, and carries the whole home on her back.

When bearing the creel she                    also engaged in spinning
with the distaff and spindle.                   wish you but saw with

what patience these poor females continue working thus

doubly employed, for the greater part of long summer's
                                                a

day.     frequently let the mallet rest on the stone before
      I

                  it
                              is
me, as some one of them passes by, bent nearly double

with the load she                 carrying, yet busily engaged in

stretching out and turning the yarn with her right hand,

and winding          up with her left. Can you imagine
                                                   iIt,
more primitive system of agriculture, or wonder that     Ia

should be half inclined to imagine that, instead of having

taken journey of few score miles to witness        had
; I I'         ?
      a                   a
retraced for that purpose the flight of time for the last

six centuries

       am now going to turn gossip, and to give you

some stories of myself.               am great egotist but how
                                  II  Ia           ;

                                                            I
can help    it       have no second-hand narratives to re
                  I
               ?     I

late and of what myself see, must tell you what
myself think. With all the different members of the

minister's family have become acquainted in some de
                     I

gree or other. The minister himself occasionally honours,

me with nod his wife, who has no particular quarrel
         a        ;

with me, for 'twas not who remarked that her milk
" smelt of the last week," has once or twice had some little

                  ' courting:          117

Igossip with me.  am busily courting her three maids,

who, though they have not a syllable of English amongst

them, are very kindly teaching me Gaelic ; and from a

young lady, the governess of her children, I have bor

rowed a few books. One of these, though published in

Inverness about twelve years ago, I have not had the
chance of seeing before. It is a small volume of poems

by a Miss Campbell, then a young lady of seventeen.

At even that early age she was a poetess, and rich in

those sentiments and feelings which we deem so fas

cinating in the amiable and accomplished woman. Even

though occasionally the girl peeps out in most of her

Ipieces, like them none the worse ; her puerilities,

joined to no equivocal indications of a fine genius, lead

ing one to entertain hopes of her future eminence ; and

certainly, if her riper years have but fulfilled the promise

which her earlier ones have given, she must be now a very

superior person indeed. I feel much interested in her,

....and wish much to know what has become of her.'

      Thus abruptly ends the narrative. Miller's jesting
allusion to the three maids whom he was ' courting,'

suggests the remark that his insensibility to female

attractions in his youth contrasts strongly not only

with the impassioned admiration of Burns for every

beautiful face he ever saw, but with the susceptibility to

woman's charms common to vivid and poetical natures.

' Miss A -- ,' one of his acquaintances at Gairloch, asked

him to write a poem upon love. He set about it with as
much composure of mind as if she had asked him to

carve an inscription on a gravestone.  Here are the four

opening stanzas :--

' Though meanly favoured by the Muse,
      Though scant of wit and time,

 IOn theme by Celtic maid supplied,
         sit me down to rhyme.

118 THE JOURNEYMAN.

1 But why should love demand my song ?
      Tt breathed from Hammond's lyre,

  On Cowley's page its meteors flashed,
     On Moore's its wilder fire ;

1 While I, who never proved its bliss,

      Ne'er proved its restless smart ;

 Who have, though much the fair I prize,

     A free, unbleeding heart ;

' Can paint, alas ! with little skill,
     The joy which love inspires,

 Or tell of pangs I never proved,
     Of hopes or fond desires.'

On reading this, one begins to have misgivings as to the
intensity of Miller's poetic fire.

' All thoughts, all passions, all delights,
     Whatever stirs this mortal frame,

 All are but ministers of Love,
     And feed his sacred flame : '

thus Coleridge struck the key-note when his theme
was love. ' The greatest bliss that the tongue o' man

can name,' sang Hogg, with lilting, lark-like melody,
                                        I sit me down
giving his experience on the subject.
to rhyme,' observes Miller, and, ' though much the fair
I Iprize,' am not disposed to exaggerate their good

qualities. Miller does not, like Teufelsdrockh, find that
his ' feeling towards the queens of this earth ' is ' al

together unspeakable.' Perhaps, however, his heart,

though cold to the many, may prove responsive to one,
and for him also there may bloom a paradise, ' cheered

by some fairest Eve.' We shall see.

Rhyming or reasoning, courting or cogitating, Hugh

Miller, during this season at Gairloch, is worth looking

at. Not yet twenty-one, living in a hovel from which

water, a foot deep, has been drained off to render it habit-

, able, his food oatmeal without milk, his companions stone

masons, his employment manual labour, he bates no jot of

THE CARTER.  119

hope or heart, but takes the whole with a frank effulgence
of mirth, a nigged humour of character, which bears him

victoriously through. It never strikes him that there is

hardship in his own lot, but he has ready sympathy for
the distresses of others. Might not some Scotch artist
try to realize for us that picture, drawn by Miller of
himself with so little thought of picturesque effect, when
the pensive lad drops his mallet and looks at the High

land woman, bent nearly double with her burden, yet,
as she wearily trudges past, working with both hands ?
One can see the kind, grave, deep-thoughted face, the

steadfast blue eyes moistening with compassion, the lip
touched, perhaps, with a faint, mournful smile of stoical,
not cynical, acceptance of the sternness of fate.

      Miller's poetical faculty, though not powerfully stirred
by the nymphs of Gairloch, and though more felicitous,
now and subsequently, in prose than in verse, did not at
this time slumber. That picture of the old grey tower
of Fairburn, ' like a giant eremite musing in solitude,'
is genuinely imaginative. His relations with the other
inmates of the bothy are full of a strong, hearty, buoy
ant humour, which floods the rugged paths of life with
sport. The doings of the carter, who ' bullies, and

swears, and steals, and tells lies, and cares for nobody,'
are manifestly productive of diversion more than distress.
Miller in fact rather likes the man, though he feels that
he will be improved by a beating. The carter is clearly
one of those favourites of nature who obey her prompt
ings and receive her rewards. He ' steals fish and
potatoes ' and makes himself comfortable while his
virtuous brethren do penance on oatmeal. Such a man
appeals irresistibly to that instinct of fallen humanity
which makes us admire successful personages like Draw-

 cansir and Reynard the Fox.

120 THE JOURNEYMAN.

One of Miller's Gairloch fellow-workmen, who

exerted a more important influence upon him, is de

scribed with some detail in the Schools and School

masters, but I have not found mention of him else
Iwhere.
         refer to John Fraser, one of three brothers,

who, if Mr Darwin's theory is sound, were a variation

of the human species adapted to found a race of super

lative masons and stone-cutters, and to outlive and ex

tirpate, by natural selection, all other masons and stone

cutters. Miller states, on the authority of ' Mr Kenneth

Matheson, a gentleman well-known as a master-builder

in the west of Scotland,' that David Fraser, the most

remarkable of the brothers, could do three times as much

as an ordinary workman. John, even when advanced in
life, could build against ' two stout young fellows ' and

I' keep a little ahead of them both.' ' recognize old

John,' says Hugh Miller, ' as one of not the least useful
nor able of my many teachers ; ' and the justice of the

remark is attested by the admirably philosophic account
which he gives of the lesson old John taught him. The
secret of Fraser's power was that he saw ' the finished

piece of work,' as it lay within the stone, and cut down

upon the true figure at once, without repeating, like an

ordinary workman, his lines and draughts. And is not

this faculty of seeing with the  mind's eye  what  the hand
                                  the work   as a  whole so
has to execute, --of conceiving

that there shall be neither hurry nor delay in carrying it

out, --essentially the faculty by which a Hannibal or a

Napoleon wins battles, a Dante or a Shakespeare writes

poems, a Titian or a Turner paints masterpieces ?
     Writing to Baird six years after this time, Miller

relates the following dream, which belongs to the Gair

loch season, and is omitted from Schools and School

masters. It is remarkable as containing a very definite

             DREAM.                                                  121

prediction which proved incorrect. ' About the middle

of September this year I had a singular dream, the par

ticulars of which retain even to this day as firm a hold

of my memory as if they had been those of a real inci

dent. I dreamed that my friend William Ross had died,
and that I was watching the corpse in a large darkened
apartment. I felt sad and unhappy.
                                                Suddenly there

appeared near the couch where the body lay an upright

wreath of thin vapour, which gradually assumed the

figure of my deceased friend. The face of the spectre

was turned towards the body, and the robes of white in

which it was dressed appeared, compared with the

winding-sheet beside as piece of cambric exposed to
             it
the rays of the sun would to another piece hung up init,

the shade. The figure turned round and spoke toaa                    I it,
                                                I

                                                     it
                                                          by
but though, from the splendour of the dress wore and

the placid expression of the face, which was of feminine

beauty, inferred to be spirit of heaven,                             one of
it it

       I
those inconsistencies common in dreams, my question to
   regarded the state of the damned. " know nothing,"
                                             I

   said, " of the damned." " Then describe to me,"
rejoined, "
strong and   thpeoinhtaepdp.ines"s   of the  blest." The reply was
                                    Live     good life, and in seven
             I
                                        a
days, seven weeks, and seven years, you shall know."

I  must add that have since thought much oftener of

the prediction than of the advice.' No particular                    in
                                                                          in
cident of any kind appears to have taken place                       the

history of Miller at the time specified.

   The work at the manse completed, Miller removed,

with two of his brother workmen, to village in the
             a
                                          a
                                                                  a
neighbourhood, to build             house for an innkeeper.

Their lodging here was as bad as at the place they left.

One half of large cellar used for storing salt, of which

half had been pulled down to furnish materials for the

122 THE JOURNEYMAN.

proposed building, was their barrack. They hung mats
across the open end, through which the wind blew cold
at night, awakening them sometimes by dashing the
rain in their faces. Their fare was improved by a supply
of excellent milk, and the innkeeper made a point of in
viting them to dine with him on Sunday. ' He was a
loquacious little man, full of himself, and desirous of

being reckoned a wit,' but without capacity to play the
part. Miller, less talkative than his fellow-workmen,
was supposed by mine host to be available as a butt,
and was made the object of sundry small witticisms.
He took this in good part for a while, but one day
he retorted upon his entertainer and reduced him to
silence. The consequence was that he was excluded
from the invitation next Sunday, and left to regale him
self on oatmeal and milk in the solitude of the barrack.
He took his revenge in a way gratifying at once to his
pride and his kindliness. One of the favoured workmen
had bargained with the innkeeper to give the latter a

Ihammer and trowel, but, after receiving the money for

the articles, had played him false. ' was informed of
the circumstance,' says Miller to Baird, ' when on the
eve of setting out for the low country ; and taking my

Ihammer and trowel from my bundle, presented them

to the innkeeper's wife ;--alleging, when she urged me

to set a price on them, that they were a very inadequate

return for her husband's kindness to me during the two

first weeks of our acquaintance.' It was a mode of re

venge to which neither Uncle James nor Uncle Sandy
could have taken exception.

      Before quitting the Gairloch scene we may take this

final picture of one of its landscapes :--' There is a steep

high hill rather more than a mile from the manse of

IGairloch, to the summit of which frequently extended

                 LANDSCAPE.         123

my walks. The view which the eye commands from
thence is of a character wilder and more sublime than

can be either rightly imagined or described. Towards

the east and south there spreads a wide savage prospect
of nigged mountains, towering the one over the other

from the foreground to the horizon, and varying in
colour, in proportion to the distance, from the darkest

russet to the faintest purple. They are divided by deep

gloomy ravines that seem the clefts and fissures of a
shattered and ruined planet ; and their summits are

either indented into rough naked crags, or whitened over

with unwasting snows ;--forming fit thrones upon which

the spirits of winter might repose, each in a separate in

sulated territory, and from whence they might defy the
milder seasons as they passed below. To the north and
west the scene is of a different description ; it presents a
rocky indented shore, and a wide sea speckled over with

islands. On both sides, however, though the features

are dissimilar, the expression is the same. Scarcely more

of the works of man appear visible in the whole wide
circumference than appeared to the gaze of Noah, when
he first stood on the summit of mount Ararat, and con

templated the wreck of the deluge.

' It was on a beautiful evening in the month of June
Ithat first climbed the steep side of this hill and rested
Ion its summit.
                 was much impressed by the wide

extent and sublime grandeur of the scene. Part of the

eastern skirt of the Atlantic was spread out beneath me,

Imottled with the Hebrides. In one glance had a view

of Longa, Skye, Lewis, Harris, Rona, Raza, and several

other islands with whose names I was unacquainted.

The sky and sea were both coloured with the same warm

hue of sunset, and appeared as if blended together ;

while the islands which lay on the verge of the horizon

124 THE JOURNEYMAN.

seemed dense purple clouds, which, though motionless
in the calm, the first sea-breeze might sweep away.
Towards the south my eye was caught by two gigantic

mountains, which, as if emulous of each other, towered

above the rest, like the contending chiefs of a divided

Ipeople ; while towards the east beheld a scene of terri

ble ruin and sublime disorder, --mountain piled upon
mountain, and ravine intersecting ravine. All my
faculties of reason and imagination seemed at first as if
frustrated and held down by some superior power ;--the
magnitude of the scene oppressed me ;-- I felt as if in
the presence of the Spirit of the Universe; --and the

apology of the Jewish spies recurred to me, " We were
as grasshoppers before them." '

     This was written when Miller was twenty-seven.

It is remarkable for the absence of all geological allu

sion, and for the strong human element in the imagery.
When he had lived for another quarter of a century he
again described the scene, and the pencil is now in the
firm hand of a master. But so completely has the geo
logical interest taken possession of him that he throws it
back into a period prior to that at which it exerted any
powerful influence upon his mind, and makes the imagin
ative boy of twenty look through the eyes of the scien
tific man of fifty. Here is the scene as he rendered it

for the last time :--

     ' How exquisitely the sun sets in a clear, calm sum
mer evening over the blue Hebrides ! Within less than
a mile of our barrack there rose a tall hill, whose bold

summit commanded all the Western Isles, from Sleat in

Skye, to the Butt of the Lewis. To the south lay the
trap islands ; to the north and west the gneiss ones.
They formed, however, seen from this hill, one great
group, which, just as the sun had sunk, and sea and sky

                        LANDSCAPE.  125

were so equally bathed in gold as to exhibit on the

horizon no dividing line,   seemed in their transparent

purple,--darker or lighter  according to the distance, -- a

group of lovely clouds, that, though moveless in the

calm, the first light breeze might sweep away. Even

the flat promontories of sandstone, which, like out

stretched arms, enclosed the outer reaches of the fore

ground,-- promontories edged with low red cliffs, and

covered with broWn heath, --used to borrow at these

times, from the soft yellow beam, a beauty not their
own. Amid the inequalities of the gneiss region within,

-- a region more broken and precipitous, but of humbler

altitude, than the great gneiss tract of the midland

Highlands, --the chequered light and shade lay, as the

sun declined, in strongly contrasted patches, that be

trayed the abrupt inequalities of the ground, and bore,

when all around was warm-tinted and bright, a hue of

cold neutral grey ; while immediately over and beyond

this rough sombre base there rose two noble pyramids

of red sandstone, about two thousand feet in height,

that used to flare to the setting-sun in bright crimson,

and whose nearly horizontal strata, deeply scored along
the lines, like courses of ashlar in an ancient wall, added

to the mural effect communicated by their bare fronts

and steep rectilinear outlines. These tall pyramids

form the terminal members, towards the south, of an

extraordinary group of sandstone hills, of denudation
unique in the British Islands, which extends from the

northern boundary of Assynt to near Applecross. But

Ithough formed at this time my first acquaintance with
the group, it was not until many years after that I had

an opportunity of determining the relations of their

component beds to each other, and to the fundamental

rocks of the country.'

126 THE JOURNEYMAN.

      The winter of 1823 was spent, as usual, in Cromarty.
William Ross was in Edinburgh, and Miller had no
friend of his own age with whom he cared much to
associate. He seems to have been in a trivial mood and to
have made business of amusement. ' There was,' he
says, ' a little mischievous boy of about ten years of age

Iwhom chose as a companion for lack of a better. He

was spirited and sensible for his years, and deemed me a

very superior kind of playfellow. I taught him how to

climb, and leap, and wrestle, how to build bridges and

Irig ships, and how to make baskets and rush caps.

told him stories, and lent him books, and showed him
how to act plays, and lighted fires with him in the caves

of the hill of Cromarty, and, --in short went on in such

a manner that my acquaintance began to shake their own
heads and to question the soundness of mine. My
Uncle James, who used sturdily to assert, in the face of
all opposing evidence, that my powers of mind averaged
rather above than below the common standard, seriously

told me about this time that if I would not act more in

the manner of other people, he would defend me no

longer.'

                      127

                      CHAPTER III.

COMES OF AGE RETS SAIL FOR EDINBURGH -- PARTING RE
     FLECTIONS MORNING ON THE MORAY FRITH FIRST SIGHT
     OF EDINBURGH ABSENT FROM CHURCH FOR FIVE SUNDAYS
     AND ' A FEW MORE ' HOLYROOD, CHARLES II. 's STATUE,
     EFFIGY OF KNOX, THE COLLEGE, FERGUSON'S GRAVE, DR

      MrCRlE THE PANORAMA, THE THEATRE.

MILLERnew--   is now   to enter upon a scene in all respects
             new in   temptation, new in instruction, new in

companionship. He exchanges the rustic murmur of

Cromarty and the solitudes of Gairloch for the sights

and agitations of the metropolis of Scotland. He has

acquired an accurate knowledge of the character and

circumstances of the Scottish Highlander ; he is to bring

his faculty of observation to bear upon the inhabitants

of the Lowlands. In both instances his observation is

as yet almost entirely confined to the working class.

     In the autumn of 1823 he comes of age, and is

therefore competent to exercise rights of proprietorship

over a wretched tenement on the Coal-hill of Leith,

which has been a constant source of loss and annoy
ance to his mother from the time of his father's death.

       in
                                        it,

                                   I
                                                                   a
                                                                          is,
                                                                                                  a
His own wish, and that of his friends, now  that he

may be able to dispose of and with view to investi

gating the affair on the spot, he sails from Cromarty for

Leith    the spring of 1824.        have before me

128 THE JOURNEYMAN.

manuscript containing ' Descriptive Letters,' written by

him to his uncles in the course of the summer. It

enables us to trace his course from the moment of his

stepping aboard ship until the series abruptly terminates

with part of a letter written in the last days of the year.

As might have been surmised from the affection and

gentleness of his disposition, he thinks more at first of

the home he is leaving than of the new world into which

he is to enter.
                                                                    ' Leith, 4th June, 1824.

    I' The ship in which was a passenger left Cromarty

upon Sunday forenoon ; and as the day was warm and

pleasant, I remained upon deck till evening, with my
Ieyes steadfastly fixed upon the land had so lately left.

Every moment it was lessening and growing more indis

tinct ; but fancy strengthened my powers of vision, and

Iin a half-sad, half-sportive mood, was marking out

every spot which in the bypast had been the scene of
my juvenile sports or pleasures. There, thought I,
looking toward the hill of Cromarty, will some of my

friends be stationed with their eyes fixed upon the

departing vessel, and though she appear but a small, an
almost imperceptible speck, yet will they deem her an

object of greater interest than any of the scenes the eye

commands from that eminence. The thought was tender

and pleasing. There was something in it that told me
of the affection of the friends I was leaving, and of the
Icoldness of those with whom
                              was soon to mingle.

But perhaps 'twill be for the better ; that coldness may

Irouse the sleeping energies of my character, and when

find myself as if alone in the world, instead of resting

upon the exertions of others, I shall learn to depend on
Imy own. Such were the thoughts with which be

guiled the time,

\

                  .

                 SETS SAIL.                  129

Till the grey mists of eve arose, and wrapt
My native hills in dark and formless gloom.

      * Scarcely had the sun risen when, curious to know in

Iwhat part of the Moray Frith we now were, rose and

went upon deck. . . . The sun hung on the verge of

the horizon, and illuminated that part of the water which

seemed to lie beneath with a splendour not less dazzling

than its own. A solitary porpoise was tumbling around
our vessel in unwieldy sport. A "killing" of sea-gulls

at a little distance were screaming over their morning

banquet ; while, at intervals, an overgrown seal raised

his round black head above the waves and gazed upon

us with a long and very curious stare. Upon the north

I perceived the land stretching from Tarbat-ness to

John-o'-Groats, while upon the south and east, at about

three miles distance, rose the bold, rocky, and romantic

shores of Moray and Banff. Tower and town, hill and

promontory, in their turns engaged my attention, and

after having, in the course of the day, passed Portsoy,

Banff, Macduff, and Fraserburgh, I again sought my
Ibed and spent this night, as had done the preceding,

in calm and refreshing sleep.
      ' Two days of our voyage had passed pleasantly, but

Iupon the morning of the third was surprised and

somewhat disheartened when, upon getting on deck, I

perceived nothing but a dark rolling sea, and a dense

cloud of mist closing upon the vessel upon every side.
I. . . Often as
                 paced the narrow space the deck
Iafforded me did I behold in fancy the scenes was soon

to visit, and as often was that fancy carried back to

picture the regrets and joys of home. But that you

may better know what my thoughts were, I insert the
Icopy of a short, should rather say unfinished, poem I
composed that morning. It will show you what ideas I

130 THE JOURNEYMAN.

had formed of Edinburgh, and how little the hope of its

pleasures appeared when compared with the well-proved

joys of the home I had left.

     ' Thou may'et boast, 0 Edina, thou home of delight,
        For thy gallants are gay, and thy ladies are bright,
        August is thy palace, thy castle, sublime,
        Has braved the rude dints of Sre, battle, and time.

     ' Thou may'st boast, 0 Edina, thou famed abode
        Of the wise and the learn 'd, of the great and the good,
        Thou may'st boast of thy worthies, may'st boast of thy towers,
        Thy halls and thy temples, thy grots and thy bowers.

      ' Yet lovelier by far and more dear to this heart,
        Than all your gay trophies of labour and art,
       Is the home of my fathers, the much-loved land
        Of the dauntless of heart and the mighty of hand.

     ' Tis there the grey bones of my fathers are laid,

        Twas there that my life's sunny friendships were made,
       And till death chills my bosom and closes my e'e,
         These friends and that land shall be dear unto me.'

      ' The weather was still extremely thick, and though

my eyes were earnestly fixed in that direction, I could
Isee but little of Edinburgh. Once indeed saw the

chimneys of the new town appearing through the mist,

like the shocks of a field newly reaped, and several times

the rugged summit of Arthur's Seat came full in sight,

as if passing through the dark cloud which obscured its

base. These were but transient glimpses, but of the

town of Leith I had a full and distinct view. A young

lad, one of the passengers, was pointing out to me the

harbour, docks, and public buildings, and between the

Iamusement his remarks afforded me and the pleasure

took in looking at the vessels we passed and repassed in

the roadstead, an hour or two flew away very agreeably.
      ' By a signal from the shore we were made to under

stand that the water in the channel had risen to a re

quisite height. The vessel's head was immediately
Iturned that way, and in a few minutes
                                        found myself

FIRST SIGHT OF EDINBURGH.  131

in the town of Leith, my head dizzied with the confused
cries of watermen and carters, and my thoughts scattered

by a multiplicity of objects, any of which I might have

thought curious, but all of which only tended to con

fuse.'

      This, it must be admitted, is a rather common-place

epistle, and the verses are so poor that an apology may

seem necessary for presenting them to the reader. But
here we have at least the lad Miller in his habit as he

lived, with no gleam from the after-time to disturb the
artless unconsciousness of modest, simple-hearted youth.
Both in his letter to Baird and in the Schools and School

masters there are elaborate pictures of his first sight of
Edinburgh ; but what first impressed him in the scene

--the emergence of the chimneys of the new town and
the summit of Arthur's Seat, from the mist --always
reappears. It is well, also, to remember that the bare

ness in the record of his impressions which meets us in

these contemporary letters on Edinburgh, may arise
partly from his inexperience in composition, and partly

from the restraints imposed upon epistolary correspond
ence in days long antecedent to the introduction of the

penny post. We may believe that it was not merely in
the autobiographic retrospect that he ' felt as if he were

approaching a great magical city--like some of those in
the Arabian Nights --that was even more intensely

poetical than nature itself ; ' and that reminiscences of
Ramsay and Ferguson, Smollett's Humphrey Clinker and
Scott's Marmion, heightened the interest with which he
looked through the canopy of mist upon the spires and
roofs of Edinburgh.

      The great city -- to one who had never seen a larger

town than Inverness it was very great--threw him at

first out of all his habitudes. He frankly confesses,

132 THE JOURNEYMAN.

' though conscious that by so doing he will lay himself

open to merited censure,' that on the first four Sundays

after his arrival he absented himself from church and
                                                               '
' strolled through the   streets  of  Leith  and  Edinburgh
                                                             ;

that the fifth was occupied in scaling Arthur's Seat and

viewing the city and adjacent country from its summit ;
and that ' a few more ' were passed in the company of
some townsmen of his own, who, ' Cameronian-like, pre

ferred the open air to a church.' The impressions

formed in this leisurely survey of Edinburgh are de

scribed at some length to his uncles, and they set before

us the Hugh Miller of twenty-one, with a distinctness

so vivid and a simplicity so naive, that we feel still more

strongly than before how completely the profound re

flective vein of the autobiography prevents us from

realizing what the writer was at the various stages of his

career.

      The fervour of his nationality is one of the first things
which attracts our notice. ' Holyrood House,' he says,

' I viewed with the same emotion which a pilgrim feels

when prostrating himself before the shrine of a favourite
saint. With this building, long before I saw
                                                  hadiIt,

connected associations of high and venerable character,        is
                             a

but was not prepared for the sudden, the spontaneous
I
    I

            if

                  it
burst of enthusiasm, which rose from my very soul when

stood fronting the gateway and saw the arms of Scot

land, as              was still an independent kingdom, frowning

in the grey stone, and directly above them, the crown of

her ancient kings.       It  was no time to sum up the ad

vantages which we derive from          the union -- the very

thought of was revolting, --and         looked upon the sen
         ;                            I

tinel who paced before the door as one who had noit

business there. have often heard of classic and of holy
                      I

ground to me the space upon which this pile stands

         STATUE OF CHARLES II.                           133

Iboth. But why need say so ? To you, or to any other

Scotsman acquainted with the history of his country,

and proud (as most of us are) of the fame of her ancient
grandeur, it must appear the same. Under the piazza

which runs round the inner court, I walked for a con

siderable time, and was not a little struck with the

deathlike stillness, a stillness interrupted by nothing

except the measured footfall of the sentry.'

He is much disappointed with the High-street, hav

ing been led by something he had read in the works
of Smollett to fancy that it was ' one of the finest in

Europe.' He looks with great contempt upon the eques

trian statue of Charles II. in Parliament House Square.

' This lascivious and dissipated monarch,' he says, ' is

attired in the garb of an ancient Roman ; and, by his

appearance, a person unacquainted with the history of

his reign might suppose him to have been a sapient and

warlike prince, dauntless in the field and wise in the
         When I first saw the statue, I could not
council

help quoting a few lines from Thomson's Liberty, which
will appear to you, as it did to me, the character of
Charles the Second faithfully drawn, maugre the inscrip

tion and the Roman dress :--

         " By dangerous softness long he mined his way,

           By subtle arts, dissimulation deep,
           By sharing what corruption shower'd profuse,

          By breathing wide the gay lascivious plague,
           And pleasing manners suited to deceive,

                     A pension'd King,
          Against his country bribed by Gallic gold." '

The natural and unaffected manner in which Miller

alludes to Smollett and Thomson is not without signifi
cance. How completely this young mason is already a

literary character !
     After describing his impressions on the effigy of

134 THE JOURNEYMAN.

Charles II., he proceeds in a very different spirit to

refer to another and less pretentious effigy then visible

in Edinburgh. ' At the lower end of the High-street '
--these are his words --' is a house, from a window of
which, in the earlier days of the Reformation, John Knox

frequently used to preach. To preserve the memory of
this, in a small niche, a bust of the illustrious Reformer

appears, as if still holding forth to the people. At his

right hand, in low relief, a circle representing the sun,
upon which the name of God is inscribed in Greek,

Latin, and English, appears as if emerging from a thick

cloud. The sculpture of the whole was rude when at its
best, and the wasting hand of Time has rendered it still
more uncouth ; nevertheless, some person, doubtless of

more zeal than judgment, has got the bust painted, and

surrounded it with a tawdry pulpit. I need hardly tell

you that these ill-judged alterations have given it a carica

Itured appearance ; and yet felt more impressed when

looking at it from the very spot upon which some of the

Ioriginal's auditors stood, than did when standing before

the horse and man of Parliament Square ; for, with a
feeling which perhaps the venerable Reformer would have
censured, as savouring too much of the idolatry he

Iabolished, uncovered my head and bowed very low to

his effigy.'
     His estimate of Edinburgh College is high, and the

terms in which it is couched prove that he had already
acquired some technical knowledge of architecture. ' The
College in my opinion is the finest building in Edin

burgh, either taken in its parts or as a whole. It forms

a square, the exterior of which displays all the chaste
simplicity of the Doric order, and the interior the lighter
graces of the Ionic and Corinthian.'

     He visits the burying-grounds of the city : here is

             AT FERGUSONS GRAVE.                           135

Ian interesting note. ' have seen the grave of poor

Ferguson, and the plain stone placed at its head by his

brother in misfortune and genius, Robert Burns. I felt

much affected when standing above the sod which covers

the mortal remains of the young poet, and could have

dropped a tear to his memory and to the memory of his

still greater successor, but I was not Shandean enough
to command one. You know I never could weep except

when insulted and stung to the heart by those whose

unkindness I could not or would not resent, and then

the tears I dropped were those of grief, rage, hatred, in

short, the offspring of any passion except tenderness.'

This is a touch of self-portraiture worth whole chapters

of retrospective delineation.
     In another of these letters, dated 10th October, 1824,

and addressed to his Uncle James, we meet with the

following careful sketch of Dr McCrie. ' I had long

wished to hear a discourse from Dr McCrie, the elegant

historian of Knox and Melville, but it was some time

Ibefore found out his meeting-house. At length I dis

it,                                        a
                                               in
   I
covered and being obligingly shown to seat             by  one

of his elders, sat with some little portion of impatience
till the doctor made his appearance. The laudable end

to which he has dedicated his great talents  rescuing

from unmerited contumely the memory of our venerable

Reformer had long prepossessed me in his favour, and

this prepossession his appearance was well calculated to
confirm. In age and figure know not where to point
                 I

out any one who more resembles him than yourself. His

countenance  is  pale and expressive, and his forehead

deeply marked with the lines of thought the spareness
                    ;

                         I
of his habit reminded me of long study and deep re

search, and his demeanour, at once humble and dignified,

finished the portrait. You may doubt--when tell you

136 THE JOURNEYMAN.

that the discourse he that day delivered was one of the

Ibest ever heard -- that my partiality blinded me to its

defects. This was not the case ; for, though partial to

the doctor, it was his superior talents that made me so,

and had his discourse been of that dull, commonplace

Ikind which have often heard in a church that shall be

nameless, my disappointment would have been great in

proportion to my expectation. I need not tell you that,
as an historian, Dr McCrie ranks very high. At a time

when every witling thought himself licensed to ridicule

the firmness or denounce the boldness of the Reformers

of our religion, the doctor stood forth in their defence ;

and, endowed with powers equal to the task, dispersed

the dark cloud of obloquy in which partial or designing
Ifmen had enveloped their names.
                                           we consider him as

a preacher, he will appear in a light as favourable. His

manner is calm yet impressive, and his sentiments
                                    I

                                              by
                                                                  is

                                                                              a (al
ways beautiful and ofttimes highly original) are conveyed

in language strong and nervous, yet at the same time

plain  satnydle,sim" pprleo.per  In short, Dean Swift's definition                 of
good                              words in their proper places,"                   can

be very well exemplified in his.    have now heard him

several times. One Sunday his voice, which                                         not

naturally strong, was nearly drowned       loud and con

tinued coughing, which arose from every corner of the
church. For some time he went on without any seem

ing embarrassment, but just when in the middle of an
important argument, made full stop. In moment
                                 a
                                       a

                                                  I
                                                     Ia

                                                                                     a
every eye was fixed upon the doctor, and such was the

silence caused  by  this attention  that   for the  "spacseee,omf y
                                      pin   fall.
minute you might have heard

brethren, you can all be quiet enough when am quiet,"

was his mild and somewhat humorous reproof, and

such was its effect that, for the remainder of the day, he

DB MCCRIE.  137

received very little interruption. There was something

in this little incident that gave me much pleasure. I

thought it told more truly of the discernment and good
temper of the doctor than even his discourse did : beau

tiful and instructive as that was.'

      Very little is added to this in the Schools and
Schoolmasters. There is indeed a quiet accuracy in the
portrait which shows that Miller was beginning to find
his hand as a master of English prose. The pale com

plexion and expressive features, the deep thought-written
lines of the forehead, the spare habit, the humble yet
dignified demeanour, which appear in the sketch of the
mason lad from Cromarty, bring Dr McCrie visibly
before us. The doctor was indeed a notable figure in
the Edinburgh of that time. He exercised a profound
influence upon the intellectual society of Scotland, and
left behind him at least one work, the biography of
Knox, which has an imperishable place in the literature
of Europe. Connected ecclesiastically with a very small
religious denomination, he rose by a natural and effort
less ascent, through the force of his solitary genius, until
he found his level among the most eminent men of his
time. Miller, long afterwards, finely compared him, in
relation to the co-religionists which clustered round him, to
a village church rearing its tower amid a group of cottages.

     But it was not only to burying-grounds and churches
that Miller betook himself during his residence in the
neighbourhood of Edinburgh. In our last extracts he
has appeared somewhat in the light of a philosopher and
critic, but we are reminded, as we accompany him to
the panorama, that he has not yet thrown off the boy.

It was rather hard in the autobiographer of fifty to omit

all notice of the event chronicled in the following ani

mated sentences.

138 THE JOURNEYMAN.

      ' Upon the earthen mound where the good people of
Edinburgh see shows and sights of all descriptions, from
the smoking baboon to the giant of seven feet and a half,
stands a circular wooden building which in size and ap
pearance reminds the reader of Gulliver's Travels of the
washing tubs of Brobdignag. In this building all the
panoramic scenery which is painted in or brought to
Edinburgh is exhibited. The battle of Trafalgar, to
gether with a series of scenes representing the Emperor
of France from the skirmish of Genappe till his death in

Ithe solitary island of St Helena was, when came here,

the subject of exhibition. Of this species of entertain

ment I had formed no idea, and willing to fill up the

blank which a name unaccompanied with an idea leaves
in the mind, and perhaps not a little urged by a natural

Ifondness for sights of the amusing description, left my

work one evening about an hour sooner than usual,

called upon my friend Will Ross as I passed his way,

and accompanied by him made directly for the panorama.
We were ushered into a darkened gallery, the sides and
ceiling of which were covered with green cloth. Our
eyes were immediately turned towards an opening about
thirty feet in width, through which, by a striking illusion,
we perceived the ocean stretching out for many leagues
before us, and upon it the British fleet commanded by
Nelson and Collingwood, bearing down, a double line,
upon the enemy, who at a little distance in the form of
a crescent seemed to await their coming. Not even in

Ia camera obscura have seen anything so natural. The

sun seemed beaming upon the water ; the British pendant
was unfolding to the wind ; the vessels appeared as if
gently heaving to the swell, while upon their decks all
was bustle and activity. The marines were loading
their muskets ; the seamen were employed about the

THE PANORAMA.  139

great guns ; some of the officers were busied in giving
orders, and others with great anxiety were looking

through their glasses as if to catch every movement of
the enemy. In truth, the deception was so complete

that, forgetting the ground upon which I stood, I fancied

myself just on the eve of a great battle, and felt my
mind impressed with that indescribable emotion which, in

the reality of such a circumstance, the young soldier al

ways feels. This scene was soon changed, and in its

place another represented which displayed all the terrible
confusion of the engagement. The first only showed us
the cloud that concealed the storm : here it was repre

sented as if bursting in its full fury. It was the deck of
the Victory, as it appeared at the moment Nelson received
his death-wound. You will have some idea of the size
of the picture when I tell you that there were above two

hundred figures, all as large as life, at once under my
eye. In the middle of these was Nelson : the sword
was falling from his hand ; his features were distorted as

if by sudden and acute pain ; and the pale cadaverous

hue of his countenance betokened speedy dissolution.

The attention of the figures nearest him seemed to be

entirely engrossed by his fall ; an anxious expression of
the countenance or a sudden turn of the head showed

that those at a greater distance had some faint perception
of what had happened, while others in the outskirts of

the picture were busied in working the guns or in sup

plying those who wrought them with ammunition. A

few paces from Nelson, a young officer was eagerly point
ing out to a marine the main-top of one of the vessels
with which the Victory was engaged, from which the
fatal bullet was supposed to have come, and he, with
great deliberation, was levelling his musket in that di
rection. The third scene was of a terrific description.

140 THE JOURNEYMAN.

It represented the battle as if drawing near its close. In

the foreground was the Redoubtable, a French ship of
the line, on fire. The flames were bursting out furi
ously from window and gun-port, tinging the waves
below with a red and fiery glare. Some of the crew were
seen throwing themselves overboard ; while others, with
despair depicted on their countenances, were clinging to

the vessel's sides as if uncertain which death to choose.
The fourth and last scene was of a calm, but, though it

represented the hour of victory, of a gloomy character.
In the distance a few of the fugitive vessels were seen
giving their broadsides and crowding on every sail to
expedite their flight. In the foreground all was desola
tion. Dismasted and shattered vessels, huge fragments
of rigging to which a few shivering wretches still clung,

and a sun again shining through a clearing atmosphere
on the madness and the misery of man, made this scene,
like the last of a tragedy, by far the saddest.'

      From the panorama, he turns to the theatre. Much
of his reading, he says, had been of a description ap
proved by Uncle James, but he had read more plays and
novels than would have been sanctioned by that stern
moralist. He cannot see that they have done him much
harm, and, sure enough, ' no small portion of the pleasure
he had experienced in this world had been derived from
them.' He will not, however, undertake to defend this

species of reading ; he means only to introduce the re
mark that, being largely acquainted with plays and

novels, and possessing a fancy naturally strong, he had
formed too high an idea of theatrical representation, and,
when he saw the theatre, was disappointed. ' When
reading,' he says, ' the plays of Shakespeare or of Otway,

of Rowe or of Addison, I saw with the mind's eye their

heroes not as actors, but as men ; and the scenes they

DISAPPOINTED WITH THE STAGE.  141

described brought to my view not the painted scenes of
the stage but the real face of nature, in the same manner
that a beautiful portrait gives us the idea of a real person,

not of a mask. But when I saw men who neither in
appearance nor reality came up to the idea I had formed
of the characters they represented, I rated them in the

bitterness of my soul as mere pretenders, who could not
act their part upon the stage so well as common men do
the parts assigned them in the great drama of life.'

      He appears to have grown ashamed in a few years of
the boyish delight with which he gazed upon the pano
rama. In the letter to Baird he passes over his visit with

the single remark, ' I was more pleased with the panorama

than with the theatre.' His account of his theatrical

experiences contains indications of the extent of his

dramatic reading. ' I several times attended the theatre,
but I did not derive from theatrical representation half
the pleasure I had anticipated. I had read a great many

plays of the different English authors from the days of
Shakespeare down to those of Cumberland and Sheridan.

I had perused, too, translations of Terence and Moliere.

My acquaintance with this department of literature was

perhaps premature ; for I perused most of these works at

too early an age to appreciate their merits as compositions,
or to draw comparisons between their dramatis personal
and the people of the world. The impression, however,
which the more striking scenes and characters had left on
my imagination was ineffaceably vivid. Most of the
scenes were identified in my mind with the beautiful
scenes of the hill of Cromarty. The cliff of Dover, even
in Shakespeare, could not surpass in grandeur of feature
the rock of the Apple-yardie, a rugged, hoary, perpendi

cular precipice, nearly three hundred feet in height, --
crested by a dark wood --skirted by a foaming sea --

H2 THE JOURNEYMAN.

partially mantled with ivy-- caverned at its base, and
continually lifting up its voice in hollow echoes as if hold

ing converse with the waves that toil beneath        a it,  or the

innumerable flocks of sea-birds that scream around it.

The Jacques of my imagination moralized        a in       solitary

opening in the thicket above, from which long vista

that penetrates into the recesses of the wood, and be

comes narrower and darker in the distance, seen to
                                               is

terminate in small circular opening which, when the
              aa

                              I
evening sun rests on the hill behind, may remind one of

the beacon of lighthouse.             found the easiest thing
                                               it

                                                     ;I
imaginable to convert the cavern in which had been
once imprisoned into the cave of Belarius and an old

vault    ruinous chapel dedicated to St Regulus, and
     I a in
nearly buried among the woods of the hill, furnished mea
                aa
with proper tomb for the Capulets. The other scenes
were of as suitable character; and the figures withby

                                   a
which peopled them were as strongly, though in some

instances more whimsically, defined.           conceived of
                                               I

                                                                 a
Caliban as monster that scarcely less resembled huge

beetle than human creature, and that walked erect and

on all fours  turns. The witches of Macbeth appeared

to me    in the forms   of some of    --thneot,mhooswt edviesra,girneetahbeleir
looking   old women in  the country

living aspects, but in those which fancied their corpses
would have assumed, should they, after being committed
                                      by

                                           II
to the grave, be possessed            evil spirits. The ideas of

female grace and elegance which connected with thea
heroines of Shakespeare, and the lady of the Mask of
Comus, were mostly derived from beautiful painting in

Cromarty House -- copy of Guido's famous Aurora,

which, when boy, have contemplated for hours to
         It
                  a
                    Ia
gether.       was in consequence of my having acquired

such ideas as these of the characters and scenes of

DISAPPOINTED WITH THE STAGE.      143

dramatic poetry that I was now displeased with both
actors and the stage. The stage I regarded as merely a

little area floored with fir deal and surrounded by painted

sheets ;--the actors as a company of indifferent-looking

people who could bear no comparison with either the
ideal dramatis persona' of my imagination, or the real

Icharacters whom had seen acting their parts in the great
drama of life. On the evening I first sat in the Theatre
Royal of Edinburgh, I felt as after having admired an
I

                  it if,
                          in

                               I
exquisite portrait, which the art of the painter had almost

awakened into life, should be asked whether could

not recognize the original of  an inanimate image
of wax.'

            144

            CHAPTER IV.

NIDDRIE     ABGLTAAHICNEKSGT'UBOATRAHDTEMIRAWN'OCSRLAKSMTSAE--LNEH--'I--SMIRLOELPTEIUNRRIONNSPSRTEOJOUNDCRICOTEMRDAARDTEYBS.'Y
    THEM
    UNIONS

MILLER soon found employment in his trade. The

        scene of his labonr during his residence near Edin
burgh was the village of Niddrie, where he was one of a
company of workmen engaged in building an addition
to Niddrie House. To give ourselves a vivid idea of the
locality, exactly as it impressed itself upon him at the
time, we cannot do better than avail ourselves of his own

description, which we find in a letter to Uncle Alexander

dated 15th December, 1824.

     ' We shall, if you please, ascend the highest pinnacle

of Niddrie House, and from thence survey the country.
As far as the eye can reach in an east or southern direc
tion, a low unvaried flat presents itself, gradually rising
as it recedes from the sight into low, swelling hills, and
falling with a sweep as gradual towards the frith of
Forth, which from this elevation appears in all its extent
glittering with many sails. Upon the north and west
the face of the country is of a bolder character. Arthur's

Seat and Salisbury Crags upon the one hand, and the
blue heathy Pentland hills upon the other, will remind
us of the beautiful and picturesque scenery which sur

         NIDDRIE HOUSE.                       145

rounds our native town      To the grounds about

Niddrie my work gives me access. Often in the fine

Isummer evenings have sauntered through its fields

and woods, alone but not solitary, watching the last
beam of the sun as it tinged with a purple hue the

Pentland hills, or as it streamed on the roofless walls

and dismantled turrets of Craigmillar Castle

Niddrie House is a large irregular building, bearing

date in one part 1636, and in another not yet finished.
The modern addition will, when the winter storms of

a few years have soiled the natural hue of the stone

and rounded the angular mouldings, appear by far
the most antique, as it is executed in the heaviest style

of the Saxon Gothic. The large mullioned windows

are crowned with rich labels, and the walls deeply in

dented with moulded embrasures. Octagon turrets rising

above the roof project from every corner, and instead

of those large stacks of chimneys which disfigure many

modern houses, here every one has its own airy column,

connected at top to the rest by a star-like cope. When

finished, you might suppose this building, from its

antique appearance and secluded situation, to have been

some nunnery founded by that church-endowing monarch,
David I. Adjoining the house is a large garden, which,

from its irregular and partial cultivation, differs very little

in appearance from the surrounding pleasure-grounds.
In that corner of it which lies nearest the north-west gable

of the house is a vault in which the Wauchopes of Niddrie,

time immemorial, have been interred. Its front is screened

by a huge bush of ivy which, overshading the door and

twining about a sepulchral urn that rests directly above,

gives the whole a gloomy yet picturesque appearance.
Death does not move the bodies of the proprietors of

Niddrie far from the house which sheltered them when

VOL. I.                 10

 146 THE JOURNEYMAN.

 living : the dead Laird in his vault is not thirty feet
 distant from the living one in his bed-chamber. Bound
 ing the other extremity of the garden is a burying-ground
 in which the humbler inhabitants of the country and
village adjacent find their last resting-place. It is a
solitary spot, embosomed in wood, and at a considerable
distance from any house. These circumstances, which in
the north country would make a burying-ground after
nightfall the supposed haunt of restless spirits, here
afford the violators of sepulchres opportunity to tear
from its grave the newly-deposited body, and to convey
it to some of the dissecting rooms about Edinburgh.
Such is the barbarous audacity of these wretches, that
they frequently break and overturn monuments which lie
in their way ; and, without any desire of concealing their
depredations, leave the violated graves half open, and
scatter around them as if in derision the cerements that

wrapped the body. I hope I am not bloodthirsty, yet I
think I could level a musket at the villain who robbed

the tomb of the body of one of my relatives with as much

Icomposure, and with as little compunction, as would

feel in taking aim at a wooden target.

    ' The house or rather cottage in which I at present

lodge stands upon the side of the Dalkeith road. It is
sheltered on the north and west by the Niddrie woods,

and on the east fronts a wide though not diversified pro
spect of corn-fields and farmsteadings. From the door

Iat night, through a long wooded avenue, see the Inch-

keith light twinkling in the distance, like a star rising
out of the sea.'

     Thus does he nourish a youth, hardly sublime, yet not
without its genially fostering elements and influences ;

sauntering among the leafy woods, watching the sunset
as it streams along the broad valley from the west

      WORTHLESS FELLOW-WORKMEN.                                 147

and deepens into purple the green-blue of the Pent-

lands, looking through the wooded avenue until the

Inchkeith light flashes out above the darkening sea.
' Nunquam minus solus quam cum solus,' --' alone,' as he
      but not solitary,' --he communes with his own
puts  it,
          '

                                                             a
heart, ponders on men and things, and lays up fact after

fact, conclusion after conclusion, in memory which, from

his sixth year, appears to have lost not one gleaning of

his experience. With the peace and beauty of nature
around him, and Edinburgh at hand, his circumstances

might at first sight be pronounced favourable.

      There was, however, very important drawback.              it it It
      a
                                           a
was serious misfortune for Miller, and one which left

deep traces of its injurious influence upon his mind, that
the men in company with whom he worked at Niddrie
were, for the most part, dissolute and worthless. Nor were

the exceptions of kind likely to inspire him with any
a is
               a

                                  a

                                                 by
enthusiasm for the order to which he provisionally be

longed. They were men of strong religious sentiments but

narrow intellects, unable, save                      the silent eloquence of

their moral superiority to the rest of the squad, to make

any impression either upon him or upon their comrades.

The others were as bad specimens of their class as

possible to conceive. Selfish and wilful as spoiled

children, brutishly sensual, flippantly because ignorantly

infidel, habitually profane, they showed Miller how base

thing working man can be, and to his dying day his

opinion of working men retained the stamp which

received in the society of these reprobates. Owing to

the building mania which was at its height at this time,

they had abundance of work and high wages, but they

were mean enough to be jealous of the workman from

the North, and Miller found himself exposed to the

thousand nameless vexations which spiteful cunning can

148 THE JOURNEYMAN.

suggest to mechanics wishing to subject a comrade to

humiliation. It is often necessary for a stone-cutter, in

order to have the block which he hews placed conveni

ently for the chisel and mallet, to be assisted by his

fellow-workmen. This customary civility was refused to

Miller, whose pride prevented him from begging a favour,

or complaining of its being tacitly refused. The ablest,

and, except himself and the religious workmen, the best
in the squad, was a young man whom he calls ' Cha.'

He was the 'recognized hero' of the band, and his heart

seems to have smote him on account of the base com

bination against a stranger. He put an end to it by

stepping out one day to assist Miller, when he was being

left to roll up to his block-bench a stone of the size which

two or three commonly united to place.

Even Cha, however, was not merely a blackguard,

but, in all that relates to moral sanity and self-respect
ing manhood, a fool. Like the majority of his fellows,

he celebrated the fortnightly payment of wages by two

or three days of drunkenness and debauchery. He was

leader in the following feat, the account of which I ex

tract from the letter to Baird, as one or two of its traits

are omitted from the autobiography.     ' On a Saturday

evening three of the Niddrie workmen, after having re

ceived a fortnight's wages, which in all amounted to more

than six pounds, went to Edinburgh, and there spent

the night in a house of bad fame. Next morning they

hired a coach and, accompanied by three women of the

town, set out for Roslin on a jaunt of pleasure. They

came back to Edinburgh in the evening, passed the night

as they had done the preceding one, and returned to

Niddrie on Monday without a single shilling.' Such was

Cha, and to his taking the lead in expeditions of this

kind he appears to have in large measure owed his re-

^

WORTHLESS FELLOW-WORKMEN.  149

putation for cleverness and spirit. The revolting exploit
just mentioned was spoken of with enthusiasm in the

shed, and the workmen regaled each other for days after
with accounts of similar feats which they had executed or

of which they had heard. ' I was told,' proceeds Miller,

' of an Edinburgh mechanic, a mason, who on the death
of a relative received a legacy of about eighty pounds.
He was no sooner paid the money than he carried home
his tool chest, and shoved it under his bed. He then

commenced a new course of life. He bought an elegant
suit of clothes ; hired a hackney coach by the week ;
attended all the fashionable amusements of the place ;

and regularly, once in the day, called in his carriage on
his brother workmen. In six weeks the whole of his

money was expended. He then took out his tool chest from
under his bed, and returned to his former employment.'
This fellow seems to have had a trace of humour in him.

     At first hated as an intruder, and ridiculed as a
Highlander, Miller, being found to be not only capable

of holding on his own path, but superior in the valued
accomplishments of swimming, leaping, running, and
wrestling, rose into something like popularity among his

fellow-workmen. It was impossible, however, that be

tween him and them there could be any communion ;
and, tacitly accepting these sixteen masons of Niddrie
as representatives of their class, he acquired a profound
distrust, sharpened and embittered by contempt, for

workmen in general. It cannot be denied that, so far as

these unfortunates were concerned, he gave working
men a fair trial, and looked candidly and boldly into
their ways and habits. He permitted himself to be
carried along in the stream when the masons of the dis
trict turned out on strike, and he forced himself to

endure one or two dreary hours in accompanying them

150 THE JOURNEYMAN.

to the foul subterranean haunt where they enjoyed the
sport of badger-baiting. Everything he beheld in the
character and conduct of these workmen offended his

higher nature. They were too far below him to exert
any such influence as might have tempted him to fel

lowship with them. In an atmosphere of profanity,

sensuality, and the most coarse and sordid selfishness,

he continued an Apollo among neat-herds, pure, proud,
and lofty-minded.

      As was to have been expected, the strike in which
these masons engaged seemed to him unreasonable, and
we need not doubt that his view of the matter was

correct. In point of fact, there was no redeeming

feature in his experience of working men during his
residence at Niddrie to modify the sternly unfavourable
opinion which he formed of the class. He concluded
that they were incurably disqualified for promoting their
true interests by combination. He declared against
trades' unions, and from this decision he never swerved.
Finding that William Ross was not only member of a
house-painters' union, but one of the officials of the
society, he told his friend that his union would never
benefit the house-painters as a class, and advised him to
resign his clerkship. He gives us in the autobiography
the argument which he addressed to Ross, and as it was
substantially the argument he continued to urge against
trades' unions to the end of his life, it is as well to
quote it here. ' There is a want,' he said, ' of true
leadership among our operatives in these combinations.

It is the wilder spirits that dictate the conditions ; and,

pitching their demands high, they begin usually by en
forcing acquiescence among their companions. They are
tyrants to their fellows ere they come into collision with
their masters, and have thus an enemy in the camp, not

TRADES' UNIONS.                            151

unwilling to take advantage of their seasons of weakness,

and prepared to rejoice, though secretly mayhap, in their

defeats and reverses. And further, their discomfiture

will be always quite certain enough when seasons of

depression come, from the circumstance that, fixing their

terms in prosperous times, they will fix them with re

ference rather to their present power of enforcing them

than to that medium line of fair and equal adjustment

on which a conscientious man could plant his foot and

make a firm stand. Men such as you, able and ready to

work in behalf of these combinations, will of course get

the work to do, but you will have little or no power given

you in their direction : the direction will be apparently in

the hands of a few fluent gabbers ;  and   yet even they will
not be the actual directors, --they        be but the expo
                                     will

nents and voices of the general mediocre sentiment and

inferior sense of the mass as a whole, and acceptable

only so long as they give utterance to that ; and so, ulti

mately, exceedingly little will be won in this way for

working men. It is well that they should be allowed

to combine, seeing that combination is permitted to

those who employ them ; but until the majority of our

working men of the south      bweicsoemr eanvdergyredaitflfyerebnetttefrr,o--m

what they now are, --greatly

there will be more lost than gained by their combina

tions. According to the circumstances of the time and

season, the current will be at one period running in

their favour against the masters, and at another in favour

of the masters against them : there will be a continual

ebb and flow, like that of the sea, but no general ad

vance ; and the sooner that the like of you and I get out

of the rough conflict and jostle of the tideway, and set

ourselves to labour apart on our own internal resources,
it will be all the better for us.'

152 THE JOURNEYMAN.

     Of the reasoning by which his correspondent attempt
ed to rebut these arguments we have no sample, but
Ross, though modest and diffident to excess, was not
convinced, and retained his place in the union. Of the
force of Miller's statements, so far as they go, there

can be no doubt ; the question is whether his inference

is not based on too narrow an induction of facts.

That cacklers were generally the leaders of the unions

at the time he wrote, and that they are too often the

leaders now, may be admitted.  But he seems to

assume that there is a natural necessity in this state

of things, and to conclude that no schooling by experi
ence will suffice to teach working men that the leader

ship of the wise man is better than the leadership of the

fool. Stump-oratorical leadership has been proved long

ere now to be no necessity in the organizations of work

ing men. The charge of tyrannically repressing indi
vidual energy may still be brought against unions ; but

it is an established fact that these associations have been

the means of keeping tens of thousands of families out

of the workhouse, and have dispensed to tens of thou
sands of workmen comforts and necessities in time of ill

ness. Nearly twenty years have elapsed since Miller

wrote his autobiography, and perhaps none of our in

stitutions have partaken more largely in the general im

provement which has characterized that period than

trades' unions. It is not impossible that, with the com

prehensive information before him which has been fur

nished by the Committee appointed to inquire into the

subject by the Social Science Association, and by the

Royal Commission which investigated the question in the

summer of 1867, he would have divested himself more

fully than he ever did of the evil impression made upon

THE BOATMAN 8 TALE.  153

his mind by the abject squad in which he had the
lamentable misfortune to work at Niddrie.

      Be this as it may, his nature, purified and elevated
by the influences of his training, remained uncontaminated
by the baseness of his companions. Retaining his erect
human attitude, he breathed freely and without hurt in
this Grotto of Dogs, while the canine creatures perished.
He had, besides, the society not only of William Ross,

whose friendship and converse were a perpetual solace to
him, but of a cousin and a few other rational persons.
And the trees were leafy, the skies were blue, the white
clouds over the Pentlands radiant in their stainlessness,

and, when the wind raged in the wood behind the cot
tage at midnight, he could dream that it was the roll of

the surge among the crags beside his beloved Cromarty.
While his fellow-workmen in the shed indulged in clumsy
jest or obscene tattle, he could ' croon ' to himself the

Boatman's Tale, getting into shape during these weeks.
The poem will not rank high as a work of art, but there
were a few at that time in Edinburgh, Scott, Jeffrey, and
Wilson in the number, who would have heard with in

terest that it had been composed by a mason lad of
twenty-one, who, in the very moments of composition,
held mallet and chisel in a shed at Niddrie. The first

two parts were written here, the remaining three at
Cromarty. We shall glance at the poem.

      The Boatman's Tale is varied in scene and incident,

but the gist of the story is that Walter Hogg, a sea-faring
man, beheld a vision of fiendish creatures who pre
dicted his death, that this death took place as announced,
with appropriate circumstances of horror and terror, and
that the ghost of Walter appeared to his friend and in
formed him that the demons, spite of their happy guess,

154 THE JOURNEYMAN.

were beings of no great potency, and that he was in a
state of blessedness. The following stanzas are evidently
a version of the episode of the apparition in ' Jack
Grant's Tale.'

                    1 Oh ! all was dark as dungeon gloom :
                       Still louder swelled the roar

                   That rushed above, and howled behind,
                       And dashed and raged before,

                   When gleamed a light, shadeless and bright,
                          On cordage, mast, and oar.

                                

                 1 Now mock me not ; our stern upon

                 I saw a lady stand ;

                   A waxen taper straight and tall
                       She held in either hand :

                   Her lightly flowing garb appeared
                       Of shining silvery green,

                   Her face was calmly pale, her eyes
                       Were stars of dazzling sheen.

                 ' High rose our bows ; when passed the wave,
                       Again as low they fell ;

                   Yet all unmoved that lady stood ;
                   No sailor man, of flesh and blood,

                       Had kept her berth so well.'

      The scene of the apparition of Walter was also on

ship-board, but the vessel had evidently never been on

the stocks at Cromarty or elsewhere.

                  ' Her sails were white as summer cloud,
                       Her mast a boreal ray,

                 A fiery star bedecked her prow,
                   Begemmed with light her stern below

                       The circling eddies play.
                        ##
                 ' Now mark me ; on her silver deck

                       Unharmed did Walter stand ;
                   And on each side, and round behind,

                       There watched a seraph band.

                 1 The rainbow of the shower ye've seen,
                       The dazzling sun ye see ;

                   Oh ! orbs and hues of heaven alone
                       To the good may likened be,

                   When they doff their garb of fragile clay
                       To bathe in eternity.

THE BOATMAN'S TALE.                                            155

' And lovely was the smile that dwelt

'TwOans--Wablutet r''tsweprleacvidaifnacteo  ;       to tell,

                                             strive

For words can ne'er express

The beauty of that sinless smile

Of perfect happiness.'

      On the subject of the demons which had appeared
to him when on earth, the ghost becomes homiletic.

' Thou sure hast read in Heaven's own book

      (Oh, search that volume well 1)
 How that of old the seraph tribes

     Grew proud and did rebel ;
  And how that from the height of heaven

     To deepest woe they fell.

' Of these the band whose dark presage
     Did sore my heart dismay ;

 Yet harmless in the lonely wood
      And in the storm are they.

  But ah ! right fearful, though scarce feared,
      When in man's heart they stay.

' 0 drcadthem when the wanton smiles,

   And when the bowl is set ;
0 dread them when thy heart is glad,

And  when  t*hy  cheeks are                  wet.    *
 *
                         *

' But if on Heaven thy trust be laid,

      To fear thou dost not well,

  For stronger is one Christian man
     Than all the fiends of hell.'

The two last lines really do credit to the mason lad.
One can imagine him giving a vigorous stroke or two
with his mallet as he ' crooned ' them out.

     The influence of Coleridge's Ancient Marnier and
of Hogg's Queens Wajce are traceable in the Boatman's

Tale.

     After working two seasons at Niddrie, Miller re
turned to Cromarty. The voyage was long, and in its
course he composed the verses which are quoted in the
autobiography as Written at Sea. His uncles, his

cousin George, and other friends and relatives, welcomed

him on the beach.

156

CHAPTER V.

THE STONE-CUTTER'S DISEASE LINES TO SISTER JEANIE
     RENEWS HIS FRIENDSHIP WITH SWAN SON.' AND CORRE
      SPONDS WITH ROSS WRITES AN ODE ON GREECE AND
     OFFERS IT TO THE ' SCOTSMAN.'

                                            /

M ILLER returned from Edinburgh' in unbroken
        spirits. Whatever the drawbacks jayf his Edinburgh

            a
                 jy,
sojourn, he had never ceased to be hapr and his mood,

as we learn from an expression used in letter to William

Ross, had commonly been that of exuben mt gaiety. But

one circumstance connected with his work while at

Edinburgh now comes into view, to which  it      impos
                                             is

sible to refer without mournfulness. Whiib. the young

journeyman, so brave of spirit, so modestly content with

his exile from the society he was fitted to adorn, was

cutting blocks into pillars in the shed at Niddrie, the

seeds of painful and ineradicable disease were being

sown in his constitution. The hardships of his appren

ticeship had brought him to the gates of death, and

although he seemed to have recovered his strength,
'

             a
                                                        a

                                                        it

                                                                                is
probable that his lungs were of less than average vigour

when he entered as journeyman upon the occupation

of stone-hewing. In two seasons he became so deeply

affected with the stone-cutter's malady,' that he had to

choose between throwing himself loose for season from

THE STONE-CUTTERS DISEASE.  157

his employment and certain death. ' So general,' he
says, ' is the affection, that few of our Edinburgh stone

cutters pass their fortieth year unscathed, and not one
out of every fifty of their number ever reaches his forty-
fifth.'

     For the first month or two after his return to
Cromarty, he deemed it probable that his illness had

gone too far for recovery. ' I still remember ' --these
are his words -- ' the rather pensive than sad feeling with
Iwhich used to contemplate, at this time, an early death,

and the intense love of nature that drew me, day after
day, to the beautiful scenery which surrounds my native

town, and which I loved all the more from the conscious

ness that my eyes might so soon close upon it for ever.'

It was at this time that he composed the lines 'To

Jeanie.' The little girl of five, to whom he addressed

them, was his mother's eldest daughter by her second
marriage. With that gentleness which ever character
ized him, he made friends with Jeanie, and led her by
the hand in his quiet walks. The lines are in the
Scottish dialect, of which Miller was never such a master

as Burns. They are not distinguished by power or

originality, but are interesting as a reflex of his mood at

the time, and breathe --the closing stanzas especially --

an unaffected and artless pathos.
                   ' Though to thee a spring shall rise,
                     An' scenes as fair salute thine eyes ;
                      An' though, through many a cludless day,
                  My winsome Jean shall be heartsome and gay ;

                    ' He wha grasps thy little hand
                     Nae langer at thy side shall stand,
                      Nor o'er the flower-besprinkled brae
                    Lead thee the lownest an' the bonniest way.

                       1 Dost thou see yon yard sae green,
                      Spreckled wi' many a mossy stane ?

                   A few short weeks o' pain shall fly,
                  An' asleep in that bed shall thy puir brither lie.

156

CHAPTER V.

JTHE STONE-CUTTER'S DISEASE-- LINES TO SIST*ER JEANIE-
RENEWS HIS FRIENDSHIP WITH SWANSONl AND CORRE
SPONDS WITH ROSS WRITES AN ODE OK          GREECE AND

OFFERS IT TO THE ' SCOTSMAN.'

M [LLER returned from Edinburgh* m unbroken
       spirits. Whatever the drawbacks .pB'his Edinburgh
sojourn, he had never ceased to be hapf My, and his mood,

as we learn from an expression used in a letter to William

Ross, had commonly been that of exuberant gaiety. But
one circumstance connected with his Vork while at

Edinburgh now comes into view, to whic.\ it js impos

sible to refer witbout mournfulness. WhiuN the young

journeyman, so brave of spirit, so modestly consent with
his exile from the society be was fitted to adorn, -was
cutting blocks into pillars in the shed at Niddrie, the
seeds of painful and ineradicable disease were being
g**stapwoioclrfhtwoehesbnsonthaoubinigpnhelhee-hhhheteiashenwdaticetsnoergbehne.rdsimostiuetalugdusIthnniotatgonst.jwhhowuaiomvreneTrseehetyroaemeoscfoathonhnlavesersedsrgseuahtdphtioepahnssni8ta0oh8vffeterhredaoniesgccarecttahhup'vppiaariaetotinnondnr
^h ^ ^Vhaffected

J?*choose
 with ' the stone-cutter s malady  tor  a
between throwing hnnsclf loose

                                        ^

his er^'j:Tnian: mii ~j-nn u-aru-                                 - j--:i-t~,,. ie
isays, "g He uSi-'jiL ~iar >t r iir ...: t:."! ~-~ <:k-
r.ricutte*? pes -Int!r i
                                  ~-ir iz.-> ir.in-u i*:.: : r ce
i,^'trout oer<grT ir~ c iicir
fifth/                             - ^r -?at .::* i.*- I i--"--

      Po* 'Lie ir^c m nrj. tt ~v                                  fl^ir :s r^^-i
rCromarTy. ie iMSitr:
                          zr~ .'h.-.k ~:.ir i^~ _..:i:-?s lac
ic Igone to>                       r-_I rtzicc *r -- m*-*
        5:r rrr-T~-r-~-
are his wnri-- Me ruutr Tto. t ^u sni ::-. - .c*'~-
I i:which :sed -- :-c-.-n_~uir.. u: ~ii.s rue. izt *ar
                                                                                                  .":

and the iz.:erse  i^-t  :c lar^rt  "uc                            -'":_~t* z.ie.                 ^_cr

daT. to tie tea-TM'J v~;:iir-~  :_<:i irr i_r.-:s r t :.:.-;<:
littown. and wlj;h. I J ~r- l~ ~!ie !-- r-. tr ci
it tness that                                                               .- "^- ---s-

    er-is               vrrcc -e;-~ * *-:.                              ~ ~ c i"v'r

It was a: :his Tme ~Ja: he .:c-z*~***i tr.e _res To
Jeanie." The hrle nri t f-r. ~ vb -- he il,lrissed
them. wa ti? =r-her* its- inzh:cr vy rrr seevr.d
marriage. Wi~h :h*: n\-:-_t>* w:l;;- c^er i:.'.ri.':c:-is -el
                                                                                                  a
ixed him. he rrA.de frier, w-.:h Jean>?. ar.i "td r.er                                                        by
the hand in hi* \-Jser. Wilis. Tie Iir.es are :r. the

Scottish dialect, of whih Miiier was sever >.:h r...i>:er
                                  ci-rirrrtished by power or
as Burn?. They are      z.
                              .:

othreigitnimaleit,ya, nbde:braerae:hier---:ertehserir^cioassinag  re3ex oi  Li> mood              a:
                                                                            espeota..\
                                                                   stanzas

an unaffected and artless paib>-
   Thr,uzb to :-.*n a sp~=g ^*" rise.
'

   Aa (Penes as (air sai=te li-ioe eyes                           ;
                                                                                        ;
    An' though, through           many a cludless day.
My winsome Jean sLaS               be heaxtsome and gay

'  He   wlahnaggerraaspt sthtyhy"sidliettlsehablal nsdtand,
   Xae
   Xor o'er the flower-besprinkled brae
Lead thee the lownest an' the bonniest                               war.

'   Dost thou see yon yard sae green,                             ^

 AAn'SpafrseelweeekplsehHoinrtwthiw'aemteakbnesdyos'ahpamallinosthssyyhasPlltaTMnfley.b.ther I.e.

                  iiu

158 THE JOURNEYMAN.

                   ' Then thy mither's tears awhile
                     May chide thy joy an' damp thy smile ;
                     But sune ilk grief shall wear awa',

               And I'll be forgotten by ane an' by a'.

                   ' Dinna think the thought is sad ;
                     Life vexed me aft, but this mak's glad :
                     When eauld rny heart and closed my e'e,

                 Bonny shall the dreams o' my slumbers be.'

      But he is young, and though his lungs have been
permanently and incurably injured, the energy of his
constitution, aided by repose and by peace of mind, is
sufficient for the present to conquer the disease. With
returning health return his interest in life and his intel
lectual ambition. He renews his friendship with John

Swanson, who had recently abandoned a growing business
in Cromarty with a view to devoting himself to the work
of the Christian ministry in connection with the Church
of Scotland, and opens a correspondence with William
Ross. Swanson who, six years previously, had been
one of his most intimate friends, he finds improved
in all respects. John had thrown off a habit of sarcasm
which formerly disguised his kindness of heart, and ' his
judgment,' says Miller to Baird, ' had attained a strength

and niceness of edge which I had not before found

equalled.' In a few hours after they met, the friends
were more closely knit in the bonds of amity than they

had ever been. ' After parting with him for the even
ing,' says Miller again, ' my spirits were so exhilarated

that I felt as if intoxicated.'

      While he worked as a stone-cutter, Swanson had

 been preparing himself by a regular education for the

duties of a learned profession. ' I found my friend,'

writes Miller, ' to be one of the few persons who become
 wise in proportion as they grow learned.' He adds the
 following characteristic estimate of the effect of formal

COLLEGE LEARNING.  159

culture upon a certain order of minds :-- ' My acquaint

ance with men of education, though not very extensive,

is yet sufficiently so to convince me that the people

whose capacities average between mediocrity and the
lower extreme of intellect are rather injured than bene
fited by being made scholars. Men of this kind, when
bred up to a common mechanical profession, are generally

quiet and unpretending, useful to society and possessed
of an almost instinctive knowledge of those rules of
conduct an attention to which makes easy the passage
through life. As scholars, however, they frequently

bear a character much the reverse of this. I have met

with such newly set loose from college, and have taken

an inventory of their intellectual stock. A smattering

of Greek and Latin ; an affected admiration of writings
whose merits they have neither taste nor judgment to

appreciate ; a few confused philosophical notions ; a few
broken ideas, the imperfect transcripts, not of things,
but of other ideas ; an ability of conveying trite

thoughts in common language ; a pride that gloats

enraptured over these attainments ; and a sincere con
tempt for the class of people whom they deem the ignor
ant. Parnell's beautiful description of a lake when

perfectly calm and when ruffled by a pebble illustrates
happily the minds of men of true and of fictitious learn
ing. The sensoriums of the former are mirrors of the

universe, --those of the latter present only scenes of

broken fragments.'
      Swanson, like most young men of ability who study

in the Scottish colleges, was an eager metaphysician,
immersed in the study of Locke, Hume, Berkeley, and
Reid. On the lighter departments of literature he
looked with indifference, tempered by disdain. Miller's
pursuits and preferences were of precisely the opposite

160 THE JOURNEYMAN.

character. He was addicted to poetry, and thought
metaphysics dry and displeasing. ' In a few months,

however, he (Swanson) had become an admirer of the

elegancies of composition, and I (Miller) of metaphysical

acuteness. He perused the Paradise Lost of Milton

Iwith astonishment, the Essays of Hume with admira

tion.'                  ,

Strongly contrasted with the vigorous, practical

Swanson, is Miller's other friend, of whom we have

already heard so much, William Ross. If in any one of

his early associates there was a ray of genius, it was in

this hapless youth. What he wanted was at bottom
nothing else but health. He blamed himself, and his

friends blamed him, for indolence ; but it was not in

dolence, it was the lassitude of failing life, the weariness

of approaching death, that palsied his energies. Keen

and clear in his intellectual perceptions, he had a

half-consciousness of this, but he did not know it well

enough to silence his self-upbraidings. He told Miller

that he, Ross, lacked the stamina which would one day

raise his friend above the crowd, and regarded his own

efforts with melancholy contempt. But for the sympa

thetic tenderness of Hugh's nature, there could have

been no friendship between him and Ross ; the men

Iwere very different. ' need not remind you,' writes

Hugh, from Cromarty in May, 1825, 'that though ever

desirous of each other's company, we were not always

very happy together. There was so much whim on the

one side, and so little philosophy on the other--the one
was so low-spirited, the other so madly-spirited --that not

husband and wife (and that is saying a good deal) could

agree worse together.'

Miller felt the genuine worth of Ross, appreciated

his fine qualities, and with a beautiful assiduity of

                          WILLIAM ROSS.                                   161

friendship strove to woo him from his listlessness and

his depression. The poor fellow struggled fitfully, but
                                       '
in vain.              '0  indolence  !    Ross  exclaims  in one of his

letters, ' thou demon who hast ever had such power

over me (never more than now), accept the heartiest,

bitterest curses of thy victim. Unnerved by thy bane
Iful influences,
                          have loitered in the dark valley of
obscurity until the day of life is far spent --until clouds

have arisen and obscured the bright vistas through which
I Ionce hoped my path would lie.
Ilittle ground I have gained.                        am even losing the

                                                am sliding backwards.

The want of natural abilities, the want of a proper

education, the want of a rational confidence -- each of

these throw rough steep obstacles in the path of many

a poor sojourner ; but when thou, O fiend ! seizest the

will and makest it thine own, we struggle no longer

against these obstacles. No ! we sit down at thy feet
                                                                             '
and merely think of them.                 But   why  address  the  fiend  ?

In a more pensive mood, he contrasts his own situation

Iwith that of Miller : ' I can scarce say desire anything.
IHere live as an exile, without a friend or a scene near
me that I love -- without anything to wish or enjoy.

How grateful ought you to be to the great Benefactor

Iwho has placed you in a situation so truly delightful !
   can in imagination picture you at work on the chapel

brae, where everything around you is so still, so fresh, so
Ibeautiful.
                          can see green woods and yellow fields ; a

little quiet town at a convenient distance, with the blue

          I
                I

                                it,
waves half encircling and the blue hills peeping over
it. Did say had sunk into such an apathy as to be

too indifferent to desire anything              I?
                                                    If

                                                         II

                                                             I
                                                                                                 ?
                                                     so, have spoken

amiss, for there are things which can still desire. Did

say you ought to be grateful to the Giver of all good
I

                 !

                  I.
Alas discontented, restless thing that am, have

VOL.                                      11

162 THE JOURNEYMAN.

much cause for being grateful also.' He has a deep
affection for Miller, and a pride in his friend. ' You

Icomplain, my friend, of melancholy. Had such a heart
as yours, I think I could be happy even in grief. It is
of a gentler and more delicate cast than I had imagined,
and I am glad of it.'

      Occasionally Ross introduces a similitude so apt and

so beautiful that we feel keenly how real, how fine, if

slender, was his vein of genius. Remarking that all

who know him think well of him, he proceeds with his

usual self-depreciation to account for the fact : ' All

these men only see me in part, and (for such is the
nature of all earthly things when viewed from a distance)
what they do see of me appears other than what it is. The

clouds which so gloriously encircle the setting sun, and
whose beauty in description no comparison can heighten,
are but wreaths of watery vapour ; and the distant hill,
though its azure hue vies in depth and beauty with that
of the cloudless firmament, is a mass of rock and earth,

Ihalf covered with a stunted vegetation. What am in

reality ? What is my heart ?--a cold, vicious thing,

devoid of energy, affection, and peace.' This is a far

deeper thought than Thomson's about the enchantment

of distance. Mr Ruskin expands what is essentially the

same idea as the poor consumptive house-painter's into
one of the most eloquent passages in his works ; * but

      * ' Are not all natural things, it may be asked, as lovely near as
far away ? Nay, not so. Look at the clouds, and watch the delicate
sculpture of their alabaster sides, and the rounded lustre of their mag
nificent rolling. They were meant to be beheld far away ; they were
shaped for their place, high above your head ; approach them, and they
fuse into vague mists, or whirl away in fierce fragments of thunderous
vapour. Look at the crest of the Alp, from the far-away plains over
which its light is cast, whence human souls have communion with it
by their myriads. The child looks up to it in the dawn, and the
husbandman in the burden and heat of the day, and the old man in the
going down of the sun, and it is to them all as the celestial city on the

                        WILLIAM ROSS.                               163

the appropriate and beautiful application of it to the
judgment of human character belongs to Ross alone.

     Still finer, perhaps, is the following : ' The virtuous
man has not only the approbation of others but his own.

It is said by philosophers that the air we breathe would

be a most oppressive burden to us did it not penetrate
the pores of our bodies, and by filling every cavity within
render us unconscious to the weight which presses from

without. Thus the self-approbation of the virtuous man

renders the approbation of others an invigorating, re
freshing thing ; but without it (I speak from experience)
the voice of praise appears a cruel irony-- a weight which
bends the consciously unworthy soul to the very dust.'
 Poor fellow ! He was so good and so gifted that all who

 knew him loved and admired him ; and so gentle-hearted,

 so modest, and self-accusing, that even their admiration
 gave him pain. In the same letter we have a glimpse of
 the country about Perth : ' The scenery about Perth is ex

 quisitely beautiful. The day upon which I first came

 within sight of it was calm and pleasant, and, then in
 its decline, was clothing the woods, hills, and fields

 with a yellow light. The Tay, speckled with boats and

 small vessels, like a vein of silver winded through the
 landscape. The distant town, half mixing with an azure
 cloud which rested above seemed (to use the words
 of my favourite poet)
;

                       it
                          it,
world's horizoo dyed with the depth of heaven, and clothed with the

calm of eternity. There was               set, for holy dominion, by Him who

marked for the sun His journey, and bade the moon know her going
down. It was built for its place in the far-off sky approach
                                          ;                         and, as

                                                    is
                                                               it,
the sound of the voice of man dies away about its foundation, and the

tide of human life, shattered upon the vast aerial shore, at last met by
the Eternal " Here shall thy waves be stayed," the glory of its aspect

fades into blanched fearfulness its purple walls are rent into grisly
                        of

                                       :
rocks, its silver fretwork saddened into wasting snow the storm-brands
                                          :

--of ages are on its breast, the ashes of its own ruin lie solemnly on its
white raiment.' Stones  Venice.

164 THE JOURNEYMAN.

" A town of fairy-land, a thing of earth and sky,"

while the aerial hue of the  distant hills spake of the skill of
                             evidently intended to sort with,
nature's painting --a hue

to melt into the hues of the firmament. The sun lingered

a while on the top of his hill, as if admiring the scene,

and then sunk beneath it. For a time the golden clouds,

like the ministers of a good king deceased, strove to be

what he had been ; but the attempt was above their

power, they languished, and the scene became duller and

blacker, until at length the grey mantle of evening was

spread over it.' Are there not tones and touches

here of what Mr Carlyle calls nature's ' master-piece and

darling, the poetic soul ? ' That such a soul should have

been placed amid the desolate circumstances of William

Ross --hopelessly poor, hopelessly ill--suggests some of

the deepest questionings in the stern mystery of human life.

     It was in September of 1826 that Hugh Miller made

his first attempt to address his countrymen in the

columns of a newspaper. He wrote an Ode on Greece,

and commissioned William Ross to hand it into the office

of the Scotsman. A note was at the same time addressed

to the editor. 'The enclosed Ode,' writes Hugh with

the anxious dignity of the young author, ' was written at

a time when the cause of the Greeks appeared desperate,

by one who has looked upon their glorious struggle for

independence with a wish and a sigh. Had his powers

of mind equalled his feelings in strength or vivacity, his

poem would rouse like the blast of a tnimpet, but, alas !
                                                    of the art --
you will soon   perceive that   it displays little  He who can
perhaps little  of the spirit
                               --of the poet.

only court the Muses in the few intervals of rest which a

laborious occupation affords must be indeed fortunate if

he prove a favoured suitor.' The Ode is hardly above

the average standard of juvenile compositions, though

ODE ON GREECE.                                   165

here and there a vigorous note breaks through, echoed
from Byron. The poet has no mercy on the doctrine of

non-intervention, and addresses his own country in tones
of haughty rebuke.

                 1 Alas for Greece ! but not alone
                       For wretched Greece the tears shall flow ;

                      Adorned by glory's brightest zone,
                       Her fame shall soothe her woe.

                   But thou, proud home of wealth, for thee
                   Heavy the patriot's heart must be.
                   Say, dark of spirit, hast thou sold
                   The souls of men for sordid gold ?
                   And plied each art of niggard trade,
                   When hapless patriots toiled and bled ?
                   And filled thy coffers o'er the dead ? '

He exhorts Greece to bestir herself, and is very angry
with the Turks.

' Rouse thee, 0 Greece ! a fearful sign
     Is pictured on the awful sky ;

 Ruin awaits the Moslem line,

Mahomet's faith shall die !

The falchion cleaves the turbaned head,

The Koran's darkened page is torn,

And Turkey's streams are rolling red

With blood of the unborn.                
  #* # #

Alas for hapless Greece ! again
   The dark clouds gather round her head ;

Her Byron's lyre was swept in vain,
   In vain her children bled.

But vengeance loads the coming gale,
    And ere the tyrant grasps the rod,

His soul shall shrink, his strength shall fail,

    Beneath the brand of God ! '

     How this trumpet-blast might have influenced the
Greeks we cannot tell. The editor of the Scotsman
proved a Trojan on the occasion, and Miller's Ode was
returned upon his hands.

      Not long after, Hugh refers to the subject in a letter
to Ross, and bravely decides that the piece might not

166 THE JOURNEYMAN.

have been worth publishing after all. ' Perhaps '--he
thus expresses his philosophical resignation--' my Ode
was ill-timed --perhaps its merits are of so doubtful a

kind that no one except myself can discover them, per
Ihaps -- but                     Why should I be a
              have said enough.
seeker after fame ? Fame is not happiness --it is not
virtue. Bad men enjoy it --wretched men attain it. It

rewarded the deeds of Erostratus as largely as those of

Leonidas.' With equal judiciousness and self-severity,

he touches upon his efforts in the way of mental im

provement. ' It is the remark of a celebrated writer,

that without long and serious application no man, how

ever great his natural abilities, can attain the art of

Iwriting correctly. At one time flattered myself with

the hope of becoming a correct writer; and with the

intention of applying myself sedulously to the study of
Ithe English language,
                        collected several works that

treated of grammar and composition. Besides these helps

I also calculated upon the assistance of my friend John

Swanson. But though repeatedly warned by experience,

I did not calculate upon that volatility of mind which I

have ever found as difficult to fix upon any single object,

whatever may be its importance, as to fix quicksilver on
Ian inclined plane ; and now can look back upon my
half-attempt at becoming an English scholar just as I
Ican upon every other speculation in which have been
            I see a fine foundation laid, but no super
engaged.    I still propose, however, to become a correct
structure.

writer, but it must be in the manner in which Cowley

became a grammarian. That ingenious poet, speaking

Iof himself, says : -- " was so much an enemy to all con

straint that my masters could never prevail on me by

any persuasion or encouragement to learn without book

the common rules of grammar, in which they dispensed

               STUDIES.  167

Iwith ine alone because they found made a shift to do

the usual exercise out of my own reading and observa

tion.'"

In a letter written about the same time, we have

sundry remarks on literary subjects. ' You ask me
whether I now read Byron or Ovid. I reply in the
Iaffirmative.
               do read every work of ability that falls in

my way, whatever the opinions or intentions of their

authors were ; but in reading these works I always

strive to keep in view certain leading truths which serve

as tests to discover and separate sophistry from argu

ment, and as lights to dissipate those shades of obliquity

which are cast over virtue, both by its artful enemies

and injudicious friends. At the birth of our Saviour,

the shrine of Apollo at Delphi spake no longer with its

mysterious organs of what was or of what was to come.

He who was the truth had come into the world, and

every oracle of lies had become dumb. At His death,

the veil of the temple was rent in twain, and truth

was no longer a mystery. Thus by His power that

which was false and that which was true became alike

evident. The Gospels are still in our hands, and they,

like Him of whom they speak, silence falsehood and

discover truth. He who takes up the writings of

Byron, Ovid, or Moore, or any of the many writings

of those men who have so fearfully misapplied the

talents which God gave them, will, if impressed with a

deep sense of the true religion, run no risk of being
allured and led astray by the blandishments of vice.

But what can induce, it may be asked, a man of religious

principle to peruse a volume in which he must of neces

sity come in contact with the allurements of vice, in
which all that he loves will be made to appear in its

r~least lovely form, all that he hates or has to fear in its

168 THE JOURNEYMAN.

Imost engaging and dangerous ? To this would reply

that it is no very honourable safety which is procured by

flight. Why should a man who stands upon the ad

vantage ground of truth and virtue yield to the emissaries

of vice and error ? May he not, as did Gideon the son of

Joash, descend into the camp of these Midianites, and

listen to the ominous visions which perplex them, or ex

amine the unsocial sophistries upon which they have

founded their systems, or expose the futility of the vain
beliefs upon which they have founded their hopes ? But

to speak in plainer language, there are many advantages

which may be derived from a real philosophical perusal

of the writings of these men. Many of them were en

dowed with extraordinary talents --were the friends of

civil liberty, and excelled in the art of reasoning and of
Iwriting well.
                cannot read the Essays of Hume with

out seeing the necessity of entrenching myself behind the

bulwarks of Christianity. All those outworks which are

raised in every direction around these bulwarks, some of

them by mistaken good, and others by designing bad

I Imen, must be forsaken ; for find have to do with a

foe who can lay bare the designs and demolish the

sophistries of the designing priest, who can crush at one

blow the boasted illuminations of the enthusiast and

fanatic. But when I retire within the citadel of Chris

Itianity, see from it the ingenious philosopher becoming

....a sophist, the powerful warrior assailing a rock of
adamant with a battering-ram of straw  The Don

Juan of Byron is an extraordinary poem, in my opinion

ten times more so than the Hudibras of Butler. It dis
plays a thorough knowledge of human character --of the

crimes and frailties of mankind.'

   I I' Feb. 20. -- Since conversed with you have toiled
I Iand played -- have eat and drank, walked and slept ;

         IN THE DOOCOT CAVE.  169

have been happy and indifferent, and --no, not sad. And
now I am again with my friend, draw then your chair
Ia little nearer, and shall tell you of my toils and amuse
Iments.
         have been quarrying at Navity shore stones

for a house which my cousin Robert Ross is going to
build, and with my uncles and cousins have brought
home several boat-loads of them. You remember

Navity, with its rough bold shore, steep precipices and

Isloping braes, so need not tell you that there are few

places where he who labours is so ready to forget that

labour is a curse. Nor need I tell you how pleasant I

found it to sweep on the calm wave in a fine frosty

morning, past the rude bays and steep promontories of
the Gallow-hill, or how grand and awful the wide

caverns, rugged precipices, and wooded brow of that
hill appeared when our boat crept round its shores,

heavy laden in a clear moonshine night.' His amuse

ments are principally verse-making and solitary walks.

IHe proceeds to describe one of the latter. ' left the

house about four o'clock in the evening, passed along the

shore, climbed the rock at the dropping cave, descended

again, and in half an hour from my setting out found
Imyself at the Doocot Cave.
                             have attempted a

description of this cave and the surrounding scenery in
Imy Tale of Youth.
                    next struck a light, kindled my

torch, and proceeded to explore the cavern. Its depth

is a hundred and fifty feet, its height varies from eighteen
to twenty. Its sides are encrusted by a beautiful white

stone, resembling marble, and formed by springs of a

petrifying quality which ooze through its roof, while its

floor is composed of a damp mouldy earth, strewn over
with fragments of rock. In a clear day, from the height

and straightness of the cavern, the light penetrates to

its inmost recess, but as yester-evening was dull and

170 . THE JOURNEYMAN.

cloudy, fifty feet from its entrance was dark as midnight ;
even the rays of my torch seemed lost in the gloom.

IAs proceeded, however, and as the sides of the cavern

approached each other, and its roof lowered, the light

Iappeared to gather strength. When had gained the
Iextreme end, tied my torch to a pillar of stone which

depended like an icicle from the roof, and then groped

my way back to its entrance, from whence I contemplated

the scene. Have you not observed in a stormy night,
when the sky is covered with clouds, how bright and
clear the stars which look down through a small opening
appear? Only imagine these clouds darker, and one
solitary star looking through them brighter than you
have ever seen cloud or star, and you will have some
idea of the appearance which the Doocot Cave presented
when my torch twinkled in its deepest recess.'

                   171

CHAFFER VI.

POEMS ADDRESSED TO ROSS SERIOUS THOUGHTS CORRESPOND
                   FREAKISH HUMOUR -- DESCENDS
ENCE WITH SWANSON

AIRINTO THE TOMB OF THE URQUHARTS IS CATECHIZED BY
MR STEWART WRITING IN THE OPEN             A PROSE

LYTIZING BORE CORRESPONDENCE ON RELIGION.

TWO of Miller's early poems are addressed to William
       Ross, the one entitled an Ode, the other an Epistle.
Neither is of importance, but in the Epistle, written in
the Scottish dialect, occur the following lines, part of an

enumeration of the joys of wealth, --

                       1 The power o' aiding honest men
                                 Should be itsel' a heaven o' pleasure.'

These, I think, are worthy of Burns.

     The Epistle is sad throughout. It is Miller's design,

as he informs Ross in prose, to give him a ' faithful
picture ' of his mind ' when overcast by those clouds of
constitutional melancholy that obscure it so often.'

               ' The lover's joy, the star o' fame,
                     The Muse, the bliss that waits upon her,

                 The ray that gilds the warrior's name,
                     The tags and toys o' boastful honour,

                  Are shades that on the calm smooth wave
                        Shine bonny as the northern streamer ;

                  But they fade and die when the wild blasts rave,
                     And leave to woe the wakened dreamer.

172 THE JOURNEYMAN.

' There reigned a king in ancient time,

     The wisest ever swayed a sceptre ;

 His deep sly saws, and songs sublime,
     Shine bright on the fair page o' Scripture.

 And he, the wyliest sure o' men,
     For bliss tried ilka scheme o' living,

 But he found at length his labours vain,

     And life a scene o' crime and grieving.'

Light, however, breaks through. In a tone of earnest

ness which contrasts strongly with his references to
religion in his earlier productions, prose or verse, he

exclaims --

1 Hark ! wherefore bursts that rapturous swell ?
      Why are the night's dark shadows riven ?

" A Saviour sought the depths o' hell,
     That such as thee might rise to heaven."

' My cares, my hopes, my wishes climb
     To reach that Friend who reigns above me ;

  Truth's best perfection dwells in Him,
      And He has sworn to aid and love me.'

The composition of these stanzas is connected with a

revolution which has been silently transacting itself in
the mind and character of Hugh Miller, and which will

come under our notice as we review his correspondence

of this period with John Swanson.

     We have seen that, from his childhood, he had dis

played a fine natural disposition ; that he was fearless,
unselfish, affectionate. Of the baser passions, avarice

and cruelty, he never exhibited a trace ; and of that

less ignoble passion which has frequently co-existed

with high and generous attributes of character, but

which has frequently also, as in Mirabeau, Burns, and

Byron, made wreck of the palaces of the soul, he was

singularly destitute.     The extravagances  of his boyhood,
                       wild, free, gipsying
--the pranks of a                            life, --reaching

their climax of wickedness in robbery of an orchard

and rebellion against an uncle, would not be regarded

CORRESPONDS WITH SWANSON.                            173

even by a morose school of moralists as portending a
vicious manhood. The lessons which he received from

Uncle James and Uncle Sandy had sunk deep into his
heart, even when he chafed under their inculcation ; and

while he passed through the severely salutary discipline
of his apprenticeship, his feelings towards those ad

mirable men had gradually settled into a profound and
filial regard. As we mark him, therefore, among his
comrades of the bothy and the shed, we are struck

by the moral nobleness, the virgin purity, which con

stantly attend him, and which render him undeniable

by the foulness amid which he moves. But religion

had not become the supreme influence in his mind ; he

was still -- he knew it himself, and his friends knew it
--' in the camp of the unconverted.'

     We saw that, on returning from Edinburgh, he
renewed his acquaintance with John Swanson, and that

the closest friendship was soon established between them.

Swanson, as we have said, had recently thrown up a

growing business in Cromarty, had resolved to become a

preacher of the Gospel, and had proceeded, shortly after
the renewal of his intimacy with Miller, to Aberdeen in
order to pursue his studies. His robust and healthful

nature was aglow with the impassioned ardour of first
         '
''Ifaith and first love.Oh!         to Miller in a
            he  exclaims

letter dated Aberdeen, July, 1825,  pant after that
time when I may be fully assured that you are travel

ling towards Zion ! Oh, there is much encouragement
held out to us in the Scriptures to come to Christ ! His

love, how amazing ! The subject has an effect on my
feelings --but if I would speak of
                                  !

                                    iIt,

                                                                 it
                                    feel my tongue
tied. Angels cannot do justice to His love--how in

finitely short then must we come How forcible does

that expression appear to those who have considered

174 THE JOURNEYMAN.

aright, " It passeth  knowledge   "  I cannot bid him

                                 !

God speed who would deny His willingness to save us.

INo ! the more I consider the subject, the more am

persuaded that he delighted in mercy.'
     There was doubtless an answer to this from Miller,

Ibut have not found it. In Sept., 1825, Swanson again

writes, and still, apparently in response to hesitation

exhibited, or objections started, by his correspondent,
insists upon the plenitude of the Divine mercy. ' He

is described as holding out His hands all day long to a

rebellious and gainsaying people, and shall we impiously

dare to say that He is unwilling to receive any ? 'Tis

true there are mysterious doctrines in the Bible ; 'tis

true, election, &c, are spoken of; but if I know aught of

the spirit of the Scriptures, these were never meant to

keep a returning sinner back from God.--Indeed, I pre

sume we often mistake this very doctrine. It appears

to me not as intended for our use before conversion, but

after it. It seems to me given for the support and con

solation of the saints, and not as a question for the

returning penitent. We never hear of the apostles

making use of such expressions as these to an inquirer :

-- " It may be you are not elected. It may be, though

you tell us you believe, you are deceived." But    w"e  find
                                                        Be
them asking this question, -- " Dost thou believe  ?

Ilieve what ? That Jesus is the Christ. And ask you,

my dear Hugh, dost thou believe ? Do you believe that

He lived ? that He was the Sent of God ? that he died

to save sinners ? I know that thou believest. Well, is

your life and conversation corresponding to this belief?

Do you pray ? read the Scriptures ? obey the injunctions
of Christ ? '

Miller, however, is shy of coming to close quarters.

In a letter of 18th November, he takes a sportive tone

STATIONS FOR THE POETS.       175

and chats lightly on miscellaneous matters. Here is a

jotting which may be read with interest. Rummaging,

one evening, among his papers, he comes upon the un

completed manuscript of the Boatman's Tale. He
seizes it. ' Off we went,' he proceeds, ' and in the

twinkle of an eye arrived at Marquis shore. Daily did

Imy fires smoke in the cave there until had completed
my tale. By the way, I found your fire-box extremely

useful. Marquis cave has ever since my childhood been
Ifa favourite haunt of mine.
                              the romantic scenery of

the great world has an effect of moulding the fancies of

Ithe little one, know no place where with better success
that species of poetry which I have attempted in my tale
Imay be studied. -- would send your favourite Pope to

write verses in some august palace, where his eye might

rove over the chaste ornaments of architecture, or rest

upon gay statues and gorgeous thrones. I would place

Milton on the blue summit of Etna. When the sun

laughed upon the world which stretched beneath his feet,

I would fancy him enjoying its beauties. When an

earthquake made hills tremble and destroyed cities, or

when some furious storm dashed upon the base of his

throne, I could imagine him elate in the midst of horror

and death, mingling his song with the music of the tem

pest. To my master, Coleridge, I will dispose of Mar
quis cave. There, on the rude mass of granite, which I

have rolled from the beach, let him sit and enjoy the

fire I have kindled. There let him listen to the roar of

the ocean as it beats against the rocks, or to the blast

roaring above his head through shattered crags and

ragged furze, and when his mind is filled with the wild

images which on every hand   apnredsewnrtettchheemdseslvpeirsit,s.le--t hAirme
sing of bewildered mariners
you not tired? I am sure I am. My spirits are

176 THE JOURNEYMAN.

wretchedly low at present, and I write bombast because

unable to write anything better.'

But Swanson is in a mood far too earnest to be

pleased with Miller's light humour, and he gently re

bukes the levity of this letter. It ' yielded ' him, he

frankly says, ' some degree of disappointment.' He re

turns at once to his point, and puts the direct question,
' Have you made your peace with God ? ' Hugh can

now fence no longer. He confesses that he had been

prevented from responding to his friend's appeals by a
' backward mistrustful pride and bashfulness.' In sim

ple-hearted reliance on the friendliness of a correspond

ent who justified the confidence reposed in him, he gives
Ian account of himself. ' At times I have tried to pray.

At times have even thought that these prayers were not
Iin vain.
             have striven to humble my proud spirit by
Ireflecting on my foolishness, my misery, and guilt.

have thought to be reconciled to that God who, in His

awful justice, has doomed the sinner to destruction, yet
who, in His infinite mercy, has found out a way of re

demption ; but I am an unsteady and a wavering creature,

nursing in my foolishness vain hopes, blinded by vain
affections, in short, one who, though he may have his
minutes of conviction and contrition, is altogether en

amoured of the things of this world and a contemner of

the cross.'

      The letter in which this passage occurs is dated
December, 1825. About this time Swanson becomes

so absorbed in his studies that he finds it impossible
to devote time to correspondence, and he writes Miller

briefly, on the 14th of January, 1826, to that effect.

'Go on, my dear Hugh '--he says, in reference to the
chief subject on which they had exchanged thoughts --
' go on, and the Lord Himself will bless you. If you

         IN THE DROPPING CAVE.                          177

Iare not under the teaching of the Spirit of God am
Ideceived, and if do not find you soon established
in the way of happiness, peace, and life, I shall be

miserably disappointed.'

      One cannot help remarking, by the way, that this cor
respondence is creditable to these young friends. ' How,'

exclaims Miller in one of his letters, ' can I repay you

for that deep, that generous interest which you take in

Imy spiritual concerns ! How can make a suitable

return for a friendship which, unlike the cold, selfish

attachments of earth, approaches, in its nature and

affectionate disinterestedness, to the love of Heaven ?

Perhaps I say too much-- I am certain you will think

so --but with a heart so full a wiser man could hardly
say less.' Modest, noble, kind-hearted Hugh ! How

many would have resented Swanson's interference in

affairs which jealous pride and sensitive independence

might so plausibly allege to lie solely between a man

and his Maker I From the meanness of such pride and

the bitterness of such independence, Miller's true heart
guards him well. He is deeply grateful. Swanson, for

his part, thrilling with joy in the possession of the pearl

of price, yearns to share the treasure with his friend, and

to seal their friendship with the seal of immortality.

Pleased, perhaps, for the moment, that his corre

spondence with Swanson should take a less earnest turn,
Miller recurs, in his next letter, to his vein of light,

miscellaneous writing. On the 26th of February he

gives his friend an account of a solitary excursion

undertaken by him, some weeks previously, to the Drop
ping Cave. The day was tempestuous. ' Availing my
self,' he writes, ' of the moment when a huge wave in

retiring left the beach uncovered, I sprung forward and
gained the cave. There I seated myself on the very

TOL. I.                   12

178 THE JOURNEYMAN.

rock where, as tradition informs us, the naked, grey-

bearded man, a few nights before a shipwreck, seats

himself and looks mournfully on the sea. Shakespeare

says   something   very severe of the man who      does   not
love               ear is wretchedly dull, but as  there  are
      music, --my

three kinds of music which have the power of raising
I Imy passions,
                   hope  am not obnoxious to his ana

thema. The first of these is the rolling of artillery,

especially when the sound, prolonged by echo, returns

upon the ear three or four times, each time fainter and

more hollow. The second is the pealing of thunder.
IThis is the most sublime of all sounds.
                                          never hear

it without feeling that, though a little and weak creature,

I am not meaner nor more inconsiderable, when laid in

the balance with Him whose voice is then lifted up, than

are the mighty ones of the earth, who, in their rage, their

sport, or to make themselves a name, desolate kingdoms

or raise pyramids. The third is that combination of

wild sounds which, in a tempest, pleases yet stuns the

ear. In the Dropping Cave, like a solitary Triton

divested of his shell, I was listening to such a concert --

a concert of the elements ; and my mind, as if sym

pathizing with the winds and waves, was overcast by a

mist of wild thoughts, which arose and passed away even

as did the grey clouds which at that time hurried over
I Ithe face of the heavens.
                         sung verses of war-songs.

repeated or rather shouted out pieces of poetry descriptive

of battles or tempests, or turning to the recesses of the

cavern, I challenged the spectre by which it is haunted

to come forward that we might hold converse together.

You see how well your friend can act the madman when

under the guidance of imagination, yet, volatile as my

mind  iIs,  do not envy the gravity of the men over

whose judgments fancy never triumphs.'

        7iV THE VAULT OF THE URQUHARTS.              179

This wild and buoyant humour was not, however,

constant with him. ' You seem,' he writes, ' to have been

in low spirits. Are you also subject to those strange

rises and falls of spirit which, without any assignable

cause, make your humble servant happy, miserable, and
Imad by turns ? wish the college session over, and you
Ifairly settled at your mother's fireside.
                                                     am really

vexed on seeing you determined on killing yourself. Is

he not as much a suicide who swallows death in the form

of a mathematical problem, as he who takes an ounce of

opium   ? The latter is certainly the easiest  way   of getting
out of                                         it.'   Affecting
        the world --there is no pedantry in

words, when read in connection with the history of Mil

ler's closing years ! How little did he think, while re

joicing in the freedom of the hill-side and the sea-shore,

and warning his friend with gentle earnestness not to

overtask his brain, that he should himself yield to the

terrible temptation, and pay the penalty with his life !
                                                 '
' Happy and miserable  and mad  by  turns      :    the expres

sion is striking and strange.

The strutting and declamation of this visit to the

Dropping Cave are not the sole illustration we have of

an extravagant and freakish humour indulged by Miller

in this period of his life, -- tolcrablles ineptite, the trifling

of a powerful mind which has not yet found its work.

Some years later, in February, 1830, he details to a cor

respondent the particulars of an attempt made by him
to ' create incident ' by descending into the vaulted

tomb of the Urquharts, in the ancient burying-ground

adjoining the ruinous chapel of St Regulus or St Rule

in the neighbourhood of Cromarty. ' A few weeks ago,'
he writes, ' upon a dark and stormy night, I procured a

tinder-box, three torches, and a small quantity of fuel, and

went to the old chapel of St Rule. I descended to the

 180 THE JOURNEYMAN.

ruinous vault, struck a light, lighted the torches, and
placed them at equal distances against the gable wall.
The light rendered visible a scene, which, heightened by
association, was of no tame or common character. The
floor below was strewn over with fragments of hewn stone,
grey with lichens, or green with moss, and in the inter
stices there were brown discoloured fragments of human
bones. From the crevices in the wall there sprung a few
weeds which had pined throughout the summer for the
fresh air and the sunshine, but now, as they were beyond
the reach of the frost and the cold, they were green and
rank, and spread their tiny branches over the rough
damp stones, like silk foliage on a ground of grey
worsted. The arched roof above is covered over with

a whitish stalactitical matter, and stained with the damps
which have oozed from the soil over it. From the
light of the torches it assumed a pale, shroud-like, death
like appearance. The square opening above seemed a
chasm of darkness ; and the recesses of the vault furthest

from the light were enveloped in so dismal a twilight

that I could almost have fancied that the whiter masses

of stone or building, which stood out like rude columns
from the darker wall, were some of the old tenants of the
place, who had risen to inquire after the cause of my
intrusion. The sounds which were conveyed to me in

this place formed a music worthy of such a hall. The

night, I have said, was stormy. The rain was heard to

patter on the flat stones above, the wind roared terribly
through the trees with which the burying-ground is
enclosed ; and the stream which runs through the neigh
bouring ravine, the bottom of which is many yards lower
than that of the vault, joined its hoarse dash with the
roar of the wind and the pattering of the rain. In

order that I might vary the scene, I piled up a little

        IS CATECHISED IN CHURCH.                                 181

rude altar on the floor, and kindled a fire on it. The

wind above prevented the smoke from rising ; the at

mosphere of the vault became dense and cloudy ; the

three torches on the wall appeared from the halo with
which each of them was encircled three mock suns ; and

the features of the scene, which were before character
istic of the wild and the ghastly, were now shrouded " in
the dun hues of earthquake and eclipse," and assumed

the terrible. From above, the mouth of the vault

appeared, through the darkness, like the crater of a

volcano.'
      Such were the ' pleasures of the imagination ' in

which young Miller could at all times find more enjoy

ment than in any society, except that of his most

esteemed friends. It may be interesting to view him
for a moment in a more subdued aspect. It or was,

the custom in the parishes of Scotland for the pastor
                                                   a by is,
at stated intervals to publicly examine the members of
                                                              '
the congregation in the Westminster Assembly's Cate

chism.  appears to have become the practice to cate
        It

                                    in
chise working men and their children, but not to offend

the sensibilities of the richer heads of families  putting

them through the ordeal presence of the congregation.

Miller at least thought that Mr Stewart, his pastor, of

whom he subsequently learned to entertain          different

opinion from his present, displayed something very like'
cowardice in his choice of persons to be examined. Our
        '
                      '

                    by
betters' he says, (forgive me the use of this meanest of all

Scotticisms), can, attending the diets of catechism, which

are held in church, be either instructed or made merry at

our expense.' Neither in the way of merriment, however,

nor in the way of instruction, could much be derived from

the appearance of Miller, which he thus chronicles --
I'

                                                                  by
                                                                                                                                                         :
was catechised to-day (Feb. 30, 1826)              Mr Stewart.

182 THE JOURNEYMAN.

It is an unpleasant thing to stand exposed point-blank

to the gaze of two or three hundred people, each man

more provokingly keen-eyed than the other. Had you

seen me standing before the minister this day, as con

spicuous as Saul among the people, --my face changing

from crimson to pale and from pale to crimson by turns,

you must either have pitied my confusion or laughed at

Iit. will strive to recollect the questions which were
Iasked me and the words with which answered them.

'Who is the Spirit?" "The Third Person of the

Trinity." " Is He a person ?" " He is termed so." " Yes,

He is. Do you recollect any particular passages of
'Scripture which show Him as a distinct person ? Here
'I was silent.    I thought, from your readiness in an

swering me my two first questions, that you would an

swer me this one too. In what form did the Spirit
                                                      " In the form
appear at    the   baptism of  our Saviour     ?"
of a dove."       " Yes. The    Spirit, then,       a person, not a
                                                is

mere influence proceeding from the Father and Son, as

some believe. In what manner were we baptized?"

"With water, in the name of the Father, Son, and Spirit."
of"rroYmperso.HviinmcTehealolHf tothhlieyngFGsahtphorseotrcei?se"da.""peHres"ocnYr.oeuatWesdpheaaatlkl
Ithe Creator.                                                                                           is the work

the redemption                                                                                          things, and

                                                                                                        of Him as

                   desire to   ?  k"no"wHewhsaetnt  share He                                            has in
                  of sinners                        the Son."                                           " Yes.
What did the Son do ?" " He died for us." "And what

was the work of the Spirit?" "He applies Christ.'
Here he spoke a good deal which I forget, and concluded

by desiring me to sit down. I did so most willingly,

for my legs were trembling beneath me.'

He gives a more satisfactory account of himself to

his cousin, William Munro, in a letter dated 1st of May.

' 1 am writing at this moment in the open air, under the

                           A BAPTIST.             183

shade of a honeysuckle. The sun is peeping through its
leaves, and casting upon my paper spangles of a bright

hue and strangely fantastic form. As I look upon them
I cannot avoid recognizing a picture of my own mind.
It is thus its lights and shadows blend together. A little

cloud has passed over the sun, and my page has become
dark and sombre ; and is it not thus that my fair hopes

and gay imaginings ofttimes pass away, and leave be
                                        '
hind   them  a  cloud  of  darkness  ?     This picture may be

somewhat high-wrought, as Miller had announced to

William Ross his intention to send his cousin ' a fine

sentimental letter, resembling that of a boarding-school

miss/

      On the 19th of August he writes to Swanson, and
his correspondence touches again upon matters of im
portance. The town of Cromarty was at this time the

residence of a Baptist gentleman of decided views and

proselytizing tendencies. He appears to have considered

the poetical mason a desirable acquisition for his Church.

' A few days ago,' writes Miller, ' when at work in the

old chapel burying-ground, I was favoured by a visit
from Mr M --, the Baptist. He and I had a long con

versation together. Our subject was the peculiar tenets

of his sect, and       you allow me the expression) the
                      (if
opposing ones of mine.           was he who attacked and
                            ;              I
                                                        I
                             I It
who did not defend but leaned most manfully upon
my arms and looked on. And what did see, do you

ask Why, saw much of the strength and of the weak

ness of his cause-- and much of his strength and weak
I
          ?

                   ;

             I
ness as an individual.     I  am pretty certain he saw none

of mine. In his opinion concerning Church government

agree entirely with him. But this no change of
                                           by is
mine for long since, when angered               the unjust en

croachments on civil liberty of proud Churchmen, men

184 THE JOURNEYMAN.

to whom, in describing, Hume and Voltaire have done

justice, I was led to examine the ground upon which

they had founded their pretensions, and saw it to be a

forced mass, uncemented except with the blood of per

secution or by the unsolid sophistry of the schools. But
Ithough, by

connection
       an inference seemingly    reasonable,  Mr  see a
      subsisting between the   baptism of
                                                  M--
and the apostolic form of Church government, I can also

see that upon this connection, discovered by this seem

Iingly reasonable inference from Scripture, not by Scrip

ture itself, can Baptists alone build. This, when con

sider the fallacy of several Scripture inferences which

Iappear as reasonable, I think an unsolid foundation.

could prove by an inference deduced from Scripture

data that the mental and bodily sufferings of one man
could not in justice be accepted as an atonement for the

crimes of another. Where would inferences seemingly

reasonable, deduced from the doctrine of predestina

tion, lead us ? To impiety the most horrible. I need

not remind you of Carlile's inferences, or of some others
which you will find in the writings of Kaimes and

Hume. This may not be argument ; but where, suffer

me to ask, is a doctrine upon the knowledge of which

man's salvation depends, which is not fairly stated

in Scripture, repeated oftener than once, and viewed

in a variety of lights ? Then let me be shown where

He who spake as man never spake, or any of His
servants the apostles, has, or have said, " Baptize not

your  children, but suffer themselves   to come forward
when  awakened by the Spirit to be
                                       baptized," --show
Ime this, or a passage of like meaning, and will become
a Baptist. During the course of our conversation I per
ceived in some of Mr M -- 's remarks traces of that foul

spirit which can, like the harpies who settled upon the

                         A BAPTIST.                     185

viands of iEneas, perch upon the soundest creeds. Will

you believe that he dared tell me that a good Christian

pastor of the Church of Scotland did more harm to the

true Church than a mere hireling ? How, think you,
did he prove this ? " The good man," said he, " through

a mistaken zeal supports the impure Church of which he
is a member, and thus unwittingly does evil ; the hire

ling, on the other hand, by disgusting the sensible and

well-inclined, hastens its downfall, and thus unwittingly

does good." What think you of this? For my own

part, I will just remark that it strengthens by experience
Ian opinion have long held. It is that in the field of

religious controversy the rankest and most poisonous
weeds do spring. What a wretched thing is it that a

man, in his zeal for truth, should run himself headlong

into error ; that in his haste to establish a few doubtful

notions belonging to the head, he should starve the good,
                                                     '
and  indulge the  evil,  feelings  of  the  heart  !

     So Hugh Miller, the lay champion of the Free Church,

was in his twenty -fourth year of the same opinion ' con
cerning Church government ' with the Baptists ! Does

Ithis imply that he was at that time a Voluntary ?

know not. His sentiments on the subject of religious
controversy are also noteworthy. Were they modified

by his subsequent experience of ecclesiastical discussion ?

I think not.

     To Miller's letter of the 19th of August, Swanson

replies on the 29th of the same month. Passing hastily

over matters of minor importance, he comes to what lies
nearest his heart. ' I have experienced here great kind
Iness among my Christian friends. Oh, that I could with
confidence rank you among the number.                   cannot think

that you are aware how near you are to my heart.

Blessed be God that Christ is still nearer ! I pray and

186 THE JOURNEYMAN.

Ihope that you will one day be one with me in Him.

wait but for your confession to recognize you as a

brother. . . . My dear Hugh, my metaphysical specula

tions are entirely exploded (oh, let me never cease to

Ipray that may be preserved from again setting up

Iblind reason as a God to worship -- thousands have

perished at his shrine, why was not left and, since
I
        it, I

                                                         is
                                                                                 ?),

                                                        I
exploded,  have learnt to take the word of God simply
as find                                          peace and joy. --
           and the consequence

long much to see you. Oh, will you not accept of

Christ? You believe the truth of God. See then the

freeness and fulness of the gospel offer made to you.

Believe the record, that God hath given to us eternal life,
and this life in His Son -- believe this and all shall be well.'

    On the 2nd of September, --almost as soon, there

fore, as he can have received Swanson's letter, Miller

replies to it. He declares himself exhausted, dull,II '    is,

lazy, sick, melancholy,' and quite unable to write an in
teresting letter. For his reluctance to write there he

confesses, another cause.  it I '  feel that after your earnest

and affectionate exhortation, would be something worse

than unfriendly of  me not to unbosom                myself before
                       to confess Were               an unbeliever,
you--yet what haveI

                                              ?

though would assuredly lose my friend by confessing
myself one, still that confession would be made.
II                                                              aI
would scorn to hold the affections of any one by appearI if,II
ing what am not. Or on the other hand, were
Christian in the true sense of the word, hope would

have courage enough to avow my profession, not only to

you or to those from whom could expect nothing except

kindness, but even to the proudest and boldest scorner.             ?
But what profession can the lukewarm Laodicean make

--the man who, one moment, as assured of the truth of
                                   is

the gospel of Christ as he of his own existence, andis

                     BASHFULNESS.                          187

who, in another, regards the whole scheme of redemption

as a cunningly devised fable. It will not do ! I am not

at present collected enough to give you a faithful account

of what is my religious belief-- I will just say that, as

far as the head is concerned, my creed is a sound one,
                              '
but  alas  for  the  heart
                            !

     The remainder of the letter accords well with this

profession of indifference, or at least of vacillation and

vicissitude, in spiritual affairs. He speaks of other
matters, and bewails his bashfulness in society. ' In

that proper assurance which is opposed to bashfulness,'
he says, ' there is scarce a young girl in the country

who is not my superior.' He knows that this is a weak
ness, but declares that he cannot help it. ' In one of

Shenstone's larger poems,' he proceeds, ' there is an ex

quisite description of a bashful man when in company ;
and were it not that he is represented as possessed of

Italent and virtue, would lay my hand on the page, and

say, this a portrait of H -- M -- .

           " But ill-starred sense, nor gay, nor loud,

              Steals soft on tiptoe through the crowd,
             Conveys his meagre form between,
             And slides like pervious air unseen,

              Contracts his known tenuity
              As though 'twere ev'n a crime to be,
             Nor ev'n permits his eyes to stray
              To win acquaintance in their way.

                   Iu company, so mean his air,
              You scarce are conscious he is there,
             Till from some nook, like sharpened steel,
              Occurs his face's thin profile,

              Still seeming from the gazer's eye
              Like Venus newly bathed to fly.

                    Disused to speak, he tries his skill,

             Speaks coldly and succeeds but ill,
              His pensive manner dulness deemed,
             His modesty reserve esteemed,
              His wit unknown, his learning vain,
             He wins not one of all the train." '

188 THE JOURNEYMAN.

     Swanson receives this letter on the 5th of September.
He answers it the same day. He implores his friend to

get rid of the melancholy which preys upon his mind by
a ' full, free, and simple acceptation of the gospel.'

I' Pardon me, my dear friend,' he adds, ' when say that
I fear you have religious opinions not derived from the

Bible. Read it as if you never heard a word concerning

it before.' On the 30th of September Miller writes

Iagain. ' am still employed on the chapel brae in hew

ing a second tombstone for Colonel G-- . That spot is now

beginning to lose its charms ; every breeze which passes

over it carries a shower of withered leaves upon its wings
I-- the herbage is assuming a sallow hue, and
                                               stand

alone in the midst of desolation, in all except sublimity of

feeling the prototype of Campbell's last man. I do not
Iknow whether am advancing in wisdom as in years

(I rather suspect not), but somehow the thought of death

often presses upon me in these days. I look upon the

little hillocks which are laid above men and women and

children, the traits of whose features are pictured in my

memory, and when by its aid I conjure up their forms

when, gay and restless, they followed the businesses or
the pleasures of life, and then when, in the eye of the

Iimagination, behold them stretched in the dark coffin,
cold and black and mouldy, without form or motion, I

pause and ask, what is this Death, this mighty Death,
that turns mirth to sadness, that unnerves the arm of

the strong and pales the cheek of the beautiful ?

    ' I remember to have seen, many years ago, old Eben

the sexton digging a grave. He raised a coffin which,

though much decayed, was still entire, and placed it on

the earth he had thrown out. I was a mere boy at the

time, and out of a foolish curiosity, when his back was

turned, I raised with the edge of his spade the lid of

GRAVE THOUGHTS.                  189

the coffin. The appearance of the mouldering remains

which it contained, nothing can erase from my memory.

I see them even now before me in all their sad and dis
gusting deformity, and still when I hear or read of the

empire of death-- of the wrecks of death or of the change

which death works on the human frame --imagination

immediately reverts to a long black skeleton clothed over

with a mouldy earth to which in some places the rotten

grave-clothes are attached. This is a disgusting image,

but it is not a useless one, for when, thinking of death,

I bare my arm and look at the blue veins shining
through the transparent skin--when I look and think

that the day may not, cannot, be far distant when it shall
become as black and as mouldy as that of the skeleton --

I start, for there is something in the contrast which re

moves all the accumulation of commonplace which the

habit of hearing and speaking at secondhand of death

hath cast upon that awful thing.
     ' But what is the fruit, you will ask, of these cogita

Iftions ? Follow me a little farther and you shall see.

the soul be a mere quality affixed to matter, which shall

die when that matter is changed from animate into

inanimate, then, though the thought of the havoc which

death works on the human frame tends to lower the

pride of the haughty, it is not a harassing one to the
philosopher. Life is full of evil and unhappiness ; death
is a state of rest. When the tyrant Edward invaded this

country--when Wallace, its bravest defender, was be
trayed and slain --when the carnage of Flodden filled

Scotland with mourning, or the defeat of Pinkie with

Ifear, I was neither sad, nor angry, nor afraid, for was

not called into existence until twenty-four years ago.

And in a few years after this, if the soul be not immortal,
I shall again have passed
                           (Iif  may use the expression)

190 THE JOURNEYMAN.

into a state of non-existence, and though my mouldering

remains may raise horror in the breasts of the living, the

vacuum which once existed shall not sympathize with

them. But that the soul is immortal, if it be the same

wise God that created the heavens and earth who formed
Iman,
       must believe ; and if that soul, after it has

departed from its fleshly nook, is to be punished or re

Iwarded according to the deeds done in the body--this

also must and shall believe ; then death becomes not the

herald of rest but the messenger of judgment. Thus far

unassisted reason can go. Socrates went still further, for,

when other philosophers were raving of an absurd because

unattainable virtue, by the possession of which men were

to be made happy both in this world and the next, he

taught of the evil that dwelleth in the human heart, and

of the help which cometh from God. But it is to the
pages of Revelation we must turn, if it be our desire to

learn with certainty how to prepare for death by making

the Judge our friend.
     ' You have often urged me with a friendly zeal both in

speech and by writing to forsake sin and turn to God.

IYour letters and conversations have had an effect-- wish

I Icould add, the desired one. give some of my time to

the study of the Scriptures, and have become perhaps

nearly as well acquainted as the mere theorist can be with
Ithe scheme of
Iday-beam has
       redemption.  Naafryaidm, ordea, wnepdrayu.ponBumt et--he
       not yet, am

the light vouchsafed is not a clear and steady one like the
beam of the morning ; it is rather like the reflection of

lightning in a dark night --a momentary glimpse suc

ceeded by an hour of gloom. My prevailing disposition
    evil, and though I have oftener than
is                                        ohnecaerte--xpaerifeenecliendg
a   feeling strange indeed to the human

of love to God, the cares of the world and the allure

                    SWANSON TO MILLER.                                        191

ments of pleasure draw away my affections, and the old

man is again put on.

    ' The town clock has struck the hour of twelve --so,

for  the  present,  adieu               '
                                      !

     Swanson replies on the 9th of October. The specula

tive part of Miller's letter he passes by, and fixes on the
statement that he had begun to pray. ' Have you indeed,
then,' he exclaims, ' set your face towards Zion ? Have

you indeed begun to call upon the name of the Lord ?

Feeble as your beginnings may be, can you doubt that
He will hear you ? Can you dare ? Would you wish to

draw back ?                           You have now closed with Christ,

and, closing with Him, I trust closed more fully                              that
                                                           it
were possible and was) with me. Oh,
                                                                is

                                                                     (if
             ;                        it                       sweet to
                                              O
                                                      is

                                                      I
join heart and hand and to put them thus joined into the

hand of Christ                                 Hugh, have not       singlea
                                           cup running over.
complaint to make --my                                         With re

gard to the manner in which God will dispose of me,                           I

am at present quite ignorant.              I  have no prospect, and

no earthly friend who, while he would wish to do any

thing for me, has in his power. Before the end of this
                    I it
                                         Ia

                                                                           ?

                                                       II
session believe shall be without shilling, and have
     A it
no hand to look to. No hand, did say Nay, have
       is I
the hand of Omnipotence to look to, and He will aid me.

Oh, sweet to depend on Him for everything coming

directly from Him   !

                     '

          month elapses before Hugh replies, and his an

swer has none of the warmth of feeling for which we

might have looked. 'After perusing your last letter,'

he writes,   sat down to tell you that was not little
I                                             a                a

             by I '                             I                              :

                                   a
alarmed your recognizing me as Christian Brother

then stated my grounds of alarm and willing to
                                           by
                                                        ;
furnish you with kind of data which you would be

enabled to judge of the spiritual state of your friend, re
                                                                  I

192 THE JOURNEYMAN.

commenced a historical detail of the fluctuating opinions

Iof my mind for the last seven years. But now see that
Ia narrative so long and in which will require to be so
Icareful of error will engross more of my time than can

conveniently devote to it at present.'
      The ' historical detail ' here referred to, in so far as

it appears to have ever been written down, is contained
in an unfinished letter, dated October, 1826. It is a

somewhat rough though not a careless sketch, and, from

the expressions just quoted, a doubt may be reasonably
entertained whether Miller considered even in the part
                                    it,
                                                    is
which he completed, perfectly accurate. What more to

be regretted, was never finished. The dark side of his
         it
                is           by inwhat he wrote, but the
spiritual history portrayed

bright side and the transition between the dark and the

bright continue unrevealed. The want,is it    true, can, in
                                          is
all essential respects, be supplied from other letters, or
from passages in his works. There no ground for

doubt as to the conclusion, theoretic or practical, at which

he arrived. But delineation         himself of his spiritual
         a
                      a
experience at this crisis of his religious history would

have had nice verisimilitude which no description                           by

another hand can attain.  It

                                is
                                              a

                                                                         '

                                                                 a
                             important to observe that

he takes the tone of one describing process which has

reached its issue he believes himself to have changed
         ;

heart,' and he aims at explaining to his friend how the
change took place. Every subsequent year of Miller's
life bore testimony that, on this point, he was not mis

taken. Here what remains of the 'historical detail.'
         is
             in
I        know not what words to confess that your last
     I'
letter, friendly and affection-breathing as was, alarmed
and in some degree rendered me unhappy. You recog
                                       it

                                                ;

                                                   a
nize, you address me as Christian Brother and whena
   look within and see how doubtful the signs of radical

                HISTORY OF HIS MIND.                           193

Ichange of heart are, when see how little there is to
Ijustify even the limited profession         made when I last
Iaddressed you by writing, tremble lest you are throw

ing away your affections on a deceiver who is now even

less worthy of your friendship than when he confessed
himself a stranger to Christ. But why tremble on this

account ? If I am a deceiver, I am not a wilful one ; for

the hypocrite only trembles when detected or on the verge

of detection, and by mistaking an excited imagination
                  if,

                   I
for changed heart, deceive both my friend and myself,
I
    I' aam surely rather unfortunate than guilty.

           have for some time had the intention of writing for

your perusal history of my mind, with its various and
             a

varying opinions for the last seven years. For this
                                               by
have more than one reason.            would wish, showing
             I                                         I by I I
                               I

                                   I
you what am and what have been, to furnish you

with data from whence you might draw whatever con

clusion your judgment or experience warranted.

would wish to give you faithful picture of my mind,
                       a

and thus add to your knowledge of human nature

casting light on the only point with which you are not

already acquainted as well or better than myself.

would also wish,  by  calling to recollection, and then ex

amining, the vague and foolish opinions that once formed

my belief, to prevent the Tempter from reigning over

                      by
                            by

                                                            a

                                              I
me second time         laws whose injustice have dis
I
     I' acovered, or shaking me quibbles of whose insolidity   it I

have had experience.

           believe may term my education religious one.
             is
    was examined in the Catechism by my uncles every
              I
Sabbath night, and forced to attend regularly at

church. This, you will say,           poor definition of the
                      by
                                  is

                                          a

                                   I
words, religious education, but in nine cases out of ten

is  all that meant     them. As advanced into the

    VOL. I.                  13

194 THE JOURNEYMAN.

Ilatter years of boyhood became impatient of this re
Istraint, and after many struggles, in which showed a

fierceness and desperation of character worthy of the
Iliberty for which I strove,
                              became, as some of my

friends satirically termed me, a lad of my own will. As

Ia lad of my own will, was a Sabbath-breaker and a

robber of orchards ; and as strange foolish thoughts,

passages of Scripture, and questions on the subject of

religion would at times either flash upon my recollection
or rise in my mind, just for the sake of peace I also

became an atheist. A boy atheist is surely a strange
Iand uncommon character.
                              was one in reality, for,

possessed of a strong memory, which my uncles and an

early taste for reading had stored with religious sen

Itiments and stories of religious men, was compelled,
Ias have already said, for peace' sake, either to do that

which was right, or, by denying the truth of the Bible,

Ito set every action, good or bad, on the same level, and

had chosen the latter as the more free and pleasing way.

My mind, as you will see in the sequel of my story, long

retained the bent which it at this time acquired ; but

my actions, restrained by a rising pride, by notions of

honour, perhaps by a conscience which, though fast

Iasleep, had its dreams, became less reprehensible.

became what the world calls honest ; and, from a dis

like of drink and noisy company, had all along preserved

a habit of sobriety, but to every other vice to which a
Iyoung man of sixteen is exposed, was addicted. You
Iare aware that, much earlier than this,
Ipieces in rhyme, which                   composed

                         called poems. One of the

drawers of my desk is filled with copies of these youth

Iful effusions, which preserve both for the sake of the
Irecollections attached to them, and for the history can

trace in them of the growth of my mind and its varying

                              A BOY ATHEIST.                                             195

Iopinions. The short piece here insert, with a few sub

sequent alterations, was written in my sixteenth year.

You will see in confused with good deal of mytho-
       I                      is
                       a it,        is a
logic nonsense, confession of the school of morals to

which  then belonged. What                    said of wine and

Bacchus, you are to recollect, mere imitation.

                              HOW TO LIVE.

       0                       free as air, light as the wind,       ?
                             Let us spend Life's years away,
           !              To coming evil wisely blind,
                              Still be glad when glad we may.
                     it isFor what philosophic lore,
                              What the schoolmen's boasted rules

                          Go, sound loud as ocean's roar,
                              The cloak of knaves, the boast of fools.

                          Bright wine and love shall banish care,
                              Pleasure all our thoughts employ,

                          Let Bacchus be our god of prayer,
                              Bacchus and the Paphian boy.

                          Let mirthful Momus, laughing, still

                               O'er our harmless feasts preside,
                          And lovely nymphs be there to fill

                              The cup to dry grave lips denied.

                          Thus years shall pass when age steals on,
                          Ere the last joys of life are gone;
                          Jocund, let us rise and say
                          Sweet has passed life's stormy day.
                          And when Time strides gravely in,
                          To warn us that our sands have run,
                          Gay, ere fails our latest breath,
                          Let our song be, "Welcome Death.'
                          When life, save pain, can nothing give,
                          When wine disgusts, and cold love,
                           Rather than live in pain and fear,
                          Welcome the shroud, the grave, the bier
                              I
                                                       is
                                                                                   1
'  About year after had written this piece, had
                          a
                                                                                      I

several argumentative conversations with my cousin G.

on the subject of religion.   boldly and impiously
                              I
                                        I

                                                    it

                                                                  a
declared to him that considered as cheat, and when

he began to support his opinions, which were directly the

196 THE JOURNEYMAN.

Ireverse of mine, by Scripture quotations, told him that

I considered the Bible and Alcoran as of equal authority.
I made use of some other imprudent and impious ex
Ipressions at that time, which
                                                       still remember and

now heartily regret. G. was so much scandalized at

what he then heard, that he threatened to inform my

uncles and other friends, nay more, every one who was

in the least acquainted with me, of my scepticism. This
                              I had
tahlaerm" erdelimgieo,ufsor"         wisdom enough to see that though
                              be no  numerous or formidable body, the

prejudiced are ; and that men who were no better

Christians than myself would look upon the professed

atheist with horror and detestation. Notwithstanding

his threat he was silent on the subject of our conversa

tions, but the recollection of it and the anticipation of its

consequences, had the effect of making me so prudent,

       is,

               I

                                    a
that so hypocritical, that whenever religion became                       Ia

subject of conversation in any company of which

formed one, gave passive assent to whatever was

said in its favour.

'About the end of the year 1820 had fearful
                                                       I

                                                              I

                                                                      aa
dream, which for the time had the effect of converting

me into kind of believer -- believer of knew not
       I

          a
                      a

                   I
                             I

                                                    a
what.  dreamed was wandering through solitary
and desert country -- that
                                                     was alone, restless and

unhappy. All at once the skies became dark and

overcast, and gloom like that of stormy winter's       a
evening seemed to settle over the face of nature. By
one of those changes so common in dreams, the country

appeared no longer unpeopled, but the figures saw were
so dark, so indistinct, so silent, that in my terror re
                                                          I
                                                                I

garded them not as men, but spirits who were wandering
about in unhappiness until the time came in which they

were to reanimate the bodies in which they once dwelt.

DEE AM.                               197

A fearful presentiment arose in my mind that the day

Iof judgment was at hand ; felt the petrifying influence

of despair pervade every faculty, yet, though my agony

Iwas extreme, could neither weep nor pray. In a

little time, the clouds began to disperse, and through

Ia clear blue opening, perceived a large cloudy scroll

spread on the face of the heavens, which with a flicker

ing undulating motion, at one moment resembled a dark

sulphureous flame, and at another reminded me of a

banner waving in the wind. I fixed my eyes upon it in

fear and astonishment, and perceived that in its centre a
Ifew dark characters were inscribed.
                                      strove to decipher

them, but could not. In a few seconds, however, the

colouring of the scroll deepened gradually as the hues of

the rainbow increase from dimness to brilliancy. I read

its startling motto, "Take warning," and awoke. My

mind was dreadfully agitated. The sweat, which, during

my dream, had flowed from every pore, was cooled upon

Imy brow, but my heart was still burning. In my terror I

vowed that, for the future, would be no longer a sinner,

Iand began to pray ; but my prayers were addressed

not to the God of the Christian, but to the God of the

Iheathen philosopher. I was awakened to a painful con

sciousness of sin ; had heard that God was merci

ful ; and on the strength of that attribute I addressed
myself to Him ; but alas ! I did not know that His

justice is as infinite as His mercy, and that no sinner can

be accepted by Him unless he appeal to the sufferings and

righteousness of that Saviour whom his sins have pierced.
     ' The recollection of my dream haunted me for about

ten days, during which time I prayed. A natural

bashfulness withheld me from making any show of

sanctity, but my heart was very proud of its newly-

acquired purity, and I regarded myself as a much better

198 THE JOURNEYMAN.

man than many of my acquaintances. But the founda

tion  on which my hopes were  raised was not one of sand
      sandy foundation would  have served me until the
--a

day of the tempest, whereas the thin vapour upon which

I had built sunk of itself without being once assailed.

Suffice it to say that, as my fears subsided and my

pride increased, my prayers became more and more a
matter of form, until at length they ceased altogether,

and except that I believed in the being of a God, and
Icontinued to see a beauty in moral virtue, became, in
Ithought and feeling and action, the same man had

formerly been.

     ' In the working season of the two following years,

I wrought and resided at Conon-side--a gentleman's

seat and farmsteadings situated on a bank of the river
Conon near where it falls into the Cromarty frith.

IWhen there, there was no one for whose good opinion

Icared a pin within twenty miles of me, so felt myself
Iat liberty to do or say whatever thought proper. In a
short time I became a favourite with my brother work

men. " He is a good-natured, honest, knowing fellow,"
they would say, " but desperately careless of Church."

IThis was just the character wished to bear; as for
IChurch attendance, thought it rather a dubious virtue.
IIndeed, had seen too much of the prejudices of man

kind, and knew too little of true Christianity, to think

otherwise.

   ' When at Conon-side, I had an opportunity of

studying several characters of the grave, serious cast,
but the knowledge of them which I acquired there
                  One, a Mr M-- , was a man of
did me no good.                                 a  grave,
taciturn humour,  whose definition of the word     Chris
                                                "

tian " would be, as I apprehended, " a hearer of the

gospel for Mr MacDonald's sake." He was exceeding

HISTORY OF HIS MIND.                              199

reserved and unsocial in his manners, and little loved by

Ihis fellow-workmen. Once or twice have seen him

grow very angry when some parts of the conduct of his

Ifavourite preacher were censured --censured too, as

thought, with reason. There was another of the work

Imen with whom wrought, who was of the grave, serious

cast. He contributed quarterly to the support of the

Bible Society, was regular in his attendance at Church,

and reproved swearing or indecent language every time

he chanced to hear it among his companions. But it

did not escape my observation that this man was so

censorious that not even his brother saint, Mr M -- ,

was exempted from the severity of his animadversions,

and so proud of his purity of life that the errors and

misconduct of others afforded him pleasure. Perhaps

he regarded them as foils to the virtues he possessed.
      ' Besides these two there were some others who made

a profession of religion with whom I became partially

acquainted : but the tenor of their lives was ill qualified

to impress my mind with a high opinion of the sanctify

ing influences of Christianity. One was a hard, austere

man, of obtuse feelings, who seemed determined, what

ever he thought of the world to come, to make the most

he could of the present ; a second was silly and weak ;

Iand a third was what termed a Sabbath Christian, that

is,

                    ?
                        a

                            I.

                        I
one who attends Church, calls the preacher precious

man, can tell great many of the strange legends of the
Scottish Church, and reprobates the poor wretches who
prefer common sense to fanaticism. And are these men

Christians thought              have often heard divines bid

that part of their congregations which they termed men

of the world look at the life of the Christian, and grow

convinced of the power and truth of ChristianityI
                                                         by
that example which  is  superior to precept.  have

200  .         THE JOURNEYMAN.

Iobeyed them.  have observed his actions, and through

these actions have striven. to discover his motives, and

what have I found? In good truth, the philosopher

who sees clearly that he who believes and he who does

not believe, only differ in that the one practises the grave

and the other the gay vices of humanity, may well laugh

at the pretensions of these divines, and tell them that

they either speak of they know not what, or wilfully

deceive because it is their interest to do so.

    ' I remember one Sunday, after my companions had
Igone to Church, and remained behind as was my
custom, that to pass away the time I took a solitary walk

in the woods of Conon-side. The day was pleasant, but

from a kind of nervous melancholy, which hangs pretty

Ioften on my spirits, and is as I believe constitutional,
could not enjoy it. I felt quite unhappy, and after

having had recourse to every species of wonted amuse

ment, sat down on a green knoll in despair of enjoying

solitude for that day. A train of the darkest thoughts
Ibegan to rise and pass through my mind.
                                          looked
I Iupon what had done in the past ; thought of the
unhappiness of the present ; I formed surmises of the

future. There was a voice from within which incessantly
whispered in my ear, " You are doing wrong ! you are

doing wrong ! and how then can you expect pleasure?"
and so miserable did I feel from these cogitations and
Ithese questionings, that
                           started from my seat, and

strove to dissipate them by strong bodily exertion. In

Ia few hours after, my spirits had regained their usual

tone, and could look back upon what I had felt, and
say, " Have I experienced what men call an awakened

conscience ? What then is conscience ? The breast of

the murderer and the dishonourable mean man may well
be the haunts of remorse, but surely with one who

           SUNDAY MUSINGS.  201

neither does nor wishes any man ill, conscience is but

the ashes of early prejudices raked together by a dis

ordered imagination."
     ' In the latter end of the autumn of this year (1822)

I wrought and resided at Pointzfield for several weeks.

My constitution is naturally delicate, and by building

in stormy weather on a wet marshy spot of ground, I

caught a severe cold which hung about me for several

weeks : I felt my strength wasting away : my breast

became the seat of a dull oppressive pain, and imagining

I was becoming consumptive, I began seriously to think
of death. So assured was I at this time of approaching
dissolution that even through the perspective of hope I

could only look forward on a few short months of life,

and, as I could not bring myself to doubt of a separate

existence of soul or of a judgment according to deeds

Idone in the body, began seriously to think of a pre

paration for death. But how was this preparation to be

made ? I knew prayer to be the only language by which

the sinner could intercede with the Deity for pardon ;

Ibut then experience had shown me how unable was of

myself to bring my mind into the frame of devotion, or

to preserve that frame unchanged when it was produced

by fear, disgust, and the mingling dictates of reason.

IAt length I bethought me of an expedient which hoped

would preserve me from that falling off or apostatizing,
Iof which
           had experience two years before ; for

awakening the sincere fervency of feeling which my

expedient was to render lasting, I had before me the fear
of death. For the three previous years, when I had

freely and seriously pledged my word in a matter of

Iimportance, to any of my brother men, had a pride
of rigidly adhering to it. IFrom this concluded that,
were I to pledge myself to God by oath, I would have

202 THE JOURNEYMAN.

a restraining bond upon me strong enough to preserve
Ime for the future from known sin.
                                            would thus be
shut up by every principle of honour to serve God, --of
loving Him I had no idea. I made and took my vow
Ito be knew not what, called God to witness
                                               it, and for
                                                    a
  few following days, persisted in praying twice day.
But prayer soon became an irksome duty -- proud
a
thoughts over which had no control, and strong desires
    I'     I

                        a

                           by

                                   a
that would not be repressed                 few light words, came

rushing on my mind in mingled torrent, and swept
before them every vain resolve. To add to their strength

my health began to amend, and not only appeared an
                         a
impracticable, but even
                                  it
                             foolish, thing to strive any

longer to be religious.

      passed the winter of this year and the spring of the

following one at home, and there became acquainted with

an old companion of my uncles. He had resided at

Edinburgh for many years, and though clever, was
                                            a
neither steady nor respectable man, but for the sake ofa
a
        a                                                                  ;
becoming acquainted with his character, which was ec

centric in the extreme, courted his company and con

versation. At Edinburgh he had been member of one
           a
of those deistical clubs so common in large towns and
                I

                                         ;

                                  by
by natural quickness, and from the habit of speaking

at their meetings, had acquired the faculty of arguing

extempore with good deal of skill. My uncles, whose

principles and opinions were in almost every particular

the reverse of his, impressed               early recollections, still

continued attached to him but, as might be expected,

frequently attacked opinions which he was      by  no means

slow to defend. The doctrine of predestination, that

hobby-horse of disputants, was brought frequently on

the carpet, as was also the doctrine of universal, as op

posed to partial, redemption. At first merely listened
                                            I

A DEISTICAL FRIEND.  203

to these verbal controversies, but seeing that my uncles,
though well-grounded in the doctrines of Christianity,

were ill-qualified to answer every objection raised
against it by a veteran quibbler, out of a desire of

Iassisting them, set myself to examine the different

bearings of the doctrines they defended. Predestin

ation first engaged me. I read all that is said of

it in Scripture, drew conclusions from the prescience
of God, and from Plato's Dialogues of Socrates, and

some other philosophic writers, and endeavoured to pro

duce data from whence to show that predestination is

not a doctrine peculiar to revealed religion. I had long

looked upon controversial divinity as the worst kind of
nonsense ; and since my argumentative conversation with
my cousin G. had entertained an antipathy against verbal
controversy of every kind ; this, added to a hesitating
manner of speech, and a consciousness of an inability to

Ipreserve my ideas from becoming confused when waxed

warm on any subject, after all my preparation, withheld
me from attacking my brother deist.

    I' Had any one told me at that time that was in
reality brother in belief to a deist, I would have com

plained of injustice. In fact, my opinions were so waver

Iing that, with a due regard to truth, could not tell
what I did or did not believe. I saw there were two

schools of deism, --the high and the low. Epicurus of

the ancient philosophers and Hume of the modern, men
who, while they remained sceptical on the subject of
future rewards and punishments, and of the Providence
of God, cherished virtue for its own sake, both by

example and precept, I regarded as members of the first:
while I looked upon the brood of half-bred wits, who,

with Paine at their head, battled with religion because
it gave a deeper and stronger sanction to the laws of

204 THE JOURNEYMAN.

morality, as the masters of the second. The leaders of

Ithe former I considered to be good, wise men (indeed,

am still readier to regret their defects than censure them),

Iwhile the whole body which composed the latter re

garded as a band of conspirators against all that is good
Ior noble in human nature.
                            looked upon the Edin

burgh deist as a pupil of the school last described ; in

deed, the irregularity of the life he led lent this opinion

a strong sanction.
' The more I thought and read, the more wavering
Iand unsettled my opinions became.
                                    began to see that

the precepts inculcated by the Christian faith are equal

if not superior in purity to those taught in the school of

philosophy ; but then the strange, mysterious doctrines

which mingled with these precepts had in them some

thing repulsive. I could believe in many things which
I did not understand ; but how could I believe in things

evidently not beyond the reach of reason, but directly

opposed to it ? I could believe that man is either a free

agent, or chained down by the decrees of God to a pre

Idestined line of conduct ; but how could believe that

he was at once free and the child of necessity ? And

yet the contradiction (as it appeared) seemed to me to

be the doctrine of the Bible.

    I' regarded the main doctrine of Christianity as one

of those which lie not beyond the reach of reason, but,

as I have said, are directly opposed to it. How, thought

I, can one man who is a criminal be pardoned and re

warded because another who is none has, after meriting
reward, been punished? How can it be said that He

who thus pardons the guilty and punishes the inno

cent is not only just, but that He even does this that He
may become just and merciful ? It appeared still more

strange than even this that the only way of becoming

DOCTRINES OF CHRISTIANITY.            205

virtuous was, not by doing good and virtuous deeds, but

by believing that Christ's death was an atonement for

sin, and His merits a fund of righteousness for which

they who thus believed were to be rewarded. Certainly,

thought I, if the Christian religion be not a true one, it

is not a cunningly devised fable ; for its mysteries are

either not far enough removed from the examination of

the rational faculties, or too directly opposed to the con

clusions which they must necessarily form. The mys

Itery of the Trinity regarded as an exception to this ;
the nature of God is so little known to man that I could

neither believe nor doubt it.'

In this abrupt and unsatisfactory manner the docu
Itment ends.
              will appear in the sequel that evidence

exists in other quarters, enabling us to trace the essential

facts of Miller's spiritual history.

                          206

CHAPTER VII.

POVERTY, HONOURABLE AND DISHONOURABLE -- FIRST IMPRES

      SIONS OF THE REV. MR STEWART LOOKS INTO HIS FATHER'S
     BIBLE THE SELFISH THEORY OF MORALS NEW-YEAR's-

      DAY MUSINGS IMPORTANT COMMENT UPON AND ADDITION
     TO THESE TEN DAYS AFTERWARDS THE CHANGE EFFECTED
     IN HIS SPIRITUAL STATE.

           or two threads of our biographical narrative have

ONEslipped through our hands, and it will be necessary

to gather them up before proceeding with the delineation

of Miller's religious experience. Swanson, as we saw,

alluded to his prospects of pecuniary support, and ex

ulted in his trust in God. This was in October. In

November Miller replied. ' You tell me that you are

Ibecoming (like myself) very poor, but you also inform me
that you are very happy.       know by experience that

simple, unambitious poverty and happiness are not such

Ienemies as is generally imagined -- but oh how detest

the mean, cringing poverty that prompts a man of God's

forming to cast himself in the dust before his brother

man --that compels him to smile at the stupid, cruel jibe

that wounds him, that teaches his knee to bend and ties

his tongue. This is poverty of spirit. I merely detest
it ; but I cannot think of those mean insults which,

coming from the little great, make poverty truly bitter

without wishing for the return of the earliest days of

MR STEWART.  207

barbarism. My master in the rudest stage of society
would have at least two of nature's advantages, he would
be brave and strong ; but in its present state, he may be
at once an idiot, coward, and knave.'

      Swanson had asked for information about the Rev.

Mr Stewart. The account of his relations with his

parishioners, and the estimate of his character, which
Miller gives in reply, are very different from what he
would subsequently have written. ' When, after leaving

IEdinburgh, Ireturned to this place, scarce met one of

my old acquaintances who did not tell me of the extra
ordinary parts and merits of their new minister. He was
so humble, said his admirers, that he did not, like many
foolish parsons, speak of the priesthood as a body of good,
perfect men, who were sorely toiling to convert vile lay

sinners --no, when he spoke of sinners, he said You and

I. His sermons too, with all the solidity of orthodoxy
itself, were so interesting and eloquent that no one could
sleep in his church. The very reserve of his character
was praised ; it was bashfulness, it was modesty. This

general opinion has now given place to another as general.
His humility, it is said, was affected, for his reserve is
not that of bashfulness but of pride. No one gives less
to the poor or is fonder of money. His very sermons are

now different from what they were once--they still dis

play talent, but they are cold and unanimated, and ill-
calculated to rouse or comfort his hearers. These two

contrary opinions were and are those entertained by the

middle class of Mr Stewart's parishioners ; do not im

agine, however, that either of them in every particular

was or is mine. I know too little of his character as a

man to say whether he be generous or niggardly, proud

I Ior humble ; but, as a minister, believe may dare de

cide of his merits. His sermons are the offspring of

208 THE JOURNEYMAN.

natural talent polished by learning. Few men under
stand better what subjects are susceptible of that elo
quence which at once engages the understandings, ima
ginations, and hearts of men. His views of a subject are
generally clear, and his style, though apparently un
studied, is pure and expressive. But, on the other hand,
he is an unequal, ofttimes a careless preacher. His ser

Imons were such as have described only for the first

ten or twelve months after he received the presentation

to this parish. At particular seasons, such as the time

of a sacrament, he still exerts himself, and I am cheered

by flashes of that spirit the blaze of which once delighted
me ; but his common, every-day discourses are dry and
doctrinal. They address themselves to the understand
ing, but not to the heart. The knowledge they display
of human nature is often vague and general, and such as
is to be taught by books. Of that particular and striking
kind which is to be acquired by the study of our own
hearts or of the characters of others, there is to be found

in them but few instances. That cold reserve of charac
ter, which has now become so disgusting to Mr Stewart's
parishioners, is surely an unfortunate thing in a minister
of the gospel. In a private individual, though often
feared and reviled, it has its apology ; but it has none
in the man who is bound down both by the command of
God and every principle of honesty recognized among
men, to devote his whole life to the gaining of souls from
Satan. What is merely a singularity in the parishioner
is a crime in the minister.'

     Of the seriousness of Miller's mood at this time we
have traces in his correspondence with his other friend.
He has, he tells William Ross, but two friends, and can
as ill afford to lose one of them as he could to lose
' an eye or an arm.' ' Alas ! Willie,' he says in a let

                  NEW-YEAR'S DAY.                                           209

ter of December 8th, ' whether wise or foolish, we are no

longer boys ; last October a note of my father's hand
writing in the first page of the big Bible, which was

once his and is now mine, informed me that I had then

completed my twenty-fourth year. Since the first page

of that Bible furnishes me with a fact of so serious a

Inature, do you think it would be lost time should spend

a few minutes every day in considering the facts which

are laid down in its other pages? My friend, J. Swan-

son, assures me it would not.'

In a letter to Swanson of December 15th we meet

with the following decided repudiation of what is called

the selfish theory of morals. ' Are you still,' he asks,
' a member of that School of Philosophy which resolves

every feeling expressive of affection into mere selfishness ?
I Ihope not.    have, ever since I heard of hated as
                                                         it,

                                                          I

                                                                      it
heartily as ever did any of the schools which perplexed
me in the days of my boyhood, and the more examine
        by

               I
myself  patiently tracing the connection which sub

sists between my feelings and the circumstances which

excite them, the more am convinced that selfishness

...does not supply all the ties of that connection.
                  I
                                  I
                                        I

                                                 I
hate the selfish School of Philosophy.                   wish could

hate as practically as St Paul did.'
it

      On the 1st of January, 1827, he writes to Ross.
His reflections are not of jocund character :-- The
                  a

                                       I
                                                                         '
first sun of the year has not yet risen, but have
trimmed and lighted my lamp, and set myself down to

write by the assistance of its little red flame. . . Many
                  a

                                            ;

                                 I

                                            it
                                                                                   .

                                                              is
                                                               by
are the reflections which closing and an opening year
suggest. You have often seen that Egyptian symbol, an
adder holding its tail in its mouth and am sure that

you have observed that the slender circular body of that

adder but       dull-looking thing, varied as            only

       VOL. I.                                       14
is
            a

210 THE JOURNEYMAN.

a slight difference in bulk or a still slighter difference in

the loops of its scaly coat ; while, upon that part of it

where its head and tail meet, the eye can rest with plea

sure. It is said that this adder is a symbol of the year ;

and certainly, as the eye is attracted more by its head

and tail than by any part of its body, so the attention of

the moralist is excited more by the beginning and close

of the year than by any of its intermediate parts. The

Imoralist, do say ? Alas ! true moralists are by no

means common characters, yet serious reflection at such

a season as this is not confined to a class of men so ex
Itremely rare.
                remember that at a stage of life little

removed from childhood, on a New-Year's Day, not all

the halfpence my friends gave me could make me happy.

A certain vague regret for the days of sport that had

passed away, and a fearful anticipation of the days of

Icare and toil which knew were coming on, conspired

to cast a gloom over my mind. But in this the boy in

dulged in a folly not always avoided by the man. When

I Ilooked at the head and tail of the snake, thought of

the sting which in reality both of them bear, but not of
Ithe antidote growing near.
                             now perceive that it was

unwise thus to suffer the clouds of unavailing regret and

dismal anticipation to cast their shade over my enjoy

enmeveeinldttfsuh.leretHaoeuf.g"wh--thoaItltsaoius gtahhnattotph"ianstuioftfnhiceioerfentmisinubenutotthaottnheealtldhtahinyegdisrtirnuthklye

ing and feasting so common at this season were at first

resorted to for the sake of dissipating gloomy thoughts

Ilike those with which was once perplexed. The more
I Ithink of this, the more am confirmed of its truth.

Judging from experience, it appears reasonable enough

that the man who is unprepared to die should strive to
forget that he is mortal : but it is monstrous to suppose

MORAL REFLECTIONS.  211

that, deeming, as most do, death the greatest evil, he

should yet joy at its approach. If an opening year

warned a boy of the toils which awaited him, it may
surely whisper to men of death. And it does ! Get one
of the most stupid of those who are revellers at this
season to make a single moral remark, and that one will
be that he is now by a year nearer his grave than he was
twelve months ago. From reflections like these, though
custom, by giving its sanction to the festivities of the

Iseason, has, after its usual manner, obscured every cir

cumstance of its own beginning and growth, can re
gard that loud huzza which has penetrated even to this
recess, as that of madness raised to drown the deep low
murmurings of thought. -- Many are the reflections which
a closing and opening year suggest, and yet the writer
who would set himself to collect and arrange these
would find that there is little to be said of the years
which commenced and concluded seven hours ago which

has not been already said (perhaps well said) of some
preceding ones. . . . But in morals, regarded as the
rules of life, there is nothing commonplace. Filled with
a desire of making new acquirements and a love of
novelty, man is generally moving onward in knowledge,

--there is a law in his very nature which urges him on ;

but for that which is morally good he has no natural in
clination. Before he quits his vicious habits he must be

threatened with the horrors of eternal punishment,--nay,

perhaps made to feel in conviction a foretaste of these
horrors. Before he commence a course of virtuous actions,

he must be presented with the strongest motives, assur

ance of eternal peace and joy, and what is necessarily
superior to any motive, he must be powerfully assisted
by the Spirit of God. Ah, my dear friend, there can
surely be no commonplace in morals, whether by the

212 THE JOURNEYMAN.

word we mean virtuous actions, or the precepts which

enjoin or the considerations which enforce them. The

uncertainty of time and the certainty of death, the

guilt and madness of mis-spending time, and the sure

coming of judgment, all of these are topics extremely

commonplace for an author, but truths which to every

human creature are important in the highest degree. --

I cannot look back upon the past year with a feeling of
pleasure, and yet I should look upon it with one of
thankfulness. I am certain I have not marked it by a

single meritorious deed, and yet, by the good mercy of

God, I have been preserved from actions notoriously
vicious. I have at times, I trust, by His help, cleared

my heart of its viler affections, and repressed its evil de

sires. I have besought His assistance, and experienced

within me the workings of gratitude. But, alas ! at other

times I have wilfully opened the floodgates of passion ;
I have courted rather than resisted temptation ; I have

apologized for known sin in my heart ; and in thought

many times oftener than once indeed have I committed

evil.'

Thus, by the ' little red flame,' in the chill hour

before the dawn, on the first day of 1827, does Hugh

Miller jot down for his friend his stern and sad com

munings with himself. The drear glimmer of the lamp

light is traceable on the page, and the remarks on the

festivities of Christmas and New -Year's Day are too

harshly Puritanic for his sunnier and wiser hour ; but the

severity of his self-judgment, and the deep and humble

piety which pervades the letter, make it valuable as a

revelation of his state of mind at the time.  Let us there

fore proceed :--

     ' In that awful day when things shall appear as they

Ireally are, how shall I apologize for the evil have com

                   RETROSPECT.                                  213

mitted in that portion of time which was measured out

Iby the past year ? The more consider the more clearly
Ido I see that the evil have committed in it was of a

positive, the good merely of a negative, kind. All that
I can urge in my defence
               ?                                that might have entered

                               it

                             I is,
                                     I
still deeper into evil than have done. But will this

defence serve   Were                            to serve in an earthly court,

the vilest criminal could with justice allege                and will
                                                ?
God,  in  whom dwelleth, and from whom cometh, all
                                                    it
wisdom, accept     from His creatures                       Alas hope
                it                                          ;;

                           a                           If !
itself cannot build on foundation like this.                    man

kind have no better plea they are surely lost yet self-

love, in the very face of reason, whispereth the contrary.
Ah, William, there can be no greater deceiver than self-

love --no flatterer more dangerous --for there none we

suspect less. Often, when we think of future state of
                                                a

                                                         is

being, of an Almighty Judge, and of our own appear
ance before Him, in our imaginations we not only pic

ture that Judge as merciful, but we even conceive of
Him as possessed of feelings and partialities, and con
sequently of weaknesses, like ourselves. We deem Him

to be One who will look upon our faults with the same
favourable eye with which we ourselves regard them --
as One who will give us credit for the merits which we

think we possess. Alas we do not consider that one-
          ;
                                             !
half of these imagined merits are fictitious, the children

of our fancy and that the other half of them consist of

natural talents and propensities which have, for wise

ends, been given us, but which we have misapplied.

And what, then, remains                         As have said already,
                   is,                          I            I
                                                                   I
                              ?                         if
must say again, that man's best plea, he ground his

defence on works,     that he has not committed all

the evil which he might have committed; and must

say again that, mankind have no better plea than this,
               if

214 THE JOURNEYMAN.

they are surely lost. But, dear William, Christianity is

not the cunningly-devised fable I once thought it. There

is a Saviour, and he who believes upon Him with that

true, earnest belief which conquereth evil, shall, for the

sake of the sufferings of that Saviour, have his sins for

given him, and for the sake of his righteousness be re

warded. I once thought this an absurd doctrine ; now,
I Ithough have more experience of men and things than

ever had before, and though my reason has strengthened,

'

   is,

     I

                                                   !
and as hope, still strengthening, can regard                                                 as
wonderful display of the wisdom of God.
                                                      !

                                                       I

                                                                             is it

                                                                                             aa
       Many are the reflections which an opening and
closing year suggest How impenetrably dark that
cloud which hangs over the future How dubious and

uncertain do the half-remembered incidents of the past

appear And!                  what, since we have so little                                     left us   to
                                                                                             nothing     to
bear witness                of the past -- since we have                                      be ours
assure us that                                                                                          --
                                 this body the future shall
                            it in
what  is  that present time which we dare challenge as
                                 aa
our own Is                           day, an hour, minute, moment
          ?                                           a
                                                          a
No, simply line of division, thing which has
it                                                           a

     is                                                      I is,
                                                                          ?a
neither solidity nor extension, breadth nor thickness.                  it

And this nonentity all we can call our own Cowley,is                   I
                                                                                              a?
in his essay on the danger of procrastination,                                               gives
translation of an epigram of Martial, which, as                                              falls in

with my present train                                 ionfsetrht.o--ughBty, -tahned-by,  of itself, very
ingenious, shall here                                                                       recommend
if

           : is I
                         a
Cowley to you as an excellent and shrewd fellow, who,
    you court his company and conversation, will, am

sure, give you much pleasure, and perhaps some instruc
tion. -- He
the epigram --              true poet, though of rare school. But

          " To-morrow you will live, you always cry                                      ?;
            In what far country does this morrow lie

                   MORAL REFLECTIONS.                               215

      That 'tis so mighty long ere it arrive,
      Beyond the Indies does this morrow live ?

      'Tin so far-fetched, this morrow, that I fear

      I'Twill be both very old and very dear.

      To-morrow will live, the fool does say.
      To-day itself '8 too late : the wise lived yesterday."

      ' What or where
      is,                 is,   to-morrow       the question of
              is,                            ?
                             I
                                               ? in is

                                                    It
the Roman epigrammatist.         would like manner ask

what  or rather what was, yesterday                     has left
                                                              ;

                                                                      aa
few marks upon the face of the earth. Yesterday,
field was ploughed, house built, and grave dug and
                       a                     a

    these marks and scarce anything else make yesterday

    different from the dream of yesternight but the graveis
    must very soon be closed, the ploughed field will soonin ;
    become piece of green sward, and to Him with whom

      thousand years are as day, will appear but short

    space when the foundations of the house will become
by a  a                                                       a
                                    a                                    a

                                         it

    piece of green sward also. Yet things like these are the
    monuments of yesterday. But what yesterday itself?

                          was space of time, measured
      it,

                        ?

                      ; It

                                          a
    what was rather

      the sun, which was given to men that              in          they
                                                            it

    might prepare for death and instead of preparing for

    death, the whole power of their bodies and every energy

    of their souls have been employed                 building and

    ploughing and  in  other such occupations, even though

    they saw graves opening and closing before them.
    What though those wasting monuments of yesterday

    which men have raised or inscribed on the face of the

    earth were eternal, --what has the soul of man to do

    with these external things  ?            his soul be immaterial,

                                   a If
    as many judicious philosophers affirm, then, though

    mysteriously connected with              material body,   a it  can

    surely have no proper and natural connection with the

    earth in which vegetables grow or the stones with which

    houses are built. But am quaintly deducing moral
                          I

216 THE JOURNEYMAN.

Ifrom an uncertainty, which can simply and with ease
Ideduce from a known truth.
                              am also speaking rather

loosely of the particular provision to be made for the

soul, and making no allowance for that which must of

Inecessity be made for the body. Be it sufficient that

mention the last, since the proportion which the interests

of the body bear to those of the soul must be that which

finite bears to infinite.

      ' The particular provision which must be made for the

      is,

          I
                          I
                                   I is
soul      as firmly believe, specified in those revealed

books which compose the Old and New Testaments.

The uncertainty to which refer the immateriality of

the soul. The truth -- the truths, should rather say--

which concern    the  bseopdayr--ateareexitshtoesneceofofGtohde.  soul  and    the
resurrection of  the

      And now will just conclude, for become, though
is '
            is

           I

                          it

                                    is
                                                  a
                                           by

                                    I

                                                                 it
                                                                           is
very serious, very tiresome,  remarking that, since

time past little more than shadow, since time com

ing something less,          man's true wisdom to entrench
himself within himself -- not in selfishness, --
                                                                               selfish

ness which prompts him to wander, and in his wanderings

to form connections with unfit objects such as earth andin
stones--not selfishness, but with love to God greater,
                                        a
and love to his neighbour equal to that which he bearsa
to himself--entrenchingaa                             is
                      is,    himself in                       ?goodconscience
and rational (that        a  Scriptural)  hope of
                                                                  salvation --

perceiving that to himself his own soul                           everything.

And, dear William,    is     not truly everything                       All that
                         it

to us remains of the past lies in the storehouses of our

memories or the books of our consciences all the sur-
                                          ;

misings which we form of the future are drawn from the

experiences of the past, which we have laid up in these

storehouses while our imaginations sit retired, each                           in
          ;

its own recess, drawing pictures of these experiences, and

                       JAQUES.                                     217

of the images which are preserved along with them, join

ing or disjoining them at pleasure. Oh, how strange

and varied are the powers of that soul which is destined

to immortality ! It can be made of itself, just as we
           either heaven or hell. --And now have
deal with  it,       a            by a               '
done. -- No, not yet.
             I by I     I  must,        quoting Shakespeare,if it ;

forestall some of your remarks.                                I

                                        When did hear"I

           The motley fool thus moral on the time,
           My lungs began to crow like chanticleer,
           That fools should be so deep contemplative
           And did laugh sans intermission
           An hour by his dial."
                           ''
This remarkable letter was not sent away at once.

On the 10th of the month Hugh took                     up, and

added few words. The thoughts and modes of ex
if
pression seem, he says, as new to him as               they had
    'a
been found some other person.' From this he infers

that, he and his two friends made copies of their letters,

the volume containing them, of no great interest to
                               ' if
third parties, would be not only interesting but extremely

useful to the correspondents.        You may see,' he pro

'ceeds, that am bent on making this experiment.'
Miller carried out his intention to very considerable
                                        a
extent, and seems never, while he resided in Cromarty,

to have grudged the labour of copying for preservation

what he wrote.

Reverting to his letter, he remarks justly that
           '
                                                a

                                                                   '

                                                                        is

                                                                                                       '

                                                                        it

                                                                                        in is
'too much in the style which preceptor would assume,'

while some of the observations are commonplace and

ill connected, and others of them unpardonably quaint.'

He assures Ross that the preceptorial tone             only

seeming, not in reality,' and that he does not suppose

his correspondent to be ignorant of anything he has

written. The blockhead who sets himself up as an

218 THE JOURNEYMAN.

adviser of others is always one who is very far indeed

beyond the power of advice to reclaim.' By way of

practical conclusion to the whole matter we have the
           --'
following       But  why,  you may  ask, why then  write
           :

Ime that which already know ? The question, though
Ia simple, is truly a hard one, and can answer it in no
other way than by saying that I wrote from my feelings
-- that, from seeing the connection which the passing
Itime and my wasting life have together, was insensibly

led to think of time and eternity, life and death, and, as

I was, when my mind was thus occupied, writing my

friend, to commit these thoughts to paper for his perusal.

But besides general there are in these pages particular

facts. I have told you that what I now believe I did
I Inot once believe, and have told you how have deter

mined, relying on the help of God, to make the doctrines

of Christianity the rule of my belief, its precepts that of
my conduct. Ah, William, how easy it is to write of
virtuous deeds ! how difficult to perform them ! How

easy it is to make a good resolve ! how difficult to abide
by one ! But the power, truth, and goodness of God are
infinite, and He has promised to give His Holy Spirit

to them that ask it.'                              A
     From this point Hugh Miller never receded.

profound change had passed over his spiritual nature,

a change none the less penetrating or pervasive that

its operation had taken place in the silent chambers
of his soul and had manifested itself in few external

signs. Through no paroxysms of self-accusing agony

did he make his way into the temple of his spiritual

rest. By no raptures of religious enthusiasm did he
announce his arrival at his Father's house. With the

deliberate assent of reason, conscience, and feeling he

embraced the Gospel of Christ, and solemnly cast in his

THE CHANGE COMPLETE.  219

lot with those who confessed Christ before men. On

this point there was to be no further debate. By one
supreme act of resolution he defined the future of his
soul's life. Aided, as he reverently believed, by the
Divine Spirit, he placed his trust in the power, truth,
and goodness of the Infinite One, as revealed in Jesus of
Nazareth. But the religion of Miller, though from this
time it lay entwined with the deepest roots of his being
and was the supreme and determining element in his

character, came little to the surface. It was an unseen

force, a hidden fire, influencing him at all moments, but

never obtruded on the public eye. It would have been

offensive to all the instincts of his modest and manly

nature to unveil the secret places of his soul to the

general observer.
      The reader may have remarked that, in his letters to

Ross, Miller assumes that part of Mentor, which, in the

other correspondence, is taken so decisively by Swanson.
The influence emanates from Swanson, and Hugh passes
it on to Ross. His relations with the latter appear to
have been of a more tenderly confidential character than

his relations with the former.

                                                          220

                     CHAPTER VIII.

MILLER AT TWENTY-SIX LETTER TO ROSS THE BLESSING OF
     A TRUE FRIEND ROMANCE THE SHADOW OF RELIGION --
     FORMER AND PRESENT VIEWS OF RELIGION FREE-THINK
     ERS WHO CANNOT THINK AT ALL CHRISTIAN THE HIGH
      EST STYLE OF MAN PROJECT OF GOING TO INVERNESS
      SCHEMES OF SELF-CULTURE.

              MILLER, then, as we meet him on the

HUGHthreshold of his twenty-sixth summer, has passed

through the stages of boyhood and youth, with their
changes of mood and development of faculty, and ac
quired that fundamental type of character which he
subsequently retained. Steadily prosecuting the enter
prise of self-culture, he is animated by the purest spirit
ual ambition, and experiences, in faculties invigorated
and knowledge increased, that deep joy which is the
student's reward. He has derived, it is scarce necessary
to say, inestimable advantage from the completion of
that religious process which had long been going on in
his mind. The event which he would have called his con
version, and pronounced of transcendent importance in

relation to all other occurrences in his life, has taken
place. He knows what he believes. The atmosphere

of his soul is clear and calm, and the unfathomable
azure of heaven touches with softening radiance all its
clouds. Placid resolution, energy peacefully fronting

                         FRIENDSHIP.                   221

the tasks of life, a thoughtful gaiety and smiling forti
tude, attest the genial firmness with which he now
wields the sceptre of his mental realm.

     A letter to Ross, dated May, 1828, bears some

reflection of the peace and clearness to which he had

attained. This letter, indeed, does much to compensate
for the loss of which we had to complain in last

chapter.                                               a

    I' was employed in the church-yard in hewing       I
Itombstone, at which, as wrought late and hard,

fatigued myself considerably, when my cousin George

Munro brought me your letter. There was scarce light

                 it,
                              it,
enough to read the evening had so far advanced the
                                                       it
little did decipher of however, acted upon me as                 ;
      I                                                              a
spell.      forgot the labours of the past day, and, in
         I

short, everything except that was happy in my friend,
                                   aI
and had much cause of gratitude to my God. Surely the!
                                            if
best of His gifts, we except the great gift of the Sonit
                 is
and the Spirit,          true Friend Everything temporal
                   a if

must decay and perish. The soul,                       dwells long in

the body, must see many of the things of the material

world, upon which        it  puts  value, because      deems

them conducive or essential to its happiness, dropping

away, or so changing as to be no longer matters of

comfort or use. Even supposing them of less tran
                                                       Ia
sient or changeable nature,        it it     certain they are com
                                                               is
                                        is
pletely lost to the soul when separates from the body,            Is I

that piece of earth being the only medium through

which   it  can enjoy them.        It        not thus with friend

                                         is

ship. The soul cannot decay, and we have assurance

from Scripture, that that which we term death not to

those who love God death to affection.                 trust that
                 by

                       IIa
                                       I
in the friend to whom now write, have one whom

will love and    whom shall be beloved for ever.

222 THE JOURNEYMAN.

not this a noble hope, and does it not deserve to be

cherished ?

    ' I have read somewhere (in Byron's " Don Juan," if I

mistake not) that virtue is but another name for romance.

Unbelief alone could have made a remark like this, but

I think it so shrewd that, were there no such thing as

Revelation, and consequently nothing like assurance of a
future state of rewards and punishments, I would at
Ionce assent to its truth, so far as what
                                           may term
Iactive virtue is concerned. I make a distinction when

say active, the passive being essential to the happiness

which Epicurus sought after. Believing, as I assuredly
Ihope I do, in Revelation, shall dare imitate this re

mark so far as to say that Romance is the shadow of

Religion, and Religion the truth of Romance ; and, if
Iyou have patience enough to follow me,
                                           shall en
I Ideavour to explain what mean when say so. We

both know from experience the character of the romantic

man. He is one who casts the reins to his imagination,

and believes in all the promises that are given him by

hope. He is a day-dreamer that lives in an ideal world

of his own creation. If of a kind, unsuspicious temper

ament, his dreams are of a peaceful description. Love

and friendship are his guiding stars.

" He hopes   a Sylph in every  ;  d"ame,
  A Pylades   in every friend

and the world of his dreams, the world which these

noble beings inhabit, is so far from resembling that one
of which other people have experience, that neither pain,
sorrow, accident, nor the evils which folly and villany

produce, have any part in it. If the visionary be of a

venturous, restless spirit, and imbued with love of fame,
the world presented in his dreams is of a less quiet and

ROMANCE AND RELIGION.               223

guiltless disposition, but to balance its disadvantages,
he beholds himself as a god in that world. He sees
himself a conqueror over all those whom he hates or
fears, and an object of admiration to all those whom he
loves. Such are the dreams of romance, and him who

indulges in such we term romantic.  The people of the

world, who in general do not abound in good nature,

make his folly the butt of their ridicule, and the realities

of life, which to a man of this cast are misfortunes, are

sure to make sport of it. But religion is the truth of

romance. It promises more than hope does, and it

performs all that it promises. We are given to know
with assurance that our eyes have never seen, neither
have our hearts conceived, a blessedness equal to that
which God has prepared for those that love him. The

glories of heaven are too bright for our conceptions, but
this we know, that in the future world we shall associate

with none except the good, and that we shall love them,
and be beloved by them. This is just a fulfilment of
the highest promise which hope gives the visionary. In

heaven we shall also hold close communion with God.

There is nothing like this in all the provinces of romance.
We know, too, that in heaven misfortune shall have no

place, and that we shall be there triumphant over all
that we now fear and all that is evil, over death, and

hell, and temptation. As for fame, we are assured that

there is joy in heaven  over one sinner that repenteth.
" Well done, good and    faithful servant," is the address

of the Omnipotent to the man who by his works has
Iglorified His name.
                        need not follow this subject
I Ifurther ; have said enough to show what mean, by

saying that romance is the shadow of religion and re
ligion the truth of romance.

      ' Religion, my dear friend, is a very different thing

224 THE JOURNEYMAN.

from what the people of the world think it. Four years

Iago, deemed the love of God a passion altogether
I Ichimerical. When looked towards the sky, saw that

the sun was a glorious and sublime object, and a very

apt image of the God who had created it and all things;

Ibut I thought I could as rationally love that sun as
could the invisible being of whom I deemed it the best
type. I found what I reckoned admirable things in the

writings of Plato. Socrates I regarded as a very excel

lent, talented man ; his reasonings on the immortality

of the soul, on the love of God, on prayer, and on the

nature of holiness and of man, delighted me. But
though I never once thought of bringing forward argu
Iments to weigh against his, could not consider what
Ihe taught in the light of serious truths.
                                            felt the same

pleasure in perusing his dialogues, or in reading fine

Imoral poems and discourses, as felt when looking at
Ian elegant statue or picture ; but thought as little of
Itaking the precepts found in these pieces as rules to
live by as I did of paring my limbs or features to the

exact proportions of those of the Apollo Belvidere or the

Hercules Farnese. As for the religion of the New

ITestament, could not at all admire it. Some of the
Imorals it inculcated thought good, though in the main

rather calculated to make a patient than an active man,

and better adapted for the slave and the vanquished than

for the freeman and the conqueror. The scheme       of

Redemption and its consequent doctrines I regarded  as
peculiarly absurd. I held it impossible that a man
                                                    of

taste and judgment could in reality be a Christian. As

for those men who were evidently possessed of both

these faculties in a high degree and yet professors of

Ireligion, interpreted their seeming assent to its dogmas

as the effect of a prudence similar to that which made

                FREE-THINKERS.                    225

Plato, Seneca, and some of the other ancient philosophers,

profess a belief in the mythologic fables of Greece and

Rome. I was myself an imitator of these men, and I

looked upon the professed atheist or deist, not perhaps

with as much abhorrence as the serious believer would

regard him with, but with a much higher contempt ; for
it seemed to me a thing childishly imprudent for any

one to assume the character of a free-thinker, when all

Ito be acquired by opposing the current of what re

garded as popular prejudice was the unqualified hatred

and detestation of nineteen-twentieths of one's country
Imen and relations.
                     therefore professed, as you will

perhaps remember, a great respect for religion, though

always ready to confess to any one who was seriously a
IChristian, that had no experimental knowledge of its
Itruth.
         found the doctrine of predestination very

serviceable as a kind of shield to protect me against the

advices (you may smile at the term) of such. You may
Isee from what
                have written what it was made me

think it possible that your profession of respect for re
ligion was insincere : but you will pardon me, as you
know how natural it is for a man to judge his neighbour

by himself.
      ' But though misled for once by this method of

Ijudging, shall yet avail myself of it in forming an

opinion of that formidable body, the men of the world,

so far as their regards for religion are concerned. My

present self takes my former self as a specimen of these

men ; ay, and conceit goes so far as to say that former

self may be regarded as no unfavourable specimen
Ineither. "Tis true was not one of the most acute
Ithough one of the most prudent of freethinkers.
                                                  will

not arrogate to myself the powers of a Paine or a

I IHobbes, yet setting conceit apart, think may say

VOL. I.              IS

226 THE JOURNEYMAN.

that my natural acuteness and acquired knowledge at

Ithe time deemed the historical part of the Bible a col

lection of fables and its doctrinal a mass of absurdities,

were far superior to the acuteness or knowledge of the

Igenerality of such men as harbour similar opinions.

mean such of them as think for themselves ; and it

Iis proper to make this distinction; for can assure

you, however much the men who arrogate a faculty

of detecting impostures the rest of the world are

deceived by, may boast of the superior power of mind

lavished on their sept, that there are blockheads who are

sceptics as well as weak men who are Christians, nay

more, that there are men who profess themselves free

thinkers who were not born to be thinkers at all.

    I' The few intelligent sceptics have been acquainted
with, I have invariably found as ignorant of religion as
I myself was four years ago, and from my present know
Iledge of it conclude (and it would be difficult to prove

my conclusion false) that all its enemies, even the most
Iacute, are thus ignorant.
                            have perused the Essays of

Hume, one of the best reasoners, perhaps, the world

ever produced, and on rising from that perusal this

estimate appeared to me juster than ever. Holding this

IIopinion, can pity these men, but feel little disposed

to fear their arguments, having experience of their
Ifutility ; nor yet do
                        feel uneasy at the thought of

being the object of the contempt of such ; for my

Imemory must altogether fail me before forget that with
Ia contempt similar to theirs once regarded men well

skilled in that wisdom the beginning of which is the fear

of God.
     ' With the second class, the non-thinkers, it is not so

easy to deal. They are so numerous as to compose
nearly two-thirds of the inhabitants of our large towns,

                      MOCKERS.     Ill

and even in our villages and in the country, whose in

habitants, forty years ago, were a superstitious, it may

be, but certainly a moral and decent people, they are

springing up like mushrooms. Consummately ignorant

of religion, and deficient in all general knowledge, they

ridicule and defame all those who, professing a belief in

the doctrines of the Bible, make its morality the rule of

their lives. They are searchers after truth on the plan

laid down by my Lord Shaftesbury. Men of the firmest

minds find it a hard task to keep themselves cool and

undisturbed when made the butts of ridicule. The

ridicule of the fool, too, is peculiarly bitter. I have had

occasion to feel it at times, having oftener than once

come in contact with persons of the stamp described ;

Iand have felt hurt at finding myself made their butt ;
Ibut as there is no character regard with so much con
Itempt as a coward, have been solaced at finding, from

repeated experience, that none except arrant cowards

set upon me in this manner. These pusillanimous

mockers never venture singly to attack a man. They

fight in companies, have no chance if the person they

single out be strong in judgment or in humour, unless

they can drown his arguments or wit in their laughter.

For any two of the fraternity, unless they be more
Iignorant and stupid than common,
                                   find myself an

overmatch. Argument or the sallies of wit confound

them. They can do nothing except laugh, and not

even that when alone.

   I I' But as have detailed the opinions which form

erly held of religion at some length, it may not be im
Iproper to state as a per contra, a few of those at present
Ihold respecting it.
                      have now so far changed my

opinion of religion as to think with a celebrated poet

that Christian is the highest style of man, and that by

228 THE JOURNEYMAN.

the New Testament, men of the greatest powers of mind

and the deepest learning may be taught wisdom. Nor
Ican I deem, as did once, the scheme of morals which
                                           I am con
this book contains mean and contemptible.

vinced that, were that scheme universally acted upon,

earth would become a heaven, and further, that no one

can act upon it unless possessed of the highest and

noblest fortitude, --a fortitude, indeed, too noble to have

any place in the natural human heart, but which God

has promised to infuse into the hearts of all such as be
Ilieve Jesus to be the Christ. As for taste, cannot
Ihelp wondering how
                     could at any time be so very

absurd as to think the doctrines of Christianity opposed

to this principle, especially when I understood and

relished the larger poems of Cowper and Milton.

Through the Revelation by which I am taught of all

that Christ has done and suffered for sinners, the God

whom I would formerly regard with a cold feeling of
I Iadmiration, can now love as my God and Father.

feel Him brought near unto me, and that too in a way

against which my pride of heart had formerly revolted,

and which my reason deemed as unworthy of Divine

wisdom to devise as of human to trust to.

' This is not merely an avowal of a change of opinion.

There is implied in it a change of heart. Though still
Isinful and foolish in a degree would be ashamed to
Iconfess even to my friends, I trust am now less selfish
Iand possessed of a more affectionate heart than
                                                  was
Ibefore believed. My friends are dearer to me than
I Ithey were formerly, and yet do not now, as did once,
Imake their approbation the rule of my actions.
                                                  am

I Iperhaps still too fond of praise from such of my fellow-

men as respect and love, but find that my desire of

avoiding that which is bad and dishonourable follows

              THE ART OF WRITING WELL.                            229

me into solitude, and that my belief in God's omnipre

Isence (may not hope the assistance of His Spirit also ?)

gives me strength to accomplish this desire. But you

Iwill not be satisfied if run on in this strain to the end

of my letter. Let me close this part of then, in the
   I
                       is I I

                                              in is
                                                           it,

                                                                       is is

                                                                                                                                                 ;
words of one of the many texts which point out the princi

p"leWhuopsoonevwehr ichbetlhieevecthhantgheat  have been describing hinged.
                                               Jesus the Christ born of
God." Mark what follows. " Whosoever
                                                                  born of

....God overcometh the world."                 the right when he
             Rousseau was certainly
said that the art of writing well was of all others the

most difficult to acquire.                     have been wishing, ay, and

striving too as hard as my indolent, volatile nature

suffered, for these three years past to acquire this art

and all have yet attained an ability of detecting my

mistakes and of seeing how incorrect my modes of ex

pression are

'  There      is       general stagnation in this part of the
                  a
                     is
country in all kinds of trade. The season favourable to

my department            fast advancing, but except two tomb

stones (and one of these                       not yet finished)  have
                         ?I
done nothing this year. have some thoughts of puttingI a is

into execution  a      plan which has been revolving in myit I

mind these several months back.                isengrave inscriptions
                                                      a
on stone (conceit apart) in                           isneater and more correct
                                                          it,

                                                    I
manner than any other mason in this part of the country.

The masons of Inverness, as have been informed, are

very deficient in this art. My plan            to go to that

town, take lodgings in some cheap part of and make

myself known    by       advertisement as stone engraver.

What think you of this                         The want of friends and of  a

due confidence in one's self are,              true, disqualifying

circumstances, but time and chance happeneth to all.'

                                                                                                                                                    L

230 THE JOURNEYMAN.

     Of the pursuits, projects, and aspirings of this period
we have further record in a document drawn up by

Miller in the spring of 1828, headed 'Things which I

intend doing, but many of which, experience says, shall

never be done.' It is too characteristic to be omitted.

' PART FIRST.  GEOMETRY, ARCHITECTURE, SCULPTURE,
                      DRAWING, ETC.

      '1. To fill a book containing from thirty to forty
pages with such problems of practical Geometry as are
of use to the architect and builder.

      ' 2. To execute in the best style a complete set of

architectural drawings, beginning with Egyptian, and
ending with Gothic architecture.

     '3. To study the proportions of the human figure

as exemplified in the works of the Grecian school of

sculpture.
      '4. To practise cutting in stone foliage, shells,

Heraldic figures, the Ionic, Corinthian, and composite

capitals, &c.

      ' 5. To fill about a dozen pages with the varieties of
the Roman, Italian, old English and Saxon alphabets ;
the letters of each to be formed in my best and neatest

manner, and the whole to be shown to strangers as a
specimen of my skill in inscription engraving.

     ' 6. To make a set of drawings of such of the old

Ibuildings of Ross-shire as have taken sketches of in

the course of my casual peregrinations through that
country, such as the Tower of Fairburn, Castle Leod,
Craighouse, Lochslin, Balconie, Balnagown, &c.

     ' 7. To make a set of drawings of the scenery of the
parish of Cromarty, including two views of the town, one
from the west, the other from the east ; two views of

PROJECTS.  231

Cromarty House, one from the old chapel, the other
from the green in front. One from the hill above the

Laigh Craig of the bay of Cromarty, another of the

same from the Sutor Road. One view of the Laigh

Craig from the wood adjoining. One of the Sinkan
Hillock from the Sach Craig. One of the Apple-
Garden from the Red Nose. One of the Murray Frith

from the Gallow Hill. One of the Gallow Hill from

the Murray Frith. One of MacArthur's Bed. One
from Hespy Home, and three to be taken from different

points in the Burn of Craighouse.

    ' 8. To try how I will succeed in portrait and land

scape in oil colours.
     ' 9. To practise the old hand until the best judges

would be unable to distinguish between a piece of my
writing in the ancient style and a manuscript two hun

dred years old.

     * 10. To make a set of drawings of all the fine wild
flowers and pretty coloured butterflies to be found in
this part of the country.

     '11. To make a piece of mosaic work of fine stones
found on the shores of Cromarty, or in the caves of the
Gallow Hill.

   ' PART SECOND. LITERATURE : PROSE COMPOSITION.

   I'1. intend writing a work, humorous and de

scriptive, to be entitled, " Four Years in the Life of a
Journeyman Mason."

    I' 2. intend writing a history of my varying

thoughts of men and manners, right and wrong, philo
sophy and religion, from my twelfth to my twenty-sixth

year.

    I' 3. intend writing a description of the town and

232 THE JOURNEYMAN.

parish of Cromarty, its traditional history and a character
of its inhabitants.

   I' 4. intend writing a memoir of my father's life.

    '5.1 intend writing the life of my uncle, Alexander

Wright.

    I I' 6. intend making a collection of all the letters
Ihave written my friends, and all have received from

them.

    I' 7. intend writing an essay on the Book of Psalms.
    I'8. intend writing a memoir of my friend, Will

Ross.

    I' 9. intend writing a memoir of my townsman,

David Henderson.

    I'10. intend writing an essay on the doctrine of

predestination as connected with that of faith, for the

perusal of my friend, Will Ross.

    '11. I intend writing letters to George Corbett on

sermon writing and sermon writers, and also a sermon
for him on a given text.

    I' 12. intend completing my letter to Clericus and
writing out a fair copy of it for my friend, J. Swanson.
I intend writing a collection of miscellaneous essays in

the manner of the Spectator, to be entitled The Egotist.

    I' 13. intend writing two letters descriptive of the

Herring Fishery and containing its traditional history.

' PAKT THIRD. LITERATURE : POETRY.

' 1. I intend collecting all my Juvenile Poems into
I Ione
'v2o.lumein, tceonrdrewctriintgingan"d   altering them  as see proper.
                                        The Widow of     Dunskaith," a

legendary poem.

   '3. I intend writing "The Lady of Balconie," a

legendary poem.

                     PROJECTS.              233

I'4. intend writing "The Chapel," a descriptive

poem.                writing " The Leper,"
I' 5.                 new-modelling and
I' 6.        intend                         caomsapclreetdingpoe"mA.n
             intend

Hour at Eve," a moral poem.

   I' 7. intend writing an Ode to the Ness.
   I' 8. intend writing an Address to the Northern In

stitution.'

      There are several things worth noting here. Ob
serve, in the first place, the practical nature of the
scheme. Our stone-mason has high aspirings, but
he is no day-dreamer. Sketching, in the heyday of
early manhood, the tasks of the ensuing years, he begins
with a series of undertakings bearing directly upon the
calling by which he is to live. The basis of all his
activity is the attainment of a comfortable livelihood and
a creditable position as a hewer of stone. In the next
place, his literary activity centres in himself and his
local connections and interests. The two largest works
which he intends to produce in prose are to be about
himself, and it seems probable that in the series of
essays to be entitled The Egotist, he would be the

central figure. It is remarkable, in the third place,

that we find, in this summary of Hugh Miller's in
tentions at the age of twenty-six, no trace of scientific
enthusiasm, no vestige of scientific ambition. Literature,
and those aspects of nature which delight the poet and
the painter, possess his heart. He is to execute many
drawings, but not one geological diagram. Lastly, we
may observe that, though the contrite anticipation of
partial failure in achievement was of necessity verified,

yet the correspondence between this chart of his voyage

and the course he actually pursued, was more than

234 THE JOURNEYMAN.

usually close. Proof exists that Miller accomplished a
large proportion of what he at this period intended to
attempt. His autobiographical plans ultimately took
shape in the Schools and Schoolmasters. His letters on
the Herring Fishery will claim our attention in the

immediate sequel. The drawing of the old tower of
Fairburn, which we have been able to lay before the

reader, was probably one of several which he executed

Iabout this time, but which having, as surmise, been

given to friends, are lost. This drawing not only proves

him to have possessed considerable skill as a self-taught

draughtsman, but exhibits, in the opinion of Mr Ruskin,

some power of composition. The problems in practical

geometry were worked out and entered in a manuscript
book, as proposed. His description of the town and
parish of Cromarty was published in the Statistical

Account of Scotland, and is a most accurate, lucid, and

comprehensive performance.   From all this we may

conclude that Hugh Miller, instead of being, as he calls

himself, volatile and indolent, has become a man of

singularly calm and resolute mind. He looks habit

ually before and after; calculates the force at his com

mand ; and disposes it with strategic method for the

conduct of life's campaign.

             235

             CHAPTER IX.

SEEKS WORK IN INVERNESS UNSUCCESSFULLY  RESOLVES TO

PRINT HIS POEMS MAKES THE ACQUAINTANCE OF MR

CARRUTHERS IS ASKED TO ENLIST CORRECTS PROOF-
SHEETS OF HIS POETRY, AND DECIDES THAT IT IS POOR

    RETAINS INFLEXIBLY HIS FIRST OPINION OF ITS MERITS,

AND RESOLVES TO CULTIVATE PROSE DEATHS OF UNCLE
JAMES AND OF WILLIAM ROSS DEDICATION OF HIS POEMS

TO SWANSON.

THE plan of seeking work in Inverness, which he
       carried into effect in the course of the summer, had

important consequences, but they proved to be by no
means of the kind he anticipated. Thinking, with
somewhat less, it must be admitted, than his usual

shrewdness, that by demonstrating his power to write
grammatically in the poetical corner of a newspaper, he
might obtain employment as an engraver of epitaphs,
he wrote an Ode to the river Ness, and offered it for
insertion in the Inverness Courier. No one trusts a

versifying mechanic in his own art ; and the inhabitants
of the capital of the Highlands, dowered with quite
sufficient conceit, would have been more likely to resent
the implication that they could not compose inscriptions
for themselves, than to employ a stone-cutter who pro
posed, however melodiously, to compose inscriptions for
them. But we need not speculate on the effect which
the appearance of the Ode to the Ness in the columns of

236 THE JOURNEYMAN.

the Courier might have produced in the way of orders

--forthgeryavaersetonines.      The editor did not insert the verses,
                            truth uncommonly poor. Miller, how

ever, piqued by their non-appearance, and confident in

his poetical powers, resolved to print on his own account,

and with this view made application afresh at the office
of the newspaper.

     He thus formed the acquaintance of Mr Robert

Carruthers, then as now editor of the Inverness Courier,

and the acquaintance ripened rapidly into a friendship
which continued during the life of Hugh Miller. With

that critical acumen which all the world has learned to

acknowledge in the biographer of Pope, Mr Carruthers

discerned the originality and worth of Miller, and though

he came in the guise of a stone-mason, shy, taciturn,

ungainly, with a quire of rugged verses in his pocket,

admitted him at once to the enjoyment of that equality

and that fraternity which have from of old prevailed
in the republic of letters. Miller had indeed made a

notable acquisition, and he did not fail to appreciate it.

The perfect judgment, the perfect temper, the literary

sympathy not less intelligent than warm, the indestruct
ible cordiality, unchilled by forty years' editorial experi

ence, which have endeared Mr Carruthers to thousands

from London to Inverness, won his confidence and his

heart. To his dying day there was no newspaper which

he read with half the interest with which he hung over

the Inverness Courier.

An address to the Northern Institution, an anti

quarian and scientific society which had its head-quarters

in Inverness, though couched in the pompous rhetoric

proper to such addresses, and written out in that old

English hand which was one of Miller's valued accom

plishments, was as unsuccessful, in the light of a business

HIS POEMS IN PRINT.  237

speculation, as the Ode to the Ness. The task of

soliciting employment, directly or indirectly, thus dis

covered to be intolerably irksome and utterly unprofitable,
was relinquished. He would ask no more favours of
any one, and ' strode along the streets, half an inch
taller on the strength of the resolution.' Whether it
was the defiant glance expressive of this resolution, or
a lingering forlornness in his appearance which still
betrayed the mechanic out of work, that attracted the
attention of a recruiting sergeant, we are left to guess.
Certain it is that he was offered the king's shilling on

the streets of Inverness, and civilly declined the same.
      Meanwhile, his poems began to be put into his

hands in a form which, though he probably had them
by heart, made them nevertheless new to him, to wit, in
print. The effect was memorable. His critical faculty
realized with startling and painful, but quite convincing,
vividness, that they fell far below the mark of good
English poetry. Hugh Miller was hardly one of those
who ' can hear their detractions and put them to
mending,' for his pugnacity always awoke when he was
attacked ; but he was one of a class, perhaps still
smaller, who can estimate their own performances
with austere justice, and abide by that estimate in
face of contemptuous disparagement, on the one hand,

and the most ingenious and plausible encomiums on
the other. The Poems written in the Leisure Hours

of a Journeyman Mason met with a success which,
had Miller been a rhyming artisan of the ordinary

calibre, would have turned his head. Issued from

a newspaper office in the north of Scotland, they were
recognized as imbued with true excellence in peri
odicals of the first order, and by critics of culture
and authority. The Lines to a Sundial placed in a

 238 THE JOURNEYMAN.

 Churchyard were quoted in magazine and newspaper
 throughout the length and breadth of the United King
 dom, and the author was assured that they displayed
 ' a refinement of thought, an elegance and propriety of
 language, that would do honour to the most accomplished
 poet of the day.' Had Miller not had the making of a
 poet in him, the like of this would have led him at
 once to exalt his horn as a prodigy of genius, too fine
to work at his craft, who had only to put his name to
 a copy of verses to make them immortal, and whom
the human species were bound to supply with the
necessaries of life gratis. The plaudits profoundly
gratified Miller, but did not move him a hair's-breadth
from the rhadamanthine sternness of his judgment on
himself, or shake in his bosom ' that serene and uncon

querable pride which no applause, no reprobation, could
blind to its shortcoming or beguile of its reward.'

      The question may be gravely put, whether he did
not err in determining, as he did, to abandon poetical
composition and devote himself, for a time at least, to
prose. The pieces which he printed were no doubt
defective, and his best verse is inferior in poetical
qualities, not only to his best, but to his second or third
rate prose. The essential point to determine, however,

is whether there are grounds for believing that, if he

had brought the whole energies of his soul to the task

of perfecting his verse,--if he had invincibly striven to

beat out those notes of music, delicate and strong, which
lay deep in his nature and were never clearly articulated,

--he would or would not have realized a higher beauty,

and expressed a deeper truth, than he actually attained.

It was within the capacity of Miller to produce reflective

and descriptive poetry equal to any in the English
language. On the other hand, he fell short both in

DEATH OF ROSS.  239

lyrical passion and dramatic sympathy, and his imagin
ation, though powerful, was cold. His ear, too, may
have been naturally better fitted to the modulation of

prose than of verse. It is bootless to speculate on the

 subject. The army of the Muses is like that of Gideon.

All who are fearful or afraid, all who do not serve for

life or for death, not only may, but must quit it ; and
Miller was critic enough to know the 'intolerable severity '

of Apollo. Some of our most eminent writers, Mr
Carlyle and Mr Ruskin for instance, impatient of the

deluges of mediocre poetry which flood our literary

thoroughfares, and angry that attention should be

diverted by anything short of transcendent excellence
from the wealth of choicest song with which the liter
ature of England is already stored, would maintain that,
in deliberately abandoning verse, amid the acclamations
which greeted his earliest efforts, Hugh Miller presented

an example which specially deserves to be followed, and
gave one of the noblest proofs afforded by his career of
sterling ability and massive sense. Mrs Miller informs
me that his relinquishment of the lyre was but provi
sional ; and that it was his intention to resume verse

in a poem to be entitled 'The Leper.' It will be recol
lected that, among the projects which we saw him form,

was one for the composition of a poem thus named.

      From the ideal woe of perceiving for the first time

that he stood at an immeasurable distance below the

great masters of English poetry, he was recalled to the
hard reality of grief by the intelligence that his Uncle
James had died, and, on proceeding to Cromarty, in
consequence of this intelligence, he learned that William
Ross also was no more. Uncle James, as we well know,

had been as a father to him ; or rather as one among

ten thousand fathers ; for, if the affection with which he

 240 THE JOURNEYMAN.

 regarded his nephew was as that of a tender parent, the
 counsel, the example, the sympathetic forbearance, the
just appreciation, which Miller experienced at his hands,
 were such as the fewest parents can bestow. From
 Uncle James, as by a fine moral contagion, Hugh derived
 that proud integrity, that sensitive honour, in money
 matters, which was with him, as with Burns, a passion.

       The death of Ross, though at the moment his pre
 occupation with grief for the loss of his uncle prevented
him from feeling the full force of this second blow, must
also have touched him keenly. Among his early friends
Swanson had his deepest respect, but the tenderest of his
friendships was with Ross. Of him alone among his
boyish companions did Miller speak as possessed of
genius, and we have seen enough to prove that his esti
mate was not extravagant. Ross could sympathize with
much which elicited no response from the Puritan rigour
of Swanson, and with his delicate feeling for beauty were
combined a feminine gentleness and depth of affection
which greatly endeared him to Miller. The circum
stances of his death have a pathos deeper than the pathos
of romance. He was living in Glasgow, occupying the
same rooms with a brother mechanic, when this last was
seized with consumption. For several months he was un
fit to work. Ross, who had been consumptive in his most
vigorous years and in whom the vital flame was now wan
ing fast, continued to toil for both, and as his fine talent,
incomparably superior to that of the ordinary house-
painter, enabled him to execute work which required deli
cate handling rather than exertion of physical energy, he
found remunerative employment as long as his fingers
could hold a brush. Having thus shielded against want
the comrade who was dying only a little faster than him
self, Ross beheld him sink into the grave, and, the last

             DEDICATION TO SWANSON.                                 241

task which bound him to earth accomplished, speedily
followed. ' My hope of salvation is in the blood of

Jesus. Farewell, my sincerest friend.' These were the

closing words of William Ross's last letter to Miller.
     The Journeyman's Poems were dedicated to John

Swanson, the name disguised in asterisks. In a dedi

catory epistle to his friend, written in prose, Miller de

clares him to be ' the best scholar and truest philosopher
he ever knew,' and avows his gratitude to him for ' hav

ing convinced one who possibly might have done some

mischief as an infidel, that the Religion of the Bible is

not a cunningly devised fable.' Of his own book, he

ventures to state the opinion ' that a spirit of poetry may

bybe found in      wrestling with those improprieties of
              it,
language consequent on imperfect education, just as the

half-formed animals of the Nile, that are warmed into

life the beams of the sun, struggle to free themselves

from the mud and slime      which they are enveloped.'
                        in
He virtually takes the blame, however, of whatever dea

                                            '

                                                                 ;
fect of education the volume may display upon himself,

confessing that,   in  the present age, ignorance implies

rather want of mind than want of opportunity for culti

vating the mental faculties.' True words and specially

brave and modest from the lips of poetical mechanic.

                        10

                                                             242

                           CHAPTER X.

  RESUMES WORK AS A STONE-CUTTER AT CROMARTY INTIMACY
        WITH MR STEWART THE LITERARY LION OF THE PLACE
            WRITES FOR THE ' INVERNESS COURIER' LETTERS ON THE
        HERRING FISHERY EXTRAORDINARY SHOAL OF HERRINGS
            A NIGHT ON GUILLIAM EMIGRATION OF HIGHLANDERS

       TO CANADA -- SCIENCE AT LAST.

H AVING committed the body of Uncle James to the
          grave, and piously recorded on his tombstone that
  he had ' lived without reproach and died without fear,'
 Miller did not return to Inverness, but resumed his em
  ployment in the churchyards of Cromarty and its
 neighbourhood. The publication of his poems, whose
  authorship was well-known in the locality, was sufficient
  to make him a person of some importance in his native
 town. He associated himself with the better portion of
 its inhabitants, those who combined a moderate liberal
 ism of political opinion with literary or scientific tastes
 and strong religious principles. His acquaintance with

 the Rev. Mr Stewart, which had formerly been slight,

 now deepened into intimacy, and no sooner had he an

 opportunity of knowing Mr Stewart well than he con

 ceived for him the highest esteem, and dismissed for ever
 from his mind, as the mere fruits of misunderstanding,
 what he had formerly fancied to the disadvantage of his
 minister. Miller's profession of religion, also, was more

I

SHOAL OF FISH.  243

decided than formerly, and he began to teach in the
Sunday school. Hewing under sunny skies on the

chapel brae, he often finds Mr Stewart or some intelli

gent friend stealing to his side to give and take an
hour's conversation, and sometimes his visitors are of

the fair sex. The journeyman mason has become the

literary lion of Cromarty.
     But ' nature's noblest gift ' to Miller, his ' grey

goose quill,' has not been laid aside. Turning his atten
tion to prose, and availing himself of the columns of the
Inverness Courier, which his friend Carruthers gladly

throws open to him, he writes, in the summer of 1829,
five letters on the Herring Fishery, which, ' in con

sequence,' said Mr Carruthers, ' of the interest they

excited in the Northern Counties, and in justice to

their modest and talented author,' were issued in pam

phlet form in September of the same year. They are
written with much vivacity, and abound with pertinent
remarks and fine descriptive passages. In addition to
what he had personally witnessed in connection with the
Herring Fishery, Miller puts on record not a little which
he learned from his more aged townsmen. To the latter

is due the following graphic picture of Cromarty Bay

when in possession of an extraordinary shoal of fish : --

    I' have heard one season spoken of as very remark

 able from the quantity of fish on the coast. One day in
particular, in the beginning of autumn, the bay of Cro

 marty presented a scene not easy to be forgotten. The

appearance was as if its countless waves were embodied
 into fish and birds. No fewer than seven whales, some of

 them apparently sixty feet in length, were seen within
 the short space of half a mile. When they spouted, the

jet seemed in the rays of a noon-day sun as if speckled

 with silver, an appearance given by shoals of garves (a

244 THE JOURNEYMAN.

smooth-coated pretty little fish) which they drew in with
the water, and thus ejected. Some of the birds that
flocked round them to pick up the small fry which were
stranded on their backs, were hurried aloft in the jet,
like chaff or feathers in an eddy, to the height of thirty
or forty feet. The water round them bubbled like a
cauldron. There were in the immense heterogeneous
mass through which they swam, herrings, mackerel,
sand-eels, garves, cod, porpoises, and seals.'

      The exact observation and firm grasp of detail, which
contributed so much to make Miller a master of descrip
tion, are already traceable in the following account of
the Bank of Guilliam, a noted resort of herrings in
the Moray Frith :-- ' The Moray Frith herring fishery
commences in the middle of July, and the fish com
monly leave the coast in the end of August, or first
of September. For the first few weeks the shoals
are small and detached ; and the fishings only average
from two to five barrels per boat. Herrings are caught
at this early stage of the fishing on the coast of Moray,
nearly opposite the mouth of the Spey ; but they swim

in no determined track, --advancing in some seasons

through the middle of the frith, and in others towards
its eastern or western shores. As the season advances

they come up higher, form into large bodies, and pursue

a route tolerably certain. At this second stage, the

quantity of barrels caught by each boat averages from
eight to fourteen. The point at which the shoals unite
is a long narrow bank which lies in the middle of the
frith, nearly opposite the bay of Cromarty, and which
the fishermen term Guilliam from three little conical
hillocks, on the northern shore, so called. These hil

locks are situated near a deep ravine, about half a
mile south of the little fishing town of Shandwick ;

         GUILLIAM.                                                                                             245

and when boatmen bring them to appear as if rising

out of the middle of the ravine, and see at the same

time the Gaelic chapel of Cromarty in the line of

the Inlaw, another conical hillock near the southern base
of Ben Wyvis, -- they are on the fishing ground. The

position of the bank is also ascertained by the depth of

the water and the nature of the bottom. The soundings

on the north side vary from twelve to eighteen fathoms,

on the south from twenty-five to thirty, while the depth

of the bank does not average more than ten fathoms,

and the bottom, which on the one side is sand, and on

the other mud, is a hard gravel, and in some places a

smooth level rock covered with sea-weed. The breadth

of the ridge does not exceed half a mile, but its length

is nearly thrice as much. A greater quantity of herrings

have been caught on this bank than upon any other of

equal extent on the coast of Scotland. There have been
repeated instances of fishings prosecuted on Guilliam,
for the space of a whole week, at the average rate of

eight hundred barrels per day ; and it has become so
famous among Moray Frith fishermen, that they are re

garded as meaning the same thing when they express
their wish for a prosperous season, or for a week's fish

ing on Guilliam. It is sufficiently strange that several

thousand barrels of herrings should be caught in the

course of a week, on a bank whose extent of surface does

not exceed one-half of a square mile, and still more so,

that near the close of such a week, the fish appear in as

great a body upon it as they do at the commencement.
When the herrings make a lodgment on Guilliam, the

fishings are invariably good ; when, after making a short

         they proceed farther up the frith, the
stay on  it,
                   is

                                                                                                            ;
quantity caught immense, and salt and cask commonly

fail the curers before the fish leave the coast but when

246 THE JOURNEYMAN.

the shoal quits the frith before it settles on this bank,
the fishing is so scanty as scarcely to cover the fisher
men's expenses in fitting out their boats. This, though
not generally known, is so well understood by those con
cerned, that an intelligent fisherman could mark a chart
of the Moray Frith with cross lines, like the index of a
thermometer, and affix a statement of what the average
profit or loss of the respective seasons would prove, in
which the fish turned and went off at the different places

marked.'

     It was on this Bank of Guilliam that Hugh Miller

passed a night in a herring boat ten years before
the time at which he wrote. The letter in which his
experiences on the occasion are recorded is the most
carefully executed of the series, and derives additional
interest from containing, in their original form, the ex
tracts from the Herring Fishery letters which he included,
many years subsequently, in the Schools and School
masters. They thus enable us to compare his descriptive
manner in 1829 with that which he ultimately preferred.
Miller seems never to have been able to let a sample of his
composition leave his hand without making it as good as,
at the time of its quotation, he was capable of making it.
Some may be disposed to think that in the easy and art
less vigour, the youthful animation and freshness, of the
earlier style, there is something to compensate for the
studied compactness and elaborate polish of the later.

                             A NIGHT ON GUILLIAM.

     'In the latter end of August, 1819, I went out to

the fishing then prosecuted on Guilliam in a Cromarty

boat. The evening was remarkably pleasant. A low

 breeze from the west scarcely ruffled the surface of the

A NIGHT ON GUILL1AM.                               247

frith, which was varied in every direction by unequal

stripes and patches of a dead calmness. The bay of

Cromarty, burnished by the rays of the declining sun,

until it glowed like a sheet of molten fire, lay behind,

winding in all its beauty beneath purple hills and jut

ting headlands ; while before stretched the wide extent

of the Moray Frith, speckled with fleets of boats which

had lately left their several ports, and were now all sail

ing in one direction. The point to which they were

bound was the bank of Guilliam, which, seen from

betwixt the Sutors, seemed to verge on the faint blue

line of the horizon ; and the fleets which had already

'

            it,
               it

                              a
                                                                             a
                                                                                        a; a
arrived on had to the naked eye the appearance of
little rough-edged cloud resting on the water. As we

advanced, this cloud of boats grew larger and darker

and soon after sunset, when the bank was scarcely

mile distant, assumed the appearance of thick leaf

less wood covering low brown island.

The tide, before we left the shore, had risen high

on the beach, and was now beginning to recede. Aware

of this, we lowered sail several hundred yards to the

south of the fishing ground, and after determining the

point from whence the course of the current would drift

us direct over the bank, we took down the mast, cleared

the hinder part of the boat, and began to cast out the

nets. Before the Inlaw appeared in the line of the

isGaelic chapel (the landmarkwhich the southernmost
          a by
extremity of Guilliam ascertained) the whole drift was

thrown overboard, and made fast to the swing. Night

came on. The sky assumed dead and leaden hue.      A

low dull mist roughened the outline of the distant hills,
and in some places blotted them out from the landscape.

The faint breeze that had hitherto scarcely been felt, now

roughened the water, which was of dark blue colour
                             a

248 THE JOURNEYMAN.



approaching to black. The sounds which predominated

were in unison with the scene. The almost measured

dash of the waves against the sides of the boat and the
faint rustle of the breeze were incessant ; while the low

dull moan of the surf breaking on the distant beach, and

the short sudden cry of an aquatic fowl of the diving
species, occasionally mingled with the sweet, though
rather monotonous, notes of a Gaelic song. " It's ane
o' the Gairloch fishermen," said our skipper ; " puir folk,

they're aye singing an' thinking o' the Hielands."
      ' Our boat, as the tides were not powerful, drifted

slowly over the bank. The buoys stretched out from
the bows in an unbroken line. There was no sign of

fish ; and the boatmen, after spreading the sail over the
beams, laid themselves down on it. The scene was at

the time so new to me, and, though of a somewhat me
Ilancholy cast, so pleasing, that
Iappearance attracted my notice.A
   s"taHidowu,p".                singular
                     said          to one

of the boatmen, who a moment before had made me an
offer of his great- coat, " how do you account for that

calm silvery spot on the water, which moves at such a

rate in the line of our drift?" He started up. A

'moment after he called on the others to rise, and then

replied : That moving speck of calm water covers a

shoal of herrings. If it advances a hundred yards

farther in that direction we shall have some employment

for you." This piece of information made me regard
the little patch, which, from the light it caught, and the

blackness of the surrounding water, seemed a bright

opening in a dark sky, with considerable interest. It
moved onwards with increased velocity. It came in

contact with the line of the drift, and three of the buoys

immediately sunk. A few minutes were suffered to

elapse, and we then commenced hauling. The two

A NIGHT ON GUILLIAM.                      249

strongest of the crew, as is usual, were stationed at the

cork, the two others at the ground baulk. My assist

ance, which I readily tendered, was pronounced unneces
sary, so I hung over the gunwale watching the nets as

they approached the side of the boat. The three first,

from the phosphoric light of the water, appeared as if

bursting into flames of a pale green colour. The fourth

was still brighter, and glittered through the waves while

it was yet several fathoms away, reminding me of an

intensely bright sheet of the aurora borealis. As it ap

proached the side, the pale green of the phosphoric matter
                                          oafwshniotwe.hoIrtseco!n"
appeared as if mingled with large flakes
tained a body of fish. " A white horse !
exclaimed one of the men at the cork baulk ; " lend us a *

haul." I immediately sprung aft, laid hold on the rope,

and commenced hauling. In somewhat less than half an

hour we had all the nets on board, and rather more than

twelve barrels of herrings.
      ' The night had now become so dark, that we could

scarcely discern the boats which lay within gunshot of

our own ; and we had no means of ascertaining the

position of the bank except by sounding. The lead was

cast, and soon after the nets shot a second time. The

skipper's bottle was next produced, and a dram of whisky

sent round in a tin measure containing nearly a gill.
We then folded down the sail, which had been rolled up

to make way for the herrings, and were soon fast asleep.

    I' Ten years have elapsed since laid myself down on
this couch, and I was not then so accustomed to a rough
I Ibed as am now, when can look back on my wander

ings as a journeyman mason over a considerable part

of both the Lowlands and Highlands of Scotland.

About midnight I awoke quite chill, and all over sore

with the hard beams and sharp rivets of the boat.

250 THE JOURNEYMAN.

" Well," thought I, " this Iis the tax pay for my curi
Iosity."
          rose and crept softly over the sails to the bows,
Iwhere stood, and where, in the singular beauty of the
Iscene, which was of a character as different from that
Ihad lately witnessed as is possible to conceive, soon

lost all sense of every feeling that was not pleasure.

The breeze had died into a perfect calm. The heavens

were glowing with stars, and the sea, from the smooth

ness of the surface, appeared a second sky, as bright and

starry as the other, but with this difference, that all its

stars appeared comets. There seemed no line of division

at the horizon, which rendered the illusion more striking.

The distant hills appeared a chain of dark thundery

clouds sleeping in the heavens. In short, the scene was

 Ione of the strangest ever witnessed ; and the thoughts

and imaginations which it suggested were of a character
Ias singular.
               looked at the boat as it appeared in the

dim light of midnight, a dark irregularly-shaped mass ;

I gazed on the sky of stars above, and the sky of comets

below, and imagined myself in the centre  owf osrplda,c--e,  far
removed from the earth, and every other                      the

solitary inhabitant of a planetary fragment. This

illusion, too romantic to be lasting, was dissipated by an

Iincident which convinced me that had not yet left the

world. A crew of south-shore fishermen, either by

accident or design, had shot their nets right across those

of another boat, and in disentangling them a quarrel en

sued. Our boat lay more than half a mile from the

Iscene of contention, but could hear, without being par

ticularly attentive, that on the one side there were terrible

threats of violence immediate and bloody, and on the

other, threats of the still more terrible pains and penalties

of the law. In a few minutes, however, the entangled

nets were freed, and the roar of altercation gradually

A NIGHT ON GUILLIAM.  251

sunk into silence as dead as that which had preceded
it.

    ' An hour before sunrise, I was somewhat disheartened

to find the view on every side bounded by a dense low
bank of fog, which hung over the water, while the central
firmament remained blue and cloudless. The neighbour
ing boats appeared through the mist huge misshapen
things, manned by giants. We commenced hauling,
and found in one of the nets a small rock cod and a

half-starved whiting, which proved the whole of our

draught. I was informed by the fishermen, that even

when the shoal is thickest on the Guilliam, so close does

it keep by the bank, that not a solitary herring is to be

caught a gunshot from the edge on either side.
       ' We rowed up to the other boats, few of whom had

 been more successful in their last haul than ourselves,

 and none equally so in their first. The mist prevented
 us from ascertaining by known landmarks the position
 of the bank, which we at length discovered in a manner
 that displayed much of the peculiar art of the fisherman.
 The depth of the water and the nature of the bottom,

 showed us that it lay to the south. A faint tremulous

 heave of the sea, which was still calm, was the only re
 maining vestige of the gale which had blown from the
 west in the early part of the night, and this heave, to
 gether with the current, which at this stage of the flood
 runs in a south-western direction, served as our compass.
 We next premised how far our boat had drifted down
 the frith with the ebb-tide, and how far she had been
 carried back again by the flood. We then turned her
 bows in the line of the current, and in rather less than

 half an hour were, as the lead informed us, on the eastern

 extremity of Guilliam, where we shot our nets for the

 third time.

252 THE JOURNEYMAN.

' Soon after sunrise the mist began to dissipate, and

the surface of the water to appear for miles around

roughened as if by a smart breeze, though there was not
                                     the time. " How do you
the slightest   breath of wind   at
account for    that appearance       said I to one of the fisher
                                  "

                                ?
men. " Ah, lad, that is by no means so favourable a
"It Ihtboaekdteonkaesnasli?etfhaensedoenwethhayeot uBishotahsdekreyBd-hmomoderrey-.tm"ooerex"plW?aih"ny,lawsthanbtigedthootke.esnsit

that the shoal have spawned, and will shortly leave the

frith : for when the fish are sick and weighty they never
                                       :--but
rise to the surface in that     "wayI           have you never
heard of the Bhodry-more ?             replied  in the negative.

"Well, but you shall." "Nay," said another of the
crew, " leave that for our return ; do you not see the

herrings playing by thousands round our nets, and not

one of the buoys sinking in the water ? There is not a

single fish swimming so low as the upper baulks of our

drift :-- shall  we    not shorten the buoy ropes, and take
off the sinkers          This did not meet the approbation of
                    "

                  ?

the others, one of whom took up a stone, and flung it in

the middle of the shoal. The fish immediately disap

peared from the surface for several fathoms round.

" Ah, there they go," he exclaimed, " if they go but low

Ienough ;-- four years ago startled thirty barrels of light

fish into my drift just by throwing a stone among

them."

' The whole frith at this time, so far as the eye could

reach, appeared crowded with herrings ; and its surface

was so broken by them as to remind one of the pool of

a waterfall. They leaped by millions a few inches into

the air, and sunk with a hollow plumping noise some

what resembling the dull rippling sound of a sudden

breeze ; while to the eye there was a continual twinkling

A NIGHT ON GUILLIAM.  253

which, while it mocked every effort that attempted to
examine in detail, showed to the less curious glance like
a blue robe sprinkled with silver. But it is not by such
comparisons that so singular a scene is to be described
so as to be felt. It was one of those which through the
living myriads of creation testify of the infinite Creator.

      ' About noon we hauled for the third and last time,

and found nearly eight barrels of fish. I observed when

hauling that the natural heat of the herring is scarcely

less than that of quadrupeds or birds ; that when alive its
sides are shaded by a beautiful crimson colour which it
loses when dead ; and that when newly brought out of
the water, it utters a sharp faint cry somewhat resem
bling that of a mouse. We had now twenty barrels on

board. The easterly har, a sea breeze so called by fish
ermen, which in the Moray Frith during the summer
months and first month of autumn, commonly comes on

after ten o'clock a.m., and fails at four o'clock p.m., had

now set in. We hoisted our mast and sail, and were

soon scudding right before it.

    ' The story of the Bhodry-more which I demanded of

the skipper as soon as we had trimmed our sail, proved
interesting in no common degree, and was linked with a

great many others. The Bhodry-more* is an active mis
chievous fish of the whale species-, which has been known

to attack and even founder boats. About eight years ago
 a very large one passed the town of Cromarty through the
middle of the bay, and was seen by many of the towns-
folks leaping out of the water in the manner of a salmon,

fully to the height of a boat's mast. It appeared about

 thirty feet in length. This animal may almost be re
garded as the mermaid of modern times ; for the fisher
men deem it to have fully as much of the demon as of

                    * Properly, perhaps, the musculus whale.

254 THE JOURNEYMAN.

the fish. There have been instances of its pursuing a
boat under sail for many miles, and even of its leaping

over it from side to side. It appears, however, that its

habits and appetites are unlike those of the shark ; and
that the annoyance which it gives the fishermen is out of
no desire of making him its prey, but from its predilection

for amusement. It seldom meddles with a boat when at

anchor, but pursues one under sail, as a kitten would a
rolling ball of yarn. The large physalus whale is com
paratively a dull sluggish animal ; occasionally, however,
it evinces a partiality for the amusements of the Bhodry-
more. Our skipper said, that when on the Caithness coast,
a few years before, an enormous fish of the species kept
direct in the wake of his boat for more than a mile, fre

quently rising so near the stern as to be within reach of
the boat-hook. He described the expression of its large
goggle eyes as at once frightful and amusing ; and so

graphic was his narrative that I could almost paint the

animal stretching out for more than sixty feet behind the
boat, with his black marble-looking skin and cliff-like
fins. He at length grew tired of its gambols, and with

a sharp fragment of rock struck it between the eyes. It

sunk with a sudden plunge and did not rise for ten
minutes after, when it appeared a full mile astern. This

narrative was but the first of I know not how many of a

similar cast, which presented to my imagination the
Bhodry-more whale and hunfish in every possible point
of view. The latter, a voracious formidable animal of

the shark species, frequently makes great havoc among
the tackle with which cod and haddock are caught.

Like the shark, it throws itself on its back when in the
act of seizing its prey. The fishermen frequently see it
lying motionless, its white belly glittering through the

water, a few fathoms from the boat's side, employed in

              SCENE IN THE HIGHLANDS.                                                  255

stripping off every fish from their hooks as the line is

drawn over it. This formidable animal is from six to

ten feet in length, and formed like the common

shark.'

The letters on the Herring Fishery were fitted to

interest many to whom the poems of the journeyman

mason would be a sealed book. Whatever might be his

rhyming capabilities, the Cromarty mason was clearly a

man of sense and talent. The circle of his friends and

admirers continued, therefore, to widen. In character

of occasional correspondent, he contributed items of

news and occasional articles to the Inverness Courier.

These are admirably done, and in some of them we

detect impressions and opinions cherished by Miller

to the last. The following occurs in an article on

the departure of two hundred emigrants from Cro
                     --'
marty    for Canada       A  few years  ago we were                               led  by
                     :

business into the central Highlands of the north. We

passed on a half-obliterated path through a succession
of those wild scenes of savage sterility and rude grand

eur, which, if not peculiar to the Highlands of Scotland,

a

                   by

                            a

                                           by

                                                                      a
                                                                             is,
only occur in countries whose high destiny it                                     not to

be conquered         foreign enemy. They suggested to

us series of pleasing reflections. Abrupt, craggy hills

separated from each other    deep gloomy ravines,

which seemed the rents and fissures of shattered and

ruined planet, and which varied in colour, according to

their distance, from the faintest azure to the darkest

purple, filled our whole space of view from the forein

ground to the horizon. Such, we thought, are the
barriers which, defiance of the armies of Rome and of

England, maintained the spirit of freedom in this country
during the early ages of its history, and which, in
the present times, oppose an insurmountable wall of

 256 THE JOURNEYMAN.

defence to the advances of an enemy equally potent and
more insidious. That luxury whose waves are rolling
over and obliterating every better trait of character
which once distinguished the Lowland Scotch, shall find
its boundary of shore on the skirts of these mountains.
Nations like individuals become old, and they at length
expire ; but though symptoms of age are apparent in the
southern districts of the kingdom, those of the northern
Highlands are still full of the vigour of youth ; and
while the moralist may find reason to describe the in
habitants of the latter as a remnant of people happily
preserved from the inundation which has devastated the
plain below, the patriot may as rationally regard them
as thews and sinews of the State, ready to be exerted in
preserving to our otherwise enfeebled country her name
and place among the nations.

      ' These agreeable reflections were dissipated by the
contemplation of a scene the most melancholy we ever
witnessed. Our path lay along the brow of a hill, over
looking a valley that, unlike the others which we had
previously seen, was comparatively level and of consider

able extent. A small stream winded through the centre,

and on either side there were irregularly-shaped patches
of vivid green, which were encircled by the brown heath,
like islands by the ocean. As we advanced, we saw
the ruins of deserted cottages, and perceived that the
patches adjoining had once been furrowed by the plough.

All was solitary and desolate. Roof-trees were decay

ing within mouldering walls, a rank vegetation had
covered the silent floors, and was wavering over hearths

the fires of which had been for ever extinguished. A

solitary lapwing was screaming over the cottages, a
melancholy raven was croaking on a neighbouring emin
ence, there was the faint murmur of the stream, and the

         SCIENCE AT LAST.          257

low moan of the breeze, but every sound of man had

long passed from the air, -- the tones of speech and the

voice of singing. Alas ! we exclaimed, the Highlander

has at length been conquered, and the country which he
would have died to defend is left desolate. The track

of an eastern army can be traced many years after its

march by ruined villages and        aofdefuptoupruelatdeedsolactoiounn,tr--y.
Prophets have described scenes
lands once populous grown          " places where no man

dwelleth nor son of man passeth through," and here in

our native country is a scene calculated to illustrate the

terrible threatenings of prophecy, and the sad descrip

tions of eastern historians.'

Anions the latest of these contributions to the

Inverness Courier is one which, though otherwise unim

portant, is useful in a biographical point of view as

helping us to trace one of the most interesting stages

in Miller's intellectual history, the transference, namely,

of his enthusiasm and ambition from literature to science.

A short newspaper article on crab-fishing marks the

point at which the stream of scientific acquirement

which had long, with gathering volume, been flowing
underground, rose to the surface. Miller writes as one
who has from infancy been familiar with the natural

objects and appearances of the Cromarty beach, and

who had not written about them sooner merely because

it did not occur to him that they could afford occupation

to his pen. He does not yet adopt a scientific nomen
clature. But he describes natural objects with exquisite
precision and lucidity, and dwells upon details of struct
ure which the mere literary sketcher or anecdotic sports
man would have regarded with indifference. He has
learned also to contemplate, not in vague wonder but

VOL. I.                        17

258 THE JOURNEYMAN.

with reverent and delicate appreciation, the mystery and

Imiracle of God's work in nature. ' am confident,' he

says in concluding a description of the sea-urchin, ' that
there is not half the ingenuity, or half the mathematical
knowledge, displayed in the dome of St Peter's at Rome
or St Paul's at London, that we find exhibited in the

construction of this simple shell.' It is not without

interest that we note a like impression made by an
examination of the same animal upon the mind of Ed
ward Forbes. ' The skill of the Great Architect of
Nature,' observes that celebrated naturalist, ' is not less
displayed in the construction of a sea-urchin than in the
building up of a world.'

                                                         259

                        CHAPTER XI.

MILLER AND HIS NEW FRIENDS --INTRODUCED TO PRINCIPAL

     BAIRD WILL NOT GO TO EDINBURGH FOR THE PRESENT
        HIS POEMS DO NOT SELL -- CORRESPONDS WITH MR ISAAC

     FORSYTH WILL NOT RELINQUISH LITERARY AMBITION.

IX"P EFERENCE has been made to the additions to the
       previously limited number of Miller's friends and
acquaintances occasioned by the publication of his

poems. It is in no ordinary degree pleasing to observe

the friendliness which he experienced from persons
greatly his superiors in social position, and the manner
in which that friendliness was responded to by him.
On the one hand, there was cordiality without the
faintest trace of the ' insolence of condescension ;' counsel
and furtherance of every kind to the utmost limit per
mitted by genuine respect, and by sympathetic apprehen
sion of what a sensitively proud and independent nature
required ; unfeigned recognition of the intellectual rank
of this artisan, and of the title it gave him to be treated
as a gentleman. On the other hand, there was perfect
 appreciation of all this ; gratitude not for patronage to
 the mechanic, but for fellowship and sympathy with the
 man ; independence not petulantly insisted upon, not
 obtrusively displayed, but quietly, unaffectedly, almost
 unconsciously worn as habit of soul and principle of de
 portment.

   260 THE JOURNEYMAN.

   Principal Baird, at this time one of the most eminent

   ministers of the Church of Scotland, was among the

   first to stretch out a friendly hand to the Cromarty

   poet. Miller was introduced to him in Inverness by
   Mr Carruthers shortly after the appearance of the poems,

   and Baird suggested that he should draw up that

   account of his education and opinions which has been

   so frequently mentioned. The first part of the narrative

   was soon ready, and Miller despatched                         ' it,     the autumn
                                                                       in
   of 1829, to Baird               Edinburgh. He took occasion
            by

                   '

                               in
.  at the same time to thank Baird for the very favour

   able critique on the poems which had appeared                                  in  the

   Caledonian Mercury. The critique question had beenin

   written      Dr James Brown, working editor of the

   Encyclopaedia  Britannica,       and  Baird hastens to de
   clare that he   " had no        hand  whatever, directly or

   indirectly,' in its publication. But you say nothing,''

   adds Baird,  '      your letter as to my suggestion when at

                   in

   Inverness of giving your busy hours to your profession

   here during the ensuing winter, and your leisure hours

   to reading books, and plying your pen, and extending

   your acquaintance with the living as well as the dead

   world of literature.' These words occur in letter dated
                                                                 I
   November 24, 1829. We have Miller's reply, bearing                  a
                                                                               '
   date the 9th of the following December.                                        From my

   engagements here and at Inverness,                                 cannot avail

   myself of your kind invitation to spend the winter

   at Edinburgh, but               appreciate its value and feel
                       I
   grateful for your kindness. My acquaintance withI

   the dead world of literature          very imperfect, and
                                   it
                                           is

                                                              ;
   it       still more so with the living instead, however,
        is

   of regretting this, think best to congratulate myself

   on the much pleasure which from this circumstance

   there yet remains for me to enjoy.                            IIf  live eight or

             LETTER TO BAIRD.  261

ten years longer, and if my taste for reading continues,

I Ishall, trust, pass through a great many paradises of

genius. Half the creations of Scott are still before me,

and more than half those of every other modern poet.

IBut though can appreciate the value of an opportunity

of perusing the works of such authors, there are oppor
tunities of a different kind to be enjoyed in Edinburgh,

which from a rather whimsical bent of mind I would

value more highly. My curiosity is never more active

than when it has the person of a great man for its object,

Inor have felt more delight in anything whatever than

in associating in my mind, when that curiosity was

gratified, my newly acquired idea of the personal

Iappearance of such a man, with the ideas had pre

viously entertained of his character and genius. When

I Iresided in the vicinity of Edinburgh, have sauntered

for whole hours opposite the house of Sir Walter Scott

in the hope of catching a glimpse of his person, and

several times, when some tall, robust man has passed

Ime in the streets, have inquired of my companions

whether that was not Professor Wilson. But perhaps

II am more ambitious now than was five years ago.
Perhaps I would not be satisfied with merely seeing
Isuch men, and am aware that I have not yet done

anything which entitles me to the notice of the eminent,
though in one instance I have been so fortunate as to
Iattain it.  must achieve at least a little of what I have
Ihoped to achieve before go to Edinburgh. But even

this intention must not be followed up with too great

eagerness. Ortogrul of Basra, after he had surveyed

the palace of the vizir, despised the simple neatness of
Ihis own little habitation.
                             must be careful lest, by

acquiring too exclusive a bent towards literary pursuits,

I contract a distaste for those employments which,

   262 THE JOURNEYMAN.

   though not very pleasing in themselves, are in my case
   Iat least intimately connected with happiness.
                                                   do not
   think I could be happy without being independent, and

   I cannot be independent except as a mechanic'

   It is evident, from the terms in which Dr Baird

   refers to the suggestion made by him to Miller of

   coming to Edinburgh, that the latter slightly misunder

   stood its purport. The account of the interview given
   in the Schools and Schoolmasters forces us to conclude

   that Miller supposed Baird to have advised him to
   abandon the chisel on coming to Edinburgh. ' The

   capital furnished, he said,' --the quotation is from the
   Schools and Schoolmasters, --' the proper field for a liter

   ary man in Scotland. What between the employment

   furnished by the newspapers and the magazines, he was

   Isure would effect a lodgment and work my way up.'

   Baird's words are that the ' busy hours ' were to be
   given to the stone-cutter's profession, and the ' leisure
   hours ' to literature. Carruthers, too, was as prudential

   in his advice to the workman as he was ardent in his

   admiration of the poet. ' We have learned,' he said, in
   a commendatory notice of the poems, ' with much satis

   faction  that he    (Miller) has   confined    his devotion to the
   Muses    strictly  to his leisure    hours,
                                                --thus his industry

   in pursuing a laborious occupation has been unremit

   ting.' The friendliness both of Dr Baird and of Mr Car

   ruthers was too genuine to permit indulgence in the cheap

   flattery of bidding Miller abandon his trade and launch

   into the perils of a literary life ; and he had the manli
   ness and sense to appreciate their discretion while
   valuing their applause. Miller, not unnaturally, in
   writing the Schools and Schoolmasters, saw the advice of
   Baird through the colouring medium of many years of

   literary eminence.

\

               LETTER TO MR FORSYTH.                             263

Among those who interested themselves in the suc

cess of his first venture none were more zealous than

Mr Isaac Forsyth of Elgin. But the efforts of Mr

Forsyth to dispose of the copies sent him from Inver
ness were vain, and that although he had ' never em

barked in any such concern with so much enthusiasm,

nor took so much pains to secure success.' There is

a chivalrous delicacy in Miller's reply ; he contrives to

extract from the failure of his friend an additional

cause for gratitude :--
    ' When I look back to the fate of my literary specu

lations with a composure approaching to indifference, I

trust my gratitude to the gentleman who has so gener

ously exerted himself in striving to forward these, is not

at all in proportion to the success with which his exer

tions have been repaid. Nay, sir, I consider your claim

on me to have gained in strength from the circumstance

of your having encountered disappointment in my be
I Ihalf.
trust may affirm that nature has bestowed

upon me a disposition which enables me to                         conceive of

the sentiment  tocognivveeyethdanintothreecreeivmear; k"abalend  text, " It is
more blessed
                                                                 though for
Itune seems to have determined that shall be no be-
Istower of benefits, yet know from experience what it

I
             aI

                               a

                              Ia

                                                              in
                                                                          is,

                                                                                                                                      ;

                                                         I
                                                           I is by
is to confer an obligation, and what it after having

striven to oblige, to be thwarted in the intention. In

the one case have derived full compensation for what

had done from that lightness of heart which accom

panies success, and from the consciousness that,

benefiting fellow-creature, had some degree added
to the sum of human happiness. But in the other have
felt differently. In that depression of spirit which

almost always consequent of unsuccessful exertion,

have looked for solace to something external and have

2G4 THE JOURNEYMAN.

Ifelt that had a claim on the gratitude of the party in
Iwhose cause had interested myself, not only for what
I Ihad attempted to do, but also for what had suffered

from the disappointment which attended the failure.'

      So much by way of acknowledgment and consola

tion to Mr Forsyth ; now for the effect of his literary
failure upon himself :--

    ' With respect to literary pursuits, I have every

claim to be regarded as one of the incurables mentioned

by Goldsmith. At this moment, when I can look back
to the complete failure of my speculation, I am as de

termined upon improving to the utmost my ability as a

Iwriter as could have been had the public, by buying

my work, rendered the speculation a good one. With

only my present ability to judge of my own powers, the
Ievent can alone determine whether, when have attained
Ithe art of writing, shall succeed or fail in making my
Iself known. But could  Idecide whether possess or

be devoid of true genius, it would be an easy matter for

Ime to anticipate the result. If destitute of this spirit,

shall certainly not rise to eminence ; for my situation in

life is not one of those in which fortune or the influence

of friends can supply the want of ability, or in which

mediocrity of talent can become admirable by clothing
itself in the spoils of learning. My education is imper

Ifect ; cannot even subsist except by devoting seven-

eighths of my waking hours to the avocations of a labori

Ious profession ; and have no claim from birth to either

the notice of the eminent or the patronage of the influ

ential. But if nature has bestowed upon me that spirit

of genius which ultimately can neither be repressed nor

hidden, then, though fortune should serve me as Jupiter

Idid Briareus when he buried him under Etna, shall

assuredly overturn the mountain.'

              THOMAS PRINGLE.                                265

Thomas Pringle, editor at this time of an annual

publication called Friendship's Offering, had seen some

of Miller's productions, and wrote to Mr Smith, a friend
of Mr Forsyth's, pronouncing him ' a person of no ordi
nary talent and character.' Mr Forsyth enclosed Pringle's

letter in that to which Miller is now replying, and Hugh

proceeds, in the paragraph which follows, to comment

upon it.' ' I am acquainted with Mr Pringle as a poet ,--

and an admirable poet he combining his beautifulit is,
                                                   by in
pieces the simplicity of the ancient ballad with that ele

gance of stye and delicacy of sentiment, which are the

characteristics of classical poetry.             shall not venture,
                                      by

                                           I
however, on addressing him            letter. The friendship

of such man, however valuable, and however much an
I in a
honour, would scarcely afford me the pleasure which
        is
ought to be derived from              unless       were conscious
           I                          I it                I aI
                                               ;               I
had done something to deserve                 and at present can
                                           by a I
have no such consciousness.           am as yet only little

fellow, and with all the jealousy of             little fellow shall
                                                 stalking on stilts
conceal my insignificance, -- not

into the company of the gigantic, but immuring my

self my solitude, from the loop-holes of which shall      I

peep at them as best may --solicitous both to see and
                          ;
to avoid being seen.' He next touches on his corre;

spondence with Principal Baird.                    have not of late
                                      I
                                            I'

                                              I
heard from the Principal and think have shrewd
                                                          a

guess of the cause of his silence. In accordance to his

advice sent him two hundred copies of my Poems,

which he was to use his influence in getting sold but
                                                   a is,
that influence, great as
                                                         I
                                                                                   ;

                                                                             a
                          it  necessarily          has, suspect,

proved insufficient to bring into notice work destined

not to be known, --perhaps not very deserving of
higher destiny, --and with his characteristic benevo

lence, he unwilling to give me pain                by  telling me so.

266 THE JOURNEYMAN.

I Itrust, however, that shall yet have an opportunity of
convincing him that, though only an indifferent poet, I

am more than a tolerable philosopher.'

    It was remotely and but for a moment that Hugh

Miller and Thomas Pringle came into relation with
each other, and yet it is impossible to pass on without
saying a word of one whose poems justify Miller's fine
and appropriate eulogy, and whose life merited eulogy
more enthusiastic still. Scotland, among her many
noble sons, has hardly sent into the world a nobler than
the high-souled, brilliant Pringle. As a poet he had
much reputation in his day, and some of his pieces are
not likely soon to drop into oblivion. Coleridge declared
that his stanzas, entitled Afar in the Desert, are to be
classed ' among the two or three most perfect lyric poems
in our language.' His Lion and Giraffe seems to be
the original from which Freiligrath paraphrased his
universally-known Lions Ride. Nay, if one could trust
his ear, and the general impression conveyed by the
poems, it might be suggested that the ring of Pringle's
Lion Hunt was in the head of a greater than Freiligrath
when he wrote How they brought the Good News from
Ghent to Aix. Browning's poem is far and away the
greater of the two, but its picturesque vividness and
manner of poetic touch recall to my mind at least the

earlier strain :

' Mount-- mount    for  ththeefiheludn--tinfgor--thweitLhiomn uisskenteaarn1d  spear !
 Call our friends  to

Call Arend and Ekhard and Groepe to the spoor ;

Call Miiller and Coetzer and Lucas Van Vuur.

' Side up Eildon-Cleugh, and blow loudly the bugle :
  Call Slinger and Allic and Dikkop and Dugal ;
 And George with the elephant-gun on his shoulder --
  In a perilous pinch none is better or bolder.'

THOMAS PRINGLE.  267

And if all else that Pringle sang were to pass away,
surely that one verse of his Farewell to Scotland will be
immortal, --

                           1My native land, my native vale,
                            A long, a last adieu,

                            Farewell to bonny Teviotdale,
                               And Cheviot's mountains blue.'

      But the poet Pringle yields precedence to Pringle
the man. His very defects were those which character

ize heroic minds. Calculating shrewdness, caution, mer

cantile prudence, --all those stunted virtues which, like

the treasure-guarding dwarfs of mediaeval legend, keep

the portals of worldly success, --were indeed lacking in

his mental constitution. But what capacity of self-
sacrifice, what chivalrous generosity, what unquenchable
ardour of goodness, dwelt in his breast ! Of all the
voices raised on behalf of the slave, not one was more
purely, passionately earnest than Pringle's. And not
for the slave alone, for every human being to whom he
could do good, was Pringle zealous. From his youth
he had experience of straitened circumstances, he knew
the most malignant spite of foes, the bitterest apathy
and listlessness of friend and patron, but in the heavenly
well of that heart the wormwood and the gall were
turned to sweetness.

                                                         268

                     CHAPTER XII.

MILLER'S POLITICAL VIEWS --THE CROMARTY CHAPEL CASE --

                    IN CHARACTER OF VILLAGE JUNIUS.

                      an interested and intelligent observer of

THOthUe GpoHlitical occurrences of his time, and a cordial

supporter of Catholic Emancipation, the Reform Bill, and
those other measures by which the genius of liberalism
was then putting its mark on the institutions of the
country, Miller was never what is commonly understood
as an ardent politician. One of the ideas which he
most firmly grasped, and which had throughout his whole
career a powerful influence on his mind, was that the share
which the inhabitants of any particular locality can take
in shaping the legislation or directing the policy of the
country at large is necessarily too small to deserve their
close and constant attention. When a great constitu

tional battle was to be fought --when the fate of an im

portant measure depended, as in the case of the Reform
Bill, on the unanimity and vehemence of the popular
support -- he would exert himself to the utmost. But he
held that, in ordinary times, it was business of a more
local and less political kind which came home to the
bosoms of sensible men. He was keenly alive to every
thing which touched upon the relation in which he stood
to his parish minister, and became naturally the spokes-

THE 1 CHAPEL CASE.'          269

man and leader of those Cromarty citizens who were, in

matters parochial, like-minded with himself. Questions

which, seen from this distance, may seem to be mere

illustrations of the infinitely little, became topics of

agitating concern for him, and called him, pen in hand,

into the field of controversy.
      The ' Cromarty Chapel Case ' has vanished from the

thoughts and recollections of almost every living man,

but, in the summer of 1831, it was profoundly interest

ing to Hugh Miller. The minister of the Gaelic Chapel

in Cromarty had petitioned the Presbytery of Chanonry,

that he should be either assigned a parish within the

bounds of the parish of Cromarty, or a collegiate charge

with the Rev. Mr Stewart. By granting the petition,
the Presbytery would have done one of two things, --

placed all Mr Stewart's parishioners under the authority

of the pastor to be associated with him, or disjoined

one half of the parishioners from Mr Stewart altogether

and handed them over to the petitioner. The latter had

not been in any sense chosen as their minister by Mr
Stewart's congregation ; they had chosen Mr Stewart,

and were exceedingly well pleased with him ; they pro

nounced therefore almost unanimously against the pro

posed arrangement. As the petition, in the event of its

being pushed forward by its promoters, would ultimately

come before the General Assembly of the Church of

Scotland, a legal gentleman of Edinburgh was employed

to prepare the way for its favourable reception by writing

it up in an Edinburgh newspaper. Hugh Miller re
plied, as ' the representative of nearly eight hundred '

of his fellow-parishioners.  The style of his letter is cer

tainly equal to the grandeur of the occasion. It is 'the
cause of civil and religious liberty ' which he advocates,

and he is willing ' to dare the worst in defence of either.'

270 THE JOURNEYMAN.

He concludes with a fine testimony to the merits of Mr
Stewart. ' Permit me,' Mr Editor, ' before taking leave

of you and the public, to state once more, for myself
and my townsfolks, one great cause of our hostility to

the deprecated measure. It threatens to separate us
from our minister. Mr Stewart was the man of our

choice. The high character and admirable talents of
this gentleman were alone taken into account when we
called upon him to preside over us in spiritual things ;
after an acquaintance with him of nearly seven years, we
can now testify to the purity of that character, and to
the strength and brilliancy of these talents ; much of
our knowledge of human life and of human nature, of

the depravity of man and of the goodness of the Al

mighty, has been derived from him. By means of his
powerful discourses a beneficial impulse has been given
to our powers of thought ; in these discourses no inapt
images or absurd conclusions disturb the conviction that
the doctrines of Christianity are indeed fraught with the
wisdom of God, and address themselves not more to the

hearts than to the understandings of men ; but on the

contrary, they are marked and striking examples of the
established law of criticism and logic, that nothing but
what is just in argument, and apt and beautiful in
illustration, should be associated with what is morally
good and spiritually holy.'

      This letter, signed ' One of the People,' naturally
elicits a reply from the man of law, and, in July, 1831,
Miller's rejoinder appears in shape of a thirty-six page
pamphlet. In it Miller plays to perfection the part of

the village Junius. I' To no man will yield, at least

without a struggle, those rights and privileges which
have been bequeathed to me by my ancestors, and

Iwhich consider it my duty, so far as my modicum of

A CROMARTY JUNIUS.  271

 power renders me accountable, to transmit uninjured to
 my countrymen of a future age.' There is one passage
 in this pamphlet which has considerable biographical
 value, as proving that Miller had already conceived that
intense aversion for Radicalism which he continued

 throughout life to cherish. Sincere and steady as he
was in his Whiggism, he called himself a Whig of 1688
rather than a Whig of 1789. ' There is a class of men,'

--such is his deliverance on Radicalism in 1831, --

 1 which in the present day infests almost every civilized
country of Europe. Like the desolating locusts of the
East, the members of this class are terrible when gathered
into multitudes, though the individuals, singly con

sidered, be tiny and contemptible as insects. Opposi
tion, either implied or direct, is their peculiar vocation.
Though sometimes apparently united in aim, neither in
principle nor conduct have they anything in common
with that better tribe who are the friends and advocates

of rational liberty. There was a happy allusion made to
the two classes by a philosophic and honest statesman
in his late admirable defence of a popular measure.
He described that measure to be as a firmament which

would separate the pure waters above from the gross
and turbid pollution of the waters below. To the one
class we owe the Reformation, and every right and in
stitution which is dear to us as people of Scotland.
From the other have proceeded many of those terrible
inflictions on mankind which the historian shudders to
relate. We trace the slime of those reptiles on almost
every dark page of the annals of modern Europe. They
have catered for that demon of Radicalism which has

prowled in the streets and lanes of our cities ; and
lighted the torch of that fiend of Incendiarism which so
lately stalked out into our fields. They are fast defacing

272 THE JOURNEYMAN.

the glories of the second revolution of France ; and their

names are recorded in blood on the frightful atrocities
Iof the first.
                have seen much of the people of this

class in their character as individuals, and regard them

Iin this character, however much I may dread them in

the aggregate, with, trust, a proper contempt. I have

ever found them to be as devoid of genuine talent as of

sterling principle.'

Miller takes leave of his antagonists in words which,

when we think of his subsequent championship of the

Free Church, may strike us as almost prophetic. ' I

care not though it be recorded as my epitaph, that when

the civil and religious rights of the people of this north

ern parish were assailed by a hired gladiator of the law,

I, one of that people, encountered the hireling on his

own field, and vanquished him at his own weapons. For

the future you are safe. Should I again appear on the

rough arena of controversy, it will be when the barriers

are encircled by a deeper line of spectators, and to grap

ple with some more powerful opponent.' Could the
strut and stare of Junius have been more felicitously

mimicked? --The petitioners were utterly routed, and the

rights and privileges which Miller and his followers had

derived from their ancestors in the parish of Cromarty

continued unimpaired. Though Whig in his view of

national affairs, he commonly acted in local matters with

the Conservatives of the district.

           273

           CHAPTER XIII.

MISS FRASER HER PARENTAGE, RESIDENCE IN EDINBURGH,
     POSITION IN CROMARTY -- SOCIETY OF THE PLACE MILLER'S

      MANNER AND APPEARANCE A FASCINATING COMPANION
     HE AND MISS FRASER BECOME LOVERS GLIMPSES OF RO
      MANCE METAPHYSICAL LOVE-MAKING A NEW AMBITION
     AWAKES IN MILLER FABLE OF APOLLO AND DAPHNE
      REVERSED LETTER TO MISS FRASER AND TO MRS FRASER.

BUT there were better things to entertain Hugh Miller

      at this time than what Mr Carlvle might call the

highly unmemorable polemics of the parish of Cromarty.

In the summer of 1831 he first saw Miss Lydia Mac

kenzie Fraser. About a year before, when residing with

relations in Surrey, this young lady had received a

letter from her mother, in which, among other descrip

tive touches relating to Cromarty, occurred the follow
--'
      You  may guess what  are  its literary pretensions
:
Iing
when tell you that from my window at this moment
I see a stone-mason engaged in building a wall. He has

just published a volume of poems, and likewise letters on

Ithe herring fishery ; -- both of which now send you.'

Miss Fraser was quick, intelligent, interested in literature ;

this announcement naturally excited her curiosity. On

coming to Cromarty, she did not for some time see the

poetic stone-mason, and when she did, he was not aware

that her eyes rested on him. She and her mother had

VOL. I.    18

 274 THE JOURNEYMAN.

stepped in to have a look at a school recently opened on
' the brae-head ' of Cromarty, when a man entered,
looking like a working man in his Sunday dress, who,
as a whisper from her mother informed her, was Hugh
Miller. She was struck by the deep thoughtfulness of
his face and by the colour of his eyes, ' a deep blue
tinged with sapphire.' The first occasion on which, for

his part, he heard her name, and cast an attentive glance
upon her features, was that which is described in the

Schools and Schoolmasters. He was talking with two ladies
beside a sun-dial which he had set up in his uncle's
garden, when she 'came hurriedly tripping down the
garden-walk ' and joined the group. ' She was,' he
adds, ' very pretty ; and though in her nineteenth year
at the time, her light and somewhat petite figure, and
the waxen clearness of her complexion, which resembled
rather that of a fair child than of a grown woman, made
her look from three to four years younger.' Evidently,
though he saw her but for a few minutes, and did not
exchange a word with her, she made an unusual impres

sion upon him.
      The probability in fact was that this young lady

would form an important addition to the circle of his
acquaintance, and to that of the intellectual ' upper ten '
in Cromarty. Both beauty and talent had been among
the attributes of the stock from which she sprung. The
' lovely Barbara Hossack ' and several other women
noted in the Highlands for their personal attractions
had been of her ancestry on the female side ; Provost
Hossack of Inverness, trusted friend of President Forbes

and honoured intercessor with the Duke of Cumberland

for the vanquished of Culloden ; Mr Lachlan Mackenzie,

famed Highland preacher, of whom tradition in the
northern Scotch counties has much to report ; and the

MISS FRASER.  275

Mackenzies of Redcastle, ' said to be the most ancient

house in the north of Scotland,' had been among her
kindred in the line of male descent. Her father, nota

bly handsome in youth, and famous in Strathnairn as
a deer-stalker, entered, later in life, into business in In

verness, and was at first prosperous, but, being generous
and unsuspecting to a fault, was robbed by a clerk and

beguiled by a relative, and at last overborne by dis

appointments and difficulties.

     After the death of Mr Fraser, his widow, possessing

some small property of her own, went to live in Cro
marty. His daughter had been taken away by re
latives in Surrey when his affairs were getting into

confusion. She had received the best education ob

tainable at the time by young ladies. Having resided

in Edinburgh in the house of Mr George Thomson,

the correspondent of Burns, she had had the benefit not
only of being instructed by Edinburgh masters, but of
being introduced to a singularly pleasant and rather dis
tinguished circle of society. George Thomson attracted
to his musical parties the most skilful and enthusiastic
votaries of Scottish music in Edinburgh. Nor were

literature and art unrepresented at those gatherings.
Scott himself, never out of his element when kindness

and intelligence ruled the hour, had appeared sometimes
among Thomson's guests, though this was before Miss
Fraser became an inmate of his dwelling. James Bal-
lantyne and his brother Alexander were frequently of the
number. James had the gift of singing 'Tullochgorum'
with rough heartiness. Alexander was an exquisite
violinist. Pieces from Beethoven, Mozart, and their com

peers, were performed at those parties, Thomson's pre
ference for Scottish music by no means rendering him
insensible to the claims of other schools. Thomson of

276 THE JOURNEYMAN.

Duddingston, who, when clear and unapproached pre
eminence has been allowed to Turner, must be placed
high among the landscape painters not only of Scotland
but of Great Britain, was sometimes present, attracted
perhaps by the original portrait of Burns by Nasmyth or
Wilkie's Auld Robin Gray, both of which adorned George
Thomson's drawing-room. Mrs Grant of Laggan and

Tennant of ' Anster Fair' figured among the literary

celebrities.

     A young lady, of great natural ability, accustomed

to polite society in Surrey and advantageously educated
and introduced in Edinburgh, would be likely to shine
in the intellectual circle of Cromarty. For a very small
town, Cromarty was happy in the quality of its in

habitants. The Rev. Mr Stewart was the central

star in its social firmament, his supremacy beginning
about this time to be disputed by Miller. Not that
there was any thought of rivalry or of jealousy on
either side ; they were the closest and most faithful
friends ; but that the reputation of Miller even in its dawn
shot its rays to a wider horizon than had as yet been

reached by Mr Stewart's, and that the culture of the

minister was, in all save theological reading and gram
matical knowledge of Greek and Latin, narrower than

that of the parishioner. A colonel, a captain, both in

telligent beyond the average of their class, with ladies to
match, a banker who had been an officer in the navy
and retained professional enthusiasm enough to make him
study naval history until he became a walking encyclo
paedia of information on sea-battles, these, with a variety
of studious and accomplished ladies, eminent, some for
Calvinistic metaphysics, some for geological predilections,
made up the cluster of notabilities which circled round
Alexander Stewart and Hugh Miller, the Duke and the

CROMARTY SOCIETY.  277

Goethe of this miniature Weimar. The women had their
full share of the intellect of the place or more. ' By

much the greater half of the collective mind of the town,'
says Miller in one of his letters, ' is vested in the ladies.'

It speaks for the sterling worth as well as the intellectual

penetration of the Cromarty notables that they welcomed

to a footing of perfect social equality the man who was

to be seen any forenoon, bare-armed, dusty-visaged,

with mallet in hand and apron in front, making his
bread by cutting inscriptions in the churchyard. With
Miller any intercourse but that of perfect equality would
have been impossible. Diffident in company as he was,

his pride was as inflexible as that of Burns, and, if pos

sible, more sensitive. The slightest trace of condescend

ing patronage would have driven him away, and for ever.
The colonels and captains who were to be found in

country towns at this period were generally men of
the French war, men who had seen enough of life and

action to bring out the stronger lines in their character,

men frank of bearing, direct of speech, and perfectly
brave. In the Highland towns they were likely to be

cadets of old Highland houses. Constitutional fond

ness for war, concurrently with shallowness of the

paternal purse, had led many such into the army. Pride
as well as courage was likely to be hereditary with these

Imilitary gentlemen, and it is, repeat, to the credit of

those of Cromarty that they recognized Miller for what

he was, a man qualified to adorn and delight any circle.
      Once the singularity of admitting a stone-mason to

social fellowship was got over, the charm of Miller's

acquaintance would secure his footing. All who knew

him with any degree of intimacy have testified to the
fascination of his presence. For women in particular

 his manner and conversation had an exquisite charm.

278 THE JOURNEYMAN.

The leonine roughness of his exterior, the shaggy
hair, the strong-boned overhanging brows, the head
carried far forward and shoulders bent as with brood

ing thought, the working man's gait and gesture, lent
the enchantment of a delicate surprise to the deep
gentleness which they disguised. Never was the dif
ference between the conventional gentleman and the true

gentleman, --the possibility that one may be every inch

a true gentleman and yet every inch not a conventional

gentleman, --more signally illustrated than in the case of
Miller. A fine and tender sympathy, the soul of polite

ness, enabled him, spontaneously, unconsciously, to feel
with every feeling, to think with every thought, of the
person with whom he conversed. The faculty of skilful

and kindly listening is rarer even than that of fluent
and brilliant talk, and Miller had it in fine perfection.
He had, however, the gift of captivating speech, as well.
His conversation, though never voluble, impulsive, pre
cipitate, exhibited the action not only of a powerful but
of an educated intellect, practised in logic and trained
to the expert use of its linguistic instruments. He never
was at a loss for an idea, never at a loss for a word, and

the stores of his memory afforded him an exhaustless
supply of illustration from what he had seen in nature
or read in books. There was a pensiveness, also, in his
tone, a profound sadness in his eye, a touch of egot
istic melancholy about him, which is a spell of absolute
 enthralment for most women, and indeed for most men.

' The bewitching smile,' says Mr Disraeli, ' usually
beams from the grave face. It is then irresistible.'

       Miss Fraser, as we should have expected, was not
 without admirers of the other sex at the time when
 she formed the acquaintance of Hugh Miller. They
 were 'younger and dressed better ' than the stone-mason,

ROMANCE.                                        279

and had chosen ' the liberal professions.' But no man

has so strong an attraction for a superior girl as a man

of brains, and Miller's seniority of ten years was in his

favour rather than the reverse in the contest with more

juvenile rivals. Miss Fraser, meeting him here and there

in society, was interested by his conversation. On sunny

forenoons, she might pause in her walk to have a chat
with him in the churchyard. On which side the friend

ship first glowed into a warmer feeling need not be

determined ; probably they became lovers almost simul

taneously ; and it is certain that this his first and last

love took entire possession of Miller's heart.
    A number of materials, --letters of the
moranda, note-books, --illustrative of this     period, me
                                                part of his
Ihistory, have come into my hands, and from these have

selected at my own discretion and on my own responsi

bility. Here is a glimpse of him from an authentic

source, when he seems to have been already pretty far
gone. ' One evening we (Miss Fraser and Hugh Miller)
encountered each other by chance in a wooded path of

the hill, above which slope a few cultivated fields skirted
by forest. Hugh Miller prevailed on me to accompany
him to a point which commands a fine view of the Frith
and surrounding country. We sat down to rest at the

edge of a pine wood in a little glade fragrant with fallen

cones and ankle-deep in the spiky leaves of the firs. I

sat on the stump of a felled tree. He threw himself on

the ground two or three yards from my feet. The sun

was just setting, and lighted up the pillared trunks

around with a deep copper-coloured glow. Hugh took
out a volume of Goldsmith. When did he ever want a

companion of that description ? He read in a low voice

the story of Edwin and Angelina. It was then I first sus

pected that he had a secret which he had not revealed.'

280 THE JOURNEYMAN.

      Things had reached this rather critical posture when
Mrs Fraser, alarmed at the notion that her daughter

might bestow her heart and hand on a mechanic, com

manded that the intimacy should be broken off. The
young lady was disconsolate ; wept much ; felt ' like a

poor little parasite which had succeeded in laying hold

of some strong and stately tree, and which a powerful

blast had laid prostrate in the dust.' Under these cir

cumstances the following entry from the same hand will

not seem surprising.

    ' It was late on the evening of a very hot summer

Sabbath during the time of interdict, that, feeling list
Iless and weary, crept out a little to breathe the air.
I had no intention of walking -- did not even put on
Ibonnet or shawl.
                   stole down the grassy garden path

and listened to the murmur of the sea, whose waves

beat on the shore at a stone's throw beyond. But the

Inight was still sultry, and imagined that by getting to
Ithe top of some eminence, might find the cooling
I I Ibreeze for which longed. So found myself, scarcely

knew how, at the ancient chapel of St Regulus. There
the trees which line the sides of the ravine by which it

is surrounded waved the tops of their branches, the blue

sea looked forth between, and as the twilight gave place
Ito night, the stars began to twinkle forth.
                                              stood on

the edge of the hill enjoying the slight breeze and the

Isoft brightness of earth and sky, when suddenly per

ceived that Hugh stood beside me. He spoke of the

sweetness of the evening, the beauty of the landscape,

and so on ; but his speech was cold and reserved, and

he made no allusion to our peculiar position. Possibly

his pride was touched by it. At that very time, how

ever, as he afterwards told me, he cut a notch in the

wood of a beam which crossed the roof of his cottage for

                      ROMANCE.                             281

every day on which we had not met. He staid but a

short time there, leaving me standing just where he had
Ifound me, but there was no notch on that day.
                                                           on

my part knelt at a cold grave-stone and registered over

the dead a vow, rash and foolish perhaps ; but it was

kept.'
      From these suggestive glimpses, readers of imagin

ation and sensibility will gather all the information that is

necessary upon the subject. This love affair was clearly

romantic, but not the less real on that account. A

judicious mother, reflecting probably that young ladies
of nineteen are not likely to cease to love for being told
to do so, removed the interdict, and, though marriage was
for the present to be considered as out of the question,

the young people were permitted to enjoy each other's

society.

    It would be a mistake to suppose that the intel

lectual benefit of their intercourse was entirely on the

side of the lady. Her mind, if not so well stored,

so deliberate, so patiently thoughtful, as that of her

lover, had the piercing clearness and acuteness of good

female intellect, and would sometimes strike direct to

the heart of a subject when circumspect and meditative

Hugh was gyrating round and round it. On one occa

sion, for example, --one, probably of many, -- the pair

had enjoyed a game of chop-logic apropos of that

venerable problem, the origin of evil. Miller's argument,

Ias placed before Miss Fraser, cannot state in his own

words, but its substance is derivable from a letter of his

to Miss Dunbar of Boath. ' May not evil,' suggests

Hugh, who, however, pronounces the question, in the

essence of  unanswerable, be the shade with which
is
          it,         may be known as good, the

                   it
                         is

                             it
                                                        '
good contrasted that

sickness to which     opposed as health, the deformity

282 THE JOURNEYMAN.

beside which it is shown forth as beauty? Nay, may

it not be affirmed that the plan of the Deity would not
have been a perfect one if it did not include imper
fection, nor a wise one if it admitted not of folly, nor a
good one if evil did not form a part of it ? Is there

not something like this implied in the remarkable text

which informs us that the weakness of God is mightier

than the strength of men, and his foolishness more ad

mirable than their wisdom ? ' All which plausible

balancing of advantage and disadvantage, Miss Fraser

brings front to front with the sheer mystery of pain.
' Allowing,' she writes, ' that the actual contrast between

good and evil, ease and suffering, increased our value for

the ease and the good, how reconcile with our ideas of

justice the fact that there are thousands born to suffer
continual pain and to be depraved for ever? Two

thousand gladiators once lay expiring in the Roman

Amphitheatre, but does it reconcile us to the fact that

hundreds of thousands of spectators were delighted with
               '
the  scene  ?     This metaphysician, for all her petite

figure, waxen clearness of complexion, and childlike

appearance, has not, to my knowledge, received a satis

factory answer to her question either from Hugh Miller

or any one else. Such a lady-love was capable of

furnishing intellectual diamond dust of very superior

quality for the sharpening of a man's wits.

   Miss Fraser's intercourse with Miller, --the relation in
which he was now placed with her, --was beneficial to
him in another way. It broke up the theory of life

which he had formed for himself, and replaced it by one

of a more masculine character. Profoundly imbued as

he was with the ambition of self-culture, and loving

praise with the ardour of a born literary man, he was

nevertheless firmly persuaded that, in the rank of mason,

A NEW AMBITION.  283

in the town of Cromarty, he could enjoy as much hap

piness as it was possible for him to enjoy on earth. A

wife, he thought, he could dispense with ; no passion
except the passions of the mind had ever seriously
moved him ; and though he took special delight in con
versation with clever women, he could have that con
versation without marriage. He would ply the mallet
in the summer days ; he would owe no man a sixpence ;
he would read his favourite books in the evenings of
June and the short days of December ; he would train
himself to ever-increasing vigour and grace of style, and
would write with the fresh enthusiasm of one for whom

literature was its own reward. Thus was he contented

to live and to die ; the world, it was his inflexible con

viction, had nothing better than this to offer him.

If the question were simply of more or less happiness, it

would be difficult to prove that in all this he was wrong.
The quality, however, of the happiness would not have

been the highest, and he might have awakened from his
idyll of intellectual luxury to the consciousness that, in
 evading the pains of action, he had missed the sternest
 but the noblest joys of life. When Miss Fraser taught
 him to understand the love-poetry of Burns, as he ex
 pressly says she did, he bade adieu for ever, though not
 without a sigh, to the tranquil hopes which had hitherto
 inspired him. He told Miss Fraser that she had spoiled
 a good philosopher, and it was with no exultation,
 though with calm and fixed resolution, that he felt the
 spirit of the philosophic recluse die within him and the
 spirit of the man arise. The classic fable was reversed.
 Daphne overtook and disenchanted her lover. Miller
 awoke from the dream which was stealing over him ; the
 roots which had already struck deep into his native soil,
 and which promised to bind him down to a mild tree

284 THE JOURNEYMAN.

like existence on the hill of Cromarty, were snapped

asunder ; a stronger circulation swept in fierce thrills

along his veins ; and with new hope, new ambition,

new aspiration, he girded up his loins for the race of

life. Hitherto, ' he professed just what he felt, to be

content with a table, a chair, and a pot, with a little fire

in his grate and a little meat to cook on it.' He pro

fessed such contentment no longer; for himself he could

have lived and died a working man, but he could not

endure the idea of his wife being in any rank save that

of a lady.

    Habitually self-conscious, observant of every event

in his mental history, Miller did not fail to mark the

change which had passed over him. In a letter written

                 is                        with grace,
                                    it it,

                                                it
in the summer of 1834 he describes

naivete, and lightness of touch, to her who was its cause.

The first part of the letter unimportant, but may as

well be inserted for the illustration      affords of his

simple and pleasurable mode of life in Cromarty at this

period.

                 is I           Cromarty, Wednesday 12 o'clock.
                             '
    it I'am afraid you are still unwell. Your window

was shut till near ten this morning, and as saw no light
                                L

                                      in ,

                                           I
from       last evening, must conclude you went early to
bed. How very inefficient, my -- are the friendships

of earth My heart bound up you, and yet can
only wish and regret, and, --yes, pray. Well, that
           !                                  ;

                                               I
                                                    I is
something.    I  cannot regulate your pulses, nor dissipate

your pains, nor give elasticity to your spirits but

can implore on your behalf the great Being who can.

Would that both for your sake and my own my prayers

had the efficacy of those described    by  simple-hearted

                  PAST AND PRESENT.                                    285

James ! * They are sincere, my L--, when you form the

burden of them, but they are not the prayers of the

righteous

     ' My mother, as you are aware, has a very small
garden behind her house. It has produced this season

one of the most gigantic thistles of the kind which

Igardeners term the Scotch, that ever yet saw. The

height is fully nine feet, the average breadth nearly
Ifive. Some eight years ago intended building a little
Ihouse for myself in this garden.
                                     was to cover it

outside with ivy, and to line it inside with books ; and

here was I to read and write and think all my life long
--not altogether so independent of the world as

Diogenes in his tub, or the savage in the recesses of

the forest, but quite as much as is possible for man in

his social state. Here was I to attain to wealth not by

Iincreasing my goods, but   bhyadmnoodneera, --tingI    my        desires.
                                                      could        live on
Of the thirst after wealth
half-a-crown per week and be content ; nor yet was I
desirous of power, --I sought not to be any man's
Imaster, and had spirit enough to preserve me from
being any man's slave. I had no heart to oppress ; --

why wish, then,   for  the seat or the power of                   the  op
                  no   dread of being subjected                    to  op
pressor ?--I had
pression ; -- did the proudest or the loftiest dare infringe

on my rights as a man, there might be disclosed to him,

perchance,
                                       " Through peril and alarm

                   The might that slumber'd in a peasant's arm."

IEven for fame itself had no very exciting desire. If I
Imet with it in quest of amusement, well ; if not,

    * ' The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much.'

James v. 16.

286 THE JOURNEYMAN.

could be happy enough without it. So much for the

great disturbers of human life -- avarice and ambition,

and the thirst of praise. My desires were not tall

enough to penetrate into those upper regions which they
--Ihaunt
           was too low for them, and for the inferior
;
Ipetty disturbers of men's happiness was as certainly
Itoo high. Love, for instance, could have nothing to
Ifear from.
                 knew myself to be naturally of a cool
temperament ; --and, then, were not my attachments to

my friends so many safety-valves ! Besides, no woman

Iof taste could ever love me, for was ugly and awkward ;
Iand as could love only a woman of taste, and could
Inever submit to woo one to whom was indifferent, my

being ugly and awkward was as an iron wall to me.
No, no, I had nothing to fear from love.-- My own dear
L-- , only see how much good philosophy you have
Ispoiled.
           am not now indifferent to wealth or power

or place in the world's eye. I would fain be rich, that

II might render you comfortable ; powerful, that might

raise you to those high places of society which you are

so fitted to adorn ; celebrated, that the world might

justify your choice. I never think now of building the

little house or of being happiest in solitude ; and if my

life is to be one of celibacy, it must be one of sorrow

also, --of heart-wasting sorrow for --but I must not

think of that.'

      One other letter upon this subject we must not omit.

It was addressed by Miller to Mrs Eraser.

' My dear Madam,  1 Cromarty, Nov. 2, 1833.

          I' trust ingratitude is not among the number
of my faults. But how render apparent the sense I

entertain of your kindness in so warmly interesting

                LETTER TO MRS ERASER.                                               287

yourself in my welfare ? Just by laying my whole

mind open before you. Two years ago there was not a

less ambitious or more contented sort of person than

myself in the whole kingdom. I knew happiness to be
altogether independent of external circumstances ; I
more than knew -- felt it. My days passed on in
                  it,                                                               Ia

                    aI
quiet, even tenor; and though poor, and little known,

and bound down to life of labour, could yet anticipate,
                             I
without one sad feeling, that       all these respects my
                                  in

                                   I
future life was to resemble the past. Why should

regret my poverty  ?    was independent, in debt to no

                     I

one, and in possession of all had been accustomed to

regard as the necessaries of life. Why sigh over my

obscurity? My lot was that of the thousands around

me and, besides, was not born to an immortality too
   ;

                       I

                                                                          ?
sublime to borrow any of its grandeur or importance

from the mock immortality of fame Why repine be

cause my life was to be one of continual labour                              It ?I  had

acquired habits of industry, and had learned from expe

rience that,is    labour be indeed          curse, the curse of
                        I
indolence     ifby far the weightier of the two.                                    will
                              ?

                             I
                                         a
not surprise you, my dear madam, that, entertaining

such sentiments, should have used no exertions, and
                  I

expressed no wish, to quit my obscure sphere of life for

a  higher. Why should               carried my happiness

about with me, and was independent of every external

circumstance.

   shall not say that still continue to think and
   I'
      I

                    I
                          I

                              in I
                                  I

                                              I
feel after this manner, for, though quite the same sort of

man at present that was then, have, perhaps, ascer
tained that my happiness does not now centre so ex

clusively in myself. To you, dare say, need not be

more explicit. But though,     consequence of this dis

covery, have become somewhat solicitous, perhaps, of

288 THE JOURNEYMAN.

Irising a step or two higher in the scale of society, find
it is one thing to wish and quite another to attempt. I

find, too, that habits long indulged in, and formed under

the influence of sentiments such as I describe, must

militate so powerfully against me, if that attempt be
made, as to leave little chance of success. My lack of a

classical education has barred against me all the liberal

Iprofessions : have no turn for business matters ; and

the experience of about twelve years has taught me that,
as an architect or contractor (professions which, during

at least that space of time, have been the least fortunate

in this part of the kingdom, of all others), I can indulge
no rational hope of realizing what I desire. There is

one little plan, however, which is rather more a favourite
I Iwith me than any of the others.
                                   think have seen

men not much more clever than myself, and possessed

of not much greater command of the pen, occupying

respectable places in the ephemeral literature of the day

as editors of magazines and newspapers, and deriving

from their labours incomes of from one to three hundred

pounds per annum. A very little application, if I do

not overrate my abilities, natural and acquired, might fit

me for occupying a similar place, and, of course, deriving

a corresponding remuneration. But how push myself
Iforward ? Simply in this manner.
                                   have lately written,
Ias dare say you are aware, a small traditional work,
Iwhich have submitted to the consideration of some of

the literati of Edinburgh, and of which they have signi

fied their approval, in a style of commendation far sur
                                   I shall try and get it
passing my fondest anticipations.
published. If it succeed in attracting any general notice,
I shall consider my literary abilities, such as they are,

fairly in the market ; if (what is more probable) it fail,

I shall just strive to forget the last two years of my life,

                        HIS PLANS.                289

Iand try whether  cannot bring a very dear friend to

forget them too. God has not suffered me in the past

I Ito be either unhappy myself, or a cause of unhappiness

to those whom love, and can trust that He will deal
with me after the same fashion in the future. I need
Inot say, my dear madam, that write in confidence, and
Ifor your own eye alone. If I fail in my little scheme,

shall bear my disappointment all the better if it be not
known that I built much upon
                        '           or looked much be

                                it,

                                               I
yond it. In such an event, the pity of people who, in

the main, are less happy than myself (and the great
bulk of mankind are certainly not happier) shall, trust,

never be solicited by,

                            Mv dear madam,' &c.

                        10

                                                         290

                       CHAPTER XIV.

   NEW OUTLOOK IN LIFE DIFFICULTIES OF PUBLICATION
                               LETTERS TO MISS FRASER.

THE quiet of intellectual luxury and philosophical
       contentment broken up by the agitation of a more
genially inspiring hope, -- the pride of the stone-mason
who has been accepted as lover by a lady forbidding
him to place her in any position in which the world

might fail to recognize her for what she was, -- Miller

now looked anxiously round him for some means of
bettering his social status. He often thought of the
backwoods of America, but though the project of emi
gration may have had some charms for his fancy, it
never laid hold on his heart. He may have seen himself
with the mind's eye, a brawny pioneer of civilisation,
making clear with stalwart arm and glowing forehead a
space in the primeval forest, to be occupied with field
and garden and homestead, and at moments there may
have been fascination in the view ; but his affections were
anchored in Scotland. His favourite idea, therefore, as
we saw in the preceding letter, was that he might under
take the editorship of a Scottish newspaper. Some offer
of the kind reached him from Inverness, but he did not
consider it eligible. He shrank from the risk of depend
ing for a livelihood upon promiscuous contribution to pe

AN OFFER OF HELP.  291

riodicals, and had the shrewdness to be aware that, nei

ther by his poems nor by his letters on the herring fishery,

had he attained celebrity enough to command for his pro
ductions a ready sale and a high price in the market of cur
rent literature. His disposition was at all times the reverse
of sanguine, and the largest and most radiant possibility
had a less attraction for him than a very small certainty.

     For the present, therefore, he determined to watch
and wait, concentrating his efforts on the improvement
of his prose style, and preparing a prose work which
might conclusively scale for him the heights of literary
distinction. Soon after the appearance of his poems,
we find him at work on a traditional history of his native
parish, and, at the time when his engagement with Miss
Fraser commenced, he had composed enough to fill a
goodly volume. To remove its blemishes, heighten its
beauties, and procure its publication, were for several
years his chief endeavours. Against publishing by sub
scription he had objections which were, for a long time,
invincible. The stubborn independence of his nature,
the profound contempt with which he looked upon
those mendicant friars of literature who, incompetent to
succeed as mechanics and failing to sell their manuscripts
to booksellers, hawk subscription-lists about country
districts, and make beggary more hideous by conceit and
affectation, and the dainty exclusiveness of his appetite
for fame, loathing the very idea of a reputation he did

not owe to his unaided efforts, all combined to dissuade

him from this mode of publication.

      Ultimately he gave way on the point, influenced by
satisfactory reasons of which we shall hear ; but the

difficulty was evidently unresolved at the time when
Miss Fraser addressed to him the following note. Its

precise date has not been preserved, but I take it to

292 THE JOURNEYMAN.

have been written in 1833. 'You are in difficulty
about the printing of your book, and I might render
you some assistance. Can I help, at least, satisfying
Imyself whether or not it be in my power ?
                                                                             have a
Ilittle hoard of money (about forty pounds) which may

put in trinkets or in the fire, and no one know anything

of the matter. Will you not let me put it to a nobler

use ?          Dear Hugh, do not refuse me ; if it

will pain you to fancy yourself indebted to me, make
Iit a loan.
               shall indeed receive my own with usury

when it shall have been of service to you.' To which

the reply was decisive and, I have no doubt, prompt.

' Not all that industry ever accumulated could impart to

me so exquisite a feeling as your kind and generous
Ioffer. My heart still throbs when think of
                                                              I              and yet

                                                                        it,
during the greater part of last night --for have not slept
for two hours together -- could think of nothing else.
                       it, I
Could avail myself of however, would but ill de
       I                          I
                                     I it
serve the affection which has prompteda                                  God
bless and reward you every new trait                          discover in
            I  a it ;
your character, while draws me closer to you, shows
me how ill deserve you.'

Miss Fraser, with view to assisting her mother and

finding channel for her own energies, taught class of         a
young ladies. In the eyes of these, Hugh Miller, whose

relation with their mistress they knew, was naturally                        a

person of importance, and when they had anything toit
coax out of her, they thought good policy to apply to
him. Little children, sweet-tempered women, light-

hearted, laughing girls -- all gentle and innocent creatures
--loved and trusted this man, and found their comfort
               by

                                                           '
in his face.' The old Scottish customs of Halloween,

immortalized   Burns, had not yet become obsolete in

Cromarty, and Miss Fraser's pupils were disposed to

A PETITION.  293

celebrate their Halloween in the room usually devoted to

study. Miss Fraser's consent was required, and one
day, when Hugh was at work in the churchyard, he was
' waited upon by a deputation ' of the girls with a re
quest to write a petition for them. He complied.

      ' To Miss Fraser, the humble petition of her attached

and grateful pupils,
       ' Sheweth,
      ' That your petitioners had great-grandmothers who

were young unmarried women about the beginning of
the last century. Like most young women of our own
day, they were all exceedingly anxious to know what
sort of husbands they were to have, or whether they
were to have any husbands at all. ' And that they might
satisfy themselves on this important matter, they burnt
nuts and ate apples every Halloween, and with such
singular success that they all lived to see themselves

married--married, too, to men who had the honour of

being the great-grandfathers of your humble petitioners.
     'That your petitioners have therefore acquired a

profound respect for the ancient and laudable practice of

burning nuts and eating apples. They are desirous, too,
to have a peep into the future, not only for the sake of
their grandmothers, but also for their own, being not a
little solicitous, as every Halloween for the last five years
has given them a new set of husbands, to ascertain the
exact number which is to fall to the share of each.

      ' That your petitioners deem Happiness a very ex
cellent sort of lady, and know many wiser women than
themselves who are of the same opinion. There is

that in her character which makes people regard even
the places in which she has visited them with feelings
similar to those which incited the old Greeks and Ro

294 THE JOURNEYMAN.

mans of our story-books to raise temples and altars on
the hill-tops on which their gods had alighted. Now it

so happens that your petitioners have sent her a card of

invitation for next Halloween to share with them in their

nuts and apples, and she is to be with them without

fail. And they would fain meet with her on this oc

casion in that apartment in which their dear mistress
has done so much to render them wiser and better. For

so sincerely do they love it that they are desirous of
loving it more, and this by rendering it a scene of
splendid hopes, rich promises, and good fun --by associ

ating with it recollections not of long lessons or false

grammar, but of fine husbands, gilt coaches, nuts, gin

gerbread, and apples.
      ' May it therefore please you to grant to your humble

petitioners full possession, during the coming night

of fun and prediction, of that interesting apartment in

which you have so often imparted to your petitioners

more of good than they have been all fully able to carry

away.     As you have   already so  liberally given to them
of the  kernel, may it  now please
                                    you to add the shell. --

And your attached and grateful petitioners shall in

return sacrifice an entire egg to your happiness and

prosperity.'
      The petition was successful.

      One thing is clear ; Hugh Miller's existence at this
time was bright and cheerful. At peace with himself
and, if we except a fierce Cromarty Radical or two,
with all the world ; exempt from every care which gnaws

the human heart ; happy in friendship, happy in love ;

hope and ambition touching his horizon with bright

auroral hues but not inflaming him with any fever
ish heat; he was indeed most fortunate. For events,

there were occasional trips to Inverness, fishing excur-

                   DIFFICULTIES OF PUBLICATION.                        295

sions to the rocks, exploring rambles on the shore, pic

nics to the Burn of Eathie. All the time, he was pur

suing his enterprise of self-culture with the steady
enthusiasm of a Goethe. He never wrote a letter or

penned a paragraph for the Inverness Courier without

striving to make it a means of improving himself in

composition. He grudged no toil in writing and re

writing his Traditions, resolutely bent upon bringing

them, in style, thought, and interest, to his high standard.

    It need not seriously qualify our estimate of his

felicity to know that the business of getting his volume

into print proved for him, as it has proved for so many

authors, a business of difficulty. Sir Thomas Dick

Lauder --known to literature by his novel, The Wolf of

Badenoch, and to science by his account of the great

Morayshire floods and dissertation on the parallel roads

of Glen Roy --had formed a high opinion of the Cromarty

poet's capacity, and exerted himself to procure the pub

lication of his book. Sir Thomas submitted the manu

script to an Edinburgh critic, an expert, it appears, in

the tasting department of the literary guild, whom he
describes as ' one of the first literary judges of the day.'

IThe response was more flattering than satisfactory. '

do not/ wrote this minister of fate, ' pretend to have

Iread the whole with much care ; but have read quite

enough to impress me with a decided opinion of his

[Miller's] very extraordinary powers as a prose writer.'
'                  however, an objection to the history, to wit,

              is,
There

                       and though the great man
its great lengthiness  ;'
                                                  is

                                                                    '

                                                            a
repeats his conviction that Mr Miller                                  very extra

ordinary person,' he does not say that he will recom

mend any of the purveyors of literary viands whom he

professionally advises to place  it  on their bill of fare.

Messrs Oliver and Boyd and Mr Andrew Shortrede, to

296 THE JOURNEYMAN.

whom respectively the volume is offered, are almost

equally complimentary and equally tantalizing. Mr

Miller's manner of treating his subject ' does him great

credit.' It is difficult to say what will succeed, but ' as

easy as ever to say what ought to succeed, and under

this class no one can hesitate to rank the Traditional
History of Cromarty.' But ' the work would require

considerable pruning to suit the public taste,' and, on
the whole, ' we regret that we cannot avail ourselves of

your kind offer.' Mr Shortrede would ' risk the print
ing,' if any one would * venture the other expenses ; '

but farther than this not even Mr Shortrede, though he

evidently hankers after the thing, will go. He proposes

to forward the MS. to his London correspondent 'to
ascertain his opinion ' before returning it. Sir Thomas,
who felt that he ' had no chance with Black, Cadell,' or

other publishers, apprized Miller of his want of success,

trying to put the discouraging tale as tenderly as

possible. 'The difficulty,' he said, 'of getting out a
Iliterary work at present is immense.
                                             have never been

able to get my first volume of Legends launched, and I

now begin to despair of doing so.' In short, our

aspiring Ixion cannot have the real Juno, but here is a

cloud, as like her in form and colour as a cloud can

possibly be, and he is most civilly invited to derive what

satisfaction he can from embracing it.

Sir Thomas's note is dated 14th October, 1833 ;

Miller replies on the 18th of the same month. He is

disposed to make as much of the cloud as is feasible,

but sees well that it is a cloud after all.

     ' Honoured Sir,

           ' I little thought, when writing you last spring,

of the world of trouble to which my request and your

his 'traditions:                                  297

own goodness were to subject you ;--had I but dreamed
of it I would not now, perhaps, be possessed of your

truly valuable opinion of my MS. ; an opinion which

has given me more pleasure than I dare venture fully to
express. I set myself down in my obscure solitudes to

seek amusement in making rude pictures of my homely

Iancestors and the scenes of humble life by which am

surrounded, and find that my careless sketches have

elicited the praise of a master.
     ' In a work composed as mine has been and on such

a subject, by a person, too, so unacquainted with the

taste of the public and the present aspect of the literary

world, what wonder that there should be a good deal

which would be perhaps better away? The circum

stances which have barred upon me those magazines of

thought which constitute the learning of the age have

prevented me from acquiring its manners or becoming

familiar with its tastes. And yet, as it was probably

these very circumstances which led me to think on most
Isubjects for myself,
                       must just bear with the mis

fortune of being uncouth and tedious in some of my

pages for the sake of being a little original in the
Irest. . . . Some of my dissertations, too, are,
                                                  sus

pect, sad leaden things, though they amused me not a

little in the casting; and some of my minor traditions,

Ithough recommended to me by my townsfolks, are,

am aware, like reptiles in a bottle of spirits, hardly

worth the liquid which preserves them. . . . Some of

my acquaintance here, who seem much more anxious to

Isee my history in print than am myself, are urging me

Ito publish by subscription ; and this they assure me

could accomplish through the medium of my friends

without the meanness of personal solicitation, or indeed

Iwithout meanness of any kind ; but am still averse to

298 THE JOURNEYMAN.

the method, and at any rate will not determine with
regard to it until my MS. has been submitted to Mr

Shortrede's correspondent. Even should his opinion be

an unfavourable one, and the dernier scheme prove un

Ifavourable too, still my fate as a writer shall not, trust,

be decided by that of my Traditions. The same cast of

mind which has enabled me to overcome not a few of

the obstacles which my place in society and an imper

fect education have conspired to cast in my way, and
this too at a time when the approval of such men as the

Igentleman whom have now the honour of addressing

was a meed beyond the reach of even my fondest
Ianticipations, shall, trust, enable me to persist in im
Iproving to the utmost the powers which
                                         naturally
possess. And should I fail at last, it will assuredly be

less my fault than my misfortune.

    I I' am wholly unable to express the sense entertain
Iof your goodness, but believe, honoured sir, that can

feel and appreciate it. My days are passing quietly
Iand not unhappily among friends to whom am sin
Icerely attached, and by whom
                               know myself to be

regarded with a similar feeling ; and though that de

Ipression which affects the trade of the whole country

bears so low that it has reached even me, can live on

Ithe little which earn and am content. Still, however,
I indulge in hopes and expectations which I would ill

like to forego, --hopes perhaps of being somewhat less

obscure, and somewhat abler to assist such of my re

latives as are poorer than even myself; --but the future

belongs to God. Winter, my season of leisure, is fast

I Iapproaching, and should live to see its close shall

probably find myself ten or twelve chapters deep in the

second volume of my Traditions, maugre the untoward

destinies of the first.'

       his ' traditions:                    299

The reference to Mr Shortrede's London correspond

ent was unavailing. Nothing remained but to fall

'Iback upon the scheme of publication by subscription.
     stated,' he writes to Sir Thomas Dick Lauder in

June, 1834, 'when I had last the honour of addressing

you, that some of my townspeople and acquaintance
seemed to be more anxious to see my history in print

Ithan was myself, and that they were urging me to

publish it by subscription. It is not difficult to be
persuaded to what one half-inclines ; --my chief objection

to the scheme arose out of a dread of subjecting myself

to a charge of meanness by teasing the public into an

unfair bargain, --giving it a bad book, and pocketing

Imoney not counterfeit in return. But am assured

that the book is not bad, and that there would therefore

be nothing mean or unfair in the transaction ; and the

partiality for one's own performances, so natural to the

poor author, has rendered the argument a convincing
Ione.
       publish therefore by subscription so soon as
300 subscribers at 8s. can be procured ; --pecuniary

...advantage forms no part of my scheme ; and though
I Inot very sanguine, trust shall succeed.  If ever
my Traditions get abroad I find they will be all the

better for having stayed so long at home. Since send

ing you my MS. I have thought of alterations which

will materially improve some of the chapters.'
     The subscription scheme was attended with com

plete success. Miller's townsmen and friends exerted
themselves strenuously in his behalf, and in due time

his book saw the light. But we must not anticipate.
     His correspondence, while these negotiations on

the subject of his volume were in progress, had been

copious, and some portion of it must be laid before
the reader. No further introduction is required to

300 THE JOURNEYMAN.

the following selection from his letters of the period
addressed to Miss Fraser. Whenever Miller left

Cromarty, whether for Inverness or elsewhere, he com
menced writing to Miss Fraser, and seems to have
carried a pen and ink-horn along with him, so that he
might put his impressions into black and white for con

veyance to his mistress at every resting-place on the way.

                              ' Inverness, 10 o'clock at night.

     ' Your criticisms, my Lydia, came rather late, but

Iwhen I receive my proof-sheets shall bring them you that

we may talk over them. You are a skilful grammarian,
but in some points we shall differ, --you know we can
Idiffer and yet be very excellent friends.
                                            might try
Ilong enough ere could find a mistress so fitted to be
useful to me ; --so little of a blue-stocking and yet so
Iknowing in composition.
                          am glad you are better, and

that you slept so well last night, even though your
I Islumber abridged your letter.
                              saw you to-day as

passed your mother's. You were standing in the door

Iwith a lady, and looked, thought, very pale. O my

own Lydia, be careful of yourself. Take little thought

and much exercise. Read for amusement only. Set

yourself to make a collection of shells, or butterflies, or

plants. Do anything that will have interest enough to

amuse you without requiring so much attention as to
Ifatigue.
           was sadly annoyed in the steam-boat to-night
by a sort of preaching man, --one M --, a Baptist. He

has little sense and no manners, and his religion seems
to consist in finding fault. Of all nonsense, my Lydia,

religious nonsense is the worst ; of all uncharitableness,
that of the sectary is the bitterest. We too often speak

of intolerance as peculiar to classes who chance to have
                            --as inseparably connected
the power of exercising  it,

LETTERS TO MISS FRASER.               301

with Church establishments and a beneficed clergy ;--

but it is not with circumstances or situations that it is

connected, it is with inferior natures, --it is with bad

men. The proud heart-swollen Churchman who con
demns heretics to the flames of this world, and the ran

corous heresiarch, his opponent, who can only threaten
them with the flames of the next, possess it in an equal
degree. Nay, it may rage in the breast of the Dissenter

and find no place in that of the Churchman. I saw as

much of it in M -- to-night (and yet no man could

denounce it more earnestly) as might serve a Grand

Inquisitor. I had no dispute with him, as I saw it would

be an easier task to find him argument than comprehen

Ision ;--besides, wished to see the fellow, horns and all ;
Iand had touched him he might have drawn in the latter.

Good-night, my Lydia; these are common-place remarks,
but they have an important bearing on the present
time. A persecuting, intolerant spirit directed against
our national Church animates the great body of our
Dissenters, and there cannot be a fairer specimen of the

more active of the class than M --. Good-night :-- fine

thing to be able to write to one's friends.

                      ' Thursday morning, Inverness.

' I have been walking about the streets for an hour,

looking at people's heads and faces, and at the book
I Isellers' windows.
wish knew the house you were
Iborn in ; would pay my respects to it with a great

deal more devotional sincerity than some pilgrims feel

when kneeling before the Virgin's house at Loretto. I

have been walking in the suburbs ; --it is still too early

to call on any of my acquaintance. You little know, my
I Ilassie, how covetous have become.
                                      have hardly in

the course of my walk seen a snug little house with

302 THE JOURNEYMAN.

woodbine on the walls     and   a garden in front without
                          with  my Lydia, and with a very
half ejaculating, " Here

little of that wealth which thousands know not how to

Iemploy, could be happy." Well, though not born to
riches, I have been born to what riches cannot purchase,

--to the possession of an expansive heart that can be

sincerely attached, and happy in its attachment, and to

the love, the pure, disinterested, unselfish love, of a

talented and lovely woman.

                                                       ' Drynie Farm, Friday morning.

    ' After leaving Mr Sutor, I called at the Courier office.

Mr Carruthers himself had not yet come in, and in the

interim I took a stroll with the head printer of the

establishment, to the building now erecting on the

ICastle Hill, where saw more than twenty masons, but

knew only two of the squad. Ten years, and so long

Iis it since wrought at any public work, have well nigh

worn out my acquaintance with my brethren of the
mallet ; but many of them in this part of the country
who do not know me personally have a kind of favour

Ifor me as one who does them no discredit ; and saw
Isome of them whom had been pointed out to (do smile

at my vanity !) looking at me with something like com
placency. Masons are in general rough-looking fellows,
and their occupation is dusty and toilsome, but 1 know not

a manlier or a better suited to exemplify Bacon's remark

on laborious as opposed to sedentary employments.

    ' On my return I saw Mr Carruthers. He was very

kind, and showed me his library, and kindly offered me

the loan of any of his books. I saw with him a fine, shall
I say affecting, print of Cowper. It bore in the fixed

lines of the face the marks of a vigorous intellect and a
fine playful wit, but oh the expression of withering

,

            IN INVERNESS.                                 303

blight and hopeless despondency that rested on the
features ! There was sadness in the beautiful eye and
on the expansive forehead, a sadness which the voice
of friendship or of fame, or the bright rays of genius,
vainly strove to dissipate ; and the meek firmness of the
lips was a firmness which seemed to contend with agony.

I Icould almost cry as contemplated it.'

                                         1Grey Cairn, half-past three o'clock.

I' Here, my own Lydia, have sitten down to write

you after a rather smart walk of about eleven miles ;

and my first thought is of you. Have you ever visited

the grey cairn, or surveyed the bleak barren moor that

spreads around it ? It towers high and shapeless

around me, grey with the moss and lichens of forgotten
ages, --a mound striding across the stream of centuries,
                                  pforergseotntte,n--, --a avomucehmeor riatol
to connect the past with    the
attest the truth of events  long

carved over by the fingers of fancy with a wild imagin

ative poetry. How very poetical savage life appears

when viewed through the dim vista of time ! The

savages of   the present day we regard as a     squalid,  lazy,
cruel race                                       of the   wolf,
            of animals, -- disgusting mixtures

the fox, and the hog, who live and love and fight, not

with the wisdom, gallantry, courage of men, but with

the craft, the brutality, the ferocity of wild beasts.
Not such the sentiment when we look through the

clouded avenue of the past on the deeds and habits of

our painted ancestors. The poetical haze of the atmo

sphere magnifies the size of the figures, smooths down

their various hardnesses of outlines, and softens and im

proves their colours. On the wild moor before me have

some of them fought and died in some nameless but

hard-contested and bloody conflict -- nameless now,

  304 THE JOURNEYMAN.

  though long celebrated among their descendants, and
  often sung at their rude hunting feasts and war banquets.
  See how we are surrounded by vestiges of the fray !

 Observe yonder rectangular, altar-like tumulus -- the
 scene, it is probable, of human sacrifice ; --mark how

 thickly those grave-like mounds are scattered over the
 moor, and how regularly they run in lines. And then

 turn to the cairn behind, --the monument of some fallen

 chief. Give yourself up for a moment, my Lydia, to the
 sway of imagination. The moor is busy with life, the
 air rent with clamour. Do you not see waving arms
 and threatening faces, the glittering of spears, the flash
ing of swords, eyes flaring, wounds streaming, warriors
falling ? See, the combatants are now wedged into

dense masses, now broken into detached bands, --now
they press onward, now they recede, --now they open

their ranks, now they close in a death grapple. There
are the yells of pain, the roarings of rage, and the shouts
of exultation. Passion is busy, and so is death. But the
figures recede and the sounds die away, till we see only
a wide solitary moor, with its mounds and its tumuli,
and hear only the wind rustling through the heath.'

                                                       ' Cromarty, half-past six o'clock.

    I' Here am once more in my little room. Mother is
Ipreparing tea for me ; and have just given, as is my

wont after returning from a journey, halfpennies apiece
to the children and to Angus, the idiot boy, who has
been sadly annoyed at my absence. The degree of
fatigue incurred by walking nearly eighteen miles in a
warm day has in some slight degree blunted the edge of

Imy mind, but it has spared my affections, -- can love
Ias warmly as ever. Dear me, here is Bell, -- am to see

you and to get tea from you to boot.'

              LETTERS TO MISS FRASER.                  305

   ' Thank you, my own kind lassie, for your long and
I Iexcellent letter.
              wish you but knew how much en

joyed it on the first perusal and admired it on the second.
...But, my own dearest Lydia, am I not tasking you over
much ?        Do not be so careless of yourself. You are

Iapalnaredleardbyoadnmyduactrhheitnnonooet,praloevaeamrndathftrheaiindm,, mivdeynriygLyhetdqiuaoa;illlyd:--omnyaoottcuhbreedcmoim;n--de

the energies of the one wear out the powers of the

other ; --be generous, my lassie, and take part with the

weaker side. Write me not continuously, but just a few

lines now and then when you chance to be in the mood ;
--now at the grassy side of the Leap --now beside the
Ibeechen tree ;--and that
                             may be able to take your

portrait at each sitting and to revert to the time of         is it,

state over each paragraph the localities and the hour.

But'       continue to lecture you    I inthis way you will

    iIf
care little for either writing me or hearing from me.

     Tell me, my Lydia, why           that fear so much more
                         ?
                                            by
                           I
                                 is
                                  it
for you than  for myself     hold life          quite as uncer
tain tenure   and do not know--for my constitution
     a
                     a;

                   I
by no means strong one--     iIf be great deal less sub
                                      a

ject to indisposition. But somehow sickness and death

do not appear half so terrible to me when       I in  looking

forward see them watching beside my own path, as
when see them lurking beside yours. Do love you
better than do myself or does the feeling arise out of
     I                    ?
       I

           I

one's confidence in one's own ability to resist or endure,
"?....which Young describes as making " men deem all men
mortal but themselves                 remember that when
aI

               I.

                                    I
                                                       I
on my rock excursions with parties of my schoolfellows

used to leap from crag to crag with the agility of the

chamois, as cool and unconcerned when on the edge of
  precipice, as when on the level shore. If, however,

     VOL.                    20

306 THE JOURNEYMAN.

Isaw any of my companions in places of danger, felt
           --

           ;
Imiserable     had full confidence  in myself, but so little
Iin them, that at every step they took expected to see

them topple down headlong. It has been said, my own

Lydia, that a philosopher in petticoats is a loveless thing ;

Iwhen converse with you in this fashion, it is in the

full conviction that few females' minds have been cast

in a more philosophical mould than yours ; but surely

there is little truth in the remark, for never yet was

there woman more warmly or more tenderly beloved.'

        '  You and I, my    Lydia, must converse some time     or
                                                              for
other       on the unlucky   subject of Friday night ; --not
the sake of argument --there are many subjects for us to

exercise our wits upon without meddling with religion

--but that we may arrive at the truth. I was sorry to

perceive that you were seriously displeased ; and that in

consequence of a rather unskilful statement of doctrine

Ion your part, which was dare say occasioned by the use of

language rather bold than correct on mine, Mrs
Iwas led to deem your opinion heretical.
                                               am con

Ifident that in reality we are at one on this subject.
Neither Mrs    nor ever doubted for a moment that

we ought to make Christ our pattern and example ; for
who can doubt that His whole life was just the entire law

of His Father reduced to practice ; and who does not

know that the law is the rule which God has revealed

for our obedience ? On the other, neither Mrs   nor
you nor I can doubt that the injunction " Do this and

live," whether applied to the law as embodied in written

commands or as exemplified in the life of Christ, is the

now impossible condition of the old covenant, not the

glorious watchword of the new ; and that under this

better covenant the ability of imitating Christ is a grace

HIMSELF AND WILSON.                    307

bestowed, not a condition exacted. All this, my Lydia,

might have been said and agreed to without any angry

feeling or personal remark ; but we are so weak and

foolish, my lassie, that we cannot so much as contend for

the necessity of imitating Christ without showing by

something more conclusive than argument how impos
sible it is for us to imitate Him aright. Perhaps in

some of our solitary interviews we may derive some

thing better than amusement from talking over the

subject, and something more than ordinary satisfaction

in finding that in the more important of our beliefs we

cordially agree. However diverse in our tastes, however

different in our opinions, however dissimilar in our

philosophy, let us at least desire, my own dearest Lydia,

to be at one in our religion. Whatever befalls us in

the future, --whether from the edge of some solitary

forest of the west our prayers shall ascend for assistance

and protection, or whether in some happy dwelling of our
own land they shall rise in gratitude to Him the bene
factor, would it not be well for us, my dearest, that they

should rise together addressed to the same God through

the same Mediator, and in quite the same way ; that each

should be employed in seconding the requests of the

other, not in internally lodging a protest against them ?
      ' Sir Thomas has sent me my manuscript, accom

panied by a brief and exceedingly hurried note from

Professor Wilson, in which he promises to write him a
Iletter on the subject in a few days. I must say, ex
Ipect very little from the Professor.
                                       question whether

he has read my first chapter. Besides, our style and

Imanner of thinking are so very unlike, that do not

well see how he can approve of my writings without          s

passing a sort of tacit censure on his own. He is one

Iof the most diffuse writers of the day ; am concise.

308 THE JOURNEYMAN.

His thoughts are detached ; mine are consecutive. His

descriptions, gorgeous with colour and exquisite in form,
delight only the sight ; mine, though less splendid,

appeal to the sentiments. His narratives are hung over
with splendid draperies ; mine are naked. He rarely

reasons on the nature of man ; I often. He is a Tory ;

I Ia Whig. What can expect from such a critic ? '

' School-house of Nigg, Monday evening.

I' Here am set in Mr Swanson's sleeping-room be
I Iside a not bad collection of books.
                      find am not
Inearly so great a literary glutton now as was fifteen

years ago ; --there was a keenness in my appetite at that
Itime which have hardly ever seen equalled. The very

heaven of my imagination was an immense library ; and

my fondest desires asked nothing more from the future

than much time and many books. Have you marked

the progress of your mind from the days in which you

dressed your doll, to the days in which you are addressed

Iby your lover ? remember that from my fourth to my
Isixth year derived much pleasure from oral narrative,

and that my imagination even at this early period had

acquired strength enough to present me with vividly

coloured pictures of all the scenes described to me, and

of all the incidents related. My mind then opened to
Ithe world of books.
                      began to understand the stories
Iof the Bible, and to steal into some quiet corner, that

might peruse tales and novels unmolested by my com

panions. In my twelfth year I could relish a volume of

the Spectator and some of the better essays of Johnson ;

--in my fifteenth I was delighted with the writings of
Ithe poets. About a year after found that 'twas better

to be solitary than in company ; --my mind had ac

quired strength enough, as nurses say of their children,

               HIS MENTAL HISTORY.                309

to stand alone ; and a first consequence of the improve
Iment was that exchanged my many companions for a
Ifew friends.
               became a thorough admirer of nature for
Iits own sake; --before,
                          had only affected to love it
from finding so much written in its praise. I was first

delighted by the mild, the calm, the beautiful, next by

the wild, the terrible, the sublime. Years passed on,
Iand man became my study.
                                delighted in tracing the

progress of the species, from the extreme of barbarism

to that of refinement, and in marking the various shades

of intellectual character. Studies of a more abstract
I Iclass succeeded, and became a metaphysician.
                                                  strove

to penetrate into the first causes and to anticipate the

remoter consequences of things ; and reasoned on subjects

as those which                        in Milton
" found no end                        lost," but
such

Ithey
                employed the fiends               when
                in wandering mazes                 soon

perceived that the over-subtle thinker reaps only a

harvest of doubt, and that, when truth is our object, it

is quite as possible to miss the mark by overshooting as

Iby falling short. In the progress related, and cannot

trace it further, habits have been successively formed

and relinquished, and appetites acquired and satiated.

But though many of these have   long  since ceased, much
of that which they accumulated   for
                                      me still remains, --

wrought up in some degree into one entire mass, but in

some degree also bearing in their separate portions the

colour and stamp of the period at which they were ac
Iquired.
          find, too, that as in the progress of my mind
(to use your own happy language) " What were at one

time the subjects of thought and reason to me have be

come first principles," so habits and modes of thinking

which have been formed under the influence of our

second nature --custom --have become to me what seem

primary tendencies of the mind ; and that if there be

310 THE JOURNEYMAN.

much of originality in my thoughts, I perhaps owe it in

nearly as great a degree to the peculiarity of my edu
cation as to any innate vigour of faculty. But you will
deem me dull and an egotist.'

                                                              1 Road-side, Tuesday, 11 o'clock.

    ' I am on my way to Chapel-Hill ; --the day is so

oppressively hot that the grass and corn look as if half

boiled, and there is a dense cloud of flies buzzing about
Imy head.
             saw two minutes since a large weasel

quitting its hole to drink. My eyes are so dazzled by

the glare of the sun on the white of your letter, which

I Ihave been again perusing, that hardly see the cha
Iracters am forming. You have embodied very happily

in your description, the yawning tedium of some of our

Cromarty parties, and caught to the life the tone of the

sort of flippancy which has to pass in them for wit. 'Tis

a sad waste of time, my own Lydia, to be engaged in

such ; --how much better could we not contrive to

spend an evening with only ourselves for our guests ;

Ibut suppose parties everywhere are almost equally

profitless.  T"hWeyhyw,e"resapyrsofSitolecsrastese,ve"ndion   Athens, in   its
best days.                                                   the people   call

in musicians when they entertain   their friends             "?  Is it
not because they have not learned  to converse ?

             ' Bayfield- Wood, two o'clock.

      ' Where are you at present, my Lydia, or how are

you employed? Am I with you as you are with me?

or has my idea for a time entirely left you ? Would
Ithat you were now beside me.  always feel as if at home

when in a wood. One wood is so like another, and

Ievery wood so like the one am best acquainted with,

that which covers the hill of Cromarty. Heigho ! when

                 THE SANDS OF NIGG.           311

Ishall we spend our days together ? and where ?

breakfasted at Inverness with a very happy couple, a
                T--,
Mr and   Mrs           and,    more for our comfort, the hus
         fully  twice  the
band is                        age of the wife ; --I, you know,

am only ten years older than you. The match was a
love one on both sides --in reality, whatever the world
Imay think, the most prudent matches of any.
                                              saw in

my journey a second and still more striking proof of

this. J. S -- has several aunts who prudently married

men in rather easy circumstances, and one aunt (Aunt

Barbara), who was so foolish as to marry a man who

was poor --merely because she loved him ; and who had

little else to recommend him in the eyes of the un

prejudiced than the possession of more sound sense and

sterling worth than fell to the share of all the other

husbands put together. The match, as you may think,

was very rationally deemed a bad one ; but, somehow,

circumstances are less fixed than the characters of men,

and it has so chanced that Aunt Barbara's husband holds,

at this time, a rather higher place in society than the

husband of any of the others ; --the match has in con
sequence become a good one. What if ours, you im

prudent, foolish girl, should yet become a good one too !

                       ' Manse of Kilmuir, half-past seven o'clock.

I' was on the way to the ferry this evening, but

John impressed me      to accompany him   on a visit to Mr
                                          together-- a long
M -- . We crossed      the sands of Nigg

dreary flat, roughened by the cord-like hillocks of the

sand-worm, and speckled with shells. Barren and

dreary as it may seem, I know no part of the country

busier with life. Myriads of sea-cockles have grown up

and perished in        in it,age after age, till the shells have so

accumulated, that              some places they form beds many

312 THE JOURNEYMAN.

feet in thickness ; and though thousands of cart-loads

have of late years been carried away for lime, the supply

seems as great as at first. As we passed through,

immense shoals of shrimps and young flounders were

striking against our naked feet, --reminding me, from

their numbers and their extreme minuteness, of the

Icloud of flies that buzzed round my head at noon.

saw the sand-worms lie so thickly that their little pyra

mids fretted the entire surface nearly as far as the eye

could reach, reminding one of the ripple raised by a

light breeze on a sheet of water, while the remote

Ihorizon was darkened by endless beds of mussels and
periwinkles.  am certain there is more of animal life

in a few acres of this waste than is comprised in the

human population of the entire world. In some com
opaf rathtievelgyeorloegceisntt--ertah--e rseecaenste,emast
                                                             least, in the chronology
                                                              to have stood several

fathoms higher on our coasts than it does at present.

Large beds of shells have been found in the interior of

the valley, the opening of which is occupied by the

sands of Nigg, more than two miles beyond the extreme
rise of the tide ; and John tells me that, not many

years since, the bones of a fish of the whale species

were found in the parish of Fearn, at a still higher level.

    I' was shown, on quitting the sands, two fine

chalybeate springs, which gush out of a rock of veined

sandstone among the woods of Tarbat-house. They are

thickly surrounded by pine and willow, in a solitary but

not unpleasing recess, and their waters, after leaping to

the base of the rock, with a half-gurgling, half-tinkling

sound, unite in a small runnel, and form a little melan

choly lochan, matted over with weeds, and edged with

flags and rushes. The waters of both are strongly

though not equally acidulous, and the course both along

          THE GROUNDS ABOUT CROMARTY.                   313

the rock and through the runnel is marked by a steep
belt of ferruginous matter, which might be converted
into a pigment, resembling burnt-sienna.'

                         ' Ferry Dale, Wednesday, half-past eleven.

' How delightful the grounds about Cromarty look

from this side the bay. Sir George Mackenzie of Coul

Ihas remarked, and dare say he is quite in the right,

that they are unequalled in at least all Ross-shire, but that

the taste displayed in laying them out belongs to the

obsolete school of a century ago. The hill-side, for

instance, instead of being divided into square parks,

should have been tufted with clumps of coppice, the

edge of the wood ought to have been broken by the

trees advancing in some places and retiring in others,

and the enclosures should have run in waving rather

than in straight lines. How innumerable, my Lydia, are

the associations connected with the scene before me.

Yonder is the burying-ground of my father, and yonder

the house of my mother. There is hardly a spot my eye

can rest on that is not wedded to the past by some in

teresting tradition ; and then, how enriched is the whole

scene by my recollections of you ! Yonder is the beechen

tree, and yonder the Lover's Leap, and yonder the little

Irocky recess in which met with you last winter with so

little hope of ever meeting with you again. Yonder, too, is
the old chapel of St Regulus, yonder the Ladies' Walk,

and yonder the house of Mrs F-- . What little insect-

looking things we are ! Quick and sharp as my sight
    were you the opening at the foot of the garden,
is,
would
       "'

             I in
                                              a

                                          I
                                                                                                                         ;
                                                         I
          sBeuetlyeoru"  merely    as little speck.     as between
                             must    return you unread

writing, working, and thinking of you, have no time to

devote to him.--But here comes the ferry-boat.'

                                      3H

                        CHAPTER XV.

LETTERS TO MISS DUNBAR OF BOATH MR J. R. ROBERTSON'S
                           RECOLLECTIONS OF MILLER.

                  Miss Fraser, Miller's most favoured corre

EXCspEoPndTent at this time was Miss Dunbar of Boath.

She read and admired his poems soon after their appear
ance, and his correspondence with her began some two
years before he saw Miss Fraser. He refers to her in
terms of admiring affection in the Schools and School
masters, and the letters which passed between them
prove that the feeling on both sides was one of ardent
esteem and tender enthusiasm. She was about twenty
years his senior, and her tone in speaking of his plans
and prospects is that of motherly solicitude, almost of
motherly pride. The tender strength of the affection
with which, unconsciously and without effort, he in
spired her, is remarkable. The fascination of his gen
tleness and sincerity, and of the gleams of beauty in
which his genius revealed itself when he spoke, is no
where more strikingly evinced than in the spell which
he cast over this noble woman. He visited her twice
in Forres, and she spent three weeks in Cromarty, prin
cipally in order to enjoy his society. These and other
circumstances of their intercourse are alluded to in the
correspondence. Along with the letters of Miller to

LETTERS TO MISS DUNBAR.                            315

Miss Dunbar are given one or two passages from hers
to him.

                       'Cromarty, November, 1829.
    I' have perused two of the works you have so

obligingly sent me --the volume of poems and the
"Wolf of Badenoch." Both have afforded me much
Ipleasure, and added,
                       trust, to the stock of my

ideas.

    I' It has been remarked, and believe with justice,

that while the historian immortalizes other men the

poet immortalizes only himself. A reason may be

assigned for this. We deem the historian merely a

medium through which we become acquainted with men

and events ; and are taught by him without growing

intimate with our teacher, --just as we admire the figures

in a painting without once thinking of the canvas on

which they are portrayed. It does not fare so with the

poet. From creation we infer a Creator, and from the

creations of the poet we rise by an unavoidable associa

tive process to the poet himself. We consider him not

as our teacher, but as our friend. He is not like the

canvas of a picture, but like the groundwork of a piece

of embroidery --a thing which blends with and relieves

every flower and figure raised on it

    I' From what have read of Spenser, I find reason to

deem him both a true poet and a sound philosopher ;
                                        from the " Wolf
                                        am led (shall
but from the

I Iof Badenoch
s"udtodetnhnees"s   of the transition
                   Faery Queen,"

make the confession ?) to institute a comparison between

the two works which does not very much exalt my opinion
Iof the latter.
a

      I
                                a
                                             iIs,
                 am no critic. Spenser             doubt not,

finer poet and greater genius than Sir Thomas, but

certain am that Spenser does not amuse me half so

much. His heroes and heroines are not real men and

316 THE JOURNEYMAN.

women, like Sir Thomas's, nor do they come crowding

round me in my solitary walks like his. The one work is

full of a stirring day reality, my recollections of the other
I Iblend with those of my dreams.
                                                    shall, however,

doubt not, relish Spenser better when my remembrance

of the creations of Sir Thomas wax fainter.'

              FROM MISS DUNBAK OF BOATH.

                                           ' Forres, 15 January, 1830.

           ' I was very much pleased with your letter, and
gratified to find I had been the means of procuring you

so  "mWucoh lfp"leaasnudrethaes  you have  derived  from  the  perusal
                                 poems.
of

to   ' Sir  Thomas Dick          Lauder said on seeing your letter
    me, "   The author of
                                 the ' Wolf of Badenoch,' whoever

that might be, had reason to be proud of the opinion you

expressed of it." -- I have no doubt you will read Spenser

with all the enthusiasm proper to a young poet when

you go to it with a mind dispossessed of other subjects.

      ' Miss Smith tells me you are going to Inverness to

work at your handicraft ; I suppose you will occasionally

work for Mr Carruthers ; he seems to be a clever man,
Iand think the Courier bespeaks him a man of inde
Ipendence.
              hope he will continue to prove himself

such in a place distracted by low politics and a narrow

Iparty spirit, too often vented in ungenerous, personal
reflections.  conjure you to be on your guard, and

preserve yourself from any share or feeling in these con
tests. Do not lend your fine talent to either or any

side ; next to your integrity to Heaven maintain your

independence ; be courteous to every one, but render
party service to none, and you will make yourself many

friends and no enemies.

         THE REAL AND THE IDEAL.                                           317

Miller's next letter is not dated, but it was evidently

I Iwritten at Cromarty soon after the preceding.
' Ever since knew myself        have hovered on the
verge of two distinct worlds ; --the one a gay creation

of happy animated dreams, the other a dull scene of

Icold untoward realities. Into the former have often

been drawn by inclination ; into the latter, dragged by
Inecessity.
             have enjoyed so much in the one, and
Isuffered so much in the other, that have sometimes

been disposed to regard them as the opposing scales in

Iwhich good and evil were to be doled out to me by

Providence. Had indulged, however, in so fanciful a

theory,  a few events of late occurrence would have over
turned
         it :--the real scene has begun to present an

Iaspect not very unlike that of the imaginary ; and that
  should be held not unworthy of the notice of such as

IMiss Dunbar, is a circumstance which deem char

acteristic of the change.

' Your kind intention of introducing me to the notice
... Iof Professor Wilson has, believe, been anticipated by
Principal Baird.           A Mr Gordon, Secretary to the

Highland Society, who himself writes for Blackwood,

Imade me a similar offer ; but declined both, on the
Iground that did not consider myself as yet free of the

a

              ;

           I
                    I
                      II
                              a is,I
                                   II
                                         I

                                                                       in

                                                      It
craft of authorship. The truth       am unwilling to

convert my literary amusements into mere matters of

business and      am afraid that, were to set myself

down to write for money, would soon learn to consider

them as such. Before became mason, have spent

whole days in constructing arches, and                                   building
towers and houses, -- now, however,
                                     seldom either

build or hew, except when cannot help it.                                  would

be sad matter were prose and verse to become but

half as irksome to me as building and hewing. Besides,

318 THE JOURNEYMAN.

I have little need for money, and need not risk any of
Imy happiness in striving

poor and as rich as the
                       to acquire     iDt.iogeneasm, --nethaorluygha,s
                       old cynic
I trust, not so ill-natured. I am poor in worldly goods,
-- rich in moderate desires. He who has lived con

tentedly on half a crown per week is by no means so
much within the reach of fortune as thousands of the

people who would not scruple to term him a very poor

man.

   I' Accept my thanks for your excellent advice regarding

the manner in which ought to conduct myself with

respect to the partisans of Inverness. . . . About a
Ifortnight ago saw an article in the
                                      , the matter of

which declared that paper to have a very long list of

subscribers, and the manner of which very satisfactorily
Iproved that it ought to have a very short one.
                                                     took

up the thing     with  all coolness,  and perfectly    free of
party prejudice        laid it down   boiling with   indigna
                 ;--I
                 I found my friend Mr Carruthers treated
tion

by him in a manner in which no gentleman ever treated

any one ; and you know, madam, it is much easier

to forgive one's own enemy, than the enemy of one's
                 I intend writing nothing but prose
friend

until I have improved my talent for this species of com
position to its utmost of my capability. I am at present

rather out of conceit with poetry ; and were it not for

Ione circumstance, would deem the publication of my

little volume a subject of regret. That one is the
impulse which the coming in contact by its means with
the public has given to my mind. Formerly my mind
was slow and indolent ; it is now comparatively roused

into activity ; and I am led to think that the much which

is dull and tame in my printed poems, is rather to be
attributed to that apathetical indifference which, about

PLANS AND PROSPECTS.                       319

two years ago, constituted my almost every-day mood,

than to any want    of native power. You   smile at my
                                             Remember,
conceit. --Well, I   have done so myself.
Ihowever, that the species of conceit which display on
the present occasion is not quite that of the past. It

...plumes itself on an ability to produce, not upon anything
produced already.     I begin to relish Spenser. . . .
' You inquire regarding my plans and prospects.
The former are not complex, -- the latter are not gloomy.
In the spring, summer, and autumn seasons I intend
Iplying the mallet, that may be independent ; --in the
I Iwinter
purpose exercising the pen, that           may be
Iamused, and (the truth will out) that may be known.

With independence, amusement, and a very small portion
of celebrity, I trust to enjoy a competent share of happi

ness ; and, with the assistance of God, to prove myself not

quite unworthy the esteem of the few individuals whose

characters resemble that of my present correspondent.'

     The Mr Strahan referred to in the following letter

was one of the many friends whom the publication of

his poems procured him. Mr Strahan was himself a

writer of poetry ; and it may be mentioned that it is a

son of his whose name appears on the title-page of this
biography. Furthermore, that it was on Miller's recom

mendation and advice that the publishing profession was

chosen for the son of his friend--Miller himself making

the necessary arrangements with Messrs Johnstone and

Hunter of Edinburgh.

                                                                     1 Cromarty, March 12, 1831.

    I' In the long beautiful days of summer have often

pitied my friend Mr Strahan, confined as he is by

his profession to a dull monotonous apartment. After

flinging down my mallet to contemplate the glorious
sunshine, poured out around me on the fields, orwoods,

                                                                                                  >

320 THE JOURNEYMAN.

and mountains, when a light refreshing breeze, laden
with the scents of the wild flowers, has come sweeping

over me, or a sudden gush of melody has burst from a
                                         I have deemed
nofeigahllboumreincghanthicicsk. e--t,                   myself the happiest
                                        But mark the
                                                          contrast :--winter

comes, and then Mr Strahan's profession proves the

better of the two. The thicket has still its music, for

the blast howls through loud and continuous as theit,I
                                           is
roar of the ocean --shower after shower comes beatingI
                   is                         in I
against  me, dashing   ;  my poor           tangled      tresses against   my
cheeks                    solace in          looking      abroad, all     dull
         --there no                                      a
is                                                           is
            a;
                a
and dismal, -- nature lies dead, and the very firmament

but burial vault and thus toil on, till colder
                          ;

blast or heavier shower sends me home half frozen,

and somewhat less than half alive, to cower and chitter
over the fire. --Well, such
                                        the balance of human life.

Where are they that have no winter?

'  You recommend to me the study of sculpture as
                                                         a

                                                                     it

                                                                       J. a
means of bettering my condition life. Why, can't
be much bettered. 'Tis true am not rich, -- and yet,

thanks to the industry of my father, should Lord

Russell carry his motion,                   shall have voice in the

Legislation of my country. With books, which you so

obligingly offer me, am rather poorly provided but
                          it I                           I
                                                                    ;
the great book of nature lies continually open before me,

and were to live to the age of Methusaleh,                           would
         I

still have much of to peruse. Oh, with what splendid

passages are its pages filled           !'
      The incident of Miss Smith's falling into the burn

(of Eathie), alluded to in the next letter, occurred at one
of those picnics of which Miller and his Cromarty friends

were fond. Miss Smith, having fallen into the burn,

         in
                        by
                                                      a
was contemplated                        Hugh with placid interest which

did not            the least prompt him to lend assistance.

                     PHILOSOPHY OF SICKNESS.                  321

He was considerably bantered for his ungallant conduct.
From the concluding portion of the letter it is evident
that Miss Dunbar had pressed Miller to visit her.

                                        ' Cromarty, March 12, 1833.

' You have been unwell for a long long time, but
Inow that you have recovered            may venture to say " It
was all for the best," without, I trust, subjecting myself

to the suspicion of being one of those cold philosophic

sort of people, --mere abstract intelligence,--who are so

bravely employed in thinking that they have no time to

feel. Indisposition          ; is,  to be sure, sad thing in itself.
                                        a

Sad matter for the soul to be sitting in darkness, the
                                                            it in
recesses of her poor shattered tenement, like Marius amid          a it
the ruins of Carthage --to have at morning to breathe
                                               text, " Would
one's wishes         in   the language of the  Would God      God
                       "   and at evening, "                    were
mweorrenienvgenin"g
I                    !But when we consider human life as
             !
whole, and man as creature that lives both in thea
                             a

past and the future, we see that even pain and sickness

form parts of                beautiful and well-arranged system.

Nay, am convinced, paradoxical as the opinion may

appear, that they add nearly as much to the sum of

human happiness as they take from it. You, my dear

mrbeeacodbvauemtre, ldith,ta--lev,ereybcoeouevnehrealoddngtwhvhaetarty?soumhneewaelftlehl,w?a--mndonnantyh,oswthbayetofuowrehoau--vlde
have you not also recovered your youth --the freshness,
                 a
                                                a

                                                          it

                                                                                ?

                                                                        by

                                                       iIf
                                                                                                                                           ;
gaiety, and the warm hopes of girlhood. Life palls

upon us when our course through lies,                         may so

speak, on smooth level road bounded                  two straight

walls,  and we       grow    old     in our spirits  while we are yet
young   in years,                   when the path    goes winding over
                     --not    so

hills and valleys, with here deep broad stream which we

VOL. I.                             21

322 THE JOURNEYMAN.

must ford at the risk of being swept away, and there a
beautiful meadow with its flowers and its birds. Every

recovery one has from sickness is in some degree a return

Iof one's youth, and could almost endure to be many

times sick for the sake of being many times young.

    I' Now that I have got into this train, must give you

the result of my speculations on character, of which you

yourself (nay, do not start) are in some measure the
Isubject.
           have observed that you are one of that happy

class of people who have the principle of immortality so

strong within them that they never become old. The

whole human race may be divided into two grand classes,

but the one is to be reckoned by its tens, and the other
by its millions. In the more numerous class, we see

man the animal, the creature of corruption and decay ;

in the other, man the child of eternity. The young of

most animals are gay sportive creatures, to whom life

is enjoyment, --only think of the lamb and the kitten ;

but the one becomes the stolid ruminating sheep, the
other a staid demure puss, with a great deal of worldly

wisdom, and powers of gravity altogether incalculable.
Thus it is with the animal class of men. You may

know their age as exactly by the state of their minds,

as that of a cow by the rings on her horns ; they are

playful in youth, grave and staid when mature, stupid

in old age ; their minds are so much of a piece with their

bodies, that it needs no ordinary powers of faith to

believe that they will not perish together. The people of
                                  is true, --the more
the other class  are animals, it                       the pity,
                  preponderates    in them over the     animal.
--but the man

It is the part of them which neither dies nor becomes

old, that gives their character its tone. We see the

earthy house of one of this class falling into decay, and

know that it must soon be altogether uninhabitable, --

                       LETTER TO MISS DUNBAR.                              323

but then the tenant is still young, and all we think of

the matter             is,  that when term day comes, he must just

leave the falling tenement, and go somewhere else.

Even so much as to dream of his perishing along with

I it    would be preposterous.          It       his house that falling
                                                                    in
                                             is                        is

    into decay, not he himself. You, my dear madam, are

    one of these young people, and congratulate you on the
                                        I

    fact myself perhaps belong to them but my case
         ;I                                                 a a;
    there            sad circumstance which nearly balances this
             is                                                it,
                  a

    advantage. You very wisely became young woman

    before you stood still     ;        on the other hand, grew up to

                                    1,

    be boy some fifteen years ago, and boy (don't tell)a
      have continued ever since. Can't help however. . .

                  How defend my conduct in the burn Very
                                                                       ?

    easily. Never was there young lady so woefully                             in

    danger of falling martyr to                             classical association.
                               a
                                                         a

    You remember the old mythological story of Venus

    springing from the waves of the sea. On seeing Miss

    Smith rising out of the stream, instead of thinking on

    the best means of extricating her, could think of only
                            I
                                               I

                                                                          by
                                                                                                                                !
                                                                     If
    the story. And could not help that, you know

    Miss S., however, will but favour me                            falling into

    the burn second time, no association, however class
        'I
                    a
    ical, shall come between me and my duty.                           it      the
             have been thinking of your "little chamber                    in

    wall," with its bed and its stool, and find that wants

    only the prophet but word
                            ;  Ia                           your ear, the prophet
                                       in
        not at all sure that he has yet succeededin                    establish
    is                                             a        is
                                                                   in
    ing the authenticity of his mission, and disposed, until

    he has done so, to content himself with the modicum of

    honour which he receives            his own country.                   If  my

    Traditions come out,                am vain enough to think                 ;I

    might venture in the strength of them as far as Forres

    but to be pointed out iif such place merely as the

324 THE JOURNEYMAN.

author of a volume of prose rhyme, would seriously

injure my pride. You have now my secret. It is based
on a weakness in my disposition, which I would not
much like to unveil to everybody; but I know with
Iwhom  have to deal, -- one too intimate with human

nature, and too conversant with its better feelings, to be
severe on what is wayward in the character of, honoured

and dear madam,' &c.

Miss Dunbar is not disposed to put up with this

excuse for refusing to visit her, and has expostulated on

the subject. Miller now offers to go. His half comic,

half savage remarks on the Cromarty Radicals, are

Icharacteristic. The pamphlet mentioned take to have

been that on the Chapel Case, of which we have heard.

    I' have been a very great blockhead ; not so much

for raising the curtain, as for having anything behind it
which were better concealed than seen. Instead, how

ever, of apologizing in the ordinary way, I shall just

raise it a little higher, and give you a full view of what

you are yet only acquainted with in part. In a case

like the present it is policy to be candid. Is it not

partial views and half glimpses that convert bushes and

stones into ghosts and witches ?

' In the first place, then, it was no fear of being made
Ia lion of that kept me on this side the frith. know you
Ibetter than to fear that.
                                may indeed belong to the
                                                ;--but then
class felis in  both your opinion and my own    very best I
so does the
                common cat ; --besides, at the

am but what the schoolmen would term a possible lion,

and it has long since been decided by the Angelical

I
                        I

                                         fly
                                                  is
                                                     is

                                                                a
                                                                                    a

                                                    Ia

                                                                                                 a
Doctor that an existent         better than even possible

angel. But though had no        fear on this head, am
most foolish fellow, and there
                                    feeling -- morbid one,
suspect -- that continually hangs about me that pro

            HIS DIFFIDENCE.                                                             325

Iduced in this matter nearly the same effects as if had.

I must explain. You remember Addison's description

of those trap-doors on the bridge of Mirza, through

which the unfortunate passengers were continually

dropping into the water? The minds of some men

abound with such doors. Their judgments seem

Istately structures, if may so speak, that connect the

opposite regions of causes and effects --of means and

ends ; we see their purposes and resolves moving rapidly

along the arches, and think they cannot fail of passing

from the one extreme point to the other. Suddenly, how

ever, they disappear     in the midst, and  leave their objects
unattained. Or to        drop the allegory
                                            :--How often are

we surprised in even superior men by some unthought-

of inconsistency that mars all their wisdom, some latent

weakness that neutralizes all their powers. There
            a                                                                           my
                                                                      a

                                                                                   is,
dear madam, weakness, an inconsistency,     trap-door

of this kind in the mind of the poor fellow who has now

the honour of addressing you. Its appearances and

modes of operation are as various as the circumstances

which exhibits itself, but for general name, be
I iIf a I in                   It           a
     aIlieve, may term diffidence. torments me as much
as conscience does some men.      a             I: I
        I                          For instance --There

               it itare few excellent people in Cromarty whose company

              is Ideem very agreeable, and whose friendship value
                   I it
very highly, but whose thresholds without special in

vitation never cross. Why   ?  Just because diffidence

tells me that am but poor mechanic, regarded with
                         a

kind, perhaps, but still compassionate feeling, and that

but take the slightest commonest liberty of social in

tercourse,      at the peril of being deemed forward and
obtrusive.  Well, receive an invitation and accept it.

come in contact with persons whom like very much
                                     I

                                                                                         ;

the better feelings are awakened within me, the intel

326 THE JOURNEYMAN.

Ilectual machine is set a- working; and  communicate
my ideas as they rise. " You chattering blockhead,"
Isays diffidence, the moment return home, " what right,

pray, had you to engross so much of the conversation
to-night ? You are a pretty fellow, to be sure, to set

up for a Sir Oracle !--Well, you had better take care
ntsaheecxittcuatrtincm.hee.s""mPerNayea,xlotMnetr,imB"elwochcokamt,"efssiae,ynsadnddtifefimIdepantmecde,eyxthcoeeueidntisontgalgynot

and eat the lady's bread and butter to-night, when you

had determined prepense not to tender her so much as a

single idea in return ? A handsome piece of furniture,

truly, to be stuck up at the side of a tea-table. Per

haps, however, you were too good for your company,

and wished to make them feel that you thought so."

But truce with the accusations of the witch ; fifty pages

would not contain the whole. Was not Diffidence the

wife of that giant Despair, whom Mr Greatheart slew

when he demolished Castle Doubting ? She, too, is said

to have perished at the same time, but both must since
Ihave been resuscitated.
                          stand, however, in no fear of
the husband, giant though he be ; --but alas for the iron

despotism of his lady !

    I' Need say anything more on this head ? Just one

other sentence. Some of the concluding lines of my

last were written indeed by me, but only as amanuensis

Ito the giantess. And now that have made a full dis

closure, and constituted you my confessor, what penance
Iare you to impose ?
                      am just going to ask you whether
I shall yet get leave to visit you some time in the leafy
end of May; and if you are very, very angry, and intend

being very, very severe, it is in your power fully to avenge
Iyourself by forbidding me to come at all.
                                            often think

of Forres, not much, indeed, comparatively at least, of

THE ATTRACTING FRIENDSHIP.  327

the beauties of its scenery, or of its old castles and

Iobelisks, though am not the kind of person wholly to
Islight these, -- think of it as the home of some of my

friends ; particularly as the home of her who has so
kindly interested herself in my welfare, whose friend

Iship have deemed so much an honour, and found so

much a happiness, and who in her warm-heartedness has
held converse with me, not as the mere lady of birth

and education who condescends to notice some poor half-
taught mechanic, but such as one intelligence holds with

another of the same class. It is wonderful how numer

ous the analogies are which subsist between the intel
lectual and material worlds. You are acquainted with
that principle of attraction which binds into one solid

mass any amount of particles which have been pressed
together until brought within the sphere of its influence,

and that opposite principle which makes them repel one
another when removed from out of this sphere by the
least possible distance. And are there not similar prin
ciples operative in the respective states of mere acquaint
anceship and friendship ? Is there not repulsion in the
one, attraction in the other ? Nay, are they not both
operative in even friendship itself ; -- the friend who con
verses with one merely on paper, or in a mixed company,
or under the influence of some such evil spirit as diffi

dence, is environed by an atmosphere very different from
that which surrounds the friend to whom, when the pen
is happily no longer of use, the world shut out, and the

fiend dispossessed, one can open one's whole heart, and
mingle thought with thought, and feeling with feeling.

I Itrust that before the end of May shall have availed

myself so much of your kindness as to be fully within
the influence of the better principle. But not one word

of Altyre ; --remember the giant's wife.

328 THE JOURNEYMAN.

' We of Cromarty have narrowly missed losing our

minister, and to the thinking part of us a shrewd loss

it would have been. Mr Stewart would have proved

Ihimself second to none, or am much mistaken, in even

Ithe pulpit once occupied by Dr Chalmers ; but who,

alas ! could we have got to fill his ? And much sus

pect that, in less than a twelvemonth, he himself would

not have found the amount of his happiness at all in
creased by the change. He has too little of the work

ing-day world about him for the bustle of public life,

and his mind, with all its powers, is not of the kind

best fitted for a regular routine of business. It is said

of the lion that, with all his immense strength and activ

ity, he is a slow-paced and sluggish sort of animal, and

that though on extraordinary occasions he can leap
twenty feet at a bound, and carry off a buffalo with as

much ease as a horse carries its rider, he can yet lie for
whole days in his lair half asleep, half awake, too indo

lent to move head or limb. There is something of this

disposition in Mr Stewart ; not that he wills to have
                                                  ;

                                                             it,
but because he has been born with it. When fresh and

in heart he can make amazing lion-like efforts but he

    no steam-engine, and must be indulged with long
breathing spaces in which to recover himself. With all
is
                 it,

                                is
his eccentricity he an excellent sort of fellow, eloquent,

pious, an original thinker, and singularly fortunate,  ; if     he
but knew in both his friends and his enemies
                                                             a--

person of spirit, you know, would like to have the choos

ing of the one as certainly as that of the other but Mr
                                                  ;

Stewart somehow does not seem to be aware of this.            It

so happens that we are much infested in Cromarty       by

                                                           a

kind of vermin called Radicals, and have not yet got an

aact of parliament for knocking      them on   ;the head. To Mr
Stewart they bear      decided      antipathy  --very naturally

           THE CROMARTY RADICALS.                               329

Ias blockheads they      dislike him  for  Ahinstogneinoi,us",  and being
bad men,   ;h"ateanhdim  as Shylock   did                       for he is a
Christian
                         am afraid the petty annoyances they

contrive to cast in his way molest him at times more

than they ought. He has weak nerves, lives retired,

and has scarcely any turn for friendship, and so little
Ihurts him ; but trust he will yet learn wholly to dis
Iregard them.
               am a Whig, and yet they do me the

honour of hating me nearly as heartily as they do him ;

but I am a thick-skinned, rough, shagged kind of animal,

and as in all the bickers in which they have engaged me

I have contrived somehow to get the laugh on my side,

and could besides give the best of them a drubbing

would they but choose to favour me with an opportunity,

I have been let alone of late. --You have seen my pamph

let. Is it not a piece of mortal ill-nature ? Remember,
Ihowever, that am not to be judged with regard to it
Iby the laws of the Duello.
                                      had not to fight with a

man of honour, but merely to horsewhip a low fellow

who had insulted a party of ladies and a reverend gen

tleman

     ' For my own part, though no one can surpass me in

the esteem I entertain for the better sex, and though

perhaps not naturally unsusceptible of the softer passion,

I deem myself as much tied down to a life of celibacy
as if I were a Romish priest. A refined taste and cul
tivated understanding I have vainly sought for in women
Iof my own sphere ; and though have sometimes found
Iboth in those of another, cannot seriously think of such

as objects on which to fix a hope. No one of a superior

Istation could become my wife without making a sacrifice

which I could not permit in the woman loved; -- I

could not wrong her so much, as to make her the wife

of a poor mechanic. But friendship still remains for

330 THE JOURNEYMAN.

me :--Some of the best of my species do not disdain to

be connected to me by this tie ; and with the help of
God it is my purpose so to live that their kindness to me

shall be no sacrifice.'

The speculations on the philosophy of evil in the

following letter are not without ingenuity, but we have
already seen that Miss Fraser, the lady who accompanied
Miss Smith in the walk described towards the close,

could put the needle-point of her woman's wit and logic

with rather startling effect into the prettily coloured

balloons which Miller used to    fly

                                       '

                                                       a

                                                             It
                                 upon that subject.

seems probable that she pressed him closely on this

occasion, and that the compliments to her sex into

which he launches may be viewed partly as magnanim

ous tribute to her victory.

                                      Cromarty, May 21, 1833.

What exquisitely lovely evenings this month has
'

               !

        I
given us          have just been out among the woods en

joying one of the finest sunsets ever witnessed and
                             it

                                   I

                                              a

                                                                                              ;

                                                           Ia a
very pleasing flow of thought besides. The clown in
Othello advises the musicians who were serenading his

master to put up their pipes unless they could play
kind of music that could not be heard. The very best

kind am acquainted with has this peculiarity andI
have been delighted with this evening. The trees all
bursting into leaf, the sea, the distant hills, the sky

glowing with crimson and orange, little quiet town, --

nay, the very heath and moss, and the shapeless blocks

of stone that  glimmered red to  the  light in the openings
of the wood                      me   the chords of an im
               --all seemed to
               it ;
                                 I
                    a                 (I I

                                                                 by
mense instrument which had but to be awakened                        the

soul to yield          sweet music. And was so happy as

to succeed in awakening them.         felt the tranquillity of

the scene infused into my mind, and may hazard the

               EVENING LANDSCAPE.                     331

expression) my thoughts        and feelings as if     obfea"tiEnngthtuimsie
to the tones of it. The        unknown author

asm"* has made an ingenious distinction between

meditation and those more vigorous states of thought in

which the cogitative faculties alone are active, and he

has said that the former is more characteristic of the

IAsiatic cast of mind, the latter of the European. If the

remark be a just one, have been quite an Asiatic this

evening,  if,  indeed, we may define meditation to be that

state of the mind, which its better sentiments and its
               in

                            ;

                                I in
                                      I
intellectual powers are active together, though perhaps

 not in an equal degree --these combining, or creating

 or arranging, perhaps, slowly and languidly, those looking
 on with intense delight, rejoicing every idea, and lov
 ing every new or pleasing image with an overpowering
 love. Take, as illustrative of what mean, the cogita

tions of few minutes of this evening.                 stood on the
          a
            a
sweep of grassy declivity sprinkled over with forest

trees and bushes. Some of the former spring out of the

higher edge of the bank, and interlace their boughs at

a  great height over my head some of them have fixed
                                    ;
their roots so much farther down, that my eye on
                                    ;I                is
                                                               a

level with the cradle which the magpie has built for her

young among their branches              look over the topmost

twigs of still lower tree. See there the ash, with his
   if a                                 is
long massy arms, that shoot off from the trunk at such;is
acute angles, and his dark sooty blossoms spread over
him as he were mourning and there the elm, with;  is
his trunk gnarled and ridged like an Egyptian column,
and his flake-like foliage laid on in strips that lie nearlyit
parallel to the horizon and there the plane, with his
dark-green leaves and dense heavy outline, like that of

      Now so well known that       seems almost superfluous to name him,

-- Isaac Taylor.

332 THE JOURNEYMAN:

a thunder cloud ; and there, too, is the birch, a tree

evidently of the gentler sex, with her long flowing tresses

falling down to her knee ; there, also, is the lime, and

the larch, and the beech, and the silver fir. What a

combination of pleasing forms ! See in that vista to the
right which appears so exquisitely beautiful, every out
line is a wavy one, without any mixture of broken angles
or straight lines, while in the darker recess beside it
there is a harsher, stiffer assemblage of forms ; it is full
of cross lines and angles. But do not the deformities
of that recess render the scene, considered as a whole,

more perfect than it would be without them ? Do they

not enable me to appreciate what is exquisite in the rest

of it ? If there existed no such thing as deformity, we

could have known nothing of beauty ; just as if there was

no such thing as sickness, health would not be a word
                    or as if
in our vocabulary,            there were  no such thing as
shade or darkness,  no one    would ever
                                          have said, " It is

a good thing to behold the light."
     ' And is it not true that the scene now spread out

before me, with its many beauties and its few deform

ities, is a work of the Deity? that it was foreknown

of Him at a period when the very earth of which it

forms so minute a part, was but a portion of empty

space in an infinitely extended vacuum ; nay, that it

was foreknown of Him from all eternity, and that this

His idea of                   portion of His infinite
      is     as forming

         is

            it
                      by it,

                                   is
                                                      a

                                                                                        a

                                                                               in
knowledge and co-existent with Himself, may be re

garded as forming, with its apparent defects, part of

Himself, though He be perfect and indefectible? At

least,  not true that the sentiment of beauty and the

sense of deformity, as they exist in the human mind, are

effects of which He the cause, that the scene before

me marked           traits that arouse this sentiment                                      me,

            THE ORIGIN OF EVIL.                         333

and awaken this sense, and that the latter was given me
Ithat
       might be conscious of possessing the former ?
And how do these principles bear on that great, I may

add, inexplicable problem, the existence of evil, misery,

folly, imperfection, in the works of an infinitely good,
benevolent, wise, perfect God? May not evil be the

shade with which good is contrasted, that it may be

known as good, the sickness to which it is opposed as

health, the deformity beside which it is shown forth as

beauty ? Nay, may it not be affirmed on these princi

ples, that the plan of the Deity would not have been a

perfect one, if it did not include imperfection, nor a
wise one, if it admitted not of folly, nor a good one, if

evil did not form a part of it ? Is there not something

like this implied in the remarkable text which informs

us that the weakness of God is mightier than the
strength of men, and His foolishness more admirable

than their wisdom ? Such was the train of thought

which passed through my mind, and the conclusion at

Iwhich arrived ; and though, regarded as merely an in

tellectual  ofprmoucechss,vaitlume,a--y,   perhaps, be  neither very strik
ing nor                                   as a matter   which engaged my

better sentiments, awakened my more pleasing feelings,

Iand afforded me for the time much happiness, found

it to be valuable and truly good

    I' had the happiness a few evenings since of falling

in, in my usual walk, with our common friend, Miss
Smith, accompanied by another young lady (by far the

most intellectual of her companions), and had a long

and very amusing conversation with them ; so long,

indeed, that at length the stars began to peep out at us,

as if wondering what we were about. We differed and

disputed and agreed, and then differed and disputed and

agreed again. We, of the rougher sex, arrogate to our

334 THE JOURNEYMAN.

selves the possession of minds of a larger size than we

admit to have fallen to the share of the members of

yours. True, indeed, we have not yet thought proper

to produce the data on which we found the opinion,

                                                                    but
       a
                                     a

                                        is

                                    I

                                                           it,
                                                                                  it,

                                                                                         is
and are by far too strong to be compelled to

should we once seriously set about                 Cromarty would

prove      desperate bad field for us. By much the

greater half of the collective intellect of the town

vested in the ladies.'

      Before our next letter written, the promised visit

to Miss Dunbar has taken place. Immediately on re
turning to Cromarty, Miller had written to her and

intrusted the letter to young lady, who lost it. This

will sufficiently explain the opening paragraph. The

rest needs no elucidation, but                    know no letter of

Miller's which does more honour either to his head or

his heart. The brotherly walk home with the poor

woman on whom society had so long frowned was

intensely characteristic of Hugh.             by   would be pleasant

to know how she was impressed                  Ither companion.

                                              Cromarty, June 24, 1833.
                                              I'
      Only think how unfortunate                  have been Your
    '                                                            !
        is
letter reached Cromarty on Sunday morning, but the
              it
poor fellow whose heart would have leaped within him
                     is
at the sight of         was not there to bid                     welcome.
                      I it,                        in I
This
                                       is                    it
                                           anow Wednesday evening, and have only just

got home to the perusal. The loss of my letter                          is

positively nothing, -- at least, nothing             itself; but how

vexatious  to me to think for the last few days you

must have entertained hard bitter thoughts of me, --                I

have been careless, have been indifferent. But no                   ;I

will not permit myself to believe that have suffered                  in
                                                  I

your esteem. There                            faith and charity of friendship

JOHN FEDDES.                          335

as certainly as of religion ; a faith that is the evidence
of the good things hoped for, a charity that believeth

no evil ; and where shall I look for these if not in you ?
    I I' have, believe, told you that I keep copies of the

Iletters write to all my better and more valued corre

I Ispondents, --partly because loving often to peruse the

letters receive from them, have found that when the

topics of the passing moment had escaped my memory,
my own were necessary to me to render theirs in

telligible ; partly, too, because my letters furnish me

with a history of my thoughts, my sentiments, my feel

ings, --iu short, enable me to prosecute the study of
that most important of all the branches of philosophy, --

the philosophy of one's own life. The loss of my un
fortunate epistle is therefore virtually nothing but the

loss of a little paper ; you shall have every thought and

every word of it in this long ungainly sheet. Not that

I deem it at all worth copying, but because what I said
Iand felt when writing it is exactly what have to say
Iand what feel now.

     ' Your truly welcome letter of the 2nd of July found

me buried up to my eyes amid books and manuscripts,

in a little old-fashioned room within which my great

grandfather, John Feddes, passed his honeymoon with
IJean Gallie, in the good year 1698.
                                      dare say you

remember the story. He was a sincere, but not a

favoured lover, for he was poor and red-haired, and as

ugly and awkward as his great-grandson, who is said

very much to resemble him ; whereas, Jean was the

prettiest girl in the parish, and nearly the richest, and

she had, besides, the handsomest fellow in the whole of

it for her lover. Well, John saw her married to his

rival, and then went out in a terrible passion a buc

caneering to South America, where he wreaked his

33G THE JOURNEYMAN.

disappointment on the poor Spaniards, and filled a

great box   with                       doubloons.     On his return to Cromarty
he found   Jean                        very poor and
                                                       a widow, --the man of her

choice had been worthless and a spendthrift, and had
only courted her for her money. John, who had never

ceased to love her, liked her none the worse for her

poverty ; and as she had now no lover but himself, she
very wisely married him, though he was not only as

ugly and red-haired as ever, but very much sunburnt
to boot. And here they lived for about fifty years,

exceedingly well pleased with each other to the last.

               as have said, little one, its small dull-
is

                    is,

               in I
My room                                         a

paned windows are half buried in the thatch, and thereit
                                                          it

                                                                               ;
no getting                             at the door without making very pro
                                                                                  a

                                                                                          it

                                                                                                  is,
found bow indeed; and yet, little and rude as

John Feddes has been as happy in as ever Caesar was.

And have been very happy in too never happier,
I
      I                                         pineruasllingmyyofeuerlinkgisnd--, qkuiinedt

               it
                     is ;
however, than when                                                                            letter.
                                                                                                  my
You know am quiet                                                                             in
                                                                                                     is is
very enthusiasm but do not imagine that the stream

as shallow as                            noiseless. Do believe that there

both depth and power in at least those feelings of affec

tionate gratitude of which you yourself are the object.

had only left you for about half an hour, when
a a I'
the clouds began to lower on every side of me, as
          in                                                                      a
sky and earth were coming together, and the rain toin
                                                                                   I
descend                               :torrents. The great forest of Darnaway              a
                                                                                                    !
appeared blue and dark, as                            greeting the heavens                 I it a if
                                                      if

                                                                        ;
with scowl as angry as their own and there was

low, long wreath of vapour that went creeping over

like huge snake.                                 And how the wind did              roar
                                                 fool, that 'twas truly "
thought   with                         Lear"'s  and when taking shelter             naughty
night to  swim                                                                    for few

minutes under the arch of bridge, wished                                                      could
                                                a

                                                          I

        SIIAKSPEARES WITCH SCENE.                                                 337

  convert your books and the " Superstitions " (can you
  forgive me a wish so unpoetical ?) into a great loaf, and

  the arch into one of my Cromarty caves, that I might

kindle a fire in and take up my lodgings for the night.
   wish you had but seen the locale of Shakespeare's
I
                                                                    passing, with
                            it,

                          it
                                                                in
witch scene, as    frowned upon me

the old Castle of Inshoch, half enveloped in cloud and

  mist, standing sentry over it. The black dismal morass,

  with its inky pool and its white cannach, that showed
  like tears on hatchment, appeared still more black and
        a
  dismal through the blue-grey tints of the storm, and
  the heavily-laden clouds went rolling over like waves;
  of the sea. And then how the firs waved to the wind,
                                                                    it
  and the few scattered trees swung their branches, and                       in

groaned and creaked the thunder and the witches were
alone wanting. You see, my dear madam, that though

aI  might, and would certainly have been happier your

  snug sheltered parlour at Forres, than when exposed to
    storm of wind and rain on the Hard-moor, my situation

was not quite without its little balance of advantage.

Bad as the day was, would not now exchange my
recollection of for that of many better ones.

         reached Fort George dripping wet little before
    I'  it                       a
                                            a
              a
                                                                 ;
                aI
                                                       in a
three o'clock, and found among the passengers who wereby

waiting the ferry-boat           woman of Cromarty                                poor

disreputable thing, who          making false step early

life, lost caste and drifted in consequence almost beyond

the pale of society. We kept company all the rest of

the way, and had good deal of talk and found, what
                                 ;

                                      I

                                                          in
indeed had often found before, that human nature, even
    I

when at its worst, has always something good                                      it.

People often read the Scriptures amiss on this point, and
think, despite of an often-repeated experience, that be

cause our species  is            there represented as thoroughly

338 THE JOURNEYMAN.

separated from God, we can have no sincere regard for

our neighbour, no true affection for our friends, no for
giveness for our enemies, -- no love, no tenderness, no

pity. But we have all these, however, and this from

nature ; and these, and all the other feelings which draw

us out from ourselves and give us to one another, are

good. Both tables of the law were originally set up in

the sanctuary of man's heart. When he fell the first

of these was broken into fragments, which were raked

together by guilt and terror, and formed into an uncouth

idol named Superstition; but the second table, though

sorely rent and shattered, survived the concussion, and

with its darkened and half-dilapidated inscriptions,

holds its place in the sanctuary still. But this is not
I Iquite what meant to say.
                             found that my fellow-

traveller had an old bed-ridden mother, whom she

laboured to support, that she kept her daughter at

school, and that last year, on the breaking out of the

cholera, when a spirit of selfishness seemed to pervade

the whole country, and no one thought of friend or

neighbour, she had attended in his sickness a relative,

from whom she had formerly experienced some little
Ikindness.
            have found that what are called the good

and bad of our species (from the circumstance, surely, of
their having their virtues and vices based on a nature

radically the same), resemble each other much nearer

and have much more in common than the world chooses

to allow. The human God and human monster of

common report, when one comes in contact with them

and is enabled to balance all their traits and qualities,

prove to be nothing better nor worse than mere men.

I IFor my own part, have often found the good, when

became thoroughly acquainted with them, to be not much

better than myself, and the bad to be not much worse.

HIS VISIT TO FORRES.               339

IThis may, perhaps, be thought wild doctrine ; but

know it to be favourable to the exercise of those charities

which bind us to our species, and opposed to that idola

try of our nature which prompts us to prostrate our

selves before some poor faulty thing like ourselves ; and

besides, did not He act upon it who, though repeatedly

accused of being the friend of publicans and sinners,
Inever once rebutted the charge ?
                                   got home about six

Io'clock, without being nearly so much fatigued with my

journey of thirty miles, as when had travelled it in the

opposite direction ; and my friends were all as glad to see

Ime as if had been away from them for a much longer
Iperiod. I am, believe, richer in true friends than any
Iother person know, and my only secret regarding

them is the very simple one of being sincerely attached

to them.

    ' I look back on my visit to Forres with great and
unmixed pleasure. I really love my friends, and indeed

mankind in general, all the better for it ; it has added,

too, to the stock of my ideas, and enriched the little

mental studio, in which I have stored up my conceptions

of the good and the beautiful, with a series of images

superior to most of the others. I have read of a cele

brated Italian master who was so exclusively a painter

of landscape, that he could not so much as introduce

figures into his pieces. The scenes he portrayed seemed

to be scenes of the infant world at the close of the fifth

day's creation, ere there were animals on the plains or

in the forests, or man had become a living soul. Now,

this is not at all the way with my landscapes. There are

a few figures in the foreground of every one of them, and

the same figures, too. You yourself I have introduced

into every scene. Here you stand on the brink of a

precipice, there on the verge of a stream, yonder amid

340 THE JOURNEYMAN.

the glades of a forest. Immediately on our return from
I Ithe banks of the Findhorn, was almost afraid that
Ihad visited them to but little purpose.
                                                                          had seen

so very much, and my attention had been so fatigued,
that my recollection of their many beautiful scenes re

sembled the reflection on a lake, whose surface is par

tially agitated by the wind. My mind might be com

pared to the apartments of a house that has just been

taken possession of by a new tenant, when the pieces

of furniture lie higglcty pigglety on the floors, and we

Imarvel how they can ever be so arranged as to leave
room for anything else. But it is not so now.                                         have

now a complete picture of the river, with all its rocks

and its woods, its pools and and its rapids, from where

it sweeps through the meads of St John to where it

receives the waters of the Devy. The picture is rolled up

in a recess of my mind like a web of tapestry, and when
I but will
is                      unfolds scene after scene, until the whole
                 it,
                    it
   spread out. See, there are the meads, with the river

playing with us at bo-peep --now hiding itself among

the bushes, now looking out and laughing as at our
                                                                    is

                                                                                  if
attempts to discover                                                -- and there the heronry, with
is

              if

                           by
                                it

                                                                 ;
the large, grey, ghost-like herons sailing over their

nests, that look like so many lawyers' wigs and yonder                 ;
    the little fairy-like village of Sluie, inhabited, despite

of its beauty,          people who have no more poetry                                   in

them than       they were confined to hempen manufac
                                                                    a

tory, and saw only walls of dingy brick and roofs of

red tile.

'      Observe now how suddenly the character of the
scenery has changed. We have just left the district

of secondary rock--of abrupt sandstone cliffs and widely .
extended meadows -- for that of gneiss and granite the
                                                                                      ;

crags have become more rugged, the banks more in-.

          HIS VISIT TO FORRES.                                          341

variably  precipitous,    the river more  turbulent. Every
trace of  the labour    and skill of man
                                          has disappeared --

there are no impressions, not even the slightest, on the

rocks, the stream, or the forest, of the refinement or

civilization of the present age. The low country is

all over stamped with these ; we see them in the fields,

the houses, the villages, the gardens. Here, on the

contrary, Nature is still as much in her infancy as when

the naked huntsman of two thousand years ago, his

long beard whistling to the wind, and his breast and

limbs stained blue, and tattooed with rude figures of

the moon and the stars, first broke through the tangled

underwood as he pursued the stag, and met the animal

at bay on the steep edge of a yet unknown and name

less stream. But why unroll the whole web ? I cannot
add to the vividness of your impressions, but I can show

you the distinctness of my own.

' My imagination had been busy for a whole month
before I set out for Forres, in drawing pictures of all I
Iwas to be there brought acquainted with.
                                                                        had a

Findhorn of my own, and a Relugas, and a Churchyard

of Altyre, and a Dr Brande, and a Mr Grant ; and now

I have both the real and the imaginary landscapes and

portraits placed side by side, just like the two rainbows

we saw side by side, a bright and a fainter, when

returning from our excursion. But the real and imagin

ary scenes and images are, in many respects, strikingly
dissimilar. You yourself, and you only, are altogether

Iwhat had conceived. Previous, indeed, to our meeting

at Forres, some parts of my transcript of the character

were defined by only faint outlines, and these outlines

are now filled up ; but for the truth of my general concep

I'
    iIt,
                             I

                                    (Iif
                                                                    in
tion of   appeal to the letter wrote you March last.

         shall not be out of Cromarty     but live so long)

342 THE JOURNEYMAN.

for the next two months. But why write so hesitatingly
on this subject, as if the devoting a few days to pleasure

and to you, whatever my engagements, was to be

Iregarded as a sacrifice ? It is not probable that shall

be at all occupied at the time of your visit ; but had I to

travel fifty miles to meet with you, or to postpone the

most pressing engagements, the balance of happiness

and advantage would still be largely on my side, --and

this, too, leaving gratitude altogether out of the question.

I have been of late among my rocks and woods, and

have explored all my caves, large and small, together
with the burn of Eathie.

     ' Our sacrament here is just over. We have had at

least three splendid discourses, --two from Mr Fraser,
Kirkhill, one from Mr Stewart. The latter is the more

powerful man, the former has the more logical head.

Mr Fraser is a reasoner only, and though nothing can be

clearer or more conclusive than his arguments, the

attention is apt to be fatigued by a discourse altogether

argumentative, and to long for some relief; --a sermon

may thus be good in all its parts, and yet faulty as a

whole. Mr Stewart, on the other hand, is both a

reasoner and a poet. He narrates, he describes, he

reasons, he illustrates with equal effect ; he can sink

into the familiar without being mean, and rise into the

sublime almost without effort. In fine, Mr Fraser is a

limited monarch, and governs by the law ; we find him

is
      is
           a

                             it,
                                                               by

                                                                                                                         ;
continually appealing to and to our understandings

like true Whigs, we are nearly as much his judges as his

subjects, and only submit to be governed  him so long

as he constitutional, and can produce the codes and

precedents under which he acts. Mr Stewart, on the
           despot, -- we find he can do with us what
contrary,

ever he wills, and are such Tories as never to question

         SCENE OF THE BOATMAN'S TALE.                        343

his right. As for the law, he can either make a merit

of judging by or transgress         with impunity. For
                 it,

                                        a it

                                                          I
give me so brief and imperfect sketch of two of the

most talented clergymen in the north of Scotland.

trust you have tendered my best thanks to Mr Grant

for his elegant and truly excellent discourse. He carried

me with him from beginning to end. He had my full

assent to the truth of all his remarks, and the justness

of all his principles -- felt all he wished me to feel, and
                 I;
                   I
saw all he intended should see.

   I I'  have regularly wound up my watch every night

since left you, and have begun to find out its various

uses. One of these belongs to exclusively, as an indi
                             it

                                                    ?
                                                          '
vidual watch. Need point out that one
                      I

   Miss Dunbar had with much difficulty prevailed

upon Miller to accept from her the present of watch.
                                       a
                                                       a
   The following letter gives us                glimpse of the

'  voluntary controversy,' at this time agitating Scotland

                                                                 ;

an interesting hint, also, of that anti-patronage fervour

which was to make Miller the champion of non-intrusion.

The sternness of our friend's orthodoxy to be noted
                             '                               in
                                                                          ;
                                              is
   the Arminian must be driven from his pulpit. Hugh
is a '         ;a
Miller had no sympathy with Broad Churchismin '              any
   I'
sense.              Ia

                                 Cromarty, August 15, 1833.

           was very few days ago at MacFarquhar's Bed
and the gipsies' cave, -- the scene of my Boatman's Tale.

About four hundred yards to the west of the Bed there            a it is

   second cave,       corner so wild and sequestered that

   scarcely visited, except, perhaps,a          myself, once in

                                      it It by
twelvemonth. The sides and roof are crusted over by

green mould and white stalactites.              reminds me of
                                                             in
burial vault and never visited alone and                             a
                                                             the

evening without keeping sharp look-out for the inhabit

344 THE JOURNEYMAN.

ants. It has been haunted by evil spirits, it is said,

time immemorial. There is no path to                                                        it,

                                                                                                     I

                                                                                                                it
                                                                                            and so am
                                                       inaccessible, -- besides, to visit
afraid you will find     a

by                           it
                                        is
    day, and with party, not at all the way of seeing

it. Twilight, and solitude, and melancholy imaginative
                                                              a

mood, can alone render interesting. Well,                                                   it
                                                                                                is

                                                                                                                         ;
                                                       it                                   night

--the moon has just risen out of the frith, the bolder

features of the cliffs are partially relieved from the gloom

of the deeper recesses, and level stream of pale light
                                                           a

has entered the wide mouth of the cavern, and falls on

the dim glimmering objects within. See how the dark

roof arches over us, and how the columnar stalactites of
the sides seem advancing towards us --observe, too, how
                                                           ?
our shadows stretch inwards and mingle with the dark
                                                                                      ;
ness What theatre for the wild and the horrible
    !      is                                                                                             !
                   a
The floor strewed over with what seem the fragments
of human bones, --and then that spectral-looking object
within, -- does not move
                     it                                    Hear how the deep sullen

roar of the sea awakens all the echoes of the place till

they mutter from the deeper recesses, like the growling

of wild beast, and the wave seems calling over our
a
                                                                                            tremble like
        !
heads Nay, draw nearer to me.                                                               ;
                                                              by
                                                                                                  a
                                                                  I                                  ?
                                                                                                              a
schoolboy. Surely these are human bones scorched and

blackened  is        fire, and gnawed                            the teeth and look
                 by
yonder, not that skeleton reclining on the floor see,
                         a

the bony hand rests on the tattered fragments of book.

He was the last who perished --and oh with what feel
                                                           ;
                                                                                         !

ings must he have opened that book after he had finished

his horrible meal You have now seen the cave, and

more, --but the more am afraid you will deem rather
a
       '

                                                    !

                         I
nightmare of the imagination, than dream. Am
                                                                 ?
not bound, however, to tell you all
                                                                     aI a
                                                                                      a
                                                                                          I
    Before leaving MacFarquhar's Bed, had delight

ful bathe among the rocks. There was heavy sea tum

                       SOCIAL SOLITUDE.                     345

bling ashore, bordering the whole coast with a fringe of
Ifoam.
           shot out through the surf and reached the

open sea ; the waves were rising and falling around me ;

at one time I sunk into the hollow, the hills and rocks
disappeared, and I saw only a valley of waters, anon I

was lifted up on the ridge, and laid my hand on its
Iwhite mane as
                       looked down on the shore. What

would you not give to be able to swim ? The exercise

Ihas its mischances, however. On landing was dashed

against a rock, and had to walk very softly for three

Idays after, lest should be asked whether I was not

lame.

' Is it not a pleasant thing to lie, in a fine clear

day, on the sea-beach, amid the round polished pebbles

and the pretty shells, and see through the half-shut eye

the little waves dancing to the sun, and hear, as if we

heard it not, their murmur on the shore ? To be all

alone --shut out from the world --the wide ocean stretch

ing away for many a league before us, and a barrier

of steep cliffs towering behind. There   ;

                                            is,

                                                     I
                                                  my dear

madam, kind of social solitude which fits us for society
by
              a

                   in
training us both to think and to feel or rather,

should say, which we are trained, solitude being but

the school, imagination and the social affections the

teachers. Let me illustrate    :   lie all alone on the sea

                                I

shore, but in imagination my friend      seated beside
                                         is
                                                in is

                                                                                     ;
me, and so my thoughts and feelings are thrown into

the conversational mould. My attention            alive to

what   is  passing around me, my memory active, my

reasoning faculties in operation, my fancy full play

and all this because the conversation must be kept up.

And thus friendship and solitude operate on my thoughts,

as the waves operate on the pebbles which lie heaps
                                                  a
around me. There               continual action,        in
                       is                         ceaseless
                            a

346 THE JOURNEYMAN.

working, till the rude unshapen ideas, like the broken

fragments of rock, are rounded and polished, and display
all their peculiarities of texture, and all their shades of

colour.

    'After all --and I speak from experience --controversy,

though often a necessary evil, is invariably a great one.

Never in all my life did I sin so grievously against my

neighbour and my own better feelings, as when battling
about two years ago for my towns-folks and myself in

the affair of the chapel, and this, though my own con

Iscience, and the best people knew, assured me I was

in the right
     ' You must surely have admired in the Paradise

Lost, that expansiveness of moral prospect                             by (Iif   may so

speak) which the poet has spread out before his readers.

The work resembles lofty range of terraces rising one
                  a

                         It is

                                 is
above the other, and the grand object to be contem

plated from each of these                           the Fall. In our ascent

upwards we first use the terrace of human nature, and

turn towards the object.                            too near, and too much

on level with us, to be descried other than imperfectly.
We see only as thing of sin and suffering originating
in             a
    aa

           it
       sceptical disobedience and the wild impulses of                           (it
blind desire. We ascend to the second terrace                                        is a

the   placcleeaoref rtheligfihetn,d--s)   and look  down the object appears
                                         we see        as the result of deep
in             by ;

     a                   a
                             a

                                       it

                                                                    ;

                                            it ;

                                                      is
crooked design and malice as artful as profound. We

then ascend to the top eminence                                        occupied  by  the

throne of Deity the prospect spreads out before us in

all its completeness. We see the blind impulse destined
               an unerring agent, --the little crooked
and directed

--desinigfniniftoermwiisndgompartmoafkingplaunse  as extensive as      'tis faultless,
                                                   of folly as one     of its means,

and infinite goodness effecting its purposes                                     hatred

          THE VOLUNTARY CONTROVERSY.                  347

and malevolence. But what, you ask, is all this to the

purpose ? Much. Let us try whether we cannot ascend

the several terraces, and catch a glimpse from each

of them of the question now agitating the Church.

From the first we see a scene of contention and uproar ;

much good feeling lost and much bad argument found ;

the Christian sunk in the politician, and the peace of the

Gospel swallowed up amidthe dissensions of the Churches.
We reach the second terrace, and the view begins to

open. We see in both parties the good and the bad

linked together by a common cause, and grown careless

of that only true and legitimate distinction which had

hitherto held them apart, -- we see the infidel and the

Christian dissenter united on the one side, the cold

blooded hireling and the useful minister on the other.

Could the old deceiver have fallen on a more ingenious

stratagem for neutralizing the effects of Christianity than

this of binding together the dead and the living ? Let

us now ascend, but with becoming reverence, the sum

mit of the eminence. The view expands ; we see that

the effervescence below, however unconscious the dis

cordant elements which produce                  it,

                                                  it is

                                                                                  is
                                                tending to good,
--to the purification of an excellent and venerable

C"fheuwrcht,hinwghsic"h,thhaotweavreer,   like  that of Pergamos, has  its
                                         evil.    The whole structure

assailed, and the unsolid parts of              must fall. The

good, not the wealthy or titled, must choose its teachers,

--the hireling must resign his stipend, the Arminian

quit his pulpit.'

      In copying for me you cannot, as you truly observe,I

go far wrong. Our tastes may, perhaps, vary some of
                                                in

                                                        I
their decisions, but they are evidently of the same family.

Collins' beautiful Ode on the Superstitions of the High

lands     have seen, but not for the last ten years.

348 THE JOURNEYMAN.

wished much for a copy of it when selecting matters for

Imy Traditions ; and have still a volume of these to
write ; but really I must not put you to the drudgery of

copying ; it is worse than being chained at the oar.

ITell Miss Grant how much long to see her in Cromarty.
If you visit me in my little room (I am not quite so nice
Ion this point as cannie Elshy) she, trust, will accom

pany you ; and that you may see it in all its glorious
Iconfusion, shall neither arrange the books nor mend
Ithe broken pane. Remember, 'tis
                                       alone who am  to
be your Caliban during your stay in  " the island."

       " I'll show thee the best springs ; I'll pluck thee berries ;

        II'll fish for thee, and get thee wood enough.

           And with my long nails will dig thee pignuts.
           Wilt thou go with me?" '

                                                                         ' Cromarty, Oct. 29, 1833.

    ' The night has fallen, --a still, dreamy sort of night,

faintly lighted up by the moon. About half an hour

ago I was out among the woods, --they were gloomy

and ghostly, for twilight had begun to darken, and the

trees are all in their winding-sheets of red or yellow,

except where, in the more exposed corners of the wood,

they stand like so many naked skeletons, stretching their

bare, meagre arms towards the sky. I was in a rather

low mood before going out, and there is little chance of

one's recovering one's spirits by walking through a

decaying wood in a cloudy evening of autumn. Mine
sunk miserably. I remember that, some twelve years
Iago, used often to wish that I could retire from the
                   I would have fain built myself a
world altogether.

little rustic hut in the most secluded recess of some

lonely valley, or in the depths of some solitary wood, or

under the uninhabited precipices of some uninhabited

shore ; and in that hut would I have amused myself, as

I fondly thought, with my books, and my pencil, and

A NIGHT-WALK.                                        349

my pen, --in digging my little garden and tending my

few goats. I have pictured to myself the snugness and

comfort of my little apartment in some boisterous night

of winter, when the winds would   be  howling over     my
roof, and the rains pattering on  my                 trees
                                       casement, --

creaking, streams dashing, waves roaring, and the whole
heavens and the whole earth a scene of uproar and con
tention. Within all would be quietness, except that

the flame would be rattling in the chimney, -- throwing

its cheerful reflection on my stool, my table, my little

cupboard, my few books, and my bed. Every season
was to have its own peculiar pleasures for me, and its
own particular study ; the phenomena of nature, the
wisdom of the poet, the workings of my own mind,--
each, all of these, were to furnish me with employment.

And thus I was to spend my days, until at length death,

no very unwelcome visitor, would call in upon me, and

my cabin would become my grave. Such was the

dream of the boy, --of one who had but just begun to

know life as it presents itself to the children of poverty

and labour, and who was not aware that the irrational

and inanimate worlds are much less interesting objects

of study than the world of men ; or that, by retiring
into one's own mind, one may become more completely

a hermit, than by retiring into a desert. I was em

ployed in thinking of all this in my walk to-night ; in
calling up the various circumstances of my dream, and
in feeling, from an experience not a little strengthened
by the depression of the moment, how very fallacious
its promise of happiness. The best and strongest-
minded of us, my dear madam, cannot always be happy
in our own resources alone. We have all of us our

hours and days of languor and melancholy, when we
must look without ourselves for comfort. Seldom have

350 THE JOURNEYMAN.

I Ifelt this more strongly than to-night, and never have

felt it without thinking gratefully and tenderly of my

friend. I quitted the wood with its mournful-looking

trees, and its heaps of withered leaves, and came home

to write to you

     ' It seems Allan Cunningham, the Galloway stone
mason, is engaged at present in preparing a new
edition of Burns with a memoir. He is desirous of

procuring all the unpublished information which still

Iexists regarding him, and as once chanced to mention

to Mr Carruthers, with whom Cunningham is intimate,
that the Mr Russel whom the poet has brought so often

and so conspicuously forward in his satirical poems, re

sided for several years as a schoolmaster in Cromarty, 1
Iwas now applied to for all of his history could glean from
Itradition.
             wrote as requested, and produced a letter

interesting for its facts. . . . They may serve to show

that Burns, in his quarrels with the evangelical clergy,

might possibly have been less piqued with what was
good in their religion, than with what was bad in some
of themselves, an opinion not generally entertained ; and

that his stinging sarcasms were no chance arrows sent

from a bow drawn at a venture, but true to character

and fact. The descriptions of Russel in the satires,

Iwith the anecdotes of the latter which have been able

to collect, piece completely into one character.

    ' I am at present employed in the churchyard, and
Ibusily employed too,-- for you must not suppose that

am always as idle as when you were here ; on the con

trary, there is perhaps scarcely a less indolent man in
Ithe country-side ; though
                            love dearly to have the

choosing of my own employment, and could never yet
Isubmit to be converted into a mere machine.
                                              have at

times, for weeks together, been performing the labour of

COUSIN WALTER.  351

almost two men, --writing nearly as much as men who

only write, and hewing as much as men who only hew ;
but were the writing or hewing either to be imposed on

me as a task, I would be miserable.'

                                                         'Cromarty, December 16, 1833.

           I' have been low-spirited and unhappy. You

remember the fine-looking young man, a cousin of mine,
that Miss Reid pointed out to you when you were in

ICromarty two years ago ? He is dead. At the time

was enjoying so much in your company at Nigg he was
lying on a bed of sickness in a foreign land, with neither
friend nor relative to smoothe his pillow or speak him
comfort. Poor Walter ! His story is a melancholy one !
He was long attached to a young girl of Cromarty, and
in forming his little scheme of future happiness, he had
laid down his union with her as its very ground-work ;
but seeing, from the miserable depression of trade, little
chance of providing for her in this country, he crossed
the Atlantic in the hope that his exertions would secure
for him in America what they had failed in procuring
for him here. Alas, he has found only a grave. Poor
fellow ! He had a kind, warm heart, and all his acquaint

Iances here regret him sincerely ; what may not ? We

grew up together from our mutual childhood as play
mates and companions ; and though for the last twelve
years we were less in each other's company, for our pur
suits were different, and mine led me to be much alone,

we still continued to love and respect each other. You
remember his appearance. He was a well-built man of
six feet, but from his being so justly proportioned, he
did not seem so tall ; he had an iron constitution and
great bodily strength, and when in Cromarty, he used

to expose himself with impunity to all the various hard

                                                                                        w

352 THE JOURNEYMAN.

ships which, in this part of the country, spirited young
men sometimes subject themselves to in quest of amuse

ment. He has lain, in the season of the herring fishery,
night after night, in an open boat on the Moray Frith,

and watched with his gun for hours together, in the

severest weather, for the otter and cormorant. Con

fiding in this strength of constitution without taking

into account the difference of climate, he seems to have

exposed himself in the same way among the woods and
rivers of America. In crossing in a small vessel, late in

September, one of the great lakes, he imprudently slept

on deck during the night, and on landing was seized by
a fever, which carried him off in about ten days. You

will forgive me for dwelling so much on so melancholy
Ia subject.
             cannot get the poor fellow out of my sight.
I' There are a few brief passages in his history that
know would interest you, were I but in the mood of

telling them. About four years ago, when engaged in

writing my letters on the herring fishery, I went out

with him in a little boat to renew my acquaintance with
the various phenomena of the Frith, and rowed about

twenty miles into the open sea. There came on a dis

mal night of wind and rain, and when, after folding

Imyself in the sail, had lain down and fallen asleep, the

tossing of the boat was such that my covering was un

Irolled, fold after fold, until at length lay exposed to

the showers and the spray. I was awakened about

midnight by Walter wrapping me up as carefully as a

mother would her child, and heard him remark to one

of our companions that, come of himself what might, he

could not see cousin Miller lie catching his death in that

way. "The puir chield," he added, "is better at twa
three things than at taking care o' himsel'." I cannot
tell you how often I think of this incident, or how very

         COUSIN WALTER.                          353

painful the reflection that there should be no one to

bestow on him the care and attention which he could so

lavish on another.
      ' Some eight years ago he resided for a twelvemonth

or two in Edinburgh. There was a sister of his father's

who had married and settled in Ayrshire well-nigh

thirty years before, and between whom and her relatives
in the north country, there had been little intercourse
from that period. Walter, however, had often heard of
his aunt, and that in disposition, especially in her attach
ment to her friends, she very much resembled himself ;

and so, setting out from Edinburgh, he walked nearly a
hundred miles to pay her a visit. He reached the
village in which she resided on the evening of the
second day, and on being shown her house, introduced
himself to her as a person from Cromarty, who had

lately  seen her brother. She     started at the sound of his
voice.                            she asked, " that you are a
          " Can it be possible,"

son of his ?" Walter smiled, and clasping her hand in

Iboth his, " have taken a long walk," he said, "just to

see you, and get acquainted with my cousins and your

husband." The poor woman was affected to tears.

    'A   fine-looking young woman,     one   of her daughters,
          the apartment. " Come       here,  Jessie," said the
entered
aunt, " and see your cousin, whose kind heart has

brought him all the way from the north country to his

friends in Ayrshire." Some one cried out in the next

room, " Bring me to him, too, mother." It was a poor

little girl who had been confined for years to her bed by
an affection of the spine. Walter had to sit beside her,

and look over all her playthings ; and when he was

going to rise, she locked her arms round his neck, and

held him fast till she fell asleep.

' A few days after he was invited with his cousin

VOL. L                            23

                    354 THE JOURNEYMAN.

                  Jessie to a country ball. Jessie, though attached to
                    another to whom she was married shortly after, was yet
                  as proud of him as if he were her lover. She intro

                     duced him to her little circle of friends, young women
                   like herself; and Walter, who danced par excellence, and
                     was a thorough adept in all the little arts of gallantry,
                     was quite the Adonis of the evening. Some of the lads
                   of the place, however, who were but ill pleased to see
                     the handsome young man of the north more a favourite
                     with their sweethearts than themselves, and carrying
                     away all the luck of the ball, contrived to fasten a quarrel
                     on him, and Walter, who was quite as ready in meeting
                     an enemy as a friend, knocked one of them down.
                   This took place in a kind of ante-room. In an instant
                     he was attacked by four of the party at once, but leaping
                     into a corner of the room, where he could keep them
                     abreast of him, he found abundant employment for them

              Iall. have never seen in a human arm so immense a

                structure of bone and sinew, --his wrist used to remind

                     me of the lower part of a horse's leg. He was fighting
                     on at least equal terms with the four when the sweet
                     heart of Jessie, an active young fellow, drawn to the
                     place by the noise of the fray, took part with him, and
                     turned the tide in a twinkling. Ever after this night
                     his cousins used to regard him as quite a prodigy. On
                   the day he parted from them the poor little sick girl
                     cried herself into a fever ; and his aunt, ere she could

                     take leave of him, walked with him for more than six

                     miles, standing every few paces to bid him farewell, and
                     then losing heart and going on a little further. Does
                     not all this give you the idea of a man whom one could
                       love very much ? '

                           The rest of the letter is occupied chiefly with details

" respecting Cousin Walter, which are given in the Schools

          HIS FEELING OF INDEPENDENCE.                                             355

and Schoolmasters, one or two being added which it

is unnecessary to quote. Miller says that Walter was,
like himself, ' a Whig in principle, and a Tory in feeling,

-- a Tory at least as far as a profound respect for the great
and the venerable can constitute one such.' It is im

portant to have this description of his relation to Whig-

ism on the one hand, and to Toryism on the other, in

his own words. It exactly corresponds to the fact.

      He refers in the same letter to an offer of pecuniary
assistance which Miss Dunbar has made him, with the

same object as that of Miss Fraser. He firmly declines
to accept it; but, with chivalrous delicacy of feeling, half

confesses that he may be carrying his assertion of inde

pendence too far, and begs her to pardon him the excess

of a virtue to which he has owed much. ' " It is not given

to man," says your favourite Sir James Mackintosh, "to
rest in the proper medium." And why ? Because in
the nature of things the principle that holds us aloof

from one class of derelictions tends to precipitate us on
another. We stand within a circle the whole circum

ference of which is evil, and cannot recede from any one

point in it without approaching nearer to some other

point. And  this way, the spirit which has been
if

       in

             ?
               '

                a if,
                      in

                                  in
                                                 a in a
                                                                               in
bestowed upon me to preserve me from all the little

meannesses of solicitation, and to secure to me                                    my

humble sphere that feeling of self-respect, without which

no one can fulfil the duties of man, or deserve the

respect of others, should at times impel me towards the

opposite extreme, and make me      some little degree
jealous of even the kindness of  friend, will you not

tolerate    me weakness so necessarily, so inseparably

connected with that species of strength which renders

me, anything does,  some measure worthy your

friendship

356 THE JOURNEYMAN.

      Last of all, he glances at Cromarty politics, de
claring that he had narrowly escaped being made a
Councillor in a late Burgh election, and had ' fought

as hard to get out of the way of preferment as most of

his townspeople did to get in its way.' Thus ends a
letter as long as an ordinary essay. Before despatching
his next to Miss Dunbar, he has learned from her that
she is suffering under dangerous illness.

                                                           ' Cromarty, January 10, 1834.

    I' The feelings with which perused your last letter

were of a very different nature from those ever imparted

Ito me by any of your former ones. Would that could

lighten you of but half your burden. But, alas (how
poor and insufficient are the friendships of earth) ! there
are evils in which there can be no co-partners. How
frequently do our better feelings seem bestowed upon
us merely to teach us how very weak we are ; and how
little else may it be in our power to give to those to

whom we have already given our best affections. It is

well, however, that there is one friend who, more sin

cerely such than any other, is infinitely more powerful
too. He is willing to bestow every good upon us, and
quite as able as He is willing.

    I' You are going to Edinburgh, and will, trust, soon

return in stronger health and with brighter prospects.
Do not suffer your spirits to droop. Regard the past as an
earnest of the future, and cherish the invigorating hope
that there may be yet many years of life and happiness
before you. But there is a hope better and surer and
more invigorating still, that you do well to cherish.
How cheering it is that our present little day, with its
clouds and its storms and its momentary gleams of brief
and imperfect sunshine, with its chill and troubled

CHRISTIANITY AND HUMAN NATURE. 357

evening, and its long and gloomy night, is but the pre

lude to a day placid and unchanging, in which our sun

shall never be clouded and never go down ! The more

my experience of life and of man, the deeper my con
viction of the truth of Christianity. It is so entirely
Ifitted to our nature and to our wants.
                                                          do not think

it possible for us to  form a  thorough attachment to                 any
except individuals     of our                                         have
                               own species ; -- we may

some little regard for inferior natures, and may bow be

fore a superior with awe and adoration ; but it is on a
human breast only that we can, as it were, rest our

whole souls ;-- and what but human sympathies alone

can meet and mingle with ours ! The deist may bend

before his God, but can he for a moment entertain the

thought that there is aught of amity in the feeling with

which he looks upwards, and the feeling with which that
                                                          not " know
iwmaasgiinnarmy abnei"ngwlhoooksfirdstowmn a?de  He did    religion.  what

                                                  such a              How

well it is for us that there is so complete an adaptation,

in this respect, between our nature and the nature of

Him in whom we believe ; --that He whom we worship

as God is also man, one whose tears burst out over the

grave of a dead   friend and   whose bosom supported                  the
head of a living               who has endured sorrow                 and
                  one ;--one
suffered pain, --one who was born like ourselves, feared

                  it,

                                             !
death as we fear and died as certainly as we must

die. God grant, my dear madam, that we may have
Him for our common friend He loves us much better

than we can love one another, and can sympathize with
us more sincerely. But He can do more than love and
sympathize, and we cannot. He can comfort and heal.

The man who wept over the tomb of Lazarus, com

manded as God that Lazarus should come forth, and the

dead came.  I  know you will not be offended with me

358 THE JOURNEYMAN.

Ifor indulging in this mood; -- am light-hearted and

foolish, and indulge in it too seldom ; and yet there is

surely nothing which should be so conducive to lightness

of heart as the truths on which it dwells.
     ' When last in the parish of Nigg with John (Swan-

son), we ascended together the eminence from whence

two short months before I had the pleasure in your

company of looking over so wide and diversified a pros

pect. But oh, what a melancholy change has that
brief period produced. You remember how the distant

mountain seemed melting into the sky and of a hue

scarcely less transparent ;--how the patches of wood on

the range of hills which rise towards the north, touched

and but barely touched by the Midas-like hand of Au

tumn, seemed so many pieces of embroidery on a ground

of purple ;--how the Frith of Cromarty lay in all its
extent before us,-- a huge mirror over which two little

silvery clouds were coquetting with their own shadows ;
--how the
              mirror-frame on either         side   was embossed
with trees    and fields and villages,
                                            -- all   enveloped in
brightness and beauty ;--how the distant friths and the

great sea beyond were sleeping beside their shores as                        ; if,

having sworn an eternal peace with them, they were

soliciting confidencein byshowing how much they trusted
--and how even the very rocks themselves, bold and
                  iIt
rugged, and abrupt, as they are at all times, were so?
                                a by
coloured      the season, and so relieved   a       the sunshine
                                        it
                                                by
that  their   vaellrythsiasva--genesssingseleemreedcoblleucttionstewrnilelr  !beauty
      why                                                                    do more
But

for you than    fifty such descriptions.      You remember,
then, that the  scene was one of the
                                            most pleasing, --
beautiful all its parts, --sublime as whole. When
                                            a

                                                         I
                                                             I
last gazed on   deemed one of the dreariest ever

saw. All the higher grounds were covered with snow

               CONTRASTED LANDSCAPES.                     359

or enveloped in cloud ;--all the lower were dark as the

surface of a morass. The woods, brown and sombre,

seemed like the dark spots on the face of the moon, so

many cavities  scooped out  of the sides of  the hills.   The
sky was of a                                 of a colour
               dull leaden  hue, --the sea                 ap

proaching to black except where edged along the shores

with a broad fringe of foam. I could think of it only

as a huge monster stretching its immense arms into the
bowels of the land, and could liken it only to the Brah-

minical hieroglyphs of the terrible man-lion starting

from its column, and tearing to pieces the blaspheming
         IWas not the scene a gloomy one ?
prince.                                      did not

then know you were unwell, or the contrast would have

struck me still more forcibly. Your letter has tinged

all my thoughts with sadness.'

                                                 ' Cromarty, February 14, 1834.

I' I need hardly tell you that never yet received

a more truly welcome letter than your last ; the very

handwriting on the cover was worth a whole file of

Iordinary epistles. I trust am not too sanguine when
I anticipate for you many happy days in the future,

days in which you will live, as in the past, not more for

yourself than for your friends, and in which, enjoying all
that is truly good in the present world, you will only

occasionally be reminded that physical like moral evil

has a tendency to destroy itself, and that there is a world
in which evil, either physical or moral, can have no place.

I often think of the truly noble sentiment expressed in

your letter of the 8th January, and fully acquiesce in
No one can think aright of the weakness of our nature
'

             I
                                       is
                                                      is in
                                                                                                            ;
                                                                                        it.
without seeing that there much to fear but then, no

one, on the other hand, can believe the goodness of the

Almighty without feeling that there much also to hope.

What shall say of the warm interest you continue

360 THE JOURNEYMAN.

to take in the fate of my luckless History ? nay, rather,

I Iwhat can say when think that that interest should

be manifested at such a time ! This much at least, that

those philosophers who resolve all our affections into a

principle of selfishness, must have had little experience

of true friendship. I am afraid you will render me quite

a bankrupt by your kindnesses, that my gratitude will

never be able to keep pace with them. Sir Thomas

too ! Whatever my fate may be in the future, it is not

Ilikely shall ever forget that a gentleman so high in the

political and literary world should have so honoured me

with his notice, and so interested himself in my behalf.

ISo far, at least, as you and he are concerned, find that

my pride and my gratitude are mixed up into one senti

ment ; and though the better feeling is perhaps less pure
in consequence of the alloy, it will, like everything else

of value that is hardened by a baser mixture, be rendered

all the more indestructible by it.

   I' am engaged as busily at present with my second

Ivolume as if my first had already passed into a third

edition, and have got the larger half of it written, but

in a style so like that of the former, that if the one sink
Ithe other can have no chance of rising.
                                          am not with

out hope of becoming a more skilful writer than I am at

present, but it must be in some department of literature
in which I can employ my mind more than in my pre
Isent walk.
             often find it too narrow for me, and that,

while I am gossiping over my old-wife stories and dress

ing up little ideas in very common language, my more

vigorous powers are standing idly by, perhaps pining

Iaway for lack of exercise. But must complete the

work at all risks, were it but for the sake of poor
I ICromarty, before take up anything else.
                                            am no

hypocrite in literature, but an honest, right-hearted

A STORY OF SHIPWRECK.  361

devotee, to whom composition is quite its own reward ;

and truly it would need. How many of my chapters,
think you, will Professor Wilson read ? Some of them
are mortally heavy, and should he stumble on two or
three of these, alas for my Traditions !

      ' The story of the shipwreck to which you allude is a
truly affecting one, but you are only partially acquainted
with the circumstances which render it such. The master

was a fine young fellow barely turned of nineteen, who

had just been promoted to the charge, and who, on quit
ting harbour on his first and last unfortunate trip, shook
his father heartily by the hand and assured him that
neither he nor mother might need want for anything

now. It was the first voyage too in the ill-fated vessel
to the lad Junner, --a rough frank-hearted sailor, who, a

few days before, had quitted, under circumstances highly
honourable to him, a smack in which he had sailed for

several years. On coming down on the preceding trip
from London in very stormy weather, a large wood-
freighted American ship, when passing within a few
hundred yards of the vessel in which he sailed, was
struck by a sudden squall and fairly upset. Thirteen of
the crew succeeded in clambering to the keel, where they
began to cry for assistance in tones so fearfully energetic
that the sounds have been ringing in the ears of some of
the smacksmen ever since. There was a high broken
sea running at the time, but Junner, a thorough-bred

seaman, convinced of the possibility of saving at least
some of the poor men, weared ship and bore down on
the wreck, when the master came on deck and pro
nouncing the attempt impracticable ordered him to bear
away. Junner remonstrated, backed by our old friend
Gilmour ; nothing could be easier, he said, than by run
ning under the lee of the foundered vessel, to open up a

362 THE JOURNEYMAN.

communication with the men on the keel. The master,

however, a low fellow, who had got charge of the smack
only the voyage before, did not choose to risk himself in

the attempt, and the poor men on the wreck were left to
their fate. Before losing sight of them, their number

was lessened to eleven ; and Junner, who, had the rest

of the crew backed him, would have rescued them in

spite of the master, vowed that he would never set foot

again in the same vessel with a wretch so unfeeling.
He accordingly engaged with the poor young master of

Ithe Oak, and perished with him a few days after.
      ' met in one of my walks, a few days after the dis

aster, with  a young  lady, and our   conversation    happened
to turn on            am sorry," she                the master,
             it. " I                   said, " for

poor young fellow ! and for the wife and children of
Junner, but he himself was so rude in his manners, and

so ungrateful to the owners of the vessel in which he

IIhad sailed so long, that cannot be sorry for him."

saw that she had been misinformed regarding him, and
set her right. But why relate so commonplace an in

cident as this? I will tell you why. I am placed at

present in a rather unusual point of observation with
respect to the two classes of society of which our little

town, and indeed every other town, small or great, is
Icomposed.
             see all that is passing among our trades
Ifolk and labourers, and know all their opinions ; see,

too, much of what is passing among the people of a

higher sphere, and have been acquainted with their
opinions also. And what is the result? That there
exists little good-will between them, and that their

mutual suspicions and jealousies are effects, in the

greater number of instances, of mistake and misconcep
tion. They are so divided, that they never meet to

compare notes ; --a sad state of society, surely, in such

                 SOCIAL RELATIONS.                                                             363

times as the present, when popular opinion is so power
ful and so conscious of its power. What wonder, that

the people of a whole country-side should interest them

selves in the fate of such a man as poor Junner, or that

they should feel indignant at those who could misrepre

sent his character in the way related ! True, the misre

presentation could not have originated with those who

would be hated and reviled for were the people to
                                                      is
come to hear of                           the author     it,                         probably some mean
         a it
                 it
                      it

                                       ;
little thing that has wriggled itself into the ear of one

whose notice would deem bargain at any price, and
                                              a

which    has purchased at the cheap rate of be

traying few secrets, and telling great many false
                                                                                     a

hoods. But the people would never think of asking who

the author was. They never distinguish between those

who credit and those who invent, --indeed they are at

too great distance to make the distinction ;-- and thus
         a

there are heart-burnings produced and jealousies fostered,

which even in the present day destroy the better chari

eotiffefescBtusorfnisns,oct"hieetthye,fubtauonruden. dwahr"yicI-hfli,n"emssauysostf  produce still sadder
                                                                                     Lockhart in his Life

                                                                                     society are observed
with increasing strictness among us, -- the various
                                                                                        is if
orders of men still day by day feel the chord of sympa                                         II a

thy relaxing, --we may well lament over symptoms of

disease in the body politic which,                                                      goes on, must find
            a

                       ;

                            a it
                                  is
                                      if
                                            it
sooner or later fatal ending." There true philoso

phy in this remark and                        not one of the most harm

less consequences of such state, that the higher orders

should have so often to form their opinions of the lower

on the data furnished                     by  the eaves-dropper and the tale

bearer.  I  need not tell you that during the week

passed at Forres saw much that delighted me, but
                 I

                                      it
have not yet told you what was that delighted me

364 THE JOURNEYMAN.

most :--just your manner of addressing the poor people

inwhom you occasionally met by the way ; the frank
quiry, the kind reply, the good-humoured remark, the

caress bestowed on   the  child, the compliment paid to the
                     the  numberless proofs of this kind
mother, --in short,

which you so unwittingly gave me, that your sympathies
crossed the broad line of demarcation and found

human nature on the other side, inspired me with a re

spect for your character which no opposite course could
                           I have often said to myself,
have led me to entertain.

Give me an aristocracy of Miss Dunbars, and we shall

have no Revolution for a century to come.'

                           ' Cromarty, March 29, 1834.

     ' You have returned to Forres. Would that it were

under happier auspices and with brighter hopes. But I

do trust that in the quiet of retirement, and amid all that

constitutes home, you will find that there yet remains
                                            I cannot
for you much of comfort and enjoyment.

suffer myself to think that my friend is to be other than

Ihappy, and would fain believe what so earnestly wish.

There is a moral alchemy which can transmute the evils

of life into blessings, and you are not unacquainted with

the secret. Besides, it is wonderful how our bodies, and

our minds too, accommodate themselves to the circum

stances in which we are placed, and how even amid

much pain, and much unavoidable depression of spirits,

enough of pleasure may be found to render life de
Isirable.
           would fain have something to build upon
regarding you, -- were it but the consideration how rest

proves positive enjoyment to those who labour, and a

cessation of pain positive happiness to those who suffer.

I would fain find something to solace me in the story of

the prisoner, who found his dungeon for the first few

      THE SANDS AT EBB.                                                    365

weeks so utterly dark that he could hardly distinguish

day and night in but whose eye became so accustomed
    I'
      I
                  : it,I

                                  is
                                                          in

                                                                       a

                                                                    by is
to the gloom, that he could at length see the smallest

insect creeping along  the floor. But                 there                dinrawrena,li--ty
only one source from                                  may be
                       whence comfort

the mercy of that God who does not afflict willingly,
and whose goodness equal to His power

      spent two hours very agreeably few nights ago

on the wide tract of sand, that                       large spring tides

stretches beneath the town. The stream was one of the

largest ever saw       could walk dry-shod over tracts of

beach, which in ordinary ebbs are covered                                  well-nigh

five feet of water. The evening was cold and stormy,

and yet half the children of the town were frolicking

over the sands, --some gathering periwinkles or catching

razor fish, and not few philosophizing, like myself, on
                  a
by aclass of vegetables and animals so unlike the prois

ductions of either kingdom we were accustomed to meet

with on land. There no study so universally favourite
                                                              a
                                                                   in
as the study of natural history, and at no age are people

of the common order such minute observers as their

childhood. One half the degree of attention bestowed

      the boy on the wonders that surround him, would

render the man philosopher. Among the juvenile
                  aa

                        I

                                             a
                                                   a
philosophers of the ebb, saw little deaf boy watch

ing with much apparent interest                       contest between      a

large buckie and young razor fish. The buckie had

inserted its proboscis into the shell of the latter, and

was pulling out the poor tenant, who seemed incapable

of any other mode of resistance than the very inefficient

one of rendering itself difficult to be swallowed.                         saw
a

                                                 I
another little thing of about six years, turning over with

stick that strange-looking animal which we term the

sea-snail (naturalists have another name for it), and

366 THE JOURNEYMAN.

admiring its uncouth conformation. By the way, there
Iis something singular about this animal which have
never yet seen noticed, and which I must set myself
Imore minutely to examine.
                                     remember that when
Isailing my little ship some eighteen years ago, once or

twice accidentally set my foot on a sea-snail, and there

it isexuded from          in consequence of the pressure, blood
                                                          a
           it,like liquor which tinged the water with crimson for
                                                                                !
yards around. You know the famous purple of the

Tyrians --the finest and most precious of all the ancient
dyes -- said to have been extracted from some unknown

species of fish. What              that fish be the sea-snail
                               ? if
Would not be rare good fun, think you, to restore one
                                  I
of the lost inventions, and that solely for the benefit of

one's fair countrywomen              do not know whether you

be acquainted with the animal.       a                 reptile-looking

                                       It

                                              is
                                                   a
thing about four inches in length and two in breadth

when at the largest, of an oval shape, and furnished

with legs resembling those of caterpillar magnified.

The back                  of dusky brown and covered with hair,
           is

               it

                    is a
which, when the animal alive, seems tinged with all the
                               is

                                 I
hues of the rainbow, but which fades into dirty sand
                                                       a

colour when               dead.     have observed that more

unusual phenomena are to be seen in large spring ebb
                                     ;

                                                 a
than in twenty ordinary ones for though the water

falls only few feet lower, in these few almost all the
a
        a
                   a

                       a
plants and all the animals are uncommon. On ascend

ing high mountain in tropical country, the botanist
                               ;a
after rising certain height finds girded round with
                                     it

broad strip of vegetation composed of the plants of
                                                          in
more temperate climate he ascends, and finds                   aa

second belt the trees and plants of still colder countries  ;

anon he arrives at third belt, then at fourth, and at
                          a                         a

length, bordering on the line where all vegetation ceases,

               THE SANDS AT EBB.               367

he meets with the mosses and lichens of Greenland and

Nova Zembla. Something analogous to this may be

seen on the wastes left uncovered by the ebb of such a

stream tide as the last. First we pass over a sterile

region of waterworn pebbles and gravel, and meet with

neither animal nor vegetable life. Then we reach a

strip of plants of a deep green colour, some of them

resembling tufts of hair, some of them broad-leaved, and

of a texture exceedingly delicate. The small green crab

and many-eyed star-fish are natives of this region. We

then arrive at a strip, broader than the last, of brown

furcated weeds, beneath which we find whole colonies of

the black periwinkle, and the craw-fish buckie. A

waste of sand succeeds, inhabited by several varieties of

shell fish of the bivalve species, and sprinkled with tufts

                           A

                                                                    it,
of long sea-grass and brown rope-weed. We find in

besides, the sand-worm, the builder-worm, and the

yellow-spined sea urchin.          stony region comes next,

shaggy and rough with kelp weed and smooth-stemmed

tangle, and abounding with the cow-cockle, the brown

toad-like crab, and the large strong-shelled buckie.

Last of all, we find at the water's edge forest of rough-
                                      Ia
stemmed tangles, the favourite resort of the red crab,

the pink-coloured sea urchin, the dwarf lobster, and the

lump fish. But perceive            am giving you rather an
I                          in I I

             a
                       a

                  I
index than description. Ever since recollect myself

  had turn for the study of natural history,--not the

natural history of books, but of the woods and the

fields and the sea-shore.        was studying all unwit
                                          it

tingly when my friends thought was doing nothing,
                                   I

or worse and now find that through my predilection
     iIt,
         I;                      the days played truant

                II
for  have learned more                I

than in those             attended the school. Who knows

whether may not yet turn my acquaintance with  it  to

368 THE JOURNEYMAN.

some account! .1 question whether Sir Thomas had any

thoughts twenty years ago of coming before the public

as the editor of a work on natural history.

' Lady Clare is going on with her improvements on

her newly purchased property, and threw down a few

days ago a little old house, which, with its low serrated

gable to the street, ran back, in what Professor Jameson

calls the Flemish style, into the heart of the garden

behind. And what of that ? you may say. Not much to
Iany one but me, but have grieved for that little old
Ihouse as for a friend.
                               have spent in it some of the
Ihappiest hours ever spent anywhere. The front part

of it was occupied by the shop of a house-painter, but

in the upper part there was a little room, which during

his apprenticeship my poor deceased friend, William

Ross, used to call his own. He slept in
                                         it                             and drew
                                                 it,
I                      is it,
        it,                                               a
in and wrote in and took in many review

of the past, and formed many hope for the future.a                      I
saw his hand-writing on the wall, in much-admired
                                             a

quotation from Blair's Grave.

                                                   " Sure the last end

             Of the good man peace How calm his exit
             Night dews fall not more gently to the ground,
             Nor weary worn-out winds expire so soft."
                               !                                      II !
have heard him repeat the passage at time when he;                             a
                                             in a                                    in
little thought was to be soon realized himself. Foris
               it
the last fortnight have been employed in writing bio
                iIf I
graphical sketch of him, which to serve as one of the

chapters of my second volume and will not, trust,
                                         it

prove one of the least interesting. He has now been

his grave these six years, and yet my recollections of

him are as fresh as    if      he died yesterday.                       cannot

forget him, and        myself be ever known to the world,

the world shall know why.'

               SIR JAMES MACKINTOSH.                    369

    The last-mentioned intention Miller made good. A

Iseparate biographical sketch of Ross from his pen

have not, indeed, seen, and no second volume of Tradi

tions was ever published ; but he has immortalized his

friend in the Schools and Schoolmasters.

The letter of Mrs Grant of Laggan, author of the

once popular Letters from the Highlands, referred to
by Miller in the letter which follows, was written to her

friend Miss Dunbar, and contained a very favourable

opinion of Miller.

                                                                ' Cromarty, April 22, 1834.

    ' How shall I thank you for your elegant gift ? I

                                             it
                                                   it,
have already spent some hours in admiring and every

time       it  catches my eye   can gaze on with fresh in
               I;
                        I
terest. There are some faces which one never tires of

looking at -- transparent sort of faces, through which we

can see the soul and Sir James's as decidedly one ofis

this class as any ever saw. Did you ever before see

an expression so unequivocally indicative of the pure

good-tempered benevolence, which one cannot but love,
blent with that calm but awful dignity of thought which

one cannot but revere          One of the first political works
                       ?

                             it
                                  is
read with interest was Sir James's Vindiciai Gallica?.
I
As piece of argument                  superior to the exquisite
       aa
volume of his opponent, and little at all inferior to
                                      if                it

                                                    ?
as piece of composition. The same year robbed us of

Sir James Mackintosh and Sir Walter Scott. When shall

another year find'   us with   so much to lose         those we can
        Speaking of
                     faces --  will be found that
                      I
look longest at and with most pleasure bear the impres
                          I it
sion of the gentler and softer, rather than that of the

more violent passions.          once saw dead infant on
                                          a

whose placid features could have gazed for hours to

gether. They were so beautifully formed and reposed

vOL. I.                         24

 370 THE JOURNEYMAN.

in so exquisite a tranquillity ! The poor mother was
weeping beside it ; the father, though less subdued, had
not less to contend with ; the features of two or three
relatives wore the downcast expression befitting the oc
casion, -- but there it lay, in the midst of sorrow and
melancholy, the happiest looking thing that death had
ever passed over. There was an air of intelligence, too,
about it which a masterly sculptor might perhaps have
transferred to a piece of marble, but which was asso
ciated with feelings which no piece of marble could have

awakened. Every one has observed how very intelligent

children sometimes look ; -- it has even been supposed,

prettily enough, though fancifully enough too, that
infants when they smile in their dreams are conversing
with beings of a better world (Professor Wilson has in
troduced the thought very happily into one of his shorter

poems) ; and so natural is the supposition, that I have re

peatedly heard it expressed by people who had borrowed

it from no one. But the expression in the case I de

scribe suggested thoughts which, equally interesting,

had more of an air of truth about them, --thoughts of

the new state into which what, in the language of earth,
was termed the deceased infant was newly born, and in
which it might have already learned more than the
wisest of those it had left behind.

     'And now for an incident. When gazing on the

sweet little face footsteps were heard approaching the
door, and the cloth was drawn over. The latch was

raised, and a poor beggar woman, accompanied by a little
girl and boy, the eldest not more than five years of age,
half crossed the threshold and then stood; but on seeing
from the furniture, which was hung with white, and the
appearance of the bed, that there was a corpse in the
apartment, the woman dropped a few words in Gaelic,

AN INCIDENT.  371

by way of apology for the interruption. She lingered,

however, at the door, and I saw her eyes fill with tears.

She was a widow, a native of the Western Highlands,
which were visited that year by scarcity ; and to avoid
starvation she had travelled as a mendicant with her

little family, which had consisted of three children, to
the low country, but in crossing the hills, a few days

before, her youngest child had taken ill and died. She

stated her simple story in a few words, and begged to be
permitted to look at the dead infant. The face accord

Iingly was again uncovered; but want words to describe

to you what followed, and yet the scene was one of the
simplest possible. The poor woman, rather good-looking
and young, though much worn, with nothing of the
beggar in either her dress or expression, stood fronting

the dead, her hands clasped on her breast, and the tears

coursing down her cheeks. All the mother was roused

in her; and the feelings of the other mother, reawakened
by the excitement, were finding vent in a fresh burst of
sorrow. Every one present, even the firmest of us, were
affected ; while the two Highland children, holding by
the gown of their mother, were looking anxiously at the

object of an interest so general, --the elder with more of

curiosity, the younger with more of terror. Would that

I were a painter !

     ' " It is sweet," says an old poet, " to be praised by

Ione whom all the world conspires in praising." Need
Isay with what feelings perused the letter of Mrs Grant

of Laggan ? merely as a letter of hers, -- as affording an

instance of mind triumphing amid the decay of matter,

--as furnishing a proof that the affection of a generous

heart, neither the chills nor shadows of old age can

Idarken or impair, -- would have deemed it highly in

teresting and valuable ; but to me it is all this and a

372 THE JOURNEYMAN.

great deal more. Every man is somebody to himself ;

I Ibut have the good fortune, and am not dull in ap

preciating of being somebody to myself and to Mrs
            I it,
Grant too. have been good deal in luck in the number
                            Ia
                                    I
and quality of the compliments paid me of late, but with

odnirSeeucnotl-ryditaowlro"inaedpxircpeeecpattrlieyodnisninthCethmhainmakblle. rs'FcsairnEstd,tirnmabcuyer"gyhSotuaJonuzearistnhaoelnr,
a
    aaprefaced              note, in which they are designated as

                by

                         a
nervous and elegant, and the fact that the author should

be working mason questioned. Next they appeared

in Sussex paper,            in which   asthe"ymaarrekedprabiysed   still more
                              indeed,                             refinement
highly, -- described,                                a
                                                             a?

                                                               Ia
of thought, an elegance and propriety of language, that

would do honour to the most accomplished poet of the

day." Where, think you, did they next appear                      In

Newry paper, which was sent me by the editor, man

never before heard of. He              is            extravagant in his com

mendations of the whole, and some of the lines he has

printed in italics, as peculiarly felicitous. The stanzas

then took the round--for they seem to have pleased the
Irishes hugely --of well-nigh half the Hibernian periodical

press.  II  was just recovering my modesty, which after

all these shocks was, as you may think,              in        bad enough
                                                       ? is a
state, when out came the second volume of Allan Cun

ningham's Burns, with the compliment which you have

seen. To weigh against
                            ;                        however, and keep me

                                  in
                                                it,
humble, find he has compressed my letter into half its

original bulk, and that more than half its brains have

been squeezed out the operation. But still there                  is
                                                                     a

little sense left and the compliment                           from Allan

Cunningham. And now, last of all, and worth all the
others put together, comes the letter of Mrs Grant. But

how,    in  sober fact, do feel after all this                    Grateful,I
                            I

THE IDIOT BOY.       373

Itrust, and certainly much pleased, but not at all elated.
   have myself to contend with and myself to satisfy ; it

will be a long time, I am afraid, ere I shall be successful

in so hard a contest, or succeed in pleasing so fastidious

a critic ; and yet until that time comes the approbation
of others, however profound their judgment or exquisite
their taste, will have the effect rather of showing me

what I ought to be than what I am. Is it not wonder

ful that the fancy of Mrs Grant should be still so active,

so engagingly playful ? There is not less of it in her
last brief epistle to you than in any of her earlier ones.

    ' If ever my Traditions get abroad they will be all the

better for having staid so long at home. And now,

what shall I say of your last brief epistle ? This much
at least, that were it ten times more brief, still I would
value it as coming from you. At this time of day I
Ineed hardly tell you of the value set on your letters,
Ihow fondly treasure them up, or how often I peruse
Ithem ; but must not be selfish, and you will judge
I Ithat am not, when say, do not for the future, till

your health fully permits, give me more than half a
sheet, and do not fill even that at one sitting. That

God may be with you, to support and comfort, is the

earnest wish, and, I trust, earnest prayer of,' &c.

                     ' Cromarty, May 8, 1834.

                     ' There is a poor idiot boy in

the neighbourhood here who spends much of his time

Iwith me in the churchyard, and who, when am writing

in my little room, frequently creeps up-stairs and squats
Ihimself beside me.
                     never yet saw any one of the class

in whom intellect is so entirely wanting as in this poor

thing. He cannot even count three ; but he has a few

simple instincts which seem given him to supply in part

374 THE JOURNEYMAN.

the want of the higher faculties, and (a still more im

portant matter) some of the better affections of our

nature, --love and compassion, and sorrow for the loss or
absence of those who have been kind to him. It is
interesting to find these so rudely set; --they seem

bestowed upon him to awaken a sympathy for him in

the breasts of those to whom he attaches himself. He

is present, sitting beside me, babbling in an uncouth
imperfect dialect, which I can only partially understand,
Iabout himself and me.
                           am to get leave to sleep with

him, and he is to give me sugar and a dram, and two

eggs. Only a few days ago he lost his father; but

until the day of his funeral he could not be made to
understand that he would have to part with him. He

was sleeping, he said, and would be well when he awoke.

When he saw the corpse placed in the coffin, however,

and people gathering for the funeral, some faint idea of

what had happened seemed to cross him, for he became

silent and melancholy ; and stealing out of the house to
Iwhere
          was employed in  the churchyard, he laid hold
of me with an ' Oh, come,
                           oh, come, --father sleeping, --
Ino waken, --no waken at all, -- oh, come.'
                                             went with

him and followed the funeral, partly to satisfy him, partly

out of curiosity to see the workings of nature in a mind

so uninformed and imperfect. He squatted down at

the head of the grave, and watched, with an expression

indescribably affecting, and in which grief, astonishment,

and terror seemed equally blended, every motion of the

sexton and the bearers; and when the grave was filled,

         I

                                 is is it,
                                                                               is
and the sod placed over he seemed uncertain whether
to return home or remain where he was. He even

now telling me that he     to keep part of his morning

piece for his father, who to come out of his grave to

morrow.  have remarked, though without well knowing

          THE AFFECTION OF IDIOTS.                                           375

                                         it,
on what principle to account for that the grief or affec

tion of poor helpless things of this class has something in

it  which touches us more than the expression of similar

          persons possessed of an ordinary share of
feelings  in
                       in a
understanding. Perhaps we are more convinced of their
sincerity, --perhaps struck
                                 a       finding amid such miser
                                     by
able ruins of our nature part, and that no unimport

ant one, so entire and unbroken,-- human heart so
                                                               a

abstracted from human understanding, as to remind

us of the story of John Huss, whose heart remained

unconsumed among his ashes --or, perhaps, as they
                                 is
stand so much                need of our protection, therea;               is
                                                                               ;a
natural provision made for them in our bosoms, on the

same principle that there                provision made for the

helplessness of children in the affection of their mothers

and the interest taken in their uncouth expressions of

affection, may be but natural effect of the principle.
                             a

Whatever the cause, the feeling certainly exists, and

some of our best writers have not disdained to appeal to

it. The fool in Lear not less true to his poor forlornis

master than the most devoted of his nobles.                       It       Davie

                                                                       is

                                                                         in
Gellatly whom Scott has described as moaning the

bitterness of regret amid the ruins of the Baron's
mansion, and as faithful to him his lowest extremity.
                                         in
                                              a
It       Wamba, too, who of all Cedric's servants readiest
                                                                  is
     is

to lay down his life for him, like faithful fool, and

whose devoted attachment extorts tears from the stern

old man, though he has none to shed over his own

disasters, or the dead body of his friend.

      Mr Stewart has just closed course of sermons on
the future return of the Jews to their own land, in
    '

                                                            a

which he has delighted the thinking part of us with
many splendid bursts of eloquence, and an immense
body of original thought. Some of his bolder opinions

376 THE JOURNEYMAN.

on the subject he rather hinted at than fully expressed ;

I have succeeded, however, in laying hold of a few of

the more interesting of these. He seems to be decidedly

of opinion that the Jews are reserved for the accomplish

ment of some great purpose in the moral government

of the world. What, says he, if the spirit of infidelity, so
dominant in the present age, and which seems to be

sapping the foundations of every religion, true and false,
should at length so thoroughly prevail, that the Church
and the Pagod and the Mosque should come to be

involved in       one general   ruin,  --anwdhaetvery  form  of worship
be banished         from the   earth,                  when   there sur
      if,
                         a
                                       by

                                                       if,

                                                                                           a
                                                                                          a
vived, of all who had prayed to any Deity, only few

despised, disheartened followers of the cross, -- when the

great mass of the people in every country, amenable to no
authority, without one tie of morality, or one belief of

future world of rewards and punishments, shall, with

their mouths filled with denunciations against tyranny, be

themselves the bloodiest and most despotic of tyrants, --

what at such time, the Spirit of God should breathe

upon the dry bones of Judah until, covered with flesh

    and sinew, and animated            the principle of life, they

shall stand up among the nations, an exceeding great

multitude, to testify through the miracle of the power

and faithfulness of God,--and, converted themselves, be

the grand and fully adequate means of the conversion of

    world!        there not something wonderfully expansive,
is a              Is
                        in
    and at the same time highly pleasing, in the thought?

    Take another            the same style. What those differ
                                                       ! if
                                                            It

                                                                    is
                                                                                be it
    ences which now divide the Christian world, -- setting

    even good men in hostile opposition to each other, and

    destroying,   in   no slight degree, those charities which
        the part
                  of religion to inculcate, --are to receive their

    final adjustment on the return of the Jews               to

SESSION RECORDS.  377

no common outpouring of the Spirit which is to sweep
away in that people the prejudices which, for a period of
nearly twenty centuries, have shut them up to an
obstinate rejection of the Messiah ; and when under the

influence of that outpouring they shall set themselves to
the study of the whole Scriptures, to fix their belief as
a Christian Church regarding those minor points on
which Christians at present disagree, there is little
probability of their being led into error, or that their

 decision shall not influence the Churches of the Gentiles.

     ' I have been so fortunate of late as to procure the

perusal of a highly interesting piece of antiquity : the
 Session Records of Cromarty during the Establishment
of Episcopacy. They commence in the year 1674, and
terminate in 1688, the year of the Revolution. They
 are written in an extremely old hand (which, however,

I am antiquary enough to decipher), and from this cir

cumstance have lain in the archives of the Session for

at least the last three generations unopened and unread.
They furnish me with a great mass of local history
 curiously stamped with the peculiar manners of the age;
with narratives of the little, foolish bickerings and dis

putes of men whose sagacity we look up to as very
 superior to our own ; and stories long since forgotten
 that at one period employed all the tongues and all the
 ears of the place, for no better reason, 1 am afraid, than
 that they exposed the weakness or wickedness of an
 acquaintance or neighbour. Our great-great-grandfathers,

 I suspect, were not a whit wiser, or better, or happier

 than ourselves ; and our great-great-grandmothers, poor
 ladies, seem to have had quite the same passions as their

Idescendants, with as little ability to control them. see

 there are vices which, like passions, have their rise and
 decline ; and that we often deem an age more virtuous

378 THE JOURNEYMAN.

than our own merely because it was wicked in a differ

ent way.    There were ladies of Cromarty             in the   good
year 1680    " maist horrible cussers," who          accused     one
another of  being " witches and witch-getts,         with all
                                                               their

folk afore them," for generations untold ; gentlemen who

had to stand at the pillar for unlading the boats of a

smuggler    artepr1o0batoe'sclo"ckwhoon     Sabbath   night; "maist
scandalous                               got drunk   on Sundays, and

"abused decent folk ganging till the kirk ;" and "ill-con

ditioned   raggit loons   lowfht o"  raisit  ane     disturbance and
faught i'  the scholars'             in the  time    of Divine service.
I IWere not so engaged at present, would draw up

from the Session records of the parish, a scheme of com

parative morality of each succeeding generation for the
last hundred and fifty years. The scheme would be at

least a curious one, and might show, among other things,

how little conducive the iron despotism of the reign of

Charles was to the establishment of a high-toned morality

among the people. Husbands and their wives do pen

ance in the church in this reign for their domestic

quarrels ; boys are whipped by the beadle for returning
from a journey on Sabbath ; men are set in the jougs

for charging elders of rather doubtful character with

being drunk ; boatmen are fined for crossing the ferry

with a passenger during church time ; and Presbyterian

farmers are fined still more heavily for absenting them

selves from church. Under a tyranny so intolerable

the people seem to have been brutalized, and in conse

quence greatly increased in crime.'

                                                     ' Cromarty, July 10, 1834.

    ' I would have written you long ere now, but I have

been for the last fortnight in a rather unsettled mood
and unable to fix my attention very strongly on anything.

six nouns at sea.            379

I have been looking at the world and the world's mat

ters, at my friends and myself, through a darkened

medium, and you will but too well comprehend the
Iwhere/ore of the case when
                             tell you that my nerves

have been affected. Addison was quite right when he

remarked that the habit of looking on only the bright

side of things is worth five hundred a-year.
     ' My way home from you was divided between a very

pleasant drive and one of the most disagreeable, tedious
Ivoyages you

on the Frith,
can think   of.               was more than six hours
           such
--and six                 hours ! --beating all the way

right in the teeth of a strong wind and a heavy tumbling

sea, with a sick female passenger who had thrown her

self in a paroxysm of nausea on the floor of the little

cabin, where she lay like a corpse, and a set of boatmen,

who were too seriously employed in taking in reef after

reef as the gale increased, to afford me any amusement.

The fellows were too frightened either to make jokes or

to understand them. I wish you had seen the expres

sion with which one of them shook his head, and said

he hoped we would get through, on my remarking to
him that the wind was coming thick and thin like ill-

made porridge, and how he shut his eyes and showed
his teeth every time a heavier wave sent its spray half

way up the mast. Above all, I wish you had seen the

hills of Culbin as they looked this day over the water.

Some of the heavier blasts raised the sand in such dense

clouds, that when the sun shone they seemed heightened

by more than a thousand feet, and towered over the blue

hills behind ; but the outlines were faint and ill-defined,

and, like the waves that were tumbling around us, they rose
Iand fell with the wind.
                          got home about six o'clock.
I' would doubtlessly have derived more pleasure
Ifrom my visit had found you enjoying the health and

380 THE JOURNEYMAN.

spirits of the previous season ; but it has not been with
Iout its pleasures.
                       have seen much that interested me,

and experienced much kindness. There is comfort, too,

in the conviction that my friend, though she has to suf

fer, can suffer patiently and well ; and can indulge in

the hope that even pain, as the dispensation of a benevo

lent God, who does not afflict willingly, must have its

work of mercy to perform. How good a thing it is to
be enabled to repose our trust upon Him !

     ' My imagination is still full of the wild sand-wastes

of Culbin --a scene so very unlike any I ever saw
Ibefore, but which corresponds so entirely with all had

read and heard of the arid, wide-extended deserts of

Africa and the East. I could almost fancy, when, stand
Iing in one of the larger hollows, looked round me, and

saw only hills of barren sand and heaps of gravel, with

here and there a dingy rocky-looking flat which had

once been vegetable soil, but which could no longer

Isupport vegetable life, -- could almost fancy that, having
Ianticipated the flight of time by many centuries, had

arrived at the old age of creation, and witnessed the

earth in its dotage.'          ' Cromarty, August 25, 1834.

' Do not deem me careless and ungrateful. Not one

of your friends has thought more regarding you during

Ithe last four weeks than have, though a hundred un

looked-for demands on my time, and (what proved
much more harassing) a nervous indolence, which of late

has hung much about me, prevented me from writing.
Burns seems to have been quite in the right in deeming

those disorders which we term nervous, diseases of the

mind,   though they perhaps    rtahtheerpodweeprrsestsheomusreclvoensfi.denc"eI
in our  powers than prostrate
Jy 's.
cannot reason," says he in one of his letters to Mrs

             MR ROBERTSON.                                381

Dunlop, " I cannot think ; and but to you I would not

venture to write anything above an order to a cobbler."

It is a singular enough fact, however, that the letter in

which he says so is one of the finest he ever wrote.

     ' My time, I have said, has been much occupied of
Ilate : have been twice to Inverness, thrice at the burn

of Craighouse, twice at the beds of bituminous shale,
with their numerous and highly interesting animal re

Imains, once all around the northern Sutor, and know

not how often on the hill of Cromarty and at the Doocot

Cave. It is a sad thing to be unable to make a proper

use of the important monosyllable no. My trips to In

verness, however, were solely on my own account, and
in a few days I think I shall visit Tain on a similar
Ierrand.
             have written within the last month more

than twenty letters, some of them of considerable length.

IWithal, have been employed in the churchyard, though

of course not quite so regularly as if there had been no

parties or no writing.

     ' Mr Stewart is at present at Strathpeffcr in quest of

health, and his place here is occupied by a relative of his

own, a Mr Robertson. He is a son of the late Professor
Robertson of St Andrews, and a truly fine fellow--
frank, open-hearted, talented, and well-read. He and I
have been at Eathie together, and all over the hill. We

have explored, too, the whole northern Sutor. There is

much pleasure in coming in contact with an original
thinker, and there may be much profit. In the present
day the world of books is open to every one, but there

are many thoughts which arise in one's mind which can
not be tested by anything we find in books. But the
mind of an original thinker, when one is fortunate

enough to    meet with one, can     be brought to bear    on
one's inner  mysteries of thought,                        to
                                    --he is a touchstone

382 THE JOURNEYMAN.

try, a light to discover. I have felt this with regard to

Mr Robertson. In passing with him along the northern

ISutor could not help regretting that our expedition to

it last year should have been so unlucky. Some of the

caves are truly superb ; one in particular, which perfor
Iates the base of a huge rocky promontory,
                                            have not

yet seen surpassed. It has three magnificent entrances,

all terminating in one point, from whence a second cave

shoots off still deeper into the recesses of the rock, and

at the extremity of which noon is dark as midnight.'

    Mr J. R. Robertson, referred to in terms so flatter

ing in this letter, is now resident in London, and has

kindly furnished me with the following vivid and inter

esting account of his intercourse with Hugh Miller :--
    ' In the summer of 1834 I went to Cromarty, intend

ing to stay a few days, and then to pursue my wander

ings through the north Highlands. Circumstances

detained me upwards of two months. Almost imme

Idiately on my arrival, was introduced to Hugh Miller,

who was already a celebrity in his native town and

neighbourhood. He was tall and athletic, and had a

large head, made to look huge by a rusty profusion of
not very carefully-remembered hair. His whiskers were

not large, and represented red sand-stone, his eyes grey

and keen, his features spoke of intelligence and deter
mination, and exposure to the sun had daubed him with
freckles. He did not appear quite so tall as he was,

owing to a slouch in his walk, and a tendency to carry

his massive brow in the van, which gave him the sem
blance of stooping.

     ' He had before this time exhibited his wonderful

powers of composition, and achieved a pretty wide local

fame as a great student, a deep and original thinker,

and a writer of articles in an Inverness paper, and

MR ROBERTSON'S RECOLLECTIONS.              383

of telling pamphlets on matters of interest to his town
Iand country and the region round.
                                           had not pre

viously heard his name, and only by degrees became

aware of the great pride his fellow -citizens took in him,

and in what he was expected to do. A day or two

after my arrival in Cromarty, I was walking past the

churchyard, and saw a man with his coat off, busily

chiselling a tombstone. Vaulting over the wall, I went

towards him. Hugh raised himself, and after a few

minutes' conversation, put on his coat of hodden grey,

and said he would show me the caves on the northern

shore of the southern Sutor. As we passed the disused

burying-ground of a ruinous old chapel, he told me the

story of the solitary grave outside the boundary wall,

where reposed the dust of a man who gave directions for

his sepulture in this spot, as it would give him the start

of his companions or accusers on the Day of Judgment,

to be held on a neighbouring elevation. Our path was
by a well, about which he told a legend. It was cele

brated for the curing of some complaints.  The caves

were rendered classical, also, by stories of daring smug

glers, and of other wild doings.

    I' During the eight or nine weeks remained in Cro
marty, Hugh and I walked over all the neighbourhood.

We tried each other's strength in many ways --leaping,

vaulting, throwing heavy stones, climbing precipices,

&c. He took me to many of his haunts. He was very

successful in the search for geological specimens, and in

breaking nodules. We discussed all the questions of

the day. He was very well acquainted with English

literature, and had carefully studied translations of

most of the celebrated foreign classics, ancient and

modern. He appeared to me to be more of a practical

philosopher, than either distinctively literary or ab

384 THE JOURNEYMAN.

stractly scientific.   He had made some good water-

colour sketches, and practised poetry as well as prose.

His formal poetry was far behind his poetic prose. He

was admired and wondered at by all classes of his

townsmen ; and I met him at dinner and at evening

vp"eaIrrsytnieh'stumHcobunlegstha?nM"tlyil.lIeralTwahaewysoqnuadecesqrtufiouienlsscmeddaaniiln?y  "puatndto   me were,
                                                                                                             " Isn't he

                                                                                                  the opinion that

he was a wonderful person, and dwelt so much on this,

that the inquiry as to his humility was generally for

gotten. Had I been pressed on that point, I should

have answered, No. He had great ability, and he

knew and was determined that the world should one'a

day know and acknowledge it. He was some five orin I it,
              in I if
six years older than was, but in our short acquaintance
                       I

                                           a
we became mutually very frank. On one occasion he

spoke enthusiastically about departed literary grandee,
and used some expressions which led me to ask him
whether he would like to be he. He turned on

me flash of indignant, almost contemptuous sur

prise, as no living thinking being with spark of soul
                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                      is
or true ambition could do other than desire to be that
                     said, " But remember, Hugh, he dead, and
man.

we have no evidence that he with the Lord, nor are
                                              is

his writings calculated to save any souls, or to keep any

souls    the right way." He strode on                                                             doggedly   with
                                                                                                  and said,   "
clenched fist, and then suddenly stopt,                                                                      It

would be well always to remember that."

         The Rev. Alexander Stewart was the minister of

the parish. His fame as preacher was high. On my
return to Edinburgh, met Dr Chalmers, and he asked
                       I
                                 a                                                                             said at
                                                                                                             the best
                                          I
                                                   is I
me where               h"adOhb,e"enhespeexncldaiinmgedm, y"  summer.
Cromarty.                                                    Stewart
preacher                                                                                          replied, " With
                     the Church of Scotland."

         MR ROBERTSON'S RECOLLECTIONS.     385

Ione exception,   think so." His retort was a most

hilarious laugh. Hugh was an exceedingly attentive

hearer, and a frequent associate of this gifted minister.

He generally occupied the corner of a square pew in

the front of the gallery of the parish church, opposite the
pulpit ; and as the sermon proceeded he might be seen
to lean forward, and fix his keen eyes, from under their

remarkable penthouses, on the face of the preacher,

seeming not so much to hear the sermon as to penetrate,

examine, and sift the man.

    'He was always investigating, and as we walked along

either by road or dry channel of mountain stream, or

waded through the heather, he would suddenly in

terrupt our high  argumentation on  some   rdercyon"didteykesubto
ject, by pulling  out a stone from
                                    the "

examine its geological character, or picking up a pebble

from the bed of the rivulet to note its travels from the

distant upland, to which its native rock belonged ; or,

on the hill-side, he would find berries suitable for a very

hungry man's lunch, and descant on the wild botany of

the district; and when we swam, he would, whilst

dressing, keep his eyes open to the movements of the

dwellers in the deep, or amid the pools and crevices of

the rocks. The cuttle-fish suggested opaque learned-

ness, which, far from enlightening others, only seemed

to afford the possessor of so much inky knowledge a

mode of escaping the detection of his weakness ; and

the large lobster, hurrying off with one big claw and a

little one, suggested the self-sacrifice necessary to safety,

taught us by a crustacean who could fling off his leg to

save his life.

' Hugh had built a house for his mother and her

second family, and he occupied a room and closet in the

upper story ; the closet was fast becoming a crowded

vOL. I.           25

386 THE JOURNEYMAN.

museum of specimens of geology, botany, conchology,

&c, and he had a good many books, hardly a library.

He used to read passages of a book he was engaged in

writing, and courted criticism, though now and then his

eye flashed ominously, if the critic diverged into irrever

ent fun.

     ' To follow so daring a cragsman had for me the

zest of danger, and he would sometimes heighten my

terrors by indulgence in a practical humour bordering

on malice. On one occasion, for example, we had

to ascend almost perpendicularly from the sea-beach,

which had become impassable by the advance of the

tide during our explorations, Hugh of course in

advance to show the way. The cliff was some 150 or

200 feet high. After mounting steadily to within

20 or 30 feet of the top, we arrived at a perfectly per

pendicular wall of solid stone, to be scaled cat-fashion,

by clinging successively to bits of clinging ivy. The

situation was anything but pleasant, and Hugh suddenly
Istartled me by saying,
Imerely an assumed tonein                                been
          of  what      believe to have                  can't
              doubt
                     and concern, -- "

get up any further." To go down safely was impossible;

even to look down at the creamy edge of the little waves

beating the shore immediately beneath would have
I Iamnadderejnpeliedg,idd" yN. evermmasitnedre, dhomldy
                     fears as well as                     could,
                     on where you                      are, and
I will climb over you and help you up." He started off,
Iand was in an instant on the top.
                                    arrived almost at

the  same moment, and threw myself on     the  grass pant
ing  out, " Hugh, you deserve hanging at  the  very least."

He was always investigating, and for the moment may

have forgotten that his curious inspection of my nervous

system might have cost me my life. He seemed to me

Ito have a stern pleasure in danger, --a pleasure, confess,

\

rr  MR ROBERTSONS RECOLLECTIONS.                          387

     I was quite willing to forego, and he tried to educate

i

        his companions by a little wholesome exposure and risk.
       He underrated his powers to please by agreeable manner

    and easy conversation, and chose to force admiration by

    his courage and energy.
    I' He affected (as
                             thought) indifference to gentle

    manly appearance and fashionable manners, and adhered

    to a certain rusticity of aspect and style --possibly

    because he dreaded failure in any effort to become
    I Iperfectly polished.
                             at first wondered at him, then
    Iwas deeply interested in him, and finally became much

    attached to him. As our acquaintance became more

    Iintimate, and our rambles longer and more numerous,

    admired his powers and his information more and more;

    whilst his character, which seemed to me at one time

    harsh and even fierce and dangerous, dissolved into

    Iromantic heroism and almost feminine tenderness.

    cannot pretend to have fathomed and mapped out Hugh

    Miller's character thirty-five years ago, but I can recollect
    Imy sentiments towards him then, and what attributed

    to him as the justification to myself of my admiration

    and affection. The soft, mellow radiance of piety and

    youthful domestic virtue which enveloped him filled my

    heart with an affection which has never grown cold.'

         In the letter to Miss Dunbar from which we took

    our last quotation, Miller spoke in a tone almost of
    sharpness of the infrequency of her letters, urging that
    it was dispiriting to write without any hope of reply,

    and adding, ' Must I have to say of you what the child

    ren sitting in the market-place had to say of their com
    panions, " We have piped to you, and ye have not
    danced ; we have mourned, and ye have not lamented "? '
    This enables us to understand a passage in the following

388 THE JOURNEYMAN.

letter from Miss Dunbar to Miller. It is inserted
here, not only because it displays the delicate intelli

gence and sterling worth of his correspondent, but be
cause, through the eyes of this bright and gracious lady,
we can see him with an authentic clearness and a re

vealing sympathy which even his own letters do not

afford.

         ' Forres, September 19, 1834.

    ' I would as soon suspect you of murder or high
treason as deem you careless or ungrateful. I only
wonder that, embarked as you now are in an ocean of

occupation and anxiety, you can give so much of your
thought and time to me. And yet, differently situated
as we are at this moment, it will be found that affection

has nicely adjusted the balance between us. You are

ceaselessly employed, asking of one minute the work of

two, and, anxious regarding the result of your scheme,

hoping and fearing alternately, and yet you can devote
time and thought to me. I, on the other hand, am

suffering in constant and still increasing distress, --
Iwithdrawing myself as best may from all worldly hopes

and desires, and striving to fix my thoughts where they

ought to rest ; but you still have power to call them
Iback.
         think of you and of your present business, as

involving your future fame and usefulness, with an

interest, a pride, a solicitude, which I find no other

human being or earthly scheme can now excite. Death

can alone render my heart cold to you. Among many

sad thoughts and regrets there is one peculiarly painful,

Ithe thought that, confined as am to a sick-room, I can
I Iaid you so little ; nevertheless do what can.

     ' Both Mr Grant and Dr Brands happened to be

with me when your parcel arrived. They enter warmly

into your scheme, and the Miss Cummings of May not less

             LETTER FROM MISS DUNBAR.      389

warmly. You have staunch friends, too, in the Messrs

Andersons, who have anticipated us, I find, at Dun-
phail, with Major Cumming Bruce ; and Sir Thomas, I

doubt not, is active in Edinburgh. You seem to have

started in a highly favourable time ; but you must not

tell me of a " nervous indolence creeping over you," --you
who are so much the delight of all who know you. --

I must say your prospectus did not please me so much

as I expected ; you cannot do other than write well, but
Ithere are scores of your legends which would have

liked better. True, your reasoning is good and in
                                     I often question
genious, but still it is reasoning.
whether your book will ever be in my hand ; I fear not,
Ibut shall go on wishing and thinking about it as
Ithough were certain of living to see it.

     ' And so you  have been on many excursions of late ;
                   deathlike pang shoot across me at the
-- why should a
Ithought ? It will be a year on Friday next since

crossed over from Nairn to Cromarty, and you were not

in the way, nor could be found for two hours ! In the

Ithree weeks that followed, oh how much enjoyed ! I

can recall all our walks together, and all the topics on

which we conversed. But why should such recollections

disturb or distress me? You will be happy with other

friends and favourites ; --oh, yes, yes you will, I hope

and wish -- and you will bear me in mournful remem
'

          it,

                a?

             I

                                                       ;

                       I

                                        it

                                                      is

                                                          I
brance, though you will be nothing to me then. But

shall see you once more, -- may hold out for months yet;

and as you have promised to come to see me, you will.

But why, my friend, do you chide me for not

writing you        can feel the awkwardness of your

situation as correspondent, in writing letter after letter

and receiving no reply but  God who has laid His
chastening hand upon me,-- do not reprove me, but let

390 THE JOURNEYMAN.

Ithis be a testimony of my willingness to write. Oh,
Ihave many things to say to you that could say to none
Iother,
       for think that above  all others  you can put your
" soul in my soul's stead."  Keep my     manuscript books

Icarefully.      wish you had them all, and many other
little things, but I know you will need no tokens to
remember me by. How happy you would make me if
Iyou would call upon me in any way in which could

really serve you. How do you manage to live ? You

are not working much, and must, at a time like the

present, have many little expenses ; do you want
I Imoney ?
             have enough and to spare, and would

Iinjure no one by giving to you. Away with your high

notions of what you deem independence, but which,

assure you, has more of alloy than of true metal in it.

No proper feeling can be injured by an accommodation

Iof the kind propose. Now be not offended, --if you

are, I shall say you are yet unacquainted with my heart.'

The following reply at once gushed from Hugh

Miller's heart.

                             ' Cromarty, September 25, 1834.

' How shall I thank you for your truly kind, truly

excellent letter ! My heart bounded to my lips, as
I Iohpaenndin!g"
       it         exclaimed, "From Miss Dunbar's own
                   glanced my eyes over it with a hurried
       and
eagerness, --an intense impatience that seemed to be

grudge the minutes which were to be spent in the slow

process of perusal, and to desire that all its contents

Imight be stamped upon my mind at once. Need say
Ihow deeply I sympathize with you and how highly

esteem you ? Often do my thoughts carry me to Forres ;

I seize the extended hand, and then draw in my chair
Ibeside you; and though my heart sinks when see how
pale and thin you appear, I am again reassured by the

THE FIELDS OF THE FUTURE.  391

expression of your eye and the calm placidity of the

tones in which you address me. It is surely a good

thing to be enabled to look forward through the clouds

and darkness of our present state of being to the calm

sunny fields of the future ; to be assured that the life

which commenced as but yesterday, and whose events

seem huddled together as if they were the occurrences
of one short day, shall never, never terminate, but continue

to go on, and on, and on, through the unreckoned and

ever-succeeding periods of an eternity, whose further

edge of boundary God Himself cannot perceive. And

is it not well, my dear madam, that as creatures possessed

of so quenchless a vitality, our affection should be fixed

on each other and on Him who occupies all the future
Ifand all the past ?
                      we fix them on objects less en

during than themselves a day of final separation must

come, and when they depart to their far country they

must go forth wounded and widowed, --still, still

looking back and halting by the way, wishing, and

weeping, and longing, but wishing and weeping and

longing in vain. How different must that journey

prove to those whose hearts have been prepared to love

their God, and whose affections have met and mingled

with those of their fellows ! They will go onward, as

sured of meeting with Him, --finding the stream of His

brightness increasing the nearer they approach Him ;

and, reckoning the amount of their successions of hap

piness by other periods of duration than those by which
in the lower world we measure our days of languor and

suffering, --they shall say, " Our God is with us, and we

shall be joined by our friends early on the morrow."
IMuch as sympathize with you and grieve for your
Isufferings,
              find there is much regarding you from

which to derive comfort.

392 THE JOURNEYMAN.

I' Forgive me the passage in my last by which was

so unfortunate as to give you pain. One is not always

master of one's mood ; and there are impatient, unthink

ing moods in which we say and write what afterwards

Iwe wish unsaid or unwritten. merely meant to express
how dispiriting a thing I felt it to be to write without

the hope of receiving a reply ; a sudden analogy came

across me, and I embodied it without noting that it gave

Ia cast of meaning to my words which the thought
Imeant them to convey did not bear. But know you

will not think harshly of me.
     ' For the last fortnight some of my very few leisure

hours have been employed in collecting geological speci

mens for my kind friend, Mr George Anderson, --one of

the most thorough-bred geologists in the north of Scotland.

IBy the way, see from the newspapers that he has been

highly complimented for his labours in this department,

at the great scientific meeting at Edinburgh. Some of

the specimens I have procured are exceedingly curious ;

they contain  the petrified remains of animals  that now no
longer exist                                    of charcoal,
              except in a fossil state, --bits

pieces of wood, and nondescript substances which one

can hardly refer to either the animal or vegetable world.

Of the several animal tribes the very curious shell-fish

termed the cornu ammonis abounds most ; but though

at one period the most numerous of all the testaceous

tribes of the country, it is now no longer to be found
except as a fossil, deeply embedded in limestone or
bituminous shale, and buried under huge hills of

clay and gravel. There are grounds, indeed, for the
belief that the race of man, and almost all the tribes of

animals with which we are acquainted, have come into

being since it ceased to exist ; at least no remains of the

living tribes have been found in the beds in which the

                   GEOLOGY.                                                 393

cornu abounds.     Like the nautilus, it was a sailing

animal, and though different in form, its structure seems
to have been nearly the same. We find it partitioned
in the same way by little cross walls, which divide the
cavity within into a number of minute cells, by means
of which and by a power it must have possessed of alter

ing its gravity, by nearly vacating or occupying these to
the full, it seems to have moved upwards or downwards
at pleasure. The inner part of the shell seems, from the

Imore perfect impressions of it which have met with,

to have been of a pearly lustre ; the outer is ridged and
furrowed with much regularity, and there is at least as
much elegance in its general contour as in that of the
Ionic volute, which it nearly resembles. But, why so
much beauty when there was no eye of man to see and
admire ? Does it not seem strange that the bays of our
coasts should have been speckled by fleets of beautiful
little animals, with their tiny sails spread to the wind
and their pearly colours glancing to the sun, when there
was no intelligent eye to look abroad and delight in
their loveliness ? Of all the sciences there is none which

furnishes so many paradoxical facts and appearances as

geology

     ' Mr Stewart returned last week from Strathpeffer,

in improved but still rather delicate health, and preached
one half of the day last Sabbath. His discourse, though

in a lower and more subdued tone than some of his

more powerful ones, was truly beautiful,-- full of ex

quisite sentiment and lovely description ; and there was

an air of tenderness about it which rarely characterizes

his compositions.  He spoke of the finely fibred and

wdeornadngeerfmuellnyt,coamndplicitastecdapafrcaitmyeoof fpamina,n--, ooff  its liability to
                                                                            the weariness

of sleepless nights and the heavy yet restless languor of

394 THE JOURNEYMAN.

tedious days. He spoke, too, of the solitude of suffering,

--a solitude complete and unbroken even in the midst

of society ; of the gloom which to the sufferer seems to

hang over all the present, and which deepens into thick

darkness as he looks towards the future. And where,

he asked, shall we look in such circumstances for comfort?

Where but to Him who is thoroughly acquainted with
--our frame, --acquainted with
                                   not only as God the
                          it,
                                                         ; it,                                        not

                                                                          it

                                                                                                   ;
Creator of but also as man the inhabitant of

only as Him who can look into all our sufferings, but as

Him who entered into them all --Him of the lacerated
hands and feet and the pierced side, --whose forehead

was cinctured with thorns, and over whose back the

--ploughers have driven long furrows. Mr Stewart's recent

experience has not been without its use to him, his

sufferings have taught him the language of consolation.

        Accept my warmest thanks for your kind, generous
      '
offer.         would prove poor return for your goodness,
were   I     to chide you for what ought so thoroughly to
                          a
           It
                                    it iIf

                                                  is
awaken my gratitude. Believe,                       do not avail myself

of what you so frankly tender me,                     out of no proud

or improper feeling.'
      Mrs Grant of Laggan suggested about this time to her

friend, Miss Dunbar, with view to Miller's advancement
                          a

                              '
                                                                      '

                                                                     a
    life, that he might do the blocking work for young
sculptor likely to rise to eminence.' Mrs Grant referred
to Allan Cunningham's success in doing the blocking
in

     '
                       '

work for Chantrey,'       a by
                                         it

                                                 I

                                                         II
                          way of illustrating the promotion

intended for Miller. On this Miss Dunbar wrote to
Hugh -- could not well take on me to reply to what
I
         :
       I'
she suggests without reference to yourself, though dare

say anticipate your answer, and so write. Pardon

the terms she uses as applicable to you, and believe me,

that neither in speaking nor writing of you have ex

BARON HUMES COMPLIMENT.  395

pressed myself in a way to sanction them. I had honesty

and delicacy enough not to assume the airs of a lady-

patroness ; I ever spoke of you as my friend, and as proud
that you were such.' In the same letter Miss Dunbar

mentioned that Baron Hume, nephew to the historian,
pronounced by Kemble ' positively the first ' critic of the
day, had seen the prospectus of Miller's book. ' He
perused it,' she adds, ' with much interest and no little

surprise, and states as his opinion that the writer excels
in that classical style which many well-known writers of

the present day, so far from attaining to, do not seem

even to understand.' Hugh in his reply speaks of Baron
 Hume before touching on Mrs Grant's proposal.

                        1 Cromarty, October 25, 1834.

' Never was my little remnant of modesty in such

danger as it has been exposed to by the critical remark of

Baron Hume. But if at all worthy of the compliment

it conveys, I owe my merit chiefly to accident :-- to my
having kept company with the older English writers,--

the Addisons, Popes, and Robertsons of the last century,

at a time when I had no opportunity of becoming ac

quainted with the authors of the present time. And the

tone of these earlier writers I have, I dare say, contrived

in some measure to catch, just as in my spoken language

I have caught the tone of our Cromarty Scotch.
    ' I am much gratified by the kind solicitude of Mrs

Grant, but you seem to have anticipated my reply to

what she suggests. Though I have sometimes amused

my leisure hours  with  sculpture, my best efforts in this
department have   been
                        only half-efforts, -- I made them

without either hope or care, and saw them balked with

out disappointment ; and though perhaps rather a supe

rior workman as workmen go, I have become such I

396 THE JOURNEYMAN.

hardly know how, and never think of my profession

except as fortunate in that it does not employ my mind,
and that I can prosecute it in the open air. These are

not the views of one destined to excel as a sculptor ; and
Myas for a mason, I am well enough as I am.
                                                           am

bition points in a different direction ; and when the

public shall have decided regarding my modicuin of

literary ability, should the editorship of some magazine

or paper come my way, I shall cheerfully resign the

mallet altogether ; though till such an opportunity occurs
I shall grip fast to its rough handle as my only hold of

independence. Allan Cunningham's situation is con

siderably different from the one referred to by Mrs

Grant. Chantrey is not merely a sculptor ; he is also a

contractor on a large scale for sepulchral monuments,

and employs many workmen ; Allan is his foreman, and

manages the under details of his business ; were be

merely a sculptor, the poet would hold only the place

of one of the mechanics whom he superintends. Favour

me, when you write Mrs Grant, by tendering her my

best thanks for her suggestion, and the interest she takes

in my welfare, and oblige me by stating that I cannot

avail myself of the former. But why, my dear madam,

apologize for the terms she employs in speaking of me ?
Trust me, I am not one of those who repay with insolence

the notice by which they are honoured. The much kind

ness you have shown me, and the confidence you have

reposed in me, have not yet made me forget our respective

places in society ; and though no one entertains a, more

sincere love of independence, or more carefully avoids

any imputation of meanness, it would not cost me a

single blush were the whole world to know how much

cause you have given me to be grateful.'

                                                         397

                       CHAPTER XVI.

                             TWO LETTERS ON RELIGION.

THE . two letters addressed to Mr William Smith,
       Forres, are without question among the most im
portant Miller ever wrote. They form a supplement to
that portion of his spiritual history which embraced his
period of indifference and semi-scepticism, and contain
not only an explicit confession of faith, but a statement
of that intellectual basis on which it was for him a neces
sity that his faith should rest. Reticent as he was in all

that related to his soul's condition, -- sensitively averse

to the unveiling to human eyes of his spiritual ex

perience, --he would probably never have written such

letters had not an occasion occurred which constrained

him to overcome every scruple. A friend lay ill, perhaps
unto death ; it seemed possible to Hugh that he might

minister to his spirit's health and his eternal salvation ;
and he yielded to the impulse of affection and the man
 date of duty. The scheme of religion which he unfolds
in the letters is that of simple acceptance of Christ
for salvation, as He is offered in the Gospel, accept
ance with the heart as well as the head, acceptance
with clear consciousness that the difficulties of the
intellect cannot be wholly removed. The religion of
Miller was to cling close to Christ, to die with Christ, to

398 THE JOURNEYMAN.

rise with Christ, to wear with Him the crown of thorns,

and to receive from Him the crown of glory.
     The idea formerly thrown out by Miller that Chris

tianity suggests objections so many and so obvious that
common sense would not have permitted its invention
by man, receives in these letters its balance and coun
terpart in the hypothesis that the adaptation of Chris

tianity to man's wants is so exquisite and its evidence

so strong, that its obvious offences to mere human reason

tend to prove that it is Divine.
      From a biographic point of view, the letters have a

special interest as showing the tenacity with which Miller

retained thoughts which had once been deliberately
accepted into his intellectual system. The illustration of
the working of the atonement of Christ, given long sub

sequently in the Schools and Schoolmasters, is but a
slight expansion of that which he here lays before his
friend, and the thesis maintained, that man can appre
hend facts and results in God's universe, whether phy
sical or spiritual, but not the constructive principles and
processes by which they are brought about, is worked out
in a chapter on the Discoverable and the Revealed in the

Testimony of the Rocks, which is perhaps the most valu
able that Hugh Miller ever penned.

'My dear William,  ' Cromarty, August 5, 1835.

         I' need not tell you how famous Cromarty is

for its hasty reports, or on how slender a foundation the

imagination of the townsfolks sometimes contrives to
Ibuild.
         must needs tell you, however, for the circum

stance forms my only apology for now writing you,

that the last story current among us affected me more

deeply than any of its class ever did before. On your

late severe attack, your brother, the doctor, was called

MAN A RELIGIOUS ANIMAL.  399

Ihastily to Forres, and the story went that you were dead.

   never before knew how much I valued and esteemed
you ;--the thought too that one with whom I had so
often conversed, and with whose mind I was so tho

roughly acquainted, had passed the dark bourne which
 separates this world from the other, had something in

expressibly solemn and melancholy in it. I felt for the

 time that, disguise the fact as we may, the main business
 of this life consists in preparing for another, and con

 Iscience was not quite silent when remembered that,
Ithough you and had beaten together over many an

 interesting topic, the most interesting of all had been
 omitted. You remember the fable of the wise men who

  were permitted to make a three days' visit to the moon
  that they might report to our lower world regarding its
  plants and animals, and who on their return had to
  confess that they had squandered their time in drinking
  with gay young men, and dancing with beautiful women,
  and had only remarked that the trees and sky of the
  planet, when seen casually through a window, very much
  resembled those of our own. Alas, for the application of

   this ingenious story.
        ' There are few men who do not at some time or other

   think seriously of the future state, or who have not formed
   some at least theoretic set of notions regarding the best

   mode of preparing for it. Man was born to anticipate a

  hereafter --he is a religious animal by the very constitu

   tion of his nature, and the thousand forms of superstition

   which still overspread the world and darken every page

  of its history are just so many proofs of this. It has

   often struck me that the infidel, when in his assaults on

   revelation he draws largely from this store of delusion,

   sadly mistakes his argument ; -- every false religion which
  has sprung out of the nature of man shows us--not

400 THE JOURNEYMAN.

surely that there is no true religion, but that we stand
in need of a true one ; -- every mythologic folly and
absurdity should convince us that we need an infalli
ble guide. Regarded in this light the Shaster and the
Koran are substantial proofs of how ill we could do with

out the Bible ; and Paganism and Mahometism powerf ull y

recommend Christianity. You, my dear William, to
whom it has been given to possess an inquiring and
reflecting mind, must have often thought of the final

destinies of man ; I myself have observed in you much

of that respect for sacred things which is one of the
characteristics of an ingenuous nature ; but there is per
haps danger that your very ingenuity and acuteness
might have led you into error. Christianity is emphatic
ally termed the wisdom of God, but it is not on a first
examination that a reasoning mind can arrive at the evi
dence of its being such ; on the contrary, some of its
main doctrines seem opposed to the more obvious
principles of common sense ; and this quite in the same
way that, before the days of Newton, it would have
seemed contrary to these principles to allege that the
whiteness of light was occasioned by a combination of
the most vivid colours, or that the planets were held in
their orbits by the law which impelled a falling stone
towards the ground. Now this is exactly what we might
expect of the true religion. A religion made by rational

men --many Deists, you know, were eminently such, and
we may instance theirs --will be, like themselves, rational

and easily understood ; but this very facility is a con
clusive proof that it had its origin in the mind of man.

It is like all his other works--like the clocks and watches

and steam engines of his construction -- easily understood,
and easily imitated ; but it is not thus with Christianity,
nor is it thus with the great machine of the universe.

                    ^

         FALSE RELIGIONS.  401

Let us, my dear William, take a brief survey of some of

the main doctrines of this religion ; they concern us so

nearly that it may be fatal to misunderstand them.
       ' The invariable reply of the apostles of our Saviour

Ito that most important of all queries, " What shall
   do to be saved?" was, "Believe in the Lord Jesus

IChrist." Belief seems to be, if may so speak, the

main condition of man's acceptance, but belief in what

or whom ? in a person who is at once God and Man, and

who thus, to the perfection of a Divine nature, adds the

feelings of a human heart. Now there is something

amazing in this, something which, for its exquisite fitness

to our moral and sentient constitution, is worthy the

conception of a God. Observe, my dear William, the

false religions of the world, and you will find that they
run into two opposite extremes. In the artificial re

ligions which have been formed by the intellect of man,

God is represented as a mere abstraction of wisdom and

power. He is the Great First Cause of the philosopher,

and it is scarcely more possible for the human heart to
love Him as such, than it is for Him to love any of the

great second causes, such as the sun with its light and
heat, or the law of gravitation. And hence the coldness

and utter inefficacy of all such religions, whether known

under the name of philosophical Deism or Socinian

Christianity ;--they are totally unfitted to the nature of

man. The religions of the other class are rather the off

spring of passion than intellect; they arise in those

obscure and remote ages when unenlightened man

created his gods in his own image. What was Jupiter

or his son Hercules, or what their companions in the

court of Olympus, the Dianas, Venuses, or Minervas

with which the old poets have brought us acquainted,

but human creatures bearing the very mould and impres-

TOL. I.  26

402 THE JOURNEYMAN.

sion of their worshippers ? And such deities could be loved

and feared just in the way one human creature can love

or fear another ; the belief in them powerfully influenced

the conduct, but their worship, as it originated in the
darkened human heart, was a worship of impurity.
Observe with what a truly God-like wisdom Christianity
is formed to avoid the opposite extremes of these two

classes, and how it yet embraces more than the philoso
phy of the one and more than the warmth of the other:
the object of our worship is at once God the First Great

Cause, and the man Jesus Christ our brother.

' But not merely must we believe in Christ as God,

but also as our Saviour ; as the restorer of our moral

nature, and our sacrifice or atonement.       There are
wonderful Janus-like mysteries here, --inexplicable -

their one aspect as they regard God, though simple and

easy in the other as they regard man. Perhaps an

illustration from the human frame may serve to explain

my meaning. Need I remind you, who are an anatomist,

and acquainted with Paley to boot, of the admirable

adaptation of the human frame to the various ends
                                it
which was created, or how easy       is

                                                   a

                                                                                 for
it                                       for person

          ?of even ordinary capacity to be made to perceive this

adaptation? Almost any one can see how fairly and

beautifully the machine works, --but who, on the other

hand, can conceive of the higher principles on which  it
                                                         is

constructed  Who can know anything of the workings

of the brain as the organ of thought, or of the operations

of the nerves as the seats of feeling, --of how the chyle is

chosen by its thousand blind mouths, and every other

fluid rejected, --of how one gland should secrete liquor
                         by
                                                                  a

                                                                                                              n
so unlike that secreted  another.^fiLin short, anv

the thousand phenomena of ov    ^bwe when we

trace them towards their firs.           iroikiggu

                THE SA VIOUR.                       403

the machine is simple, its construction we find to be

inexplicably mysterious. Now it is thus with Chris

tianity. No one can understand how the sufferings of

if Ithe Saviour satisfy the justice of God,--that regards,
        may so speak, the construction of the scheme ; but

every one who examines may see how wonderfully these

vicarious sufferings are suited to the nature and the

wants of man, -- for that regards its working. But it is
not in the limits of so brief a composition as a letter that

such a subject can be discussed.                 *
I' May recommend to you, my dear William, to lay

hold on this Saviour as the way, and the truth, and the

life ? He is willing and able to save to the uttermost all

who trust in Him. You suffer from pain and dejection ;
He suffered from pain and dejection also, and hence His

wonderful fitness to be the God and Saviour of a race

born to anguish and sorrow. Not only does He know

our weaknesses as God, but He sympathizes in them as
Iman.
-- it
is        Forgive me the freedom with     which     write you ;
           as a friend,-- as one foolish    and  careless, and

often so wrapped up in the dreams of life as to forget its

real businesses, but also as one convinced that the Saviour

can through His Spirit make wise unto salvation, and

that to secure an interest in Him is to possess a righteous

ness that is perfect, and to have every sin forgiven

Ithrough an atonement that is complete. May ask, my

dear William, that when you address yourself to Him, --

and oh, He is willing to hear and ready to help, -- you will

put up one petition for your affectionate friend, Hugh

Miller.'

My dear W                             ' Cromarty, August 27, 1835.
           '1,  mam,

confinet             -d from your brother that you are

                       Ito. Believe me sympathize

                                  -

404 THE JOURNEYMAN.

with you very sincerely ; and it is in the hope of helping

to enliven your solitude for at least a few brief minutes
that I again avail myself of a leisure hour in which to
Iwrite you.
              know from experience that there is no
solitude like that of a sick chamber ; --it wears away the

poor remnant of spirits that indisposition spares to us ;
but it will not render the sense of this loneliness weightier

to you to learn that an old friend, though also a power

less one, continues to regard you with sympathy and

esteem. It is a better assurance, however, that He who

is more thoroughly your friend than any one else, and

who can sympathize with you more deeply, is possessed

of a power that has no limits.

' Your brother hinted to me that you are not unwill
Iing I should recur to the subject of my last.
                                                         feel, my
dear William, that I am unworthy to approach a theme
Iso sacred, -- am also too little impressed with
                     it                                                 too

                           ;

                            I

                                                                             it,

                                                                 I
little in love with  but know of its importance, and

believe in its truth. In one respect too we may be better

fitted for conference with each other on the doctrines of

religion than either of us would be with minds who had

never doubted of them. know you are not unacquainted

with infidel objections, --you are familiar with some of
it
                                                         am intimate
    I'
             is I it

                            is

                        I

                                                    it,
the most insidious writings of Voltaire                  a ;I

                                                                              it
with these also, and with those of many sceptic besides.
And so, as we can approach our subject over nearly the

same ground,         surely not irrational to expect that

may present itself to us in nearly the same points of view.

think remarked to you in my last letter that

Christianity  no common -sense religion were such
                                                         ;

                                                                    it

would have little in common with the other marvellous

workings of Him who devised as these are shown in all
He has made and in His mode of governing all. But

do not infer from this, as some infidels do, tacitly at

                      AN ILLUSTRATION.                       405

least, that to the human comprehension, the absurdities

of false religions and the mysteries of Christianity are

placed on a similar level. Between what cannot be

understood because it has no meaning, and what cannot

be understood because it surpasses the grasp of our

minds, there not only obtains an infinite difference, but a

difference fully cognizable by the human intellect. The

scribblings of a child and the abstruser calculations of a

Newton  or  La Place     would not     --aphpoewareveeqr uahlluymubnlemeahnis
ing to                      observer,
        an    attentive

powers ; -- he could not but see now and then little breaks

of sense in the mysteries of the one and wonderful effects

produced by them, which would most effectually distin
guish them from the nothingness of the other. And it

is thus with Christianity. We get occasional glimpses

of its meaning, and see instances of its power that may

well enable us to distinguish between it and the Shaster %

and Koran. Its adaptation to the nature of man is truly

exquisite. There is a pretty story in Kaines' Art of

Thinking, introduced by the philosopher for a very

different purpose, which will in part enable us to conceive

of this. Two men who fought in the wars of Queen
Anne -- the one a petty officer, the other a private
soldier -- had been friends and comrades for years, but

quarrelling on some unlucky love affair, they became bitter

enemies. The officer made a natural though ungenerous

use of his authority, in continually annoying and per

secuting the other, whom he almost fretted into madness,

and who was often heard to swear that he would die to

be avenged on him. Both were men of known bravery,

and on an occasion of some dangerous service, both were                        y

chosen to be of the party selected to attempt it. But the

attempt was unsuccessful, and the officer was struck
                                   --"
down  by a  ball  in  the retreat       Ah,  and  will  you  leave
                                   ;

406 THE JOURNEYMAN.

'me here to perish ? he exclaimed, as his old companion

rushed past him. The appeal was irresistible ; the poor

injured man returned, and raising his wounded enemy

he bore him off amid a storm of shot and shell. And he

had just reached what seemed to be a place of safety,

when he was struck by a chance ball and fell dead under

his burden. But his fate seemed an enviable one com

pared with that of the wounded man. He rose for

getful of his wound, and tearing his hair, and flinging

himself on the body, he burst out into the most heart

rending lamentations. For two days he refused all

sustenance, still calling on his companion, and ever ex

'claiming, Hast thou died for me who treated thee so bar

'barously ! and he expired on the third, the victim of min

gled grief and remorse. Do you not perceive, my dear

William, that the principle which the story unfolds lies

deep in our nature? Nothing so prostrates the pride of man

oinrjusroiessti--ngos f  him to  the heart  as a   return  of  benefits for
                          great  good for          evil.       the expres
                                            great          In

sive language of Scripture, it is heaping live coals on the

head, and to blow up these to a tenfold intensity that

the hardest heart may melt under them, it is necessary

that the injured benefactor, instanced in the story, should

Idie for his enemy. Need attempt an application, or

point out to you with what marvellous, God-like wisdom
                         appeals to the principle described ? "
Christianity              a good man," says the Apostle,         Perad-
venture for                                                      " some

would even dare to die ; but God commended his love

towards us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ

died for us."

    I' am sorry we should have missed so many oppor

tunities of conversing on this subject ; little can be done

for it in the limits of a letter ; and besides, in the course
of conversation, doubts may v '~od and cleared wl

FITNESS OF CHRISTIANITY.                        407

though they may weigh heavily on your mind, cannot be

anticipated by mine. It must have struck you as some

thing very mysterious in the scheme of Redemption that

man, instead of having to trust to his own virtues for

reward and his own repentance for pardon, must look

exclusively to the righteousness and atonement of the
Saviour. And yet so important is this doctrine, that the

scheme of Salvation is inefficient without it; for, for

what other cause did the Saviour come into the world,

or in what other sense could lie be said to die for us ?

I have seen much of what may be called the working of

this doctrine, and unable as I am to comprehend it in

the abstract, have admired its wonderful adaptation to the

nature and wants of man. There is no place where

its importance can be better appreciated than beside a

death-bed. In the closing scene of life man's boasted

virtues become, in most instances, so intangible, that they

elude his grasp, and his sins, however little noted before,
start up around him like so many threatening spectres to

call up all his remorse for the past and all his fears for the

future. It is then that the scheme of Redemption ap

pears worthy of the infinite wisdom and infinite good

ness of a God, --that the righteousness of Him, who ever

went about doing good, appears an inexhaustible fund to

which we may apply, --that the agony in the garden, the

mockeries and scourgings in the hall, the inconceivable

sufferings and shame of the cross, array themselves on

the side of mercy, and sum up efficacy enough to anni

hilate every sin. It is when every minor light of comfort

is extinguished that the Saviour shines forth, and more

than compensates for them all.                  I have
     ' So much for the fitness of this scheme.

stated that, regarded in the abstract, it surpasses my
comprehension ; but do not suppose from this that it is

408 THE JOURNEYMAN.

more surrounded by difficulties than any of the many
schemes of religion which men have opposed to it. The

simplicity of most of these is but an apparent simplicity,
complete in the eyes of the shallow thinker, but which en

tirely disappears when subjected to the gaze of a superior
discernment. True, the difficulties of Christianity may

be more strikingly apparent than those of philosophic

religions, but it is only because God in His goodness,
instead of confining it to the acute and the highly

talented, has brought it down to the level of the whole

race of man ; and thus common capacities are brought in
contact with truths of so lofty and abstruse a character

that the greatest minds can but see their importance and

consistency without being able to comprehend them.

It is well, however, that the heart of the simplest can be
made to feel their fitness ; and that the excellence of

doctrines too mighty to be grasped by the most capacious

minds can be so appreciated by babes as to be made

effectual to their salvation.

' After all our reasonings, my dear William, it is

through the heart alone that we can lay hold of the
                                                " by
iSta"vioisurth;e  and to prepare the     heart  God   working    faith in
                  office of that Spirit  which        giveth to  all who

ask it. Have you ever considered the doctrine of the

Trinity, and the peculiar fitness which it gives to the

character of God as a God of man ? Perhaps the query

Iis rather obscure ; --what mean to express is this. One

great proof of the wisdom of the Deity is derived from

that exquisite adaptation of parts which obtains through

out creation. You have studied this in the human frame,

and must have seen in extending your view, that not

more admirably are the parts of that frame fitted to each

other than man as a whole is fitted to external nature.

Now, by rising a little higher, and taking with you the

                    THE TRINITY.                                                       409

Scripture character of a triune God, you will perceive

that there  is yet  a third  oefxqtuhiesiteDeaidtayp;t--atiwonhatof  the nature
             the    nature                                           indeed we
of man to

might expect, when we consider for what purpose and

in whose image man was originally created. The sub

Iject far exceeds the limits to which am restricted, but

I must attempt giving you a brief outline of my meaning :

-- In all true philosophy, God is regarded as the first

cause of all things, and as uncaused himself. Necessarily,
then, he must have existed from eternity, while every

thing else must have begun to exist; and ere that

beginning, He must have existed an eternity alone. But
in this, His eternity of solitude, to be regarded as the

womb of Deity, in which, though His thoughts might

be employed (I am acquainted with only the language
of earth), His affections lay dormant ? Surely not. Who

can think of a God of infinite goodness existing for an

eternity without love ! But love requires an object, and

God existed alone. Yes, -- but when we feel that the

ill-conceived God of the philosopher must so circum

stanced have been a solitary being, we know that the

God of the   Christian existed in  the society of Himself,
              the Son and the      Spirit with an infinite
--regarding

love, and infinitely beloved by them. Is there not

scohmareatchtienrgofwGoondd,e--rfuslolymepthleinagsingthatinhartmhisonizveiesw     of  the
                                                                                with
                                                                                       our

nature and all its affections of love, friendship, brotherly
affection, filial attachment, and paternal regard? And

then to think that all the persons of the adorable God

head are interested in us, and perform a part in our

Redemption ! The Father willed that the Son should

be sent, the Son became man and died for us, and by

the Spirit is the sacrifice made effectual to us and our

hearts prepared. It is surely no marvel that angels

410 THE JOURNEYMAN.

desire to look into a mystery so fraught with the wisdom

and goodness of Deity.
     ' Permit me again, my dear William, to recommend

to you Jesus Christ as the only Saviour. Open all your

heart to Him, for He is man and can sympathize in all
its affections ; trust yourself implicitly in Him, for He

is God, omnipotent to aid and unable to deceive. Faith

can realize His presence, and there is happiness to be

found in His society, when the full heart pours itself out

before Him, of which the world can form no conception.

In life or in death, in health or in sickness, it is well to

be able to lean oneself on Him, as John did at the last

supper, and to feel as it were the heart of His humanity

beating under the    broad     buckler of His power. What
ever it may be your  fate to
                              encounter, --whether protracted,

spirit-subduing indisposition, or that solemn and awful

change so big with interest to the human heart, and so

fitted to awaken its hopes and its fears,--or whether you

are to be again restored to the lesser cares and narrower

prospects of the present life, -- in whatever circumstances

placed, or by whatever objects surrounded, you will find

Him to be an all-sufficient Saviour, and the friend that

Isticketh closer than a brother. Would that were more

worthy to recommend Him to you, --more like Himself ;

but I know you will forgive me the freedom with
which I write, and that you will not associate with His

infinite wisdom and purity any of the folly or the evil

which attaches to, my dear William, your sincere and

affectionate friend, Hugh Miller.'

                            411

                    CHAPTER XVII.

                MISCELLANEOUS LETTERS.

                 are a few letters of a miscellaneous kind,

THEsRomEe dated, some undated, written to various corre

spondents in the Journeyman period, which it will be as

well to take in here. Two or three of them are addressed

to Mr Strahan, and one to Mr Torsyth, containing

Miller's ' theory of the moral character of the people of

Scotland.' To these are added, first, the account, re

ferred to in preceding letters, drawn up by Miller of
' Black Russel,' one of the ' old light ' clergy satir
                         '               '
ized  by Burns  in  the     Holy  Fair      secondly,  a sample  of
                                        ;

those descriptive paragraphs contributed by Hugh to

the Inverness Courier ; and, thirdly, a letter to Mr

George Anderson, of Inverness, giving an account of the

writer's scientific explorations, and interesting as con

taining the first allusion, made by Hugh Miller, in black

and white, to the ptericthys. Allan Cunningham printed

but half the sketch of Russel in his edition of Burns,

and Miller thought that Allan had left out more than

half its brains. The short description of the boat acci

dent is in no respect to be distinguished from others of

the same kind, but it characteristically exhibits the sim

plicity, compactness, and sincerity of style, on which, in

preference to sentimental effusion, rhetorical ornament,

412 THE JOURNEYMAN.

or technical fine writing of any kind, Miller had learned

to depend for effect.

FROM MR JOHN STRAHAN.

                                                             'Forres, Dec. 24, 1829.

' Dear Sir,

       ' It is with much pleasure I sit down to avail

myself of my good fortune in getting on the list of your

Ifriends. Until a few days back was but partially ac

quainted with you as an author, and yet, from the little

Iknowledge I had of your great literary acquirements,

certainly envied the few who shared most of your esteem,

and ranked highest in your regard. And when told

Ilately by Miss Dunbar (who, rejoice to say, is our com
Imon friend) that it was probable you might soon visit

this quarter, requested her, should you come to Forres,

to introduce me to you. She kindly agreed to do so ;

Iand from that moment began to anticipate the pleasure

I should derive from having the honour of pointing

out to you the numerous scenes and antiquities about

IForres, which are, imagine, not unworthy of the eye of

the poet. Were you to trace the scenes in our neigh

bourhood now rendered classic by the author of the

Wolf of Badenoch, you would confess that some of

them are themselves poems, produced by the great poet

Nature in her holiest and happiest moods. But it is to

Imyself, and not to rural scenery, that wish to refer
Inow. From what have said you can conceive some

thing of the happy response my heart gave to the wish

you expressed, that we might become friends : with my
Iwhole soul subscribe to your proposition. Friend
Iship with me is not merely a name ; hold it to be a
Isacred, and, as have often found
                                   it,   joy-giving reality.
                                      a

             LETTER TO MR STRAHAN.  413

It is the groundwork of all social pleasures, and the

chief promoter of individual happiness ; and it is the

more to be esteemed that it makes its home alike in

the heart of the labourer and of the lord, --binding
all congenial spirits together by its sweet and mys
Iterious influences.
                      am deeply interested in your
Iwelfare, and feel sure that your industry will insure

you success, and gain you a name among the authors

of your country.. It will give me great pleasure to see and

Iknow this. am not a little proud of the opinion which

you have expressed regarding my pieces ; an encomium

pronounced by one of your taste and judgment weighs

against the censure of a thousand, who, in their ignor

ance, prattle of such matters.'

             TO MR STRAHAN.

I' This is not the first time take up the pen to write
Ito a poet.
             had a friend, not many years ago, who also

had learned the art unteachable ; and whose heart was

as warm as his imagination was active. He is now no

more. Since his death the place he occupied in my
affections has remained a blank ; and part of the pleasure

I derive from your kind letter arises from the hope of
having that blank filled. The life of the friend I allude

to was one of melancholy and disappointment. He

possessed no ordinary powers ; but from an unfortunate

Idiffidence which was, believe, constitutional to him, he

almost always despaired of attaining the object he pur

sued, when every other person who could judge of the

matter deemed him just on the point of gaining it. The

consequence was that he failed in almost everything he
attempted, and that, though endowed with a fine genius

for both painting and poetry, he gained not a modicum

414 THE JOURNEYMAN.

of celebrity in either. He died nearly two years ago ;
and were the existence and the hopes of man confined

to the present world, it might be said of him, that as he

lived in it almost without enjoyment, so he quitted it

without accomplishing anything. But the contrary was
the fact, for in reality he achieved much. His name was
William Ross, a name which you may repeat a thousand

times and in a thousand places without awakening a

single recollection of him who bore it. No sense of

sacredness, no feeling of devotion, connected with either
his genius or his worth, shall ever press on the minds of

those who behold the nameless sod which covers his

remains ; and yet, though thus obscure, he has earned a
loftier fame than that which the men of this earth can

bestow. Through the grace of God he had subdued bis
own spirit ; he had striven against the ills of human life
and human nature, and so far as these concerned himself,

he had overcome them ; and as he had the merit of
living without reproach, so he had the happiness of
dvine without fear. These, mv dear sir, were achieve-

ments greater than any merely literary ones, and, you
know, the fame awarded to such God has described as

bestowed by His own lips and those of the pure spirits

of heaven. Forgive me this slight sketch of the character

of your predecessor.
      ' Accept my thanks for the copy you have sent me

of your interesting little book. What have the critics

said of it ? Upon mine they have delivered every possible
Ivariety of opinion.  am a man of genius, --I am a
blockhead, -- my name is to be at once illustrious and
Iobscure.
Itime.     do not intend writing verses for a long, long

        purpose devoting myself entirely to prose ;

partly, perhaps, because the study is easier in itself,

Ipartly because am of opinion that nature has fitted me

                 WILL WRITE IN PROSE.        415

to attain a considerable command of the pen in this de
If Ipartment of composition.
                                          '  ever gain celebrity, it

will  be  as  a  writer  of  prose.

                             TO THE SAME.

      I'My page of history, since            parted from you at

Rosemarkie, occupies little space, and is by no means
Ivery brilliant.
                         have hewn tombstones, and sold such
fame as the chisel affords, --and warranted to last a
Iwhole century, --at so much per letter.
                                             have built
houses during the day, and castles during the night. I
*****have written pages, and have promised to write books,

Iand now find myself on the verge of my twenty-eighth

year nearly as foolish, and quite as much without a
rational aim in life, as when entering on my fourteenth.
    I' have not yet written a single line in verse since
Ithe publication of my book, and now flatter myself

that my cure is radically complete. But, alas ! there

will be writers of bad verse in abundance, though I
Ishould never write any. In June last was visited by

a Highland versifier, who, after having blotted much

good paper with miserable rhyme, determined on pub

lication about two years ago, and he has been wandering

over the country ever since in quest of subscribers and

a patron. The terms are that half the money be paid

him in advance, but as what he receives barely affords

him sustenance, his day of publication is as far away as

at the beginning. He is so far honest, however, as to

prefer the fame of a poet to all the money in the world ;
Iand, from a conviction of this,             strive to do him a

service, not by telling him that his verses were bad, for

that would have been taking a wolf by the ears, but by

assuring him that the person who could not write as

416 THE JOURNEYMAN.

well as Scott and Byron and Wordsworth had no chance

of becoming popular, and so had better not write at all.
" Ah, craving your pardon," said the poet, " one may be

very eminent without being quite at the top. You must

psuierceelys,--allopowsstehsastedthoefrenatisurenaatunrde   and originality     in my
                                                           originality, it is  impos
sible for me to fail. I will print 4000 copies of my

work, and shall sell every one of them." We have an

other poet in this part of the country, who has issued

proposals for printing a metrical history of Joseph, con

sisting of 20,000 lines.'

                                    TO THE SAME.

                                              ' School House of Nigg, Sept. 5, 1833.

           I' send you, according to promise, a copy of
Imy young friend's verses. They are, as have already

stated to you, quite her first attempt in metrical com
position, with the exception, perhaps, of half-a-dozen

Istanzas, and, regarded as such, indicate, or am some

what mistaken, considerable powers of thought and ex
pression, a delicate sense of the beautiful, and much of

what metaphysicians term the conceptive faculty. It is

wonderful with what facility some happily-constituted
minds acquire an ability of wielding all their powers,
contrasted with the much labour it costs others, though
of no inferior order, to attain a very limited command of
these. There are winged spirits which can reach at a

single flight the higher pinnacles of art. I have read of

a common mechanic, who, after watching for a few hours
a copper-plate engraver when at work, bought a plate of
copper from him, and, going home, produced a master
piece. There is a similar story told of West, the
painter. How different the progress of other minds !

/turn

                         ~--^ ^-^~ ^^^ C^r^CfiL

                / /7

r^ "*-*~r~*Cr X^r-m-c a^t~* *-*- 4^*4. Cff t

 L*~~ *^j*

i-*-'

 a*s *L aiU~ s^jul at *-^ ^^

Z. M.;at, "^/Lj ~^fr d~*t,

      --- l~-

         4
--* *-<c ^h^, *-*-> ^L-</t \^-~^. .^j?,,ts^_

/r^^*^ <z<**-  <&c*~*te^

+-*-+ *-*~u*. a*n"*c *+* s-**. *,

^. f*~ ^ */ '

                                                 ,J-

JlS" si.  rs. J*S  , .

&'&s* fidsT" +-+~- J**^*^j t+, t&Z*- Us-**'/'

i^^^^s2*sC **-* *- , 2lL, Ai-Jt-^-  c&<^+'/'

   ^Ai- ***Tz/a*U*4-tu>~*' tss*^L*&+* <--,

j2f<L<^+T- USf& ml J^*.^, t^y**"*"/*

J*, '&+^->*~ AL*-~- r^-p-^- &-p ; ^                

/fid &L*~ y /^Lf&fU- **^y <,>-- jC^.

~ " /"    xA y

---  t~

y--_ ^ ~ ~+.' <MW9* *%. i^i
      .z
           7

                                        4+~-

         1 *M^t*4.*t- -

6~ ^ ^_ &^*-*-*w

.
     fXs-m*. a~*t~* **-- 4^**- e ,

**^n-*~

                 -JzgL

, &*^-t*~ AL*-j.~- r^&-~ *3E~p ;

fiC fit**- >*~p  //@*U- 9&u  /w^-jr <>--- f~*

% .*

                            A

              M^&^&~

4t

^wu f+-*-*
       a^t^z &+-* 4*f*\S ,

   tf*u *4- &t~~ StJUL At 9-^4$ (HZ,
~*? *+<++~ jL *-<h_j^. n^^^^ e^^'/'

                                                            f

          ./-*-*- \^J^ ~ /l^

          I t ,
                                 ^'

~* *V |^                         ^^

fi^ l~*-*~ JCl, fi-*4_jL~. 4+^^^Z C&C~+//'

41 G THE JOURNEY J

well as Scott and Byron and Won
of becoming popular, and so
" Ah, craving your pardon,"  had                                        1
                             said                                       I

very eminent without being quite
surely allow that there is nature

pieces,--possessed 0f nature and

sible for me to fail. I wju prj

work, and shall sell every one of |
other poet in this part of the cm
proposals for printing a metrical
sisting of 20,000 hues.'

                                          TO THE SAM

                                                           ' School H<

              I' send you, accord in

    my young friend's verses. The
    stated to you, quite her first at
    position, with the exception,
    stanzas, and, regarded as such
   what mistaken, considerable 1
   pression, a delicate sense of t1
   what metaphysicians term t'
   wonderful with what facility
  minds acquire an ability d
  contrasted with the much I
  0f no inferior order, to atfc
  these. There are whujctl
 single flight the higher pi
 a common mechanic, who_
 a copper-plate engrave* _
copper from him, and,_
piece There is a
painter. How diffe-

          WINGED MINDS AND CLIMBING MINDS. 417

They can but climb upwards ; and, resting in succession
on every one of the thousand ledges which lie between
the summit and the plain below, gain only half a footstep

at each advance. How many miserable lines did I not
write before I became sufficiently skilful to produce

merely tolerable ones ! Favour me at your earliest op
portunity with your critical opinion, and write it in such

a way, though freely and with sincerity, that I may show
your letter to the fair authoress, with whom I am suffi

ciently intimate to know that she has too much good
sense to be offended with truths, however severe, which

tend to her improvement. I dare say I ought not to tell

you, for fear of biassing your judgment, that you are
much a favourite with her, and that when she waited on
you at Forres it was less on my account, the ostensible
reason, than in consequence of an interest awakened in

her on your own. I trust that in your present season of

leisure you will occasionally think of me, and that your
interesting autobiographical memoir is still incomplete.

Shall I return you the first part, or have you recovered

your own copy of it ? '

     The lines enclosed to Mr Strahan were addressed by

Miss Fraser to her friend Miss Smith, on the occasion
of the departure of the latter from this country for
 America.

                         ' Bella, we part ; between us two
                            A desert ocean soon shall lie ;

                          From childhood's home and love you go,
                           The stranger's love and home to try.

' Oh ! it is hard to sunder us,
      So tenderly, so closely twined,

 From all that's dear to turn the eyes,
     And leave the spirit's joys behind.

                                     27

                                                                  A

418 THE JOURNEYMAN.

                     ' Yet droop not, love, nor shed the tear
                              Of anguish or of dark despair ;

                          Bleak may the distant scene appear,
                           Yet many a sweet flower blossoms there ;

                     ' And images now painful, when
                           Time's softening hand has swept their lines,

                         Shall be the fairest, loveliest then,
                           That in your memory's mirror shines.

                     ' Thus when Columbia's setting sun
                              Across the shadow'd forest gleams ;

                       And rainbows, fading one by one,
                              Uncolour'd leave the foamy streams ;

                     ' In fancy still you'll wander o'er
                           The pine-clad hill that walls the deep ;

                       And hear the dashing billows roar,
                           And see them scale the rocky steep,

                     ' While that sun sinking in the west,
                           Rests on Ben Wyvis' distant brow,

                       And wooes the ocean's rugged breast
                           To golden smiles, and gentle flow.

                     ' 'Twere but to wrong a faithful heart

                    If I should say, remember me 
                 Affection will, I know, impart

                           Fidelity to memory.

                     ' But earthly friendship at its best
                           Is but a fragile, feeble thing ;

                          Powerless to soothe the sorrowing breast,

                        From ill our bitter drop to wring.

                     ' Oh, then, my Bella ! may you find
                           The heavenly Comforter your Friend ;

                   Tis His the broken heart to bind,

                           For heaviness He praise can send.'

                            TO MR ISAAC FORSYTH.

      ' States, like individuals, decay as they advance in
years, and they at length expire. Their progress from
youth to age includes two extremes and a medium. But
in one respect bodies politic differ from bodies natural ;
for in the several members of the former there may be

                                    STATES AND INDIVIDUALS.     419

different degrees of age. In this country there are dis
tricts peopled by men who have not yet reached the

medium line, and there are others whose inhabitants

have gone beyond it. Of the former kind are the High
land districts ; of the latter are the greater number of

those of the Lowlands, especially such of these as contain
large towns. But it is only among the lower classes

that the differences of the several stages are discernible ;
for the people in the upper walks of society bear almost
the same character all over the kingdom. And it
                                       is
                                                                         is,
perhaps, only by an observer who placed on the same
level with the former, and who, from this circumstance,

becomes intimately acquainted with their manners, habits,

and modes of thought, that, at least, the minuter differ

ences can be discerned. By such person, however,
                                    a
                                                             a
                                                                a

                                                                           a

                                                                                         if
the theory be just one, tour through Scotland may

be regarded, not merely as journey through various
places, but also as an extended existence through differ

ent ages.                                                    point of ob
       Each situation in life, regarded as
a'                                          a

                        a by                    by
servation, has advantages peculiar to itself, command
ing view of certain objects which cannot be so happily

studied from any other point but the situations of the
                                    ;

middle and higher classes of society have been so re

peatedly occupied                   skilful observers, that their fields

of view present not single object which has not already

been examined and described. This not yet the case
                                       is

                                               if

                                                           a
with the lower points of observation. The gentleman

philosopher who writes upon character will, he desires

to attain originality, have, perhaps, to become mere
theorist, or to set himself to unfold hidden principles

and motives but how different would the case be with
a
                                 ;
  philosophical gipsy, could we imagine such person.         a
His range of observation, however contracted, would be

   420 THE JOURNEYMAN.

   perfectly new ; and to attain originality he would have

   only to describe. I reckon that one of the advantages

   of my place in society would require to have some,
   for the disadvantages incident to are somewhat numer

   ous), that commands wide and diversified prospect
      '                        a (it
                                             it
                it
   of the latter description.

          This part of the country contains rich and as yeta

   unexplored mine of tradition but some of the storiesa;

   are of too wild and fantastic character for furnishinga
     suitable basis for prose tale and the great bulk of
                    a              ;

   them, though they might prove interesting when wrought

   up together, are too simple and too naked of both detail
   and description to stand alone. They resemble some of
   the minuter flowers, that scarcely appear beautiful until

   bound up in nosegay.
   a
           '

             It

                           a

                                   I
                                                                                                                ;
                                                    I

                                                                                    in
           Conversation to me proves generally an imperfect

   medium for the conveyance of thought and expressed
   myself rather loosely in what said when in your com
   pany in Cromarty regarding the assistance which, in

   detailing these traditions, my memory derives from my

   imagination. Imagination frequently assists me giving

      something like life to narratives which were before

   dead.  draws landscapes, too, around the figures to

   which tradition has introduced me, and sometimes furn

   ishes these figures with the language of dialogue. This,

   however, was not at all what at that time had meant
          ;

              I

                          by

                                  I
   to state but may, perhaps, be more happy         ; inconvey

   ing my meaning   the pen. The faculty of my mind           I

   which was first developed was imagination, and the de

   velopment was neither partial nor gradual. Before

   had attained my fifth year had become the inhabitant
                               I

   of two distinct worlds, the true and the ideal and the

   images of the latter appeared to me scarcely less tangible
   or less clearly defined than those of the former. My

_

         IMAGINATIVE IMPRESSIONS.      421

mind presented me with a vivid picture of every incident

Iof which was told. This faculty was productive, in

some instances, of consequences of a rather ludicrous

cast. As early as the period referred to I was one day

sitting beside my mother, listening with great attention

to a recital with which she was entertaining a neighbour

of some   of the circumstances   connected with my birth,
         as a singular dream    my father had concerning
--such

me, an unusual conformation of head which the midwife

observed in me, and which she deemed indicative of

idiotism, and the details of the christening. According

to custom, my imagination presented me at the time

Iwith pictures of all heard described. Well, about

eighteen years after, by one of those sudden freaks of

memory which are not very easily explained, even on the

associative principle, these pictures were again brought

before me ; and, as I did not at first remember anything
of the narrative which had produced them, sadly was I

puzzled to account for the recollection. And, after

thinking on the subject for a few days, I had a narrow

escape from becoming one of the most singular of meta

physicians, by being enabled to unravel the whole cir
Icumstances of the matter as related.
                                       have also two

several recollections of spectres, which would render me

a firm believer in apparitions, could I not account for

them in this way, as the creatures of an imagination

which had attained an unusual and even morbid strength

at a time when the other mental faculties were scarcely

at all unfolded.'

                                 TO MR CARRUTHERS.

                                                                'Cromarty, Oct. 22, 1833.

             ' The last of Mr Russel's scholars, unfortun

Iately for your request, died last year. But I dare say

422 THE JOURNEYMAN.

shall be able, notwithstanding, to furnish you with as
much information regarding him as your friend, Mr
DoCunningham, may choose to avail himself of.         not,
however, I pray you, insert any of it in your paper.

     ' It is now somewhat more than seventy years since

John Russel, a native, as I have heard, of Moray, and at
that time a probationer of divinity, was appointed to the

parish school of Cromarty. He was a large, robust,
dark-complexioned man, imperturbably grave, and with
a sullen expression seated in the deep folds of his fore

head, that boded the urchins of the place little good.
And in a few months he had acquired for himself the

character of being by far the most rigid disciplinarian

Iin the county. He was, believe, a good, conscientious

man, but unfortunate in a harsh and violent temper, and

in sometimes mistaking the dictates of that temper for

those of duty. Never, certainly, was schoolmaster more

feared and hated by his pupils ; and with fear and hatred

did many of them continue to regard him long after
Ithey had become men and women.
                                 have heard of a

lady who, unexpectedly seeing him, many years after she

had quitted his school, in the pulpit of one of the south

country churches, was so overcome by sudden terror, that

she fainted away ; and of another of his scholars, named
M'Glasher, who, on returning home to Cromarty from

some of the colonies, a robust fellow of six feet, solaced

himself by the way with thoughts of the hearty drubbing

with which he was to clear off all his old scores with

the dominie. But ere his return the dominie had

quitted the parish. There was a poor boy named Skin

ner among Russel's scholars who, as was customary in

Scottish schools of the period, blew the horn for gather

ing the pupils, and kept both the catalogue and the

key ; and who in return was educated by the master

BLACK RUSSEL.                   423

and received some little gratuity from the boys besides.
Unluckily, on one occasion the key dropped out of his

pocket; and when school time came, the irascible do

minie had to burst open the door with his foot. He

raged at the boy with a fury so insane, and beat him with

such relentless severity, that the other boys, plucking up
heart in the extremity of the case, rose on him in a mass,
and tore the poor fellow out of his hands. And such, it
is said, was the impression made on the mind of the

latter that, though he quitted the school shortly after

and plied the profession of a fisherman, until he died,

an old man, he was never seen, in all his life from that

day, disengaged for a single moment without melan-

cholily thrusting his hand into the key pocket. One

other anecdote illustrative of Mr Russel's temper. He

was passing along the streets of Cromarty on a coarse

wintry day some seventy years ago, with his head half

buried in his breast, for the day was one of wind and
rain from the sea, when he came violently in contact with

a thatcher's ladder which had been left sloping from the

roof of one of the houses, half-way across the street.

A much less matter would have been sufficient to awaken

the wrath of Russel. He sprung at the ladder with the

ferocity of a tiger, and, dashing it down on the pave
ment, broke with his powerful fist every one of the steps
before he quitted it. He was schoolmaster in Cromarty

for about twelve years, and for at least the last six of
these was not a little popular as a preacher. His manner

was strong and energetic ; and the natural severity of

his temper seems to have been more than genius to him

when expatiating, which he did often, on the miseries of
Ithe wicked in a future state.
                                have seen one of the

sermons in print ; it is a controversial one, written in a

bold, rough style, and by no means very inferior as a

424 THE JOURNEYMAN.

piece of argument ; but he was evidently a person rather
to be listened to than read. He was quite as rigid in
church matters, it is said, as in those at the school, but

with no very marked success. He contrived to flog
some of his boys into very tolerable scholars ; but though

he set himself in Cromarty so much against the practice
of Sabbath walking, that he used to take his stand
every Sunday evening in one of the avenues which leads
from the town, and turn back the walkers by the shoul
ders, after he had first shaken them by the breast, the

practice, out of the sheer wrongheadedness of the people,

became more popular than before. He was called from

the school of Cromarty to a chapel of ease in Kilmarnock,
Iand there came in contact with Burns.
                                        do not know
that he is the hero of the " Calf," but he cuts a rare

Aftihgleaurrm"e O"irnd(isntehacetisot"anHnoz"aly(s5e)Fe, aasitnrad"nzia(nsseteh2esatna"dnTzaw1s3a),2Hi1nertadhnsed,""  22), in
                                                                                                                       Kirk's

                                                                                                                       one of

whom (see stanza 3) was the wordy Russel. The poet

must have regarded the rugged preacher of the north as

no common antagonist ; for against none of all his other

clerical opponents has he opened so powerful a battery.

    I' have an uncle in Cromarty, now an elderly man,

who, when residing in Glasgow in the year 1792, walked

about ten miles into the country, to attend a sacrament

at which the learned Mr Russel was to officiate; and

which proved to be quite such a one as Burns has de
scribed in his " Holy Fair." There were excellent

sermons to be heard from the tent, and excellent drink

to be had in an alehouse scarcely a hundred yards away ;

and between the tent and the alehouse were the people
divided according to their tastes and characters. A
young man preached in the early part of the day ; his

discourse was a long one, and ere it had come to a close

BLACK RUSSEL.  425

the mirth of the neighbouring topers, which became
louder the more deeply they drank, had begun to annoy
the congregation. Mr Russel was standing beside the
tent. At every fresh burst of sound he would raise him
self on tiptoe, look first with a portentous expression of

countenance towards the alehouse, and then at the clergy
man, who, at length concluding his part of the service,
yielded him his place. He laid aside the book, and,
without psalm or prayer, or any of the usual prelimin
aries, launched at once into a powerful extempore address

directed over the heads of the people at the alehouse.

My uncle has often assured me he never in his life heard
 anything half so energetic. His ears absolutely tingled,

 as the preacher thundered out, in a voice almost super

 human, his solemn and terrible denunciations. Every
 sound of revelry ceased in a moment ; and the bac
 chanals, half-drunk, as most of them were, were so

 thoroughly cowed as to be fain to steal out through a
 back window. Mr Russel, before his death, which took

 place about twenty years ago, was one of the ministers

 of Stirling. A Cromarty man, a soldier in a Highland

 regiment, when stationed in the castle of that place, had

 got involved one day in some street quarrel, and was
 swearing furiously, when a tall, gaunt old man in black
 came and pulled him out of the crowd. " Wretched

 creature that ye are," said the old man ; " come along
 with me." He drew him into a quiet corner, and began

 to expostulate with him on his profanity in a style, to
 which the soldier, an intelligent, though by no means a

 steady man, could not but listen. Mr Russel, for it was

 no other than he, seemed much pleased with the atten

 tion he paid him ; and, on learning where he had come
 from, and the name of his parents, exclaimed, with much
 feeling, " Waes me that your father's son should be a

   426 THE JOURNEYMAN.

   blackguard soldier on the street of Stirling ! But come
   awa'." He brought him home with him, and added to

   the much good advice he had given him an excellent

   dinner. The temper of the preacher seems to have soft

   ened a good deal as he became old, and he grew much

   a favourite with the more serious part of his congrega

   tion. He was, I doubt not, with all his defects of

   temper, an honest, pious man ; and had he lived in the
   days of Renwick and Cargill, or a century earlier, in the

   days of Knox and Wishart, he might have been a useful
   one. But he was unlucky in the age in which he lived,
   in his temper, and in coming in contact with as hard-

   headed people as himself.'

   WRITTEN FOR THE ' INVERNESS COURIER.'

                                                           ' Cromarty, May 29, 1830.

   ' On Monday, the 24th instant, a Cromarty boat,

   which had gone with the passengers from Invergordon
   to Wick, left the latter port on her return, about five

   o'clock in the evening. The crew consisted of three sea

   men, two of whom were brothers ; and there were also
   on board a native of Tain, John Ross, who had taken

   his passage with them to Cromarty, together with his
   wife and six children ; in all, eleven persons. There was

   a light breeze from the north, accompanied by a moder
   ate swell, and with both sails stretched to the mast-head,

   the boat swept for about five hours at an easy rate along

   the shore. At ten o'clock she was nearly opposite the
   Castle of Dunbeath. About this time Alexander Skinner,

   now the sole survivor of the eleven, became drowsy, and,

   quitting the stern of the boat, where the helmsman (An

   drew Johnston) and the passengers were, he went ahead
   of the mainsail, and lay down to sleep. His last recol

   lection of this period  is,  that the helmsman and Ross

^

A BOAT ACCIDENT.  427

were engaged in conversation. He was awakened about
an hour after by a tremendous shock, and a huge wave
which broke over him. On starting up, he ascertained
that the boat had run upon a ledge of rock, detached
from the shore, which was to be seen through the dim
twilight about thirty yards distant. The scene that fol
lows baffles description. The boat hung fast by the
midships ; a heavy sea was tumbling round her, and

breaking over her; the children were screaming, and

the boatmen shouting for assistance. A pinnacle of the

 ledge was only partially covered by the surf, and, as it
 promised for at least a few minutes a less precarious
 lodgment than that which the boat afforded,-- for she

 now began to break up,--the crew and the passengers

 removed to it. Alas ! the tide was rising ; and, melan
 choly to relate, in about half an hour some of the children

 were washed away by the surf. One of the boatmen,
 David Johnston, could swim a little ; and, stripping off

 his clothes, he leaped into the water, and reached the

 shore. The survivor (Skinner), though he could not
 swim, sprang after him, and his struggling, assisted by
 the heave of the sea, brought him into shallow water,
 where he found footing. The boatman who had first

  reached the land, recognizing amid the heart-rending
  cries of the sufferers on the rock, the voice of his bro

  ther, returned to his assistance ; but, in the attempt to
  bring him ashore, the latter was drowned ; and he him

  self was so exhausted with fatigue and cold, that he ex
  pired in the fields, into which he had gone after his
  second landing, in quest of shelter and assistance. Skin

  ner pressed onwards, and came up to an inhabited

  house ; but the inmates, deeming him some deranged
  person, -- an opinion which it is probable his state of

 mind at the time almost justified, --denied him admit

428 THE JOURNEYMAN.

tance. In consequence of this mistake, a considerable

space elapsed before men who could render assistance
were apprized of the disaster ; and when they at length
arrived, they found exertion unavailing, for there re
mained no object to call it forth. The rock was buried

beneath the waves, and three, whom Skinner had left

clinging to it with all the energy of despair, had perished.
Four of the bodies have since been found, besides that

of the boatman who died in the fields. It is supposed

that the accident was occasioned by the pilot having
fallen asleep at the helm, as the spot where it took place
is considerably out of the course which the boat ought

to have pursued. It is not a little remarkable that since

the middle of autumn last a greater number of the in
habitants of Cromarty have perished by sea than for the

thirty years preceding.'

                TO MR GEORGE ANDERSON.

                                                                       ' Cromarty, Sept. 15, 1834.

    ' Whatever may be the value of my specimens, --and

I am afraid they are very rarely of any, -- my discoveries
Ialmost always turn out discoveries at second hand.

see it is a great matter to be acquainted with what has

been done by others. I have spent week after week in
Iarriving at a knowledge of facts, which could have ac

quired in a few minutes from the pages of a geological
Icatechism, had I but known that might have looked
Ifor it there.
                have formed theories, too, at some little

expense of thought, only to find that some more fortun

ate speculatist had built them up much more neatly, and
long before. Sir Thomas D. Lauder, for instance, has

anticipated my theory of the formation of the great

Caledonian valley ; and Mr Murchison my hypothesis

regarding the erection of the Sutors. This is all by

GEOLOGICAL STUDIES.                                                                     429

I Iway of preface to what have to say of a little discovery
    have lately made, which may, in the same way, be no

discovery at all.
       ' The lias beds, which appear at Eathie and Shand-

wick, form evidently parts of a continuous ridge, which

stretches between these places in a line nearly parallel

to that of the coast ; and they must have formed the

superior strata of the great secondary basin of this part

of the country at the period the granitic rock of the

ISutors was forced through. But where, have frequently
Iasked myself, am to look for the remains of similar

strata on the northern and western sides of these rocks ?

Ior am to infer that they rose at the extreme edge of

the lias, thus merely throwing it off towards the south

Iand east, from the sandstone on which it had rested.

conceived of the lias strata as of ice on a pond ; a wedge

forced through it in  the  centre,   woonultdwobrseiadkes,u--p tithse                   con
tinuity, and derange  its  position                                                     two
sides of the wedge, --whereas a wedge forced through

it at its edge, would merely separate it from the bank,

and derange its horizontal position on only one side.

The great thickness   of the lias at Eathie seems, however,
to militate against
                      this latter supposition, --the wedge

must have been forced through a central part of the

Ipond ; -- and for several years past have been examining

in my rambles the various ravines on the western and

northern sides of the Sutors, and the rocks laid bare by

the sea within the bay, in the hope of meeting with the
Ilias. have at length found, not
                                     but something
of by
    a

                                                                    ;

                                            is
                                                                it,

                                                                            a
                                                                                  a
                                                                                     a
equally curious. Rather more than half mile east of

the town the granitic rock bounded, as you are aware,

thick bed of breccia then there occurs small vein

limestone, and then alternate strata of coarse red and

yellowish sandstone, with here and there vein of

430 THE JOURNEYMAN.

stratified clay, containing nodules of a calcareous stone,
prettily variegated with red and yellow. From the
breccia to the bed of sandstone nearest the town, there

is rather more than a hundred yards ; and, from the

almost vertical position of the strata, we have merely to
pass along their edges to gain an acquaintance with

them, which could only be acquired, were their position

horizontal, by sinking a shaft nearly a hundred yards in
Idepth.
          used to conceive of this advantage by the ease
I found in running my eye over books, arranged on the
Ishelves of a library, contrasted with the trouble had in

taking them up one after one when they were packed in

a chest.

'For several hundred yards nearer the town, the

beach is so covered with shingle and stones, that we see

no more of the strata till we reach a small bay, only a

very little beyond the bounds of the borough, where we

find beds of a stratified, greyish claystone, lying, as
nearly as can be judged from their broken state, in an

angle of about twenty with the horizon. From the

extent of nearly vertical strata which intervene between

them and the granite rock, and their comparatively

slight inclination from the horizontal, I was led to think

that they must originally have occupied a very superior

place, and that their situation, with regard to the open

ing between the Sutors, must have preserved them from

the derangement of the other strata. Under these im

pressions, I have of late examined them very minutely.

As nearly as I can judge from the little of them which

appears above the sand, they are separated from each

other by thin bands, of a greyish indurated sandstone,

and thickly interspersed by flattened nodules of an el

liptical or circular form. On breaking these nodules

across, I found them to be composed of either an imper-

                GEOLOGY.                         431

feet limestone, or indurated clay ; and saw that in the

centre of each there was a broken line of deep black, in

the direction of which they separated more easily than
Iin any other.
                have split up several hundreds of them,

in the expectation of identifying their contents with the

remains at Eathie, but they seem to belong to a formation

altogether different. I find none of the chambered uni

valves, no bivalves, no belemnites, but abundance of

fish ; some scaled like the haddock, some roughened like
the dog-fish, or shark. Some of the nodules are sprinkled
over with small irregular patches, somewhat resembling
scales ; in others there are confused masses of a bitumin
ous-looking substance. In some, unmixed with the

Iscales, can trace what seem to have been the bones of

fish ; in others, what appears to have been wood ; and

in one specimen, which I unfortunately spoiled in the

breaking, there were the remains of what seemed to
Ihave been a toad, or frog.
                             have kept for you four of
Ithe best specimens could find, and shall send them
Iwhen have procured a few more for you from the beds

at Eathie. Owing to the prevalence of sand and clay in

the nodules, the remains are very imperfect ; they seem,
Itoo, to have been subjected to great pressure.
                                                 find

that the purer the limestone, the more entire the shells,

Ior fish, which it contains. But am afraid you will

deem all this mere tediousness. The entire province of

Igeology is a terra incognita to me, and do not know
whether I am now describing to you a part of it with

which every geologist is acquainted, or a part known to

only myself.'

                END OF vol. I.


THE LIFE AND LETTERS
    OF HUGH MILLER

            By PETER BAYNE, m.a.

                               TWO VOLUMES.-- II.

m
                                                               !

                                              Cromarty from "Uncle

STRAHAN & CO., PUBLISHERS

          56, LUDGATE HILL, LONDON

                                                         1871

                            [All rights reservtd]

                                                                    S

                  .- /: . '

J

               CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

BOOK IV.-- THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

                          CHAPTER I.                                       PAGE

Offer of a Situation -- Resolves to accept it-- Sails for Edinburgh -- In
tercourse with Sir Thomas D. Lauder -- Linlithgow
                                                   ..    ..                3

                                  CHAPTER II.                              37

His first Prose Book -- Correspondence on the subject-- Letters from
  Mr Carruthers and Mr R. Chambers --Reception and Character of
   the Book--Donald Miller

                          CHAPTER III.

Death of Miss Dunbar      .. . .        .. ..                              63

                                     CHAPTER IV.   ..                      79
Letters to Miss Fraser, Finlay, and Dr Waldie . .

                                      CHAPTER V.                           106
Marriage -- Correspondence -- Death of Daughter -- Views on Banking

                          CHAPTER VI.

Science in the ascendant  ..  ..        ..         ,.    . . 132

                                  CHAPTER VII.           . . 154

The Cromarty Fast-day --Friendship with Rev. Mr Stewart

Non-intrusion    BOOK V.--EDITOR.                  ..    r. . 163

                           CHAPTER I.

               .. .. . . ..

vi CONTENTS.

                          CHAPTER II.                               PAGE

Letter to Lord Brougham -- Call to Edinburgh -- Leaves Cromarty . . 175

                          CHAPTER III.

At the Editorial Desk     .. .. -                                   212

                          CHAPTER IV.

The Disruption                                                      236

                          CHAPTER V.

Difference with Dr Candlish . .  ..               ..  ..  . . 253

                BOOK VI.-- MAN OF SCIENCE.

                          CHAPTER I.

The Old Red Sandstone -- Letter to a Child -- First Impressions of

England and its People    ..     ..               ..  ..  ..        305

                          CHAPTER II.

Science and Religion      . . . . . . . . . . 32G

                          CHAPTER III.

The Last Edinburgh Period                             . . . . 340

                                     CHAPTER IT.

Closing Scenes        ..  ..     ..               ..  ..  . . 461

                 BOOK IV.

THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

Would you understand mcdern society? Study it in a Bank parlour.


                    CHAPTER I.

OFFER OF A SITUATION RESOLVES TO ACCEPT IT SAILS FOR
     EDINBURGH INTERCOURSE WITH SIR THOMAS D. LAUDER
      LINLITHGOW.

MANY as are the happy circumstances which we

       have noted in Hugh Miller's life, it is to be re

membered that, at the age of thirty-two, he still finds

himself a stone-mason ; and that he is ardently attached

to a lady, whom he has inflexibly resolved not to marry
while he continues to earn his bread by the labour of his
hands. The scheme of emigration to America, almost

                  if
                       '
                                                         it,
                                                                                                    '
insuperable as were his objections to  begins to be

again entertained.  My mother,' says Mrs Miller, had

at length agreed, nothing suitable turned up, to give

us three hundred pounds of mine, of which she had the

life-interest; and with this sum we were to face the

great wilderness.' Such Hugh's outlook towards the
end of 1834 the final decision on the question of emi
gration being, suppose, deferred until the volume of
Traditions, of which we have heard so much, and
is
                ;
       I
                                is

                                         by
                                                                  is

                                                                              a
which now getting actually into the printer's hands,

shall have seen the light.

One morning he sits down,       invitation, to break

fast with Mr Robert Ross, just appointed agent of the

Commercial Bank in Cromarty. Mr Ross                                             warm

4 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

friend of Miller's, and has asked him to his house on

this occasion to have some talk on a matter of business.

Mr Ross mentions that he will want an accountant, that

the young man who had been thought of for the situa

tion cannot find security, and that his guest may have

the place if he will. Hugh is taken by surprise, and,

with his usual diffidence, commences to make excuse. ' I

know nothing,' he says, 'of business, and very little

of figures ; there is not a person in the country worse

qualified for the office.' Mr Ross understands his

man, and persists. ' Say, however, that you accept,

Iand shall become responsible for the rest.' Hugh re
Iflects for a few moments. ' thought of the matter ;
I remembered that no man was ever born an accountant ;

and that the practiceand perseverance, which do so much

for others, might do a little for me. The appointment,
too, came to me so unthought of, so unsolicited, and

there seemed to be so much of the providential in
                                it

                                                    It

                                                                      it,
that deemed duty not to decline.' This last was no
mere conventional phrase on the lips of Miller. His reli
I

                 a

                 it
gion, quiet and unobtrusive as  was, had impressed

itself upon all his habits of thought and life.   had

become the one thing essential to his happiness, that he
should feel Divine hand leading him. As usual in

the changes of his life, he regarded the alteration in his

circumstances with calmness and equanimity, deliberately

glad to behold the prospect of life in Scotland with the

woman he loved opening before him but not forgetful
                                ;

                                              in
of the tranquil hours, so rich in delicate enjoyment of

heart and mind, which he had passed, mallet       hand, on

the chapel brae of Cromarty, or in sequestered country

churchyards, his thoughts busy with some problem of
science, or thesis of philosophy, or newly-discovered
jewel of poetry, while nature prepared for him, in every

                     ON BOARD SHIP.  5

changing aspect of the landscape, a fresh delight for eye

and soul.

To be initiated in banking, it was necessary for him

to proceed a second time to the south of Scotland. He

sailed for Edinburgh, expecting to be taken into the

office of the Commercial Bank there, but found, on his

arrival, that he was to be stationed in the branch office

at Linlithgow. He spent a few days in Edinburgh, both

before going on to Linlithgow, and on his return thence ;

and experienced, on both occasions, great kindness from

Sir T. Dick Lauder, Mr Robert Paul, manager of the

bank in Edinburgh, and others.

     Hugh was no sooner out of sight of Miss Fraser,
than he began writing to her. He embarked after

nightfall, November 27, 1834; the ship weighed anchor
at dawn, and we find him, pen in hand, ' tossing on the
Moray Frith, on the swell raised by the breeze of the

previous night.' The breeze freshens, and he betakes

himself to his berth ; but the pen is not laid aside. He

overhears the master and one of the passengers discuss

ing ' a highly interesting topic, --woman.' They appear

to be no enthusiasts on the subject of the sex. ' Your

sweetheart, for instance,' says the master, ' was just as

fine a lassie as a man could wish to meet with anywhere,

and yet you were only a short while in London when

she got married to another. But they are all the same.'

' Rubbish,' thinks Hugh ; ' I don't believe a word of it.

IThe last things looked on with interest, as we swept

along the Sutor, were the little grey rock and the beech
Itree. How much happiness, my own Lydia, have en
                       '
joyed  beside  them  !    But he has too much contempt for

the speakers, or is too sea-sick, to rise and do battle for the
fair. ' We have an eagle aboard,' he proceeds ; ' a noble-

looking bird, but quite as bad a sailor as myself. He is

   6 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

   so affectedby the motion of the vessel, that he has not

   tasted food since we left Cromarty. And yet, from his

   Iprevious mode of life, he must surely have been accus
   tomed to motion much more violent.     brought you

   acquainted one evening, if I recollect right, with Cole
   ridge's rhyme of the " Ancient Mariner." It is a won
   Iderful poem. On shore regarded it as merely a wild

   and somewhat barbarous trophy of a powerful, but unre

   gulated, imagination ; Iat sea can perceive that there is
   much of truth as well as of imagination in it. I never

   thoroughly understood the love-poetry of Burns, never

   felt that his language so entirely above that of all othera

   poets, the language of the heart, until became acquaintIt
                                          I
   ed with you.     is
                                                    is
                      Ashort trip at sea has enabled me to

                                ' ; is
                                     is,
   make similar discovery regarding the language of Cole

   ridge.        thoroughly nautical  there sea in every

   line of it.'

         On Friday he                   watching the pale sands upon
   the coast of Moray
                                        on Sunday morning he                        inis
                                                                                          in
   the Frith of Forth. We are bearing up the Frith

   gallant style, within less than        mile of the shore.
                                          by

                                               a

                                                                                 !
   Yonder the Bass, rising like an immense tower out ofis

   the sea. How have times changed since the excellent

   of the earth were condemned,           the unjust and the dis

   solute, to wear out life on that solitary rock My eyes
   fill as gaze on it. The persecutors have gone to their
   ;I
   place the last vial has long since been poured out on

   the heads of the infatuated Stewarts, whose short-sighted

   policy would have rendered men faithful to their princes

   by making them untrue to their God. But the noble

   constancy of the persecuted, the high fortitude of the

   martyr, still live. There              halo, my Lydia, encircling
                 a
                               is

                                     ;a
                                                                         a
   the brow of that rugged rock and from many solitary

   grave, and many lonely battle-field, there come voices

^

THE FRITH OF FORTH.                               7

and thunderings, like those which issued of old from
behind the veil, that tell us how this world, with all its

little interests, must pass away ; but that for those who

fight the good fight, and keep the faith, there abideth a

rest that is eternal. In a few hours, if the breeze does

not fail, we shall be within sight of Edinburgh. And

Ithere, my Lydia, must enter on a new scene of life, a

scene for which my previous habits have little fitted me.

IBut shall think of you, and bend all my mind to my

untried occupation. The sun has just sunk behind the

Pentlands, and the coast looks dim and blue through

the twilight. One part of the line, about three miles in

extent, is entirely blotted from the landscape, by the

smoke of Edinburgh and Leith. And now the Isle of

May light is beginning to twinkle behind, and the

Inchkeith light to twinkle before. A few short hours,

and our voyage shall have come to its termination. The

various objects around me-- the hills, the islands, the

buildings --recall a hundred recollections of my residence

here of ten years ago, which have lain buried in my

memory ever since. There was a double row of trees

beside the cottage in which I lodged, through which I

used to see the Inchkeith light twinkling every evening.

I remember the dark, lonely road which led past the

door to Edinburgh ; and how, when travelling on it in
the night-time, which I did often, I used to grasp my
I Istick every time heard footsteps approaching.
                                                  must

strive to ascertain whether my old landlady is yet alive,

and what has become of my companion, John Wilson.'
A little touch this last, but characteristic. Hugh, at

this rather exciting moment, thinks more of old friends,

however humble, than of new.

                                                              ' Edinburgh, Monday.

' Our vessel got into harbour this morning, about

                                                                                    '

8 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

two o'clock, just in time to escape a tremendous storm

of wind and rain from the south-west, which, had it
caught us in the Frith, would have driven us back to

Peterhead. I have taken lodgings at No. 14, Ronulry

Place, to which you must address for me. Do write me

a very long letter, longer than mine by a great deal.

You may see, from my first and second page, that I was

within a hair's-breadth of being unable to write at all.

I IHad been pledged to write any one else, would have

pleaded incapacity, and firmly believed the plea a good

one, but the thought of you nerved me when half-dead,
Iand the words came.
                      love you ten times better when
separated from you by about 200 miles than when I
Icould draw in my chair beside you; or, dare say, it

would have been more correct to say, my affection is

Ijust what it was, but have now something to measure

it by. Do you not think me a silly fellow? There
Iis something inspiriting in the air of Edinburgh ; feel
Imyself an inch taller as walk the streets. But I am
I Iafraid shall have something else to tell you when
Iwrite again.
               shall ere then be set down to my desk,

the least skilful and least confident of all clerks ; and

I Iyou shall hear of little else than blunders and incapacity,

and of how ill-suited am for the part have to per

form. Well, however dispirited I may be, I am sure

no man was ever born an accountant, and that the

practice and perseverance which do so much for others,
Icannot fail doing a little for me.
                                     see many changes

in Edinburgh. There are large open spaces, which were

occupied, ten years ago, by lofty masses of building ;

and masses of building where there were then only open

Ispaces. Some of the new statues I don't at all admire.
   find few traces in them of the hand of the master.

They seem as if finished by the journeymen of genius,

                          IN EDINBURGH.   9

and as pieces of mechanical skill do barely well enough.

But the Promethean soul is wanting.'

This on Monday. On Thursday the ardent lover

and indefatigable correspondent has again pen in hand.
He has been to the Grange House, the residence of Sir

Thomas Dick Lauder, and writes of his reception with

Ienthusiasm. ' cannot express to you the kindness

with which I was received. He scolded me for taking
lodgings. Why not come and live with him ? And I

was only forgiven on condition that, after arranging

matters with the secretary of the bank, I should part

w" iIthhmavye  landlady,  and take up my  abode at the Grange.
                a snug    room for you,"  he said ; " breakfast

shall be prepared for you to suit your office hours ; and

Iin the evening shall have you to myself. To-morrow
Iyou must come and dine with me ; shall get Black,
Ithe bookseller, to meet with you, and meanwhile shall

write him a note that will be at once an introductory

one and an invitation." He then introduced me to

Lady Lauder and his daughters ; showed me his library,

a capacious room, shelved all round, and rich in the
literature of the past and the present. " Here," said he,
" Robertson, the historian, penned his last work ; and

here," --opening the door of an adjoining room, --" he

died." He next brought me to the leads of his house ;

pointed out the more striking features of the scenery ;

told, and told well, a number of little stories connected

Iwith it ; showed me the extent of his lands, --but

want space to enumerate. We parted.'

     Armed with Sir Thomas's note, he waits upon Mr

Adam Black, future Lord Provost of Edinburgh and

member of parliament for the city, and is civilly received.

Next day he starts for Linlithgow, and seems hardly

alighted there, when the indefatigable pen is again in

   10 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

   requisition, to describe to Miss Fraser what occurred on

   the evening passed with Sir Thomas.

                                                              ' Linlithgow, December.

   ' I do not know that I have anything more amusing

   to communicate to you, my Lydia, than what passed

   Iduring the evening spent at Sir Thomas's. But I am
   afraid you will find me no Bos well. I would fain be a

   faithful chronicler ; but, in attempting to record dialogue,

   the words always slip away, and only the ideas remain.

   My invitation was for six o'clock, the fashionable hour

   for dinner here ; but, by missing the road in the dark

   Iness, was, unluckily, rather late. The Grange House

   is built in the style of two centuries ago, with a number

   of narrow serrated gables, that break the light into fan

   tastic masses, by their outjets and indentation ; here a

   pointed turret, there coped with stone, and bearing the

   family crest atop ; yonder an antique balustrade ; and,

   directly in front of the iron-studded door, there are two

   time-worn columns with a huge dragon sprawling on

   each. The garden is in quite the same ancient style,

   planted by some old-world mason, with flights of stairs,

   cross walls, and arches. The first thing that caught my

   eye on entering the lobby was a huge, carved settle of

   dark-coloured oak, with the bust of a mitred prelate

   frowning from the wainscoting over it ; there were spears,

   too, resting against the wall, and in the antique staircase

   a host of old paintings of ladies, in strange, uncouth

   dresses, who were loved and married three centuries ago ;

   and of their lovers and husbands, grim-looking fellows,
   Iwith long beards and coats of mail.
                                         was ushered into

   the parlour, a splendid apartment, as lofty as any two of

   our Cromarty rooms placed over each other, and more ca

   pacious than any four, with a carved oak roof, panelled

   sides, antique wainscot furniture, and an immense pro-

*

                  GRANGE HOUSE.           11

fusion of paintings. Sir Thomas and Mr Black were

standing beside the fire, discussing the change in the
              *
ministry         Lady Lauder  was seated  at a work table a
             ;
Ilittle away.
                 was received by the lady very kindly, by
Mr Black very politely, by Sir Thomas as if we had

been friends and companions for twenty years. The

political conversation was then resumed. Sir Thomas

remarked that if the Duke of Wellington calculated on the
soldiery, -- and he could not well see what else he could
calculate upon, --he trusted he had mistaken their spirit.

For the army, said he, is composed of the people, and

in a time of peace like the present must be imbibing
Itheir opinions.
                  stated to him, in proof of what he
Iremarked, that had crossed the ferry of Fort George

last summer with a party of soldiers, and was interested

to learn, from their conversation, that many of them

were acquainted with the periodicals, and fond of read

Iing. And question, I said, whether a reading soldiery

be the best for doing everything they are bid. Sir

...Thomas deemed the remark of some value, simple as it
may seem               Sir Thomas showed   us a highly-interest
ing relic of                              formed like a human
                 Queen Mary, --a watch,

skull, which was presented by her to that Lady Seaton

whom Scott has made the heroine of his Abbot. The

upper part of the skull is richly embossed with figures ;

there is the crucifixion, the adoration of the shepherds,

and several other Scripture scenes connected with the

history of our Saviour  ; on the  sides there is a series of
                        without   a seam, the nails, the
vignettes, --the frock

scourge, the crown of thorns, and the spear. The

workmanship is evidently French.

     * The attempt made by Peel and Wellington, in the end of 1834,
to take the reins out of the hands of the Whigs. It broke down in a

few months.                   ,

   12 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

   ' Sir Thomas took up a volume, presented by Sir

Walter Scott to Lady Lauder, and showed us Sir Walter's
   holograph on the title-page. " This," said he, " I deem
   Ia valuable volume ; and here is something
                                               consider

   as equally so." He opened a portfolio, and showed us

   the original plan and elevation of Abbot sford, also a

present from Sir Walter to the lady. The conversation

then turned on Sir Walter. " I had some curious cor

respondence with him," said Sir Thomas, " shortly before

   his death. Contrary to the opinion he had formerly enter

   tained, he then held with Dr Jamieson that the Celts had
                                           I instanced
   never inhabited the south of Scotland.
   several Gaelic names of places in the south --among the

   rest that of his own Melrose, or the barren promontory

   -- and he seemed reconvinced ; but half his mind was

   gone at the time. Our Gaelic names," continued Sir

   Thomas, "are strikingly characteristic of either the scenery

   of the places which they designate, or of some incident

   in their history, so very remote, perhaps, as to lie beyond

   the reach of written records. I was led, after writing

   my essay on the parallel roads of Glenroy, to examine

   appearances on the course of the Findhorn, very similar to

   those of the highland glens. Among the rest there is a

   holm on the Relugas property, round the sides of which

   I could trace very distinctly what seemed to have been

   at one time the shores of a lake ; but what was my sur

   prise when, on asking a Gaelic scholar for the etymology

   of the name of a field which occupies the upper part of

   Ithe holm, was informed that it was composed of two

   words   which mean 'head of the     loch.' Now, at   ?h"owI
   remote  a period must not the name  have been given

   instanced some of our Cromarty names as apparently of

   very remote antiquity ; stated that a moor in the upper

   part of the parish had, as shown by its cairns and its

V

GRANGE HOUSE.                                          13

tumuli, been the scene of a battle at so early a period
that history bears no recollection of the event, but that

a farm in its vicinity still bears the name of Achnagarne,

i. e. field of the carcasses ; and that a rock in the sea,

which Sir Thomas, in his survey of the burgh, has
marked out as one of its boundaries, and on which

tradition says a boat was once wrecked, is still known
as Clach Mallacha, i. e. the stone of the curse. We had

some conversation on the Celtic character. I described to

Sir Thomas the form of the old Celtic head, as given us

Iby the phrenologists, and as have seen it in the skulls of

the Inverness Museum ; concluding my description by re

marking that civilization seems to produce variety in the

human species, somewhat in the manner that domes

tication produces it in some of the inferior animals.
Sir Thomas seemed pleased with the thought, and illus

trated it by a fact or two.
      ' He must have been a very busy man. He showed

me his Travels in Italy in MS. They form four thick

quarto volumes, elegantly bound, and illustrated with

admirable crow-quill drawings.  "     He    showed me an
elegant piece of penmanship,       The    Lamentable Case

of Sir William Dick," a thin folio, in which the old

style of printing and engraving was so well imitated, that

Iit was only from the freshness of the paper detected it as

a copy. This Sir W. Dick was one of his ancestors (Scott
makes David Dean allude to him, in the Heart of Mid

lothian, as the godly provost), who was possessed, in the
days of Charles of the then enormous sum of 200,000,
I.,

                                                    a

                              I
but who lost almost all during the Commonwealth and the

reign of Charles II. Sir Thomas stated to us besides that

he had filled with notices of his family roll of vellum

about eighty feet in length. On Mr Black and rising to

go away, he took down his large stick, and accompanied

14 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

us --by way of guard, he said--for about half a mile,
and on parting kindly repeated his invitation to me of
coming to the Grange the moment I returned from Lin

lithgow.

    ' I do not know that you have ever seen Sir

Thomas. He is a noble-looking, elderly man, upwards
of six feet in height, very erect, with bold, handsome
features, and a profusion of grey hair, approaching to
white, curling round his temples. His head is a very
large one, with a splendid development of sentiment.
Benevolence, veneration, and ideality seem all of the

largest size. Love of approbation and combativeness are
also amply developed. His forehead is broad and high,

but the knowing organs are more powerful than the re

flective ones. The contour of the whole is beautiful,

and as much the reverse of commonplace as anything

you ever saw.

    I' My trunk being too bulky for the coach, took

a berth in a canal-boat, which leaves Edinburgh at seven
Iin the morning and reaches this place about ten.
                                                                    saw

little on the passage to interest me except the old castle
of Niddrie, at which, as you will remember, Queen Mary
passed the night after her escape from Loch Leven, and
in which Scott has laid some of the scenes of the Abbot.

LMinyliftehllgooww-pafsasremnegre--rs   were a Paisley shop-keeper  and a
                                       the former a smart, shallow  young

man, the latter a shrewd, sagacious old fellow, with a
decided cast of dry humour. On landing here I found

the bank accountant, a Mr Miller, waiting my arrival.

He introduced me to Mr Paterson the agent. Both of
them are exceedingly civil --nay more --kind young men ;
Ibut the patience of both must be sorely tried ere can
Ihave done with them.
                                       am one of the stupidest block

heads you ever knew, and, considering how extensive

              AT THE BANK DESK.           15

your experience in this way must have been among your
pupils, that is saying something. For the first day or

Itwo felt miserably depressed and sadly out of conceit
Iwith myself. I do not know what would not have

given to have had you beside me to speak me comfort,

Ibut dare say you would have begun by laughing at me.

My lodgings here are much too fine and too expensive,
but they were taken for me by Mr Paterson at the re

I Iquest of Mr Paul, who intimated my coming by letter,
and so could on no account decline them.  dislike

expense even for its own  sake, and independent of the
embarrassment which it
                          always occasions, --especially

when 'tis incurred for a man's self, for food a little

Imoredelicate, and clothes a     little finer, than ordinary.
                    too--as the   Edinburgh phrenologists
My   disposition,   find--leads
will,    dare say,               me rather to acquire than
                    IRemember, expect a reply. You
to dissipate
Ilittle know the exquisite pleasure which derive from

your letters.'

     A letter from Miss Fraser arrives in due course, but

it is with a feeling very different from pleasure that he

peruses it. She has been suffering from illness, and
her nervous excitement has been such, that ' this morn

I Iing,' she writes, ' when your letter was delivered to me,
    was almost fixed in the belief that was suffering

under a temporary derangement. God alone knows

Iwhere would have been to-day without it ; it turned, in

part, the current of my ideas.' Hugh writes, evidently

without loss of time, though the letter has no date, and
in the greatest agitation. His first sentence appears to

intimate that he had a presentiment of evil so soon as
his eye fell upon the letter. ' 'Twas no wonder, my own

Idearest girl, that should have felt so unwilling to open

Iyour letter, and that looked twice at the seal to con

16 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

vince myself that it was not a black one. You are un

well, my Lydia ; and here am I, whose part it should

be to soothe and amuse you, separated from you by more

than 200 miles. Your temperament, my Lydia, is a

highly nervous one ; your delicate tenement is o'er-

informed by spirit ; 'tis a hard-working system, and the

slightest addition to the moving power deranges the

Iwhole machine. But be under no apprehensions for your

mind. Would that were beside you to tell you how

strangely I have sometimes felt when in a state of nervous
irritability. The night before I received your letter, for in

stance, I had a world of foolish fancies about you ; and my

Isense of hearing was so painfully acute, that was dis

turbed by the noise of the blood circulating in the larger

arteries. But all this was merely the effect of over-exertion.

I had copied and calculated all day in the office, and had

Iwritten for the printer till late at night ; in the morning
   was quite well. Try and get yourself amused, my
ILydia, and do not suffer your spirits to droop.
                                                  shall
I Itell you what my chief-- indeed only--amusement is at

present : have a little paper book, which carry about
Iwith me, and when I have a minute's leisure take it

out, and with the aid of my pen converse with you.

This is the secret of my long letters ; and of all my pre

sent pleasures this, with one exception, is the most plea
Isant.
        need not tell you that the excepted one arises

from your letters ; but not such letters, my Lydia, as your
I Ilast.
        must hear that you are well before shall have

recovered the shock it has given me.

    I' have never yet been in any part of the country

where the surface is so broken into little hillocks ; one

might almost deem it an imitation, on a small scale, of

the Highlands. Its geological character is highly in
teresting. Almost all the eminences are basaltic. In

                   GEOLOGY.                                               17

the hollows we meet with sandstone, lime, and indurated

clay. The lime is rich in animal remains, all of the

earliest tribes. They belong to a later era than the

fossils of the Eathie lias. I have procured a few speci
mens, which I must try to bring home with me--

among the rest four varieties of bivalves and two of
Izoophytes.
             have procured, too, part of a fossil palm

and the joint of a flattened reed, possibly the vegetable

Ito which the south of Scotland owes its coal. But

have met with neither ammonites nor belemnites. In

many places the basalt has overflowed the secondary

strata ; and in the side of an eminence, rather more than

a mile from town, where there is a deep section of rock,
it assumes the columnar form directly over a thick vein

Iof lime. You have, dare say, never seen basaltic columns.
I saw them here for the first time, and wished for you,

that we might examine them together. So regular are

they, that old country people of the last age used to
Iattribute their erection to the Picts.
                                         have seen it

stated in a paper by Creech, the Edinburgh bookseller,

and deem the fact a highly interesting one, that on
some occasion the furnace of a Leith glass-house having
been suffered to cool, it was found that the glass, in

passing from a fluid to a solid state, had assumed the
columnar form. There is a particular form of hill which

seems peculiar to basaltic countries, and of which there

are various instances in this.  You have seen a superb
specimen in Salisbury Crags.
                                It would seem as after
;
                                                         2

                                                                  in if,
the masses had been thrown up, they had split                             the

middle and that when one half of each remained stand

ing, the other sunk into the abyss out of which the whole

had risen. Linlithgow forms, as you are aware, part of

the great coal-field of Scotland, and there are pits on

every side of it.  The coal seems to have been formed

      VOl. II.           -

   18 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

   out of vast accumulations of reeds, somewhat resembling

   in appearance, at least, the sugar-cane. To what a re

   mote and misty antiquity do such appearances lead us ?

   To a time in which the district in which I am now

   writing to you formed part of the delta of some immense

   river which drained of its waters a widely-extended con

   tinent, the place of which is now occupied by the Atlan
   tic. Think how many ages must have elapsed before the

   vegetable spoils of even the largest stream could have
   formed the depositions of so extensive a coal measure ;

   how many more must have passed in which new accumu

   lations of strata settled  above these to a depth of  many
                              so slowly, too, that each  layer
   hundred feet --settled

   formed a plain on which plants and animals flourished

   and decayed. Continue the history till the immense
   continent was slowly worn away, and the sea beyond,
   enriched with the spoils of so many ages, became a scene
   of earthquakes and volcanoes ; and then, after we have

   marked in imagination the retiring of the waters, and

   the ascent of a new continent from what had been the

   profounder depths of the sea --after we are lost in calcu

   lating the periods which must have elapsed ere the ascent
   of one plutonic eminence was followed by that of another --

   antiquity, as it regards the human race, has but its be

   ginning. I find myself lost in immensity when I think
   Iof such matters ; but dare say you have quite enough

   of geology for one letter.
        'The church of Linlithgow is a fine old building,

   well-nigh as entire in the present day as it was four
   centuries ago. In style it seems to hold a middle place
   between the simple Norman Gothic and the highly

   ornamental Gothic of the reign of Henry VII. ; and

   there is a chastity in the design of at least the interior,

   which we may vainly look for in our modern imita-

o

              LINLITHGOW PALACE.        19

tion buildings. I never look up to a lofty stone roof

without feelings of awe. Burke has said that fear is a

necessary ingredient in the sublime. I do not know

but that there is a lurking sensation of terror in the feeli

ng which I experience ; it does not owe its existence to

the art in which, according to Thomson, " greatest

seems the little builder man." I sit in the northern

aisle every Sunday, beside a huge column, and directly

opposite the gallery in which the spectre appeared to

James IV. The clergyman is a fine, useless preacher

of the Moderate party, who gives us rather ordinary

matter dressed up in pretty good language. He does

not  bpera"y    on Sabbaths,  like our  north-country ministers,
to            preserved from  thinking  his own thoughts," and
may, indeed, spare himself the trouble --he has none of

his own to think.

     ' The palace is situated a little behind the church.

It is a huge quadrangular pile, about sixty paces on each

side, full of those irregularities which would not be

tolerated in a modern building, but which, associated as

they are with our conceptions of Scotland in the past,

please more than elegance itself. There runs along the

top a deeply-tusked cornice ; the corners are crowned
with turrets, and broken piles of building, which finely
vary the outline a-top, rise high above the outer wall on
either side. The carvings are sorely time-worn, and they
seem to have been grotesque enough when at their best.
On either side of an old gateway, which was shut up

in the reign of James VI., there are two Gothic niches,

surmounted by miniature cupolas that resemble the
models of an architect ; at the base of each there is the

figure stretching forth his hands, and writhing in agony,

as if crushed by the superincumbent weight. The Scot

tish shield, guarded by angels, 'is blazoned on an im

20 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

mense tablet above. But decay has been busy with the

guardians, and with what they guard. There is a large
court in the interior, whose corners are occupied by lofty

towers, through each of which a staircase leads to the top.

The view inside is very striking : all the sides are unlike.

One of these was built in the reign of James VI.; and

from the elegance and peculiar style of the architecture,

I would deem it a design of Inigo Jones. The other

sides are of a different character, and testify of an earlier

age. The windows are square, and huge of dimensions,

labelled a-top, and divided into compartments by mullions

of stone. There is an uncouth profusion, too, of Gothic

sculpture. In the middle of the court there are the

ruins of a well, and beside it a hollow which must once

have received its waters and formed a little lake ; but
Ithe stream has long since failed.
                                    passed through a

wilderness of arched passages, with windows darkened

by mullions of crumbling stone, and grated with wasted
Iiron.
        have seen the room in which the unfortunate
IMary was born.
                 have seen, too, the large hall in

which our Scottish parliament sometimes assembled,

with the stone gallery in which the beauties of other

days have listened to the long-protracted and often
Istormy debate.
                 ascended to the top of the build

ing, and from an elevation of nearly a hundred feet

looked over the surrounding country. The palace is

built on a grassy eminence that projects into the lake,

which extends about half a mile on either side of
                 is

                              A

                                                                         it,
and nearly as much in front.  curtain of little hills

rises from the opposite shore, and shuts in the scene
towards the north. To the south we see the town, and

the long line of the canal, with its multitudinous bridges;

and all around there an undulating and freely diver

sified country, studded with abrupt woody knolls of

A LITERARY- BANKER.         21

plutonic formation, and speckled with human dwellings.

II need not tell you that, as looked from the walls and

saw so much of the antique and the venerable beneath

Ime, and so much of the beautiful around, wished for a

I Icompanion to see all that saw, and to feel all that

felt ; nor need I say, my Lydia, what companion it was
I wished for. Uncommunicated pleasure, you know, is

apt to change its nature, and to become pain.

     ' Mr Miller, our accountant here, is the son of a dis

senting clergyman, who died about four years ago. He

is a smart, obliging young lad, and a thorough master of
his business. He has introduced me to a few of his

acquaintance here, and to his mother, a remarkably fine-

looking woman, who, though her son is perhaps as old
as you are, might still pass for a young lady. I have
Itwice drunk tea with her.
                            have passed an evening,

too, with Mr Paterson, our bank agent, a frank, obliging

Iyoung man (he is five years younger than am), of much

general information, and with none of the little pride of

our north country bankers in his composition. Among

the many causes of gratitude which Providence has given

Ime, the kindness which everywhere meet with is not

one of the least. Mr Paterson tells me that McDiarmid,

the editor of the Dumfries Courier, and the ablest of
all our provincial editors, was at one time a clerk in the

Commercial Bank; but he was by no means a very superior

one. One of the tellers was astounded on one occasion

to find his cash a thousand pounds short; and after

vainly striving to discover some error in his calculations,
he gave up the search, and deemed himself ruined. He

lived a wretched life for about a fortnight, when he at

length ascertained that poor McDiarmid, in one of his
absent moods, had contrived, in carrying forward his

balance, to leave a thousand pounds behind. On leav

22 THE BANK -ACCOUNTANT.

ing Edinburgh for Dumfries, his desk was found stuffed

full of literary scraps, unfinished stanzas, and broken
Isentences.
             must try to avoid being made the subject

of a similar story, by keeping my literature at home.
      ' This is the country of historical associations and his

torical relics. I described to you in my last the watch
of Queen Mary. I have since seen two pieces of her

needle-work. They are at present in the possession of

my landlady, who was for many years housekeeper to a

lady of quality, whose name I forget, and who at her
death left her her wardrobe --the relics of Mary included.

The one is an apron, the other a tippet, both of muslin,

which was once white, but which now, both in colour

and in fragility, resembles a spider's web. The apron is

a complex piece of work--nearly as much so as the bor
ders on which I have so often seen you engaged ; the

Itippet is simpler. You will laugh at me when tell
I Iyou that, all unpractised in the art as am, am em

ployed in making a pattern of it for you, that you may

see how muslin was flowered in the sixteenth century,
and bedeck yourself, should you deem it worth your

imitation, in the same style of ornament with the beau

tiful Mary. I need not tell you I am no critic in such

matters ;--it strikes me, however, that the flowering of

both pieces has a grotesque Gothic air, and differs as

much from the needle-work of the present day, as the

old castle of the sixteenth century does from the modern
mansion-house. In the possession of such persons as

my landlady one frequently meets with interesting relics

on the last stage of their journey to oblivion. The work

Itable on which write is only about twenty inches
Isquare a-top ; yet am certain that top must have em

ployed some skilful mechanic of a century ago for a full
month. It is curiously inlaid with more than four

A WELCOME LETTER.                                   23

hundred little pieces of coloured wood and bone, and

represents a flower piece.'

Miss Fraser's next letter was brief, but gave a good

account of her state of health. She had been visiting

Mrs Taylor, a friend resident on the Nigg side of the

Cromarty ferry, and had reaped much benefit, both in the
way of health and of happiness, from ' the quiet cheer

fulness of a united and happy family.' Miller evidently

loses no time in replying.
     ' You were not mistaken, my Lydia, in thinking

that your letter, short as it was, would meet with a
Isincere welcome.
                   had become extremely uneasy re
garding you, for I attributed your silence to indisposi
tion ;--the mail drives up to the Post-office here by a

                   cmamy e,w--ind'toisw
Istreet which fronts

hour of its arrival
                                           ;  and   regularly as the
                                              late
                                         a          one, -- used to

watch the approach of its two flaring lanterns, that seem

two terrific eyes, in the hope of hearing from you. But

Ievening after evening passed, and still no letter, and

began to indulge in the gloomiest forebodings. Think,

then, what my feelings must have been, when, on perus
ing your kind, though brief epistle, I found you were
Iwell and not unhappy.
                             am much indebted to the

kindness of Mrs Taylor ; and the time may come, my

lassie, when there will be no impropriety in thanking

her for it.

   II' am much gratified by your literary scheme.

have long ago told you that you are not one of those

Iwho can be at once indolent and happy ; and am sure

you must often have felt that the remark was a just one.

Your mind is highly active, and must have employment;

and I know no exercise more suited to it than the one

you propose. We must mutually assist and encourage

each other, my Lydia, and should you be unsuccessful

   24 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

\  at first in forcing your way to the publisher's shop, you
   must just remember that there are few writers who have
   not failed in their earlier efforts. Genius itself seems

   hardly more indispensable to the literary aspirant than
   that mixture of firmness and self-reliance which, unde

   pressed by failure or disappointment, can pursue its per
   severing and onward course till at length it triumphs

   over fortune and circumstance. At present your mind

   resembles a musical instrument of great compass and
   power, but nearly all the semi-tones are wanting. But,

   my own dearest Lydia, for your own sake and mine you
   must remember that your mind and body are unequally

   matched ;--that though the one is strong and active,

   the other is comparatively fragile and easily worn out,
   and that your exertions must be modified to suit the
   capabilities of the weaker of the two.

       ' I was only a few days in Linlithgow when a gen

   tleman called on Mr Paterson (the agent) to inquire for

   me, stating that the Principal (Baird) was at his country
   house, and very unwell, but desirous notwithstanding

   that I should call on him on the following Thursday. I

   then learned for the first time that the Principal's coun
   try house is not more than two miles from Linlithgow.

   I found the grounds in the vicinity of the house laid out

   into little patches, each bearing a different variety of

   field or garden vegetables, and altogether presenting the
   appearance of what is termed an experiment farm.
   Husbandry and gardening are two of the Principal's
   hobbies. The house is a little old-fashioned structure.

   I was shown into a low parlour ;--the Principal was in
   Ibed, was told, but was just going to try to get up.
   IThe poor Principal found himself unable to rise, and

   was shown up to his room. He received me with great

   kindness, held my hand between both his for more than

         VISITS PRINCIPAL BAIRD.               25

ten minutes, and overpowered me with a multitude of
questions, --particularly regarding my new profession
Iand what had led to it. ' Ah,' said he, when
                                               had
given him what he requested, --the history of my con
nection with the Bank, -- ' the choice of your townsman,

Mr Ross, shows that you still retain your character for

steadiness and probity.' After sitting by his bed-side

for a short time, I took my leave, afraid that he might

injure himself by his efforts to entertain me ; for they

were evidently above his strength. It struck me, too,

that there was a tone of despondency about him which

mere indisposition could not have occasioned. Bene

I Ivolent old man ! from what have since heard, have

too much reason to conclude that his sickness is of the

heart.'

     Miller proceeds to mention his having formed the
acquaintance of a Mr Turpie, at whose house he was
introduced to a Dr Waldie, both unknown to fame. ' Mr

Turpie,' he goes on, describing an evening passed in the

company of these gentlemen, ' took up a book, and
Ishowed me what he deemed a very old poem.
                                            read a

few verses, and pronounced it to be a modern imitation.

The decision led to a few queries, and the queries to a
sort of colloquial dissertation on old Scottish poetry, a

Isubject with which, you know, am pretty well acquaint

ed. I quoted Barbour, Dunbar, Gavin Douglas, Lind

say, and a great many others. The obsolete literature

of our country was quite a terra incognita to all the

party, but they seemed interested by the glimpse I gave

them of it ; and Mr Turpie, when the conversation once

more became general, asked me, half in simple earnest,

half in the style of compliment (a question which by-the-

by Mr Paterson had put to me a few days before),
' Pray, Mr Miller, are there any books which you have

26 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

not read ? ' A few evenings after, the Doctor and Mr

Turpie called on me at my lodgings. The former is a
metaphysician, and he had come to me apparently with

the intention of discussing what may be termed the

metaphysics of phrenology ; --its connection, for instance,

with the grand question of liberty and necessity, and

the doctrines of the will. I communicated to him my
ideas on the subject as clearly as I could ; met his

objections when they could be met ; and showed him,

I-- should rather say strove to show him,--the

boundaries of that horizon of darkness which, closing

round the human intellect in this direction, renders

many of them unanswerable, not because they are power

ful as arguments,  but because they cannot  be understood.
We parted very     well pleased with each
                                             other. " The

Doctor," said Mr Turpie to me a few days after, "can find

no line long enough to measure you by ; he has just met
with a Dr Baird, a nephew of the Principal, who tells

him that his uncle is quite enthusiastic regarding you,
and deems you equal to anything." But enough of this.

INever in my life before did write anything so re

dolent of conceit as the last page and a half; but with

I Iyou, my lassie, know am more than safe. Remem
Iber, too, give you full liberty to laugh at me as much

as you please.

    I' My own dearest Lydia, must hear from you once

yet ; and to make up for the briefness of your former
letters, do write me on a double sheet. Tell me much

about yourself, --what you are doing, and saying, and

thinking, and seeing, and feeling; on a theme so in

teresting you cannot be tedious.'

     Miss Fraser's answer to this is dated Cromarty, 8th
January, 1835. An extract from it will tend to eluci
date Miller's next letter. The manse of Alness, men

THE MANSE OF ALNESS.                      27

tioned by Miss Fraser, is beautifully situated on the

north of the Cromarty Frith. It was occupied in 1835
by the late Rev. Mr Flyter and his family. Through

out the north of Scotland, where the manses had from

time immemorial been centres of hospitality in their dis

tricts, none was more noted for cordial, generous, and

Idelicate hospitality than the manse of Alness. ' was

received at Alness,' writes Miss Fraser, ' with great

affection. The increase of wealth there has not blunted
Iany of the finer emotions of the heart.
                                          could perceive

some changes ; the simple manse is turned by additions

and improvements into something like a mansion-house,

and the glebe cultivated to resemble a gentleman's

Ipleasure-grounds ; could perceive, too, among the in

mates, something of an aristocratic turn of idea, caught
from the society of the neighbouring proprietors. But

in piety, and the discharge of pastoral duty, there is no

change. The spirit of the Presbyterian minister, as he
was in the days when the success of the gospel was all

to him, is kept alive in Ross-shire in perhaps greater

strength than in any other part of Scotland. The

ministers of the contiguous parishes for many miles

round meet every month in the house of each alternately,

to inquire into the state of their parishioners, and to

implore the aid of the Holy Spirit. Thus they pass a

whole evening.

    I' We had for two evenings the society of which am
Iso enthusiastically fond, --that of a genuine Celt.

sang and played, and he showed a fine taste for music.

I repeated some verses,--he criticized them at once

with the most just conception. The conversation be

came general ; --he showed the best sense and soundest
practical observation ;--his grasp was not extensive, but

his ideas were all clear and well-defined, and he had

28 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

evidently thought for himself. At supper the conversa
tion again became poetical. He quoted some words of

exquisite beauty and expressiveness in the Gaelic Psalms,

which   no English  ones  c"ouinld   render.    He described   the
Gaelic  word for "                  the line,   " For over it  the
                    wind

wind doth pass," as expressing to the imagination a

breath so faint as to be almost dying, and yet sufficient

in its extreme feebleness to destroy the still feebler thing

over which it is passing. Again, in the same psalm, in

the lines,

                  " Such pity as a father hath
                    Unto his children dear,"

he said   ;--thetrheeywacsonsvoemy etthhiengideinaexoprfesasibplayrenttenydeear rnainndg
delicate

to fondle what he so tenderly loves, and yet in his

solicitude almost afraid lest he injure it by the touch.

Oh what burning thoughts must have passed through the

brain of Ossian ! That a people with such genius, and

with such a language, should be deemed incapable of

producing such a poet ! That those who have felt but

for a moment the spirit of Northern poesy could doubt

ever after that Ossian sung ! Yes, annihilate the re

mains of Highland feeling and language and manners,

and then tell us that the question is decided, but not till

then. I am so exasperated at you that I would fain
give you a--pinch.'

Hugh replies in a tone of quiet and kindly badin

age. He will maintain against all comers that the

poems of Ossian illustrate the genius of the Highlanders,

particularly that of the gifted clan Mac Pherson. To

match the Alness Highlander he brings out a specimen

Celt of his own.

                                                ' Edinburgh.

' Dear me, what a red-hot Highlander you are ! You

GEORGE MUNRO.  29

Imake me say things against the poor Celt never so
Imuch as thought of, merely, suppose, that you may

have the pleasure of defending him. Who ever doubted
that the poems of Ossian were the compositions of a

Scotch Highlander? ITruly not I, nor any one else

ever heard of, except a few Irishmen. They were written

by a countryman every line of them, -- bating the little
bits that were borrowed from Milton and the Bible, --by

a genuine countryman, who though notover endowed with
honesty, equalled in genius any writer of his age. Ossian,

indeed, or Oscian, as the Irish call him, was, as you
know, a bog-trotter of the beautiful island, who made
ballads in the days of the good St Patrick, and sold
them for half-pence a piece ; but who can say that of
Mac Pherson ?

    I I' Since you love Highlanders so well, fain wish
Icould introduce you to my cousin, George Munro.

    would not fear to match him, as a specimen of

what his country can produce, against your Alness
Highlander or any Highlanders you ever saw. He re

Isides with his wife and family in Stirling, and since

last wrote you I have spent a day with him. Let me

 describe him to you as he is both in mind and per
 son. He is a well-built robust man of five feet eight,
 large-limbed, broad-shouldered, keen-eyed, and with re
 solution stamped on every feature. Nature has written

I Iman on his whole appearance in her most legible hand.

 But what have to add will am afraid give you a
 lower opinion of him. No one ever regarded me as

Iparticularly well built or handsome. am, besides, fifteen

 years younger than my cousin, and yet through one of
 those tricks of resemblance so strangely occasioned by

Iblood, have been repeatedly addressed as Mr Munro.

 His mind is one of the most restless and most con

30 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

Icentrated in its energies ever knew. He never yet

attempted anything which he did not master, and never
mastered anything of which he did not tire. He was

born in the Highlands of Sutherland, and bred a mason :

--no one could have fewer opportunities of improve

ment, and yet he was not much turned of twenty ere he
had added to the commoner rules of his art a knowledge

of architecture, drawing, and the mathematics. The

intellectual man is rarely an athlete, but George had a
body as well as mind to educate, and after studying the

mathematics, he set himself to study the art of defence,
and became so skilful a pugilist that there are few pro
fessed boxers who would gain in a contest with him.
He resided at this time in Glasgow. On his return
home he married and took a little farm on the banks of

a Highland   loch, where  he proposed   to himself to  lsifpee, n--d
his days.                 tired of the   agricultural
            But he soon

it was too quiet and too monotonous, and quitting the

farm he engaged as superintendent of some saw-mills

erecting in that part of the country, and proved for some
months, from his thorough though hastily acquired

knowledge of the machinery, a most serviceable man to
his employers. He sickened, however, at the ceaseless

clatter of the wheels, and throwing up his supcrintend-
ency, he again resumed the mallet. He then became a

slater, and proved one of the best in the country, but
the details of the art were too soon mastered to engage
him long. He next applied himself to Gaelic literature,

and published a translation of Bunyan's Visions, which

has been commended as true to both the spirit and sense
of the original. He then spent some time in fruitlessly

attempting to square the circle, in studying botany, and
in the composition of a metrical tale. He then taught

a school, and applied to the General Assembly to be

GEORGE MUNRO.                                 31

admitted on their list of teachers, but was fortunately

unsuccessful. His next employment, unlike     any of the
                                              nominated
others, was almost forced upon him, --he was

superintendent of a bridge erecting over the Forth, and
acquitted himself with so much credit, that some of the

neighbouring gentlemen urged him to stay in that part

of the country. George consented, and became a Civil
Engineer. Lord Abercrombie requested him to inspect,

if he had courage enough, a copper mine in Airdrie,

which had lain unwrought for many years, and which,
damp, and dark, and full of water and unwholesome

gases, was deemed inaccessible by all the other engineers
of the country. George knew very little of copper
mines, but he furnished himself with a torch, and with

out assistant or companion, explored the cavern to its

inmost extremity, and then drew up a report which has

since been successfully acted upon. Some works of an

unusual and difficult character were projected last season

on the river Dee. George undertook the superintend-
ency of them, constructed a theodolite for himself,
accomplished several difficult levellings which a recent

survey has proved to be correct, departed from the
original plan, and executed the whole in a manner which

the original designer has pronounced more complete and
effective. An eminent lawyer has described his re

ports as at once the plainest and most rational ever pre
sented to him ; but George has become master enough

Iof his new profession to long for another; and ere

parted from him he told me that he wishes much for
some employment such as that of a Gaelic teacher,
which would afford him leisure to write a work on

etymology.
      ' This is a curious portrait, but it is that of the indi

vidual, not that of the Highlander ; a few strokes more,

32 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

and you shall see it enveloped in tartan. Never was
there man more zealous for the honour of his country :
he finds more mind in her poets, and more meaning in
her language, than in the language and the poets of
every other put together. Ossian surpasses Homer, and

nothing can be more absurd than to question the authen
ticity of his poems. He seems to have attached himself
to him by a true Highland contract, and stands by him
on all occasions in " the right and the wrong." To con
clude, he has all the characteristic courage of his coun

trymen, and all their hospitality and warmth of heart.
He accompanied me eleven miles on my way to Linlith

gow, and as he shook my hand at parting, I saw the

tear gather in his eye. Do not grudge him, my Lydia,

Ithe page and half which have devoted to him; nor
Ichide me when I tell you that read to him the part of

your letter in which you describe the Alness Highlander

and   the Ross-shire  clergy.  "  His remark   onsayidourhes, ty"lemyoorue
      deem a neat     one.        There are,"
will

Mrs Grants than one."
      I' saw much in my journey that interested me ;
Inever before did
                      pass over so large a tract of the

classic ground of Scotland. Almost every stream and

mountain in this district have been celebrated in song ;
Ialmost every plain has been a field of battle.
                                                 stood

at Bannockburn on the stone where Bruce fixed his

standard, and repeated to my cousin the spirited de

Iscription of Barbour. have seen the scene of Wallace's

conference with the elder Bruce ; that of the battle of

Shirramuir, of Stirling bridge, and of Falkirk ; the
tombs of Sir John the Graham, Sir John Stuart, and

Sir Robert Munro ; the site of the house in which James

III. was assassinated ; the room in Stirling Castle in

which his father, James II., stabbed the Black Douglas ;

CLASSIC GROUND.                    33

the pulpit of John Knox ; the Tor-wood in which Wal

lace so often sheltered from the English, and in which

Cargill excommunicated Charles II. ; the links of Forth,

rendered classic by Macneil ; and the distant peaks of

Ben Lomond and Ben Ledi. Had I time for geological
disquisition, I could tell you something curious of the

valley of the Forth, and of some singular etymologies

given me by my cousin, which, like the name of the

holm mentioned by Sir Thomas, throw light on a very
remote period. In founding the piers of the new bridge,

the workmen dug through a layer, composed mostly of

marine exuviae, in which they found the skull of a wolf,
with several other remains of a very early age, the pro
ductions of art. There is an eminence that rises out of

the bottom of the valley, quite in the manner that Inch-
keith does out of the Frith, which still bears in Gaelic

the name of the Island, though now fully five miles from

the sea ; and a hollow that lies still farther up continues
to be known as the Bay of the Anchors. But all these

topics we shall discuss when we meet. Heigh-ho, my

Lydia, we have missed many a happy meeting this

winter !

    I' saw the armoury in Stirling Castle ; it contains

11,000 stand of arms, with immense sheaves of pikes,

which we made, in 1803, under the dread of a French

invasion, for arming the people. I saw in too, pikes
I,

     a
             a

                                                                                    3

                                                                             it,
                                                                                           a

                                                                                                                                                                ;
of much ruder fashion, which some of the people made,
in 1819, for arming themselves. You are too young to

remember how fierce an attitude the Radicals assumed

in that year, and what fears were  entertained of general
                                   your doll at the time
uprising, --you thought only of

on the contrary, was old enough to determine on

taking part in the convulsion, though not quite decided

on which side. In Stirlingshire the Radicals broke into

      VOl. u.

  34 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

  Iopen rebellion ; and the arms saw were taken from a

  body that had assembled on a moor near Falkirk, and

  which, better skilled in forming resolutions than fight

  ing, were dispersed by a party of military on the first

  charge ; all except a boy, who, entrenching himself in a

  bog, continued firing at the soldiers until surrounded
  Iand captured.
                  saw his pistol and little sword. The

  pikes are strange, uncouth things, like broomsticks,

  with points, some of which resemble large nails, others

  butchers' knives. All that I have heard from history of
  pMoapsusalanrielcloosmmaontdionJasckasndofuLperiysdinegns,,----coafmJeacinktoCamdyesmainndd
  as I looked at them ; I saw, too, a Shirramuir Lochaber

  axe, and an old tilting spear. On my return to Linlith

  I Igow was overtaken by a furious snow-storm, which,

  find, from the newspapers, has been the occasion of

  Imuch loss of life. Had you seen me as entered the

  town, --resembling nothing earthly except, perhaps, a

  or one of those effigies           of snow which
                                     am certain you
  in the time of thaw, --
  Imoving wreath,

  children set up

  would not have known me.

      I' Since coming here have made a very few accessions

  to my library. My cousin has given me an old edition

  of Locke's Essay on the Human Understanding, and I

  have picked up at stalls cheap copies of Goldsmith's

  Citizen of the World, Franklin's Essays, and Camp

  bell's Pleasures of Hope. My own volume is getting

  Ion pretty well ; have returned proofs for the first two
  hundred pages ; but I am afraid I have committed a

  sad blunder regarding it. Nothing could have been

  easier for me than to have rendered it an unbroken

      es of legendary stories ; I have materials at will, and

                  ;

                                              it is,

                                                                    a

                                                                   it
  no difficulty in narration. As it  however,

  |inds in dissertation and holding, as does, mid-

              DINES WITH BAIRD.                 35

die station between works of amusement and abstract

Ithinking, runs no small risk, am afraid, of being neg

lected by the readers of both. Was it not strange that

I should not have discovered this when the work was in

manuscript? But it        I iIs,believe, of almost general

experience among writers, that their productions must

appear in print before they can form an estimate regard

ing them at all approaching to correct. Lavater used

to remark that his works, when in MS., appeared to

him almost faultless, though no sooner had they passed

through the press than he became frightened to look at

them. Pope has expressed himself to nearly the same

purpose. Well, the past can't be recalled, but may
                                            aI
trust that my fate not staked on one throw, and that
              a

                is
the next may be better game.

'  On Wednesday last              dined with the Principal

(Baird), and have seldom spent an evening more
pleasantly. He was in one of his happiest moods, and
full of anecdote and remark. He seems to form kind

of connecting link between the literature of the past and

of the present age in his youth he was the friend and
              ;

companion of  umpenthewhgolosreiesnaomf eosurlecaopunttory,o--ur oftoBnguurness
when we sum

and Robertson and Blair. Nearly fifty years ago he

edited the poems of Michael Bruce, in behalf of the

mother of the poet, who was then very poor and very
old, --childless, and
                       a  widow. Twenty years after he

was the warm friend and patron of the linguist Murray.

He was the first who introduced Pringle, the poet, to

the notice of the public. He lived on terms of the

closest intimacy with Sir Walter Scott, and thoroughlyis

acquainted with Wilson. What stride from the times
                                  it a
of the historian of Charles V. to those of the editor of

Blackwood's Magazine does               not sound somewhat
                          !

36 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

strangely that the friend and contemporary of the amiable
though ill-fated poet of Kinross, who died nearly sixty
years ago, should be the warm friend of your own

H-- M -- ? I Ineed not tell you how very interesting

found his anecdotes. He gave me notes of his conversa
tions with Burns, and of his correspondence with Scott.
One of his remarks regarding the former in connection

Iwith somebody else, am too vain to suppress. " Burns,"
said he, " excelled all men I ever knew in force of genius ;

he leaped to his conclusions with a vigour altogether

Iwonderful, but do not agree with those who regard his

mind as equally powerful in all its faculties. Any task
that required prolonged and steady exertion was no task

for him ; and I have remarked that his good sense never

reached the dignity of philosophy. The writer who
chose so humble a theme as the ' Herring Fishery of

the Moray Frith,' has, I dare say, never thought of enter

ing the lists with Burns ; nor, perhaps, could he produce
such poems as ' Tam o' Shanter ' and the ' Cotter's
Saturday Night ; ' but, in tracing causes and deducing
effects, Burns might just as vainly have entered the lists
with him." '

                                                                  37

                         CHAPTER II.

HIS FIRST PROSE BOOK CORRESPONDENCE ON THE SUBJECT
      LETTERS FROM MR CARRUTHERS AND MR R. CHAMBERS
      RECEPTION AND CHARACTER OF THE BOOK DONALD MILLER.

WHILE initiating himself, not without irksomeness,
          into the routine of bank business, and astonishing

Mr Turpie by the extent of his reading, Miller occupied

his spare moments in Linlithgow in correcting the proof-
sheets of the ' Scenes and Legends in the North of Scot

land.' It was his first grand effort in prose, his first

clear preference of a claim to have his name inscribed
in the list of English authors. The Poems by a Jour
neyman Mason had been printed, at his own expense,
in Inverness. The Letters on the Herring Fishery
had filled but a moderately-sized pamphlet. Here, at
last, was an unmistakeable book, introduced to the read
ing world by publishing firms of the highest eminence
in Edinburgh and London. We have had a glimpse of
the difficulties encountered in bringing it this length,
but what we have seen will not by any means represent
to us their full extent, or the amount of exertion to
which Miller submitted in the furtherance of his pro
ject. From his correspondence on the subject we shall
take two or three additional passages, recollecting, while
we read, that for at least two years he was engaged in

38 TIIE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

the task of opening a way for the publication of his

volume.

      Here, first, is his account of the conception and plan
of the book, as presented to his tried and faithful friend,
Sir T. D. Lauder, so early as March, 1833 : ' In making

choice of my subject, I thus reasoned with myself :

White's Natural History of Selborne is a most popular
little book, and deservedly so, though Selborne itself be
but an obscure parish somewhere in the south of England.
The very local title of the work has not in the least
militated against its interest. But why? Partly, it
would seem, from the very pleasing manner in which it
is written ; partly because the natural history of even a
single parish may be regarded as the natural history of
the whole country in which that parish is included. And

may not the germ of a similar popularity be found, if

the writer do not fail in his part, in the traditional his
tory of a Scottish village ? Which of all the animals is
a more interesting study than man ? Or can those varie
ties of any of the numerous classes which we find in one
district of country be more clearly identified with the
varieties which we find in another, than we can identify
with one another those multiform classes of the human
character which, though everywhere different in their
minor traits, are everywhere alike in their more import
ant ? Besides, the history of one Scottish village is in
some measure the history of every one ; nay, more, it
may form a not unimportant portion of that of the king
dom at large. The people of Scotland, in all its several
districts, have been moving forward, throughout the last

century, over nearly the same ground, though certainly
not at the same pace ; and a faithful detail of the various
changes and incidents which have occurred during their
march from what they were in the past to what they are

         DISSATISFIED WITH HIS BOOK.                                     39

in the present, cannot surely be merely local in its in
terest. What does it matter that we examine but only
a little part of anything, if from that part we acquire an
ability to judge of the whole ! The philosopher can
subject but comparatively small portions of any sub
stance to the test of experiment, but of how wide an
application are the laws which he discovers in the pro

cess !

    ' You will perceive at a glance the conception I thus

formed of my task was somewhat too high to leave me

Iany very great chance of satisfying myself in the exe
cution of it.      have not done so, and, indeed, could be
I Ialmost sorry if had.
                         have frequently met with an

ingenious argument for the immortality of the soul, drawn

from the dissatisfaction which it always experiences in

the imperfect good of the present, and from its fondly-

cherished expectations of a more complete good in the

I Ifuture ; and so long as am dissatisfied with what
I Iwrite, and with how think, solace myself, on a nearly
Isimilar principle, with the hope that shall one day

write better, and think more justly. My traditional

                 II
                     iIs,

                                 in

                              I
                                                         a
history, however,        trust, not very dull one              ;     it  a is

different sort of work,       some respects, from any of
a
      amerely local cast have yet chanced to see and am of
                                                            ;  I

opinion, though dare say may be mistaken                          by  that

partiality which men insensibly form for any pursuit in

which they have long been engaged, that set of works
                                                            a

of similar character would not be quite without its
use in the literature of our country. The occurrences of

even common life constitute,  iIf  may so speak, kind of
                                                               a
alphabet of invention --the types, rather, which genius          in

employs in setting up her forms. She picks them out in

little broken bits from those cells of the memory which

they have been stored up, and composes with them entire

40 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

Iand very beautiful pieces of fiction. And am con

vinced  a set of works     seiamchilardisintriccht aroafctetrheto kimngy dmoman--u
script
        history -- from

would form a complete part of this kind. Might not

such a set be properly regarded as a magazine of mate
                                       '
rials  for  genius  to  work  upon  ?

Allan Cunningham, in whom, as a brother of the

hammer and a brother of the pen, Miller took a particular

interest, and whom he obliged with that sketch of Black

Russel which we have seen, was applied to when the sub

scription scheme had been set on foot, in the hope that

he might do something for the book in London.

                                          ' Cromarty, August, 1834.

    I' For the last few years have devoted to the pen
well-nigh all the hours I could spare from the mallet,
Iand have produced a volume which would fain see in

print. It is traditional, and wants only genius to re

semble very much some of your own. Our materials,

at least, must have been collected in the same manner
and from the same class -- in prosecuting a wandering

employment     in a truly  interesting country,  rich with the
spoils of the              the work-shed, and     the barrack,
                past --in   old men and old
                                                 women --the
and the cottage, from

solitary, fast-sinking remnants of a departed generation.

But the mason of the north has no such creative powers

as he of Galloway--powers that can operate on a darkened

chaos of obsolete superstitions and exploded beliefs, and

fashion it into a little poetical world, bright and beautiful,

and busy with passion and life. Still, however, my tra

ditions are not without their interest, though possibly

they may owe little to the collector. They are redolent

of Scotland and the past, and form the harvest of a

field never yet subjected to any sickle except my own.

LETTER TO ALLAN CUNNINGHAM.           41

Our northern districts seem to have produced many

that could invent, but none that could give their inven

tions much publicity ; many that could think and feel
poetry, but none that could write it : their literature is

consequently an oral literature--their very history is tra

ditional ; they may be thought of as fields unreaped, as

mines unopened : and must not some little interest

attach to a work, however deficient as a piece of com

Iposition, that    be
                  the
of the grain--
may properly           regarded as    a sample
a specimen of                         however,
                       ore ?  trust,

that my mode of telling my stories will not be deemed
Ivery repulsive.
                  have had a hard and long-protracted

struggle with the disadvantages attendant on an imperfect

Ieducation. To you, at least, need not say how hard

and how protracted such a struggle must always prove ;

I Ibut have at length, trust, got on the upper side of
them ; and, if I eventually fail, it will be rather from a

defect of innate vigour than from any combination of

untoward circumstances pressing upon me from with

out.

    ' I publish by subscription --from the nature of the

work and the obscurity of the writer, the only way open

Ito me. But, trust me, have no eye to pecuniary ad
Ivantage ; would not give a very little literary celebrity
for all the money I ever saw ; besides, bad as the times
Iare, I am master enough of the mallet to live by it.

could ill afford, however, the expense of an unlucky spe

culation ; and as literature is not so much thought of in
ICromarty as the curing of herrings, find that, without
Iextending my field, cannot securely calculate on cover
ing the expense of publication. Forgive me that I
Iapply to you.
                  am a pilgrim, passing slowly and

heavily along the path which leads right through the

wicket--now floundering through the mud of the slough,

42 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

now journeying beside the hanging hill, now plodding

through the low-lying grounds haunted by Apollyon ;

Iand what wonder that should think often and much of

one who has passed over the same tract ? and who, un

deterred by the dark valley or the enchanted grounds,
with all their giants and all their wild beasts, has at

length set him down amid the gardens of Beulah, in full

view of the glorious city  My booksellers in

London are Smith and Elder, to whom, should you

succeed in procuring a few names for me, the list may

be transmitted.'

     Allan sent a few sensible and friendly words in reply.

' I am glad that you think of publishing ; for there is so

much truth and nature and information in your writings,

that they cannot fail of doing your name a good turn. A

work of the kind set forth in your prospectus will be

welcome to all true-hearted Scotsmen, and, though

limited in its range, will influence many who live
Ibesouth the Tweed.
                     have laid one of your printed

intimations on the table of my bookseller, and desired

him to mention it to his visitors. When the work appears

I will say a good word for it with all my heart. I men

tioned it to some friends here ; but you must understand

that the Londoners are not accustomed to put down their

names for works of a literary nature, whatever the merit

may be : but this must not discourage you ; almost all

authors sacrifice a work or two for the sake of hav
Iing their merits made widely known.
                                      did this ;
Iand now find purchasers, though I found few at first.
I desired our mutual friend Carruthers to place my

name among the subscribers long before you wrote to
me. Your bookseller must send copies to most of the
influential newspapers and reviews ; a kind word from

them saves an advertisement, and possibly helps the sale

LETTER TO SIR GEORGE MACKENZIE.          43

of the works. But take a brother-mason's as well as a

brother-writer's advice. Don't be too solicitous about

being noticed in reviews ; let the thing take its course :

a worthy work seldom fails.'

One sample will suffice of the letters in which he
                                    --landed proprietors,
applied to  gentlemen of influence
clergymen,                           his district, to coun
            leading merchants --in

tenance his enterprise.

TO SIR GEORGE MACKENZIE, OF COUL, BART.

      ' Permit me to submit to your judgment the inclosed

prospectus. I am acquainted with only your writings,

and the high character which you bear as a gentleman

of taste and science ; but there is more implied in such

an acquaintance than in a much closer intimacy with a

Icommon mind ; and it is the knowledge have derived

from it which now emboldens me to address you.

    I' am one of the class almost peculiar to Scotland,

who became conversant in some little degree with books

and the pen amid the fatigues and privations of a life of

manual labour. For several years past I have amused

my leisure hours in striving to acquire the art of the

writer, and in collecting and arranging the once widely

spread, but now fast sinking, traditions of this part of
I Ithe country.
            have written much, that might learn

to write well, and have made choice, as the scene of my

exertions, of a field so solitary and little known that I

might not have to contend with labourers more prac

Itised than myself ; and have found in this field much
I Ithat have felt to be interesting, and much that deem
original--incidents of a structure wholly unborrowed,

striking illustrations of character and manners, inven

tions not unworthy of poetry, and strongly-defined traces

   44 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

   of thought and feeling, which might afford employment

   to the philosopher.

        ' My amusements at length produced a volume

   Iwhich, though not quite such a work as had conceived
   might have been written on the subject, I deemed not en
   tirely devoid of merit. I submitted my MS., through Sir

   Thomas D. Lauder (a gentleman who has honoured me
   by his notice and shown me much kindness), to some of

   the literati of Edinburgh : their judgment regarding it

   has been favourable beyond my most sanguine antici

   pations. Still, however, the work is local in its character,

   and more exclusively so in its title, and in times like the

   present I can have nothing to expect from the booksellers.

   But the circumstances which militate most against the

   general interest of the work must have some little tend

   ency to impart to it a particular interest in the district

   of country whose traditions it relates, and whose scenery

                                      a

                                                   If,
   and general character it purports to describe.       like

   convex lens, the focus bears on only narrow space,
   a
            a
                         is
   in that narrow space the rays must be concentrated.
   For work of this kind the mode of publishing by

   subscription              the  only available one and, after hesitat
                             the  scheme has often been resorted to in
   ing long--for                  I

   this part of the country              a by

                                                a ;I
                                                      aI

                                                                            a

                                                                ;I
                                  men of an inferior cast, in

   ferior bothit             sentiment and intellect, and was un
                    in
   willing    should be thought that  had anything in

   common   with them -- now betake   myself to it.

   would ill like to risk my respectability as man for the

   uncertain chance of being little known as writer

   but there surely nothing mean in mode of publicais

   tion which such men as Pope and Cowper and Burns

   have had recourse to. The meanness must consist not

   abstractedly in the scheme itself, but, when the work

   chances to be worthless one, in the inveigling the
                             a

V                                                          i

                                                        :

THE BOOK PUBLISHED.  45

Ipublic into what must be regarded as an unfair bargain.
   have no eye to pecuniary advantage. My hopes and
fears are those of the literary aspirant only ; and, little
known either as a man or a writer, my eye naturally
turns to one whose favourable opinion, holding as he
does so high a place in society and letters, would obtain
for me the suffrages of the class best able to forward my
little plan.'

     The disappointment experienced by Miller in pro
curing the publication of his book was confined to his

attempts to induce a bookseller to undertake the risk of

issuing it. No sooner did he adopt the plan of sub
scription, than he met with encouragement and aid on all
hands. Without any conscious effort he had succeeded
in inspiring every one who knew him with confidence,
and those who knew him well were not only confident
of his future, and proud of his abilities, but bound to
him by strong personal attachment. He had shown

himself friendly, and he had found friends who took de

light in serving him. At last Mr Black agreed to pub

lish on terms which, under the circumstances, must be

pronounced generous. Miller received 400 copies for
his subscribers at cost price, and, in the event of profit
being realized on the sale of the remainder of an edition
of 1250 copies, was to share it with Mr Black. The

selling price was fixed at seven shillings and sixpence.
On these terms Miller would clear about sixty pounds,

even if the unsubscribed copies should not sell. These
terms were not arranged until after Mr Black had met

Miller in Edinburgh, and it is evident that he also had

learned to believe that the Cromarty mason, just develop
ing into a Bank clerk, was a man with a future.

     In the spring of 1835, then, the book was in the

46 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

hands of the subscribers, and congratulations poured in

upon Miller. He was in a mood of quiet satisfaction,

wholly unimpassioned ; nay, he was not without anxiety

as to the loss which might be incurred by Mr Black :

his friends were joyful, cordial, exultant.  Here is a

heart-warming letter from Mr Carruthers.

                                 ' Inverness, April 17, 1835.

   ' Many thanks for your bonny little book. It was

delivered to me yesterday evening about six o'clock, and

I went through fully three-fourths of it before going to

                I
                            it,
bed. Depend upon my dear fellow, you have made
                                             a
hit this time.  don't say that the Legends will lift youa
                                                                  a
into high popularity with all your robes and singing

garlands just at once. Your fame will not come rushing

on you like spate. But the book will have steady
general sale, and will lay the foundation of permanent
      a

                      I
literary reputation, destined, trust, to go on increasing,

and be crowned with many honours.

   '  You are right in your remark about there being

rather too much dissertation, especially in the first two
or three chapters. This surplus, like that of the Irish

Church, would have, perhaps, been better appropriated to

other purposes yet one soon becomes reconciled to or
                ;                I
                     ;
                                                            it
                       it              think you lack dra
ceases to consider unnatural.

matic power at least, your sketches of character struck

me as inferior to the descriptive and moralizing passages.

   should, however, except honest Donald Miller, who
I                                is
                                            it
                                                     is

                                                                               is
equal to Washington Irving's happiest creations. The

great charm of the book          that  full of original
matter, --not concocted from other works, though you

have much curious reading too, but fresh and flowing,

full of truth and nature. Taste, you know,   is     plant of
                                                 a

very slow growth, yet you have already outstripped our

                                                                                   4

LETTER FROM CARRUTHERS.                            47

friend Allan Cunningham in this respect. Allan had
better opportunities than you in his early days. His

father had an excellent library, was an intelligent man,
and mixed with intelligent people. Nay, the poet him
self was turned of thirty, had been a reporter for the
London press, and was almost necessarily well versed in
critical lore, before he tried his hand at prose. Yet
even his last work, his Life of Burns, is full of sins against
right taste and delicacy of feeling. But, after all, your
solitude and seclusion were your best teachers. We

may wonder how you got your style --so pure and

vigorous, but it was your lonely communings with
nature that fixed the matter in your mind, and gave it
room to grow. You studied deeply and minutely all

you heard, read, and saw, and thus came to your task
fraught with thoughts, feeling, and knowledge, pondered
over daily for years, and moulded into perfect shapes.
Your imagination had merely to supply a coping for this

Idepository. But am getting too dissertative myself.
If the Edinburgh Review is at your command, turn to

one of the early volumes for a review of " Cromek's Re-
liques," and you will find some excellent observations
of Jeffrey, on the peculiar position of Burns in his youth.
 Situation is as necessary for the proper growth of genius

as of forest trees ; and I cannot help thinking, my dear

 friend, that though your early lot has been hard, it has

 been favourable for the development of your mental

power.

    ' It will be your own fault if you do not sail with

full and prosperous gale. Your next appearance will be

looked forward to with interest, and will secure you

good terms with your bookseller. Publishers are a
fraternity wise in their generation, and I really think
Ithey will be casting out nets for you hereafter.
                                                   hope

48 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

you will go on writing, and accumulating materials.

You speak of White's Selborne as a sort of model. Your

work resembles Crabbe's Borough, and his general style,

much more closely. The same faithful and minute

painting of humble objects, --the same love of the sea
and all pertaining to --fishes, men, and marine scenery.

Of course the characters are different, being modified
                    it,
                                                                        by

national and local circumstances. We of Scotland have

the advantage in point of morality and staid demeanour.

But Crabbe's poachers and navigators, with their strong

unbridled passions, are perhaps better fitted for poetry.

What do you say to series of sketches in verse of your
            ?

             is I
                                      a
Cromarty worthies, their characters, passions, and ad

ventures    Of this, and fifty other subjects, shall hear
                                                                   I

you speak, hope, soon. When the suns get warmer,

and spring leading (as Wordsworth finely says) her

earliest green along the leaves, shall steal away some
                                         I

Friday or Saturday, and ruralize with you on the hill

side over the bay.  I                    hope sincerely that Wilson will

shine on you with one of his long, laudatory, imaginative
articles in Blackwood. Adam Black will take every

means of giving you publicity. But see no fear of
                 I

                                           a

                                       I
your success, so that the pushing of the trade will be the

less necessary.     send you capital review from the

Spectator, which you may not have seen. Tell me

from time to time how you get on, and how the work

goes off.'

   Miller sent at this time copy of his book of poems
   '

           by

                                                 a

                                                  it
                                                            is it
to Mr Robert Chambers, accompanying                                with the fol

lowing letter.

   The Moray Frith has been so blocked up this

spring,     the westerly winds, that                               only now an

opportunity occurs of sending you the Jacobite Psalm

-

      LETTER TO MR ROBERT CHAMBERS.               49

which I mentioned to you when in Edinburgh. It is

by no means a very polished composition, but the writer
was evidently in earnest ; and in the closing stanzas there
is an energy and power, united to much simplicity, which
he must have owed rather to his excited feelings as a
Scotchman and a Jacobite, than to his art as a poet. It

has struck me as a curious fact, and one which I do not

remember to have seen noticed, that almost all our

modern Jacobites are staunch Whigs. Burns was a re
Ipresentative of the class, and  think I see from the

verses of the poor Jacobite Psalmist, that had he flour

ished ninety years later he would have been a Whig

too.

      ' Oblige me by accepting the accompanying volume.

It contains, as you will find, a good many heavy pieces,

and abounds in all the faults incident to juvenile pro

ductions, and to those of the imperfectly taught; but

vou mav here and there meet in it with something to

amuse you. I have heard of an immensely rich trader,

who used to say he had more trouble in making his first
Ithousand pounds than in making all the rest.
                                                  have

experienced something similar to this in my attempts to

acquire the art of the writer. But I have not yet suc

ceeded in making my first thousand. My forthcoming

Ivolume, which I trust shall be able to send you in a
few weeks, will, I hope, better deserve your perusal.
And yet I am aware it has its heavy pieces too, --
dangerous looking sloughs of dissertation, in which I well
Inigh lost myself, and in which shall run no small risk

of losing my readers. One who sits down to write for

the public at a distance of two hundred miles from the

capital, has to labour under sad disadvantages in his

attempts to catch the tone which chances to be the
popular one at the time, -- more especially
                                             if,  instead of

50 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

having formed his literary tastes in that tract of study

which all the educated have to pass through, he has had

to pick them up for himself in nooks and by corners

where scarce any one ever picked them up before.

Among educated men the starting note, if I may so ex

press  myself,  is nearly the same    all the world over, and
what   wonder
                 if the after-tones  should harmonize, --but

alas for his share in the concert who has to strike upon

a key of his own !
I' All my young friends here, and
                                     have a great

many, are highly delighted with your volume of Ballads,

and some of the elderly, who have hardly taken up a

piece of light reading for the last thirty years, have
eagerly renewed by means of it their acquaintance with

the favourites of their youth. I have an aunt turned of

seventy, who, with the assistance of spectacles, has

perused it from beginning to end. It is by far the best
collection 'I have yet seen, and the notes add infinitely

to its value.'      

To this there came, in due course, the following

reply.
                                   'Anne Street, Edinburgh, March 31, 1835.

   'I have just received your letter of the 19th inst.,

Iwith the accompanying volume, of which have already

read a considerable portion. It is fortunate it arrived

Ito-day, as was about to write for another purpose than

the acknowledgment of your letter ; and it is better to

kill two birds with one stone than a single one only.

IMy object was to mention that have read your history

of Cromarty all to the last two chapters, being, perhaps,

the fourth or fifth work of which I have read so much

these half dozen years. For a copy which has been

Isent to me, apparently by your order, beg to thank
you, but I had previously bought one, and was by that

LETTER FROM MR ROBERT CHAMBERS.              51

Itime far on in the perusal of it. Further, have put an

extract from it into our printer's hands, with a pre

liminary notice, in which I express my opinion of it ;

three weeks, however, must elapse before this can appear.
I think you will not be displeased with the terms in
which I have spoken of the volume and its author ; at
least, I am very sure that the notice is meant for the
I Ibenefit of both.
dwell chiefly on the value which

conceive the book to have, as an example of the opera
tions of a mind of deep reflection and sensibility, reared
amidst humble scenes and circumstances, imperfectly

educated, and in want of all appropriate material to act

upon. Yet, while acknowledging that the reflection and

the sensibility are often misspent, I take care to convey

the impression that the book is a good one of the kind

it professes to belong to, and calculated to afford much
Iamusement to the reader, for
                                 believe  "  it would not be
bought as a " psychological  curiosity        only. Between
Iourselves, think it would have been better to retrench
Ia good deal of the moralizing in the early chapters.

Iassure you, though not unaccustomed to philosophical

reading, find your thinking pretty hard and solid ; it

requires a little more time and pains to follow you than
the most of us care to expend on a book of what we
suppose light reading. The history of Cromarty ! you
would have made a history of John o' Groat's house

Iphilosophical, believe. Yours seems to be the true

sort of mind to make minnows talk like whales. Such

powers are not appropriate to topographical narration,

or the chronicling of old stories. A playful fancy and a

power of whimsical allusion answer these walks of litera

ture much better. You are like a man assorting needles
I Iwith a gauntlet.
must also mention to yourself that

have found a few little matters in your volume which

52 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

cannot be traditionary ; such, for instance, as a George's
Square in Edinburgh some fifteen years before the actual

erection of the place bearing that name ; the numbering

of houses, too, when there were no numbers ; and the
coming by the head of Leith walk from Queensferry to

Edinburgh. You speak of dates of the thirteenth and

fourteenth centuries on the front of Urquhart Castle, in
connection with architectural styles, I am sure not much
Iearlier than the seventeenth, and when
                                         am equally
sure that no dates were carved on houses in Scotland, --
I Iat least, far as have ridden, and much as have seen
in my native country, I never saw a date upon a build

ing earlier than the sixteenth century. This shows that
you fill up and round off; and why not? but only such

matters must be managed discreetly.

    ' I am much obliged by the Jacobite Psalm, which is

certainly much above the tame poetry of the period.

Your remark about the Jacobites has often struck myself.

I account for their becoming Liberals in after-times, by

the fact of Jacobitism at length becoming identified with

a patriotic indignation at the corrupt government of the

early Brunswick sovereigns, in which last character it

must have very readily associated with modern Liberalism.

    I' had thought of it as a duty to endeavour to give

you some hints as to your future conduct in literature,

such as a metropolitan may be sometimes able to give

Ito a provincial. But now that see your volume I deem

it needless to try. A mind such as you have the fortune

Ito possess, can hardly ever or anywhere be at a loss.

could hope, however, that you may keep in view the

advantage, for your own happiness, of advancing into

some more conspicuous situation in life, where the

powers and tendencies of your mind may find more
fitting scope and exercise than at present. For the at

JACOBITE rSALM.  53

tainment of such an end, great worldly prudence and
what people are now universally calling tact, are as
essentially necessary as the bare possession of talent ;

and here I hope you will never be found wanting. With

the best wishes for your happiness under whatever cir

cumstances, I remain, &c.'
     The, Jacobite Psalm, referred to by Mr Chambers,

is what Miller describes as ' a curious version of the

137th Psalm, the production of some unfortunate Ja

cobite.' He supposes it ' to have been written at Paris
shortly after the failure of the enterprise ' of 1745, ' when
the prince and his party were in no favour at court ; for
the author, a man, apparently, of keen feelings, with all
the sorrowful energy of a wounded spirit, applies the
curses, denounced against Edom and Babylon, to Eng
land and France.' Readers will perhaps like to see

the verses.

                          ' By the sad Seine we sat and wept,
                                    When Scotland we thought on ;

                            Reft of her brave and true, and all
                                Her ancient spirit gone.

                          ' " Revenge," the sons of Gallia said,
                                    " Revenge your native land ;

                            Already your insulting foes
                                Crowd the Batavian strand."

                          ' How shall the sons of freedom e'er
                                For foreign conquest fight !

                            How wield anew the luckless sword
                                That failed in Scotland's right !

                  If1 thee, 0 Scotland, I forget,

                             Till fails my latest breath,
                            May foul dishonour stain my name,

                                    Be mine a coward's death.

                           ' May sad remorse for fancied guilt
                                My future days employ,

                   If all thy sacred rights are not

                                Above my chiefest joy.

54 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

1 Remember England's children, Lord,

Who on Drumossie day,

Deaf to the voice   of kindred   love,
   " Raze, raze it  quite," did  say.

1 And thou, proud Gallia, faithless friend,
     Whose ruin is not far,

 Just Heaven on thy devoted head

     Pour all the woes of war !

' When thou thy slaughter'd little ones
     And ravish'd dames shalt see,

 Such help, such pity, may'st thou have
     As Scotland had from thee.'

' My legendary volume,' says Miller in the Schools

and Schoolmasters, ' was, with a few exceptions, very

favourably received by the critics. Leigh    "Huitntwagsavcehait
a kind and genial notice in his " Journal ;

racterized by Robert Chambers not less favourably in
his ; and Dr Hetherington, the future historian of the

Church of Scotland and of the Westminster Assembly of

Divines, at that time a licentiate of the Church, made it

the subject of an elaborate and very friendly critique in
the Presbyterian Review.' We have already referred

to the remark on its style made by Baron Hume, and the
eager delight of Miller at being recognized as a worthy

successor of the Addisons and Goldsmiths, at whose

feet he had loved to sit. The book ' attained no great
popularity ; ' but it crept gradually into circulation, and
moved off ' considerably better in its later editions than

it did on its first appearance.'

These words are likely to prove true for an indefinite

period. This is one of those books which has to find

its readers, but which, when it has found, retains them

by a charm like that of old friendship and of old wine.

There is in it an aroma of racy thought and natural home
bred feeling. We may call it a bit of genuine historical

             THE  SCENES AND LEGENDS.'           55

literature, for it reproduces with vivid faithfulness the
aspect of human life in one particular corner of the
planet. The actual fields and waters, crags and woods,

green dells and bleak moors, grey castles and thatched
cottages, wimpling burns, and broomy braes, and brown

sea-shores, beside which Miller has played since child
hood, form the scenery of the drama ; and amid these life
goes masquerading in its coat of many colours -- life, with

its fitful changes and abrupt contrasts, its heart-wrung
tears and grotesque grins, its broken-winged sublimities

and grandeurs tempered by absurdity ; its queer jumble

of tragedy and comedy, and merry scorn of all the unities.

The writing    is,
                         a

                                                                         a
                                                                                              aa
                 perhaps, too careful for full display of

strength. Miller lingered for many years over his stories,
copying and recopying -- here polishing down roughness,

there throwing in touch of colour; now rounding

sentence with more subtle curve, now drawing out

similitude with more elaborate precision, grudging no
labour and no time. In this kind of work his arm could

not show its sweep and power. In much of his subsequent

writing there      rapid force, rhythmic energy, which
a                    a
            is                 a
                                       a
            is if awe do not find in the Addisonian periods of his first
prose book. But in quiet, delicately-wrought perfec

tion--in beauty fine as the tints of shell, as the vein-
ing of gem, as the light and shade of cameo-- Miller

never surpassed, he ever equalled, some parts of this
volume. The hint of MrXarruthers as to its defect in

dramatic power,      not without pertinency and justice.

Hugh had trained himself to narrative, and was com

paratively unskilled in dialogue but the essential
element in dramatic power, the ability to realize human
                     ;

                                       is
character and feeling in different situations,  certainly

displayed  in  the Scenes and Legends. The characters

live. We see them; occasionally we hear them, and

56 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

what they say is characteristic : it is mainly the dramatic
form, not the dramatic substance, that is wanting.

      To illustrate the careful finish of this book, it would

be easy to find a number of passages --exquisite descrip

tions of landscape, specially felicitous similitudes, apt
and eloquent reflections ; but to select from these one
or two brief enough for quotation, and decisively the best

to be had, would be exceedingly difficult. It seems

preferable, therefore, to take by way of sample a passage
which is not remarkable for style, but is fitted to convey
a fair general idea of the character, interest, and power

of the book. I allude to the account of Donald Miller,

referred to with enthusiasm by Mr Carruthers. The

story is introduced with a statement, not quoted here,
respecting severe storms which, for successive winters,
had visited Cromarty.

                               DONALD MILLER.

     ' Donald was a true Scotchman. He was bred a shoe
maker ; and painfully did he toil late and early for about
twenty -five years with one solitary object in view, which,
during all that time, he had never lost sight of-- no, not
for a single moment. And what was that one? In
dependence -- a competency sufficient to set him above
the necessity of further toil; and this he at length
achieved without doing aught for which the severest
censor could accuse him of meanness. The amount of
his savings did not exceed four hundred pounds ; but

rightly deeming himself wealthy --for he had not learned
to love money for its own sake--he shut up his shop. His

father dying soon after, he succeeded to one of the
snuggest, though most perilously situated, little proper
ties, within the three corners of Cromarty ; the sea

bounding it on the one side, and a stream -- small and

                DONALD MILLER.                                                              57

scanty during the droughts of summer, but sometimes

more than sufficiently formidable in winter-- sweeping
past it on the other. The series of storms came on, and

Donald found that he had gained nothing by shutting up

his shop.
      ' He had built a bulwark in the old, cumbrous Cro

marty style of the last century, and confined the wander

ings of the stream by two straight walls. Across the

walls he had just thrown a wooden bridge, and crowned

the bulwark with a parapet, when on came the first of

the storms -- a night of sleet and hurricane --and lo ! in

the morning the bulwark lay utterly overthrown ; and
                as if it had
the bridge,                   marched to its                               ass"isAtahnce",  lay
beside          half buried   in sea-wrack.
         ! it,                                                                              ex
                              it

                                                          ;
                                                                               ;
                                                                                              !

                                                                        it

                                                                                                                !
claimed the neighbours, " would be as well for us to

be as    sure of our;!  s"ummTheer'ssumemmpelroycmamenet                   as Donald
Miller,  honest man                                                        the bridge

strided over the stream as before the bulwark was

built anew, and with such neatness and apparent strength,

that no bulwark on the beach could compare with

Again came winter and the second bulwark, with its

proud parapet and rock-like strength, shared the fate of

the first Donald fairly took to his bed he rose, how
                                                 a

                                                                        :
ever, with renewed vigour, and third bulwark, more

thoroughly finished than even the second, stretched, ere

the beginning of the autumn, between his property and

the sea. Throughout the whole of that summer, from

grey morning to grey evening, there might be seen on

the shore of Cromarty                            decent-looking, elderly man,
in

     a
                                a

                                              a
armed with lever and mattock, rolling stones, or raising

them from their beds in the sand, or fixing them together

sloping wall, toiling as never labourer foiled, and

ever and anon, as neighbour sauntered the way, straight

ening his weary back and tendering the ready snuff-box.

58 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

That decent-looking elderly man was Donald Miller.
But his toil was all in vain. Again came winter and
the storms ; again had he betaken himself to his bed,
for his third bulwark had gone the way of the two
others. With a resolution truly indomitable he rose
yet again, and erected a fourth bulwark, which has
now presented an unbroken front to the storms of

twenty years.
      ' Though Donald had never studied mathematics as

taught in books or the schools, he was a profound
mathematician notwithstanding. Experience had taught
him the superiority of the sloping to the perpendicular
wall in resisting the waves ; and he set himself to dis
cover that particular angle which, without being incon
veniently low, resists them best. Every new bulwark
was a new experiment made on principles which he had
discovered in the long nights of winter, when, hanging
over the fire, he converted the hearth-stone into a tablet,
and, with a pencil of charcoal, scribbled it over with
diagrams. But he could never get the sea to join issue
with him by charging in the line of his angles ; for,
however deep he sunk his foundations, his insidious
enemy contrived to get under them by washing away
the beach ; and then the whole wall tumbled into the
cavity. Now, however, he had discovered a remedy.
First he laid a row of large flat stones on their edges in
the line of the foundation, and paved the whole of the
beach below until it presented the appearance of a

sloping street, -- taking care that his pavement, by run

ning in a steeper angle than the shore, should at its
lower edge, base itself in the sand. Then, from the flat
stones which formed the upper boundary of the pave
ment, he built a ponderous wall which, ascending in the
proper angle, rose to the level of the garden, and a neat

      .

DONALD MILLER.  59

firm parapet surmounted the whole. Winter came, and
the storms came ; but though the waves broke against

the bulwark with as little remorse as against the Sutors,
not a stone moved out of its place. Donald had at

length fairly triumphed over the sea.
      'The progress of character is fully as interesting a

study as the progress of art ; and both are curiously
exemplified in the history of Donald Miller. Now that
he had conquered his enemy, and might realize his long-
cherished dream of unbroken leisure, he found that con

stant employment had, through the force of habit, be
come essential to his comfort. His garden was the very
paragon of gardens ; and a single glance was sufficient
to distinguish his furrow of potatoes from every other
furrow in the field ; but now that his main occupation

was gone, much time hung on his hands, notwithstand
ing his attentions to both. First he set himself to build
a wall quite round his property ; and a very neat one he
did build, but unfortunately, when once erected, there
was nothing to knock it down again. Then he white
washed his house, and built a new sty for his pig, the
walls of which he also white-washed. Then he enclosed

two little patches on the side of the stream, to serve as

bleaching greens. Then he covered the upper part of
his bulwark with a layer of soil, and sowed it with grass.
Then he repaired a well, the common property of the
town ; then he constructed a path for foot-passengers on
the side of a road, which, passing through his garden on
the south, leads to Cromarty House. His labours for
the good of the public were wretchedly recompensed
by at least his more immediate neighbours. They would
dip their dirty pails into the well he had repaired, and
tell him, when he hinted at the propriety of washing
them, that they were no dirtier than they used to be.

60 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

Their pigs would break into his bleaching greens, and
furrow them up with their snouts ; and when he threat
ened to pound them, he would be told " how unthriving
a thing it was to keep the puir brutes aye in the fauld,"
and how impossible a thing " to watch them ilka time

they gaed out." Herd boys would gallop their horses, and
drive their cattle, along the path he had formed for foot

passengers exclusively, and when he stormed at the little

fellows, they would canter past, and shout out, from
what they deemed a safe distance, that their "horses
and kye had as good a right to the road as himself."
Worse than all the rest, when he had finished whitening
the walls of his pigsty, and gone in for a few minutes
to the house, a mischievous urchin, who had watched

his opportunity, sallied across the bridge, and seizing on
the brush, whitewashed the roof also. Independent of
the insult, nothing could be in worse taste ; and yet

when the poor man preferred his complaint to the father

of the urchin, the boor only deigned to murmur in reply,
" that folk would hae nae peace till three Lammas tides,

jloacinhead" intil  ane, would come and  roll up   the   Clach Ma-
   (it              weighs about twenty  tons), "  frae  i'its place
        a
the sea till flood water-mark."          It  seemed natural to

infer, that tide potent enough to roll up the Clach
Malacha would demolish the bulwark, and concentrate

the energies of Donald for at least another season.

'      But Donald found employment, and the neighbours
were left undisturbed to live the life of their fathers

without the intervention of the three Lammas tides.

Some of the gentlemen farmers of the parish who reareda
fields of potatoes, which they sold out to the inhabitants
in square portions of hundred yards, besought Donald
to superintend the measurement and the sale. The
office was one of no emolument whatever, but he accept

V

DONALD MILLER.  61

ed it with thankfulness ; and though, when he had
potatoes of his own to dispose of, he never failed to
lower the market for the benefit of the poor, every one
now, except the farmers, pronounced him rigid and
narrow to a fault. On a dissolution of parliament, Cro
marty became the scene of an election, and the hon.

member apparent, deeming it proper, as the thing had
become customary, to whitewash the dingier houses of
the town, and cover its dirtier lanes with gravel, Donald
was requested to direct the improvements. Proudly did
he comply; and never before did the same sum of

election-money whiten so many houses, and gravel so
many lanes. Employment flowed in upon him from

every quarter. If any of his acquaintance had a house
to build, Donald was appointed inspector. If they had

to be enfeoffed in their properties, Donald acted as bailie,
and tendered the earth and stone with the gravity of a
judge. He surveyed fields, suggested improvements,

and grew old without either feeling or regretting it.
Towards the close of his last, and almost only illness, he

called for one of his friends, a carpenter, and gave orders

for his coffin ; he named the seamstress who was to be

employed in making his shroud ; he prescribed the
manner in which his lyke-wake should be kept, and both
the order of his funeral, and the streets through which
it was to pass. He was particular in his injunctions to
the sexton, that the bones of his father and mother
should be placed directly above his coffin ; -- and pro
fessing himself to be alike happy that he had lived and
that he was going to die, he turned him to the wall, and
ceased to breathe a few hours after. With all his rage

for improvement, he was a good old man of the good old
school. Often has he stroked my head, and spoken to
me of my father ; and when, at an after period, he had

62 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

Ilearned that set a value on whatever was antique and

curious, he presented me with the fragment of a large
black-letter Bible which had once belonged to the
Urquharts of Cromarty.'

It is perhaps worthy of mention that the value of the

black-letter Bible here alluded to may have been some
what enhanced to Hugh by the circumstance that, in his
researches into the history of his native district and of

its remarkable men, he had come upon evidence that he

had the blood of Sir Thomas Urquhart of Cromarty in

his veins. Far too proudly contemptuous of such a title

to distinction to specify the fact in his published writings,

         a                                       when the matter turned
                                            it,
he nevertheless referred to

up in conversation, as incontrovertible. The chapter de
voted to Sir Thomas in the Scenes and Legends describes
him as man of genius and learning, but fantastic,
speculative, and eccentric in the highest degree. He
flourished in the times of the Covenant and Common

wealth.

                                                        03

                      CHAPTER III.

                                DEATH OF MISS DUNBAR.

                  those months which Miller passed in Lin

DURlitIhNgoGw, his friend Miss Dunbar lay on her death

bed, slowly sinking under intolerable agonies. She
retained her faculties unimpaired, and in the intervals of
pain manifested that gracious interest in all that con
cerned her friends which characterized her in health.
Her malady was known to be incurable, but it does not
appear that Miller was aware of any reason for appre
hending that it would soon have a fatal termination. He
continued, therefore, to write to her in the light dis
cursive manner he had previously adopted.

                                                                                   ' Linlithgow.

    I' must try to coin time (the phrase is poor Henry

Kirk White's, who killed himself in the process), in which

to show you that the hurry of my new occupation is as
unable to dissipate the recollection of your kindness as

Ithe rougher fatigues of my old one. The more see of
Ilife, the more am convinced that " it is not in man that
Iwalketh to direct his steps." Here am in Linlithgow,

 acquiring that degree of skill in business matters that

I rmay fit me for a bank accountant. Six weeks ago had

64 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

as much thought--nay, more --of emigrating to the

wilds of America.

    I' would much rather have spent in Edinburgh the
Ifew weeks have to pass in this part of the country

than here ; but it was necessary, in order to acquire the
skill of the branch accountant, that I should remove to
Ia branch bank ; and as take care never to quarrel with
necessity, I get on pretty well. On the evening of my

arrival, Mr Gillon, the Radical M.P., addressed his con
Istituents of Linlithgow in the Town-house.
                                             attended,
for I was desirous to ascertain what I had long doubted,

whether Radicalism and a powerful intellect be compati

ble, and regarded Gillon as one of the heads of the

party in Scotland. But the doubt is a doubt still. The

Ispeech heard was such an one as might, perhaps, pass

without remark in an inferior debating society ; but

there was a sad lack of taste about the parts in which the

speaker attempted to be fine, and a deplorable deficiency

of grasp when he strove to be sensible. His audience,

too, seemed miserably low, and, with all the good-will in

the world, had hardly sense enough to applaud. Wherever

I Ilooked saw only low, narrow foreheads, and half-open

mouths. What can such people know of the most diffi
cult of all sciences -- politics ? You know my opinions
Ion the subject.
                  am a Whig, and not the less Whig-
gish now that the party are out (I found I could not quite

agree with them in all their measures when they were
      But I see every day that men are not born
in).                                             equal   ";
that  " those who think must govern those who    toil ;

and that those who toil frequently mistake the pressure

of the original curse for an effect of misgovernment.

Besides, I detest all quackery ; and the Radical, if he

be not altogether a blockhead, is of necessity a political

quack.'

        LETTER FROM MISS DUNBAR.                                        65

     The following letter from Miss Dunbar was written,

Ias conclude, after she had received the preceding. The

expression, ' that clamorous fool, a Radical,' and the

I Iwords, ' am a Tory, though believe your Whiggism

and my Toryism are not very dissimilar,' though they
do not occur in the way of formal reply to Miller, have

the look of being suggested by his political remarks.

                                            ' Forres, January 1, 1835.

        1 " I sat between the meeting years,

              The coming and the past,

          And I asked of the future one,

              Wilt thou be like the last ?

        ' The same in many a sleepless night,
             And many a painful day ?

         Thank Heaven, I have no prophet's eye,

             To look upon thy way."

' These lines are Miss Landon's --no very great favour
ite of mine ; but as I lay sleepless and in pain last night
they came into my mind, and I found in them my own
thoughts and feelings sublimed into poetry. I suffer
Imuch.
        have many privations : it is not one of the least

of these that my right hand should have forgotten its

I Icunning ; but trust can value the comforts still left
to me. It is now two o'clock, and I am but just up and
dressed, and this is my first occupation. I heard of your

appointment from the newspaper, and of your having

gone to Edinburgh from an acquaintance. Pardon me,

Imy dear friend : some sad thoughts -- may even call
Ithem bitter ones -- will own I had amid all the pleasure
which both circumstances afforded me. I have always

borne much good-will to my acquaintance and friends

in general ; there are few whom I absolutely dislike, and
not a few whom I really like much ; but there was always

fone who more particularly occupied my heart, and whom

66 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

I loved more than all the rest put together, and for the
last five years you have been that one ; and now that I
Ihave so short a time to be here, can have no hope of
Iever again seeing you. But assure you the sad, bitter

thoughts were but passing ones ; and your letter gave

me entire pleasure.

    I' There is scarcely any one am sorry to part with
Ibut you. God knows how fervently wish you life and
happiness, and your advancement in public favour. I

consider your late appointment as very respectable, and
as procured for you in the most agreeable and delicate

manner, but cannot help regarding your literary pursuits

as the main business of your life. When, probably,

will your book be out, or is it actually gone to press ?
I IMany a time
             have wondered to myself if ever

           I it,
                        I

                                             by

                                                        It I
                                                                                       is
                                                                                                                                             ;
shall see    and have sometimes hopes that  may

but were to be guided  my present feelings of

pain and discomfort,  should say the thing  not

very likely           You are not aware of Lord

Medwyn's high appreciation of your genius.  was to

his brother, Mr John Forbes, that Major Camming Bruce

lately transmitted one of your letters and extracts from

your- Traditional History, given him by the Messrs
Andersons, in four franked covers. The Major had sent

to me, as thing of course, for your address, that Mr
'
              a

                 I
                                  in
                                                           ?a

                                       I
                                          I;

                                                                                                  a

                                                                                        is
Forbes might have waited on you, but could give him

no clue.

       Sir Thomas [Dick Lauder] seems changed in many
things since he left this part of the country. He will

never become that clamorous fool, Radical but he

certainly far too violent his politics. But am Tory,

you know; though believe your Whiggism and my

Toryism are not very dissimilar  Will you not

come and see me on your way home You cannot, surely,

                      HIS EXPERIENCE OF GRIEF.                                               67

return by sea at this season, or by the Highland road ;
and if you come by the coast, Forres lies quite in your

way. And then, or never ! My only objection to your new

                          is,  that ties you down to Cromarty, so that
employment                        it
                                          is
you cannot visit any of your friends day's journey
                                                           a

away                           The day coming when the first people

in  the land will be desirous of seeing and being ac

quainted with you.'

    Before writing the next letter, Miller heard that Miss

Dunbar had just lost                            by  death two near relatives to

whom she was much attached. The thought of her

bereavement recalled to him his own sorrow for departed

friends, and in pensive mood, tenderly sympathetic,

deeply affectionate, he took pen                    If in  hand, and described

to her his experience of grief.                          we would understand

the enthusiasm of love with which all who knew Hugh

Miller well regarded him, we ought to consider carefully

the heart-delineation of this letter.

                                                        'Cromarty, March, 1835.

       Intelligence of your sad bereavement reached me'

through the medium of the newspapers -- cannot ex
                                                           ;

                                                            I

                                                                          it
fporrees,s--wfhualtlby I  felt.   I           kn--ewbutthatsaywoutrhactu, pregwaarsdinfugll  be
                          the                                                                  as
                                             ;
                      to          brim              aI

mingled                   your Father, you were resigned to drink.
                                  new ingredient has been added, -- an
Now, however,                  a

ingredient bitterer perhaps to generous mind than any

of the others. To days of languor and nights of suffer

ing, torn affections and blighted hopes have been added                                      ;

and those relatives to whom the overcharged heart

naturally turns for solace and sympathy are equally in
volved in misfortune. When we sit during the day

   darkened chamber, we have but to throw open case
a
                                                                 in

                                                                                                                 ;

                                                                               it
                                                                                   is

                                                                                               a

                                                                                      in
ment and the light comes pouring but not so

68 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

during the night, when there is no light to enter. You

were before sitting in the shade, --not, however, in so

deep a recess but that at times a ray reached you from

Iwithout ; but now feel that your sad bereavement must

have converted your day into night; --that you are

sitting in darkness, and that an atmosphere of darkness

surrounds you.                         There are

   I' am not unacquainted with grief.

friends separated from me by the wide, dark, impassable

Igulf whom cannot think of even yet without feeling
Imy heart swell. Shall not describe to you that pro

cess of suffering of which my own mind has been the

subject ? There may be some comfort to you in the re

                                   is,

                                                                 in ;
flection that what you experience  to use the language
of Scripture, " according to the nature of man." The

similarity in the structure of our bodies, which shows us

to belong to the same race, obtains also in our minds
and as dangerous wounds in the one are followed

most casesby     fevers and inflammations, which bear the
             by
same names in every subject, and to which we apply the

same remedies, so wounds of the other are commonly

followed         similar symptoms of derangement in the

feelings, and to mitigate the smart and the fever, philo

sophy applies the same salves, and religion, when called
upon, pours in the same balm.

There an analogy between grief     in
                                                     is
'                                      its first stage

      by

            a
             is
and that state of imperfect consciousness which          in

duced          severe blow. We are stupefied rather than

pained, and our only feeling seems to be one of wonder

and regret that we should feel so little. We ask our

hearts why they are so callous and indifferent, and won

der that what we so prized as the lost should be so little

regretted. But we know not that, were we affected less,
we should feel more. The chords have been so rudely

        STAGES OF GRIEF.  69

struck, that, instead of yielding their shrillest notes, they

have fallen slackened from the stops, and time must re

cover their tone ere they vibrate in unison with the event.

In this first stage whole hours pass away of which the
memory retains no firmer hold than if they had been

spent in sleep. Seven years ago, when residing in In

Iverness, word was brought me that an uncle, to whom

was much attached, and who, though indisposed for

some time previous, was not deemed seriously ill, was
Idead.
        set out for Cromarty, and must have been
Iabout four hours on the road ; but all that next day

recollected of the journey was that the road was very

Idark (I travelled by night), and that, as drew near to
Ithe town, saw the moon in her last quarter, rising red

and lightless out of the sea.
      ' Sorrow in its second stage is more reflective. The

feelings have in some degree recovered their tone, and
we no longer deem them weak or blunted. At times,

indeed, we may sink into the apathy of exhaustion, but

when some sudden recollection plants its dagger in the

heart, we start up to a fearful consciousness of our

bereavement, and for the moment all is agony. The

mind during this stage seems to exist alternately in two
distinct states. In the one it pursues its ordinary

thoughts or its commoner imaginings, but when thus
engaged the image of the departed starts up before it

without the ordinary aid of association to call it in, -- it

starts up sudden as an apparition, and the heart swells,

and the tears burst out. And this forms the second

state. I have remarked as not a little strange the want

of connection between the two. Occasionally, indeed,

some recollection awakened in the first may lead to the

Isecond, but much oftener have found the commoner

principles of association set aside altogether, and the

                                                               s-

70 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

image of the deceased starting up as uncalled for by the

previous train of idea as if it were truly a spectre. And

oh, the aspect of that image ! How graceful its attitude !
How kind its expression ! How beautiful does the soul

look at us through the features ! Best, and kindest, and

most affectionate, and when we felt with most certainty
that we were truly dear to him ! And hence the depth

of our regret, --the bitterness of our sorrow. Grief, my
dear madam, is an idolater. It first deifies, and then
worships. It has a strange power, too, of laying hold of

the moral sense, so that it becomes a matter of con

sequence with us to deny ourselves all pleasure, and to

reject all comfort, in what we deem justice to the deceased.

IThere is something wonderful in the feeling have not

yet seen explained. It seems to have its seat deep in

the mysterious parts of our nature, and constitutes a tie
to connect, as it were, the living with the dead. No

man who truly deserves the name can desire to die

wholly   unlamented      ; and the regret   wwhiilclihngltyhe!--hereanrt
claims  for itself, it
                        willingly --oh how

ders to another. We weep not for ourselves, but in

justice to the lost, and even after exhausted nature can

not yield another tear, there is a conscience in us that
Ichides us for having sorrowed so little.
                                            need not ask
you if you have experienced this feeling ;--no heart was

ever truly sorrowful without the experience of it. It is

Ia sentiment of our nature that lies contiguous, if may

so express myself, to that noble sentiment which leads

us, independent of our reasonings, to feel that there is a

hereafter. For do we not think of the dead to whom

we owe so many tears, as a being who exists ; and could

we owe anything to either a heap of dust or a mere re

collection ? It may be well, however, to remind you

that there is a time when the claims of this moral sense

1

THE LUXURY OF GRIEF.  71

should be resisted. It continues to urge that tribute be
given to the dead long after the tribute is fully paid,
and spurs on exhausted nature to fresh sorrows, when
the voice of duty and the prostration of the energies call
it to repose.

It ' Of grief in its third and last stage I need say little.
      forms the twilight of a return to our ordinary frame,
 and is often more pleasing than the indifference of that
 everyday mood in which there is nothing either to

 gratify or to annoy. There is luxury in the tear,--re

  gret has become a generous feeling that opens the heart,

 --and we can love and praise all that we valued in the

  departed without feeling so continually that what we
  so valued we have lost. There is truth in the doctrine

  of purgatory, when premised not of the departed, but of
  the surviving friend. There is the brief hurried period,
  in which we can take no note of what we feel ; the

  middle state, with its unspeakable profundity of suffer
  ing; and the after state, in which there is a cessation
  from pain, and when even our sorrows become pleasant.

      I' shall not urge with you the commoner topics of
 consolation ; I know the heart will not listen even when

  the judgment approves. Grief is a strange thing ; it is
  both deaf and blind. Where could it be more perfectly
  pure from every mixture of evil and folly than in the
  breast of our Saviour ? and yet even in Him we see it
  finding vent in a flood of tears, when He must have
  known that he whom He mourned as dead was to step
  out before Him a living man. Can I, then, hope to

  dissipate your sorrow ? Can I urge with you any argu

  ment of consolation equally powerful with the belief

  which He entertained ? or, were I possessed of some

 Isuch impossible argument, could hope that it would

  have more influence with you than that belief had with

72 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT. ]

Him? He believed, and yet He wept. May I not

remind you, however, that He who sorrowed then can

sympathize in our sorrows now ; that He loved little

children, and declared that of such is the kingdom of
Heaven ; and that He has enjoined us, through His
servant, not to sorrow as those who have no hope ? '

     At about the same time, perhaps in the very hour,

when this letter was put into the hand of Miss Dunbar,

the Scenes and Legends, for which she had looked with

a solicitude more tenderly intense than that of Miller

himself, reached Forres. The heart of the sweet and

gentle lady thrilled once more amid her anguish with a

joy like that of a mother when she knows that a beloved

son, whose efforts she has long watched, with whom she

has long hoped and feared, whose claim to a place of

honour among men she has never questioned, has at last
done something which will compel the world to own

that he is all she knows him to be. Miss Dunbar wrote

Miller the following touching letter, probably the last
she ever penned : --

    I' know you wish to hear from me, and in gratifying
you I would gratify myself, for I have much to say to

you, but, alas ! the power of writing is past. My in

tervals of ease from most excruciating pain are truly

Ilike angel visits ; and when they do occur am in such

a state of lowness and exhaustion, as to be incapable of
any exertion. I am now raised up, and supported in
I Ibed by pillows, while make this, fear, last effort to
              IWhat can do, but throw myself
write to you

on His mercy who is the sent of God ? He is my rock,

Imy strength, my hope in life and in death. Often do

I Iwish to see you, and to hear you speak of the things
which pertain to eternity.  I recollect the light and

comfort derived from your conversation last summer

           MISS DUNBAR'S LAST LETTER.  73

                But to the Book ; contrary to all my anticipa

Itions, have lived to have it in my hand ! What shall

I Isay of it ? It would seem, from the very little of it

Ihave yet read, as if were quite satisfied with seeing
and handling it. I look into every chapter, I glance
over the whole, but, somewhat childlike, I feel too happy

to read.'

Hugh, with no suspicion that the end was near, had

begun his reply to this letter, and finished two or three
pages, when he received the following notice : ' Forres,

June 30, 1835, Miss Dunbar, of Boath, died here last

night at half-past ten o'clock.' Here is his unfinished

letter.             down                     ' Cromarty, June, 1835.

    I' have sitten        to write you at the side of a

little cliff, grey with moss and lichens, and half hid in
fern, that rises on the northern sweep of the hill of Cro
marty. The Moray Frith is at my feet. Towards the

Inorth see it spreading out from the edge of the preci

pice below, league beyond league, till I lose it in the

long blue line of the horizon ; while the shores of Moray,
with their pale undulating strip of sand, rise over it

towards the east. The sun is bright overhead ; but the

sky is dappled with clouds, and the whole landscape is

checkered with an ever-changing carpeting of sunshine

and shadow. There is a sail on the far horizon so very

bright and so very minute, that I can liken it only to a

spark of fire ; the tower over Forres is also lighted up

with the old castle beyond ; and still further to the west

I can see the coast line so thickly inlaid with spark-like
mansion-houses and villages, that I can only resemble it
to a belt of purple speckled with pearls. A true lover

of nature will not love it the less should circumstances

render his interviews with it brief and occasional ; ab

                                                                      '

74 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

sence only serves to enhance his passion, and he learns

to concentrate in his rare and hurried visits the same

amount of enjoyment which in other times was spread
                              Never was I more
over the many and prolonged.

strongly impressed with the truth of this than at present,
Ior more desirous that could convey to the solitude of
Iyour chamber a transcript of the scene
                                         contemplate,

and of the feelings it has awakened. Quiet pleasures
are ever the most lasting. How many sources of enjoy

ment are shut up by time ! but that which draws its

supply from the wonderful sympathy that exists between

the frame of nature and the spirit of man is assuredly
not of the number. The child draws from it all unwit

tingly when, rejoicing in the clear air and the sunshine,

it flings itself down for the first time on a bed of flowers ;

and many long years after, when the seasons of youth

and riper manhood have passed away, and a thousand

pleasures of after growth have palled on the sense, and

then ceased to exist, the heart of the invalid in his sick

chamber swells with all the quiet fervour of its earliest

attachment, when, from under the open curtain, he sees

the foliage of midsummer waving to the cool breeze, and

its sun sparkling to the sea. The true religion seems to

be the only one that addresses itself to this feeling. The

Psalms abound with delightful descriptions ; and there

are lovely images, that have all the green freshness of
nature about them, in the books of the prophets. But

there perhaps, only one religion that could avail itself
is,
                         well for the Mahommedan and the
           It

                     is
of the feeling.

Polytheist, who wish to remain such, that they confine

themselves, the one to his mosque, and the other to his

temple but he who believes in the God of revelation;
may look abroad on the glories of nature, and find no
discrep ancy between the aspects of His character, which

                             HIS REPLY.                        75

His word presents to us, and those exhibited in His

works.

    ' I should have written you long ere now, but for the

last three months my mind has been in a sort of transi

tion state, and passing from old, firmly fixed habits, to

the acquisition of new ones, and my powers of applica

tion were so dissipated in the process that I could
literally do nothing. I am coming round again, how

ever, and, with a pile of unanswered letters in my desk,

dedicate to you the first-fruits of my diligence. I find

my new profession will leave me well-nigh as much
leisure as my old one ; but exercise will claim its part ;

and as my occupations must be less mechanical than
Iformerly, shall have less time for thought.
                                                I If,  how

ever, my mind be naturally buoyant one, and trust
        those circumstances which will weigh me down
it                           a
     ' is,
                                 I
must be more untoward than any have yet experienced.

          My stay in Edinburgh last spring after my return

from Linlithgow was extremely brief, and had to quit
                                               I
                                                           II
it          circumstance  I  shall ever regret) without seeing

      (a

Mrs Grant of Laggan. With all my haste, however,

might have found time enough for the purpose could

have but found courage, but the fear of being deemed

obtrusive held me back. am the silliest fellow, in this
                  in
respect, ever knew. No degree of faith in the assur
            II I       I

                         I

                                            a
ance of others can give me confidence in myself, and
                                               it I I
am certain must often seem cold and ungrateful fel     ;a I

low when am reality shrinking from the possibility
of being deemed an impertinent one. But cannot

overcome the feeling.        have to regret, too, that though

   had direct invitation to spend an evening with Mr
I           a

Thomson, the friend and correspondent of Burns, could

not avail myself of it. In this case, however,  was

prior invitation, not the deprecated feeling, that interfered

76 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

but in both cases I have lost what, from the great age of
Ithe parties, no after opportunity can afford me. dined

one day with Mr Black, and met at his table with his
brother-in-law, Mr Tait, the Radical bookseller. He

seems to be an outspoken somewhat reckless man, with

a good deal of rough power about him, and by no means

devoid of sense, but he is more disposed to pick up his

arguments from the surface of a subject than to take the
Itrouble of going deeper.
                            had little conversation with

him, for my spirits were rather low at the time, and

there were a great many topics on which I knew there
was small chance of our being at one. I had seen before

leaving Cromarty a volume published by Mr Tait on the

Game Laws, by my old antagonist, and as it seemed a

miserable production both in point of style and argu
ment, I was curious to know how such a work must fare
in the hands of an active bookseller. " Ah, poor
                                                     ,"
                                                 " he succeeds
said he, in reply to my query regarding  in it,

just like every other man who writes           spite of sense

and nature and yet though invariably unlucky he still
persists. In men of literary cast," he continued, " the
         I           ,
will and the power of production are often sadly dis;
                         a
joined.            sometimes meet with persons who, am cer
                                                 I

tain, could write admirably, but who cannot be prevailed

on to take up the pen, while numerous tribe of others,
                            a
destitute, like      not only of ideas, but even of words,a

cannot be persuaded to resign it." Some of the few

hours passed in Edinburgh were spent very agreeably

    the back parlour of Mr Black, -- most agreeable
it in                                    a

     I                                            I
lounge, where in the course of single forenoon one may

meet with half the literary men of the place.        saw in

in the space of two short hours Mr James Wilson,

Professor Pillans, Professor Napier, Dr Jamieson, the

author of the Scotch Dictionary, and Dr Irving, the

EDINBURGH JOTTINGS.        77

biographer of Buchanan. Through the friendship of

Mr John Gordon, of the College, I was introduced to

Professor Wilson, and heard him lecture. He received
me with much politeness, but I felt a little out, and
found almost every time he spoke to me that I had
Inothing to say in reply.
                           was collected enough, how

ever, to remark that his head is one of the most strangely

formed I ever saw ; --it is of great size, immensely de

veloped both in the ideal region and in that of what are

called the knowing organs, but singularly deficient for a

head of such general power in the reflective part. And

Ithe lecture heard was such an one as the phrenologist
would have anticipated from such a composition. I was,

besides, introduced to Robert Chambers, and passed a

long morning with him, --sitting down to breakfast at

the usual hour, and rising from it about twelve o'clock.

He is possessed of a fund of anecdote altogether in

exhaustible, and is one of the most amusing and agree

Iable companions have ever met with.'

     In a letter written, a few days subsequently, to Sir
Thomas D. Lauder, Miller refers to Miss Dunbar as fol

lows :

     ' My kind friend, Miss Dunbar, of Boath, is dead ;

she died on the evening of Monday, the 29th ultimo.
For the last four years her life has been one of much

suffering ; but she had a youthfulness of spirit about her
that availed itself of every brief cessation from pain. She
had learned, too, to draw consolation and support from
the best of all sources ; and so her latter days, darkened

as they were by a deadly and cruel disease, have not
been without their glimpses of enjoyment. Her heart

Iwas one of the warmest and least selfish ever knew. It

was not in the power of suffering or of the near approach
of death to render her indifferent to even the slightest

78 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

Iinterests or comforts of her friends.                  was employed

in writing to her, and with all the freedom which her

goodness permitted me, when the letter reached me

which intimated her death. My thoughts were so cast into

Ithe conversational mould that could almost realize her
Ipresence ; and had she suddenly expired before me,

could not have been more affected.'

We must not quit this episode in Hugh Miller's life

without the remark that it reveals much of what he was.

The sister of Sir Alexander Dunbar, Bart., of Boath,

moving in the most refined and cultivated society of
Scotland, Miss Dunbar was in every sense a lady. Her

penetration and sound literary judgment might have con
vinced her that Miller was a man of genius, and led her

to desire his acquaintance ; but that that acquaintance

should have ripened into friendship --nay, that she should

hdaevaeresstigonfalaizlledherthferiejonudrsne--ymcaann   mason as the truest and
                                                        be accounted for only on

the supposition that there was in him a sterling worth, a

delicate nobleness, a beaming purity of soul and dewy

tenderness of feeling, which would have marked him out

in any class of society as one of nature's gentlemen.

                                                                 7 'J

                        CHAPTER IV.

      LETTERS TO MISS FKASER, FIXLAY, AND DR WALDIE.

ON returning from Linlithgow to Cromarty, Miller
       addressed himself with assiduity to his duties as a
bank accountant. In the course of the bank's operations
a sum of money, amounting to some hundreds of pounds,
was transmitted weekly from Cromarty to Tain, and he
thought it necessary to act as messenger. He walked
the whole way from the northern shore of Cromarty ferry
to Tain and back ; and as part of the road lay through a
deep wood, he provided himself with a brace of pistols,
and travelled with them loaded. This was the first occa
sion of his carrying fire-arms ; and he seems to have
never subsequently, except, perhaps, for brief periods,
abandoned the practice. The resolute intensity of appli
cation with which he mastered the details of banking,
and the conscientious caution with which he took the
road in order to obviate mishaps in the transmission of
the money, may be noted as characteristic of our man.

      The change in his circumstances, when he thus passed
 out of what is termed the working-class, was naturally

pleasing to his friends. Mr Stewart declared with hearty
 satisfaction that he was ' at length fairly caught.' For

rhis own part, he took the matter with conspicuous quiet

80 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

ness, betraying no consciousness of having risen in life,
not altering his demeanour by one jot or tittle, and
except in his thoughts of the future of domestic felicity
which was now virtually secure to him, not finding
himself a happier man. After a day spent in the
uncongenial drudgery of running up columns of figures,
he did not experience in literary composition that de
licious freshness which it had formerly yielded him.
' For the first six months of my new employment,' he

Isays, ' found myself unable to make my old use of
I Ithe leisure hours which, found, could still command.

There was nothing very intellectual, in the higher sense
of the term, in recording the bank's transactions, or in
summing up columns of figures, or in doing business
over the counter; and yet the fatigue induced was a
fatigue, not of sinew and muscle, but of nerve and brain,

which, if it did not quite disqualify me for my former

intellectual amusements, at least greatly disinclined me

towards them, and rendered me a considerably more in

dolent sort of person than either before or since. It is

asserted by artists of discriminating eye that the human
hand bears an expression stamped upon it by the general

Icharacter as surely as the human face ; and certainly

used to be struck, during this transition period, by the

relaxed and idle expression that had on the sudden been

assumed by mine. And the slackened hands repre

Isented, too surely felt, a slackened mind. The un-

intellectual toils of the labouring man have been occa

sionally represented as less favourable to mental cultiva
tion than the semi-intellectual employments of that class
immediately above him, to which our clerks, shopmen,
and humbler accountants belong ; but \t will be found
that exactly the reverse is the case, and that, though a
certain conventional gentility of manner and appearance

LITERATURE AXD LABOUR.  81

 on the side of the somewhat higher class may serve to
 conceal the fact, it is on the part of the labouring man
 that the real advantage lies. The mercantile accountant

 or law-clerk, bent over his desk, his faculties concentrated

 on his columns of figures, or on the pages which he has

 been carefully engrossing, and unable to proceed one step
 in his work without devoting to it all his attention, is in

 greatly less favourable circumstances than the plough
man or operative mechanic, whose mind is free though

his body labours" and who thus finds in the very rudeness
of his employment a compensation for its humble and
laborious character. And it will be found that the

humbler of the two classes is much more largely repre
sented in our literature than the class by one degree less
humble. Ranged against the poor clerk of Nottingham,
Henry Kirke White, and the still more hapless Edinburgh
engrossing clerk, Robert Ferguson, with a very few others,

we find in our literature a numerous and vigorous phalanx
composed of men such as the Ayrshire Ploughman, the
Ettrick Shepherd, the Fifeshire Foresters, the sailors
Dampier and Falconer, Bunyan, Bloomfield, Ramsay,

Tannahill, Alexander Wilson, John Clare, Allan Cun

Iningham, and Ebenezer Elliot. And was taught at

this time to recognize the simple principle on which the
greater advantages lie on the side of the humbler class.'
The unfavourable influence of his new occupation on his
literary activity proved to be of temporary nature. ' Gra

Idually,' he proceeds, ' became more inured to a seden

tary life, my mind recovered its spring, and my old
ability returned of employing my leisure hours, as be

fore, in intellectual exertion.'

      Once more, therefore, we may pronounce him happy.

A time which, to him, seemed doubtless long, was still

to elapse before his union with Miss Fraser, but the

82 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

engagement was now fully countenanced by her mother,
and the intercourse of the lovers was constant and un
constrained. William Ross was in his grave ; John
Swanson was about to leave the district ; his friendship
with Miss Dunbar had become a tender and exalting
reminiscence. He clung all the more closely to her
who was vet left to him, in whom he found the affection

of Ross, the mental stimulus of Swanson, the sympathy
of Miss Dunbar, and who was dearer to him than them

all. As Miss Fraser resided almost uninterruptedly in
Cromarty, there is not much in the way of correspondence
between her and Hugh to throw light upon their in
tercourse at this period ; but we have one or two letters,
through which, as through ' luminous windows,' we can
see into the 'happy palace' of love and friendship in
which these two abode. Here is a note from the

lady.

    I' My own Hugh, am tired, tired of being away

from you. Alas ! you have no idea of the frivolous
bondage to which sex and fashion subject us. I do nothing
Iall day, and hear nothing, yet am obliged to take the
Itime from sleep which 1 devote to you.
                                         have found

the young captain whom I threatened you with much
Ihandsomer than described him to you, but a thousand
times more insipid. Why, when I look at him, do I

always think of you? or why do his black, bright eyes,

that would be fine had they meaning, always remind

Ime of those gentle blue ones which have so often seen

melt with benevolence and a chastened tenderness?

Why are mankind such slaves of appearances as to ad
mire the casket and neglect the gem ? It is degradation

to the dignity of thought and sentiment to compare it

with a mere beauty of form or colour. Good-bye.

    I' It is morning, but am not beside you on the

                        A GIPSY BOY.                         83

leafy hill, with the blue water shimmering at our feet.
When shall we be there again ? '

       When this letter reached Cromarty Hugh was in
Tain, but he evidently lost no time in replying to it on his

return.
                                                              ' Cromarty, July, 1835.

     ' I need not tell you at this time of day how much
it is in your power to make me happy, and how

thoroughly my very existence seems to be bound up in
Iyours.
         have           but one solace    in your  absence,  my
Lydia --that one        thought of your  return.

' There crossed with me in the ferry-boat a little

ragged gipsy boy, the most strongly marked by the
Ipeculiar traits of his tribe
                               almost ever saw. Have
you ever observed the form of the true gipsy head? I

am much mistaken if it be not the very type of that of

the Hindoo. In the line of the nose the forehead is
Iperfectly perpendicular, indicating,
                                         should think, a

large development of comparison, but causality is less

marked, and the whole contour is one of little power.

It is not, however, the sort of head one would expect to

find on the shoulders of a savage, more especially of the

savage who can continue such in the midst of civilization.

On reaching the school-house I learned that John (Swan-

son) had resigned the school in consequence of an ap

pointment to the mission at Fort William. I find that

in a pecuniary point of view he is to gain almost nothing

from the change. The salary does not exceed sixty
pounds a year, and he is to be furnished with neither
house nor garden. But it is to open to him a wider

field of usefulness, and to John that is motive enough.
He in the extreme meaning of the term, what Bona
parte used to designate with so much contempt, an
ideologist, i.e. foolish fellow who does good just be-
is,
                     a

84 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

Icause it is good, and for the pure love of doing it.

feel, however, very anxious on his account regarding the

mission.      The  part of the  country to which he  is going
is said    to be   wretchedly                        of lakes
                                unwholesome -- full

and marshes, and infested with miasma ; and sometimes,

when I consider the exhaustive fervency of his spirit
Iand the weakness of his frame, cannot avoid fearing
that I may have yet to think of him in connection with

a solitary Highland churchyard and a nameless grave.
Poor William Ross ! he is now seven years dead, and

I Iwere to lose John also, where might look for friends

of the same class,--men who, attached to me for my

own sake alone, could regard me in every change of

circumstance with but one feeling ? And John, too, is
                                my own Lydia -- and
more than my friend. He         is,

                                  it
                                               is

                                                           I
love him ten times the more for --he ours.

   I'     pursued my journey from the school-house in the

morning, and in passing through the deep, dreary wooda

of Culrossie, found myself, as supposed, quite on the
                                aI
eve of an adventure.     carried with me considerable
                      I                        in a

sum of money -- several hundred pounds, --and that   I

might be the better able to protect    it,     had furnished

myself with brace of pistols, when,a   lo            the thickest

                                            !

and most solitary part of the wood up there started

two of the most blackguard-looking fellows ever saw.
                                               I

                                                                  ;

                                                                       ;a
They seemed to be Irish horse-jockeys. One wore

black patch over his eye, and ragged straw hat the

other white frieze jacket, sorely out at the elbows

and both were armed with bludgeons loaded with lead.

I  had time enough ere they came up to cock both my

pistols. One thrust under the breast flap of my coat,
           II
                I
the other carried behind my back, and sheering to the

extreme edge of the road with trigger under each
                                    a

fore-finger,       passed them unmolested. One of them

                LEIGH HUNTS CRITICISM.                                        85

regarded me with a sardonic grin. My posture, I sus

pect, must have seemed sufficiently stiff and constrained
for that of a traveller.'

He next touches upon some book-purchases in

which he and his correspondent have a common interest.
' There is a neat pocket-copy of Johnson's Lives that

Iwill do well for the beech tree ; have besides got a
copy of Paley similar to the one you had from Mrs I -- ;

a copy of Smollett's Humphrey Clinker (my heart warmed
Ito this book, -- for, though many years have passed since
it alast perused                 was one of my earliest favourites),

        a
           by a

                            it,
                            it
and minute copy of Childe Harold. saw Douglas's
                                                    I      I a in

Leigh Hunt's Journal. The notice of our little book                                 is

highly gratifying one --            it is  I it  not well that     , is it    the
                                 ;
                                                                      ; a is
highest names who praise most                    ?  Hunt characterizes

as " highly amusing book, written                   ;            remarkable

man, who will infallibly be well known."               by        am placed

side  side with Allan Cunningham there                                        but,

however, in the parallel, which suspect Allan will not

particularly like. " But," says Hunt, " Mr M -- besides

poetical imagination, has great depth reflection and
a                                                      of

               is
                it
                        is

                         by if
his style so choice, pregnant, and exceedingly like an

educated one, that itself betrays in any respect to be
                                                 it
otherwise,                                         in

                                                          ;

                                                                      by
                                 that very excess as Theophrastes

was known not to have been born                     Attica                his too

Attic nicety."

      My poor friend, Miss Dunbar of Boath, dead
'                                                                  is

                                                                                         ;

she died on the evening of Monday, the 30th June. The

severe and ever-recurring attacks of her cruel disease

had undermined constitution originally good, and at
is
       it

               I
                                   a
                                                   aa

                                                                                it
length suddenly gave way under the pressure of what

seemed to be comparatively slight indisposition. She

    gone, and have lost kind and attached friend.

But would be selfish to regret that suffering so ex

                                                                                            -

86 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

cruciating as hers should have terminated ; for months

past I could think of her only as a person stretched on the

rack, with now and then, perhaps, a transient glimpse

of enjoyment, for such is the economy of human feeling

that every cessation from suffering is positive pleasure

to the sufferer ; hut what, alas ! had she to anticipate in

this world save pang after pang in prolonged and direful

succession, -- nights of pain and days of weariness, and

at length the opening of a door of escape, but only that
Idoor through which she has just passed.
                                                           trust,

my own Lydia, that it is well with her. Her heart was

in the right place, -- it was ever an affectionate one, --

perhaps too exquisitely so, but it seems finally to have

fixed on the worthiest of all objects. She had learned

to look for salvation through Him only in whom it is

alone to be found. There are many whom suffering

has the effect of so wrapping up in themselves that they

can feel for no one else. But it was not thus with Miss

Dunbar : she could think, even when at the worst, of the

little comforts and interests of her friends ; half her last

letter to me is occupied with a detail of what she had
Ithought and heard regarding my Traditions.
                                                           was

engaged in writing her when the note was brought me

which intimated her death.

    I' have got a rather severe cold, which hangs

about me. Never was cold better treated than mine ;--

it eats and drinks like a gentleman. A shop-keeping
acquaintance gives it liquorice, Mr Ross gives it bram
ble-berry jam, Mrs Denham has given it honey, and
now Mrs Fraser has sent it a pot of tamarinds. 'Twill

be a wonder  such circumstances,
I                                                          goes away at

               if,
                    in

                                                    ;

                      I ft
                              I

                                                       it
all. have begun, but barely begun, my statistical

account of the parish  must, am afraid, be both

dull and commonplace, for am alike unwilling either

                                  A PICNIC.                                                                        87

to repeat myself, or to anticipate any of my better mate

rials for a second volume of ' Scenes and Legends,' and
the residue is mere gossip. Even were it otherwise, my

 abundance, like the wealth of a miser, would have the

Ieffect of rendering me poor. IHad but a single story

 to tell would tell but who would ever think of tell
             I'
                     Ia

                                         it,

                                                                !

                                                                                                                a
ing one of hundred

               have no words to express to you, my own Lydia,

how much long for your return, or how cold look

ing place Cromarty has become since you left it.
Ordinary pleasures and lukewarm friendships do well
enough for men who have not yet had experience of
the intense and the exquisite, but to those who

             have, they do not seem pleasures or friendships at all.

             am amusing myself, however, just as best can
is I                              Ia

            '                                           I

                                                                                                                                    ;
             sometimes picking up geological specimen for my col

             lection, -- sometimes making an excursion to the hill or

             the burn of Eathie.  accompanied to the latter place

             on Saturday last Mr Ross and his children, with two of

             their cousins, the Joyners. We were all thoroughly

             wetted and thoroughly amused we told stories, gathered
                                  in ;
             immense bunches of flowers, incarcerateda light com

             pany of green grasshoppers, who were disorderly, andby it
                                                                      ;
                                                           a
                                                       I
                                                                                  a
             ruined two unfortunate born beauties of the butterfly

             tribe. We, besides, ran down green lizard.                                                            have

             picked up of late, the little bay below the willows,
             fossil fish, in high state of preservation -- the scales,
               a
                        in

             head, tail, fins are all beautifully distinct, and yet so

             very ancient the formation which was found, thatis

             the era of the lias, with all its ammonites and belemnites,

             comparatively recent.                     the bondage to

                You are fretted, my own dear girl,

             frivolity, which sex and fashion impose upon you. No
             wonder you should, when one thinks of the sort of laws

   88 THE BANK A CCO UNTA NT.

   by which you are bound. The blockheads are a pre
   ponderating majority in both sexes : but somehow in

   ours the clever fellows contrive to take the lead and
   Imake the laws, whereas
                            suspect that in yours the

   more numerous party are tenacious of their privileges as

   such, and legislate both for themselves and the minority.'

   In the letter from Miss Fraser, to which our next

   from Miller is a reply, there occurred several descriptive

   sketches of the scenery amid which she was at the time,

   and an allusion to the Rev. Mr Fraser of Kirkhill, who

   had just lost his life by a fall from his gig. The passage
   in which Hugh refers to the early writings of David
   Urquhart and the threatening ambition of Russia is
   curious when viewed in connection with the issue of

   Russian scheming in the Crimean war.

       ' I am thinking long for you, dearest, and for the last
   week have been counting the days,--counting them in

   the style of the fool whom Jacques met in the forest.
   "22Tnod-dwayillisbethheer1e9tthh,ethdeay20atfhterco; m"esthetoy-mwoirlrlowcr,eeapndawtahye

   one by one, and Lydia will be with me ere they bring

   the month to an end. My heart is full of you ; full of

   Iyou every hour, and every minute, and all day long.

   walked last Saturday on the hill and saw our beech tree,

   Ibut lacked heart to go down to it ; thought it looked

   dreary and deserted, and I felt that, were I to lose you,
   it would be, of all places in the world, the place I could

   Ileast bear to see. Your grave -- but how can speak of

   it !-- would be a place devoted to sorrow, but to a sorrow

   not sublimed into agony. I could clasp the green turf

   to my bosom, and make my bed upon but our beauti
   I

                             it,
                                    it,
/  ful beech tree with its foliage impervious to the sun, and

   its deep cool recess in which we have so often sat under
   the cover of one plaid, -- could not visit
                                               Lydia, un-

             THE BRIDGE OF ARDROSS.                                            89

less I felt myself dying, and were assured I would die

under its shadow. Many, many thanks, dearest, for

your kind sweet letter. It is just what a letter should

be, with heart and imagination and pretty easy words in

it, and yet              an unsatisfactory thing after all. In

  I' astead of consoling me for your absence, only makes
                                           It
               it
                                                 is
                I a it is                                        a

                                                               it
me long the more for you.                                   but pouring of oil

on flame that burnt fiercely enough before.

         have seen one of the scenes you describe so
sweetly, --the bridge of Ardross but
                                           I                it  is    good many
                                                         ;         a

years since, and was after had just returned from the

western Highlands of Ross-shire, where had visited
                                                                aI
many scenes of similar character but on much larger

scale. And so was not so much impressed                               by  it.  I

still remember, however, the dark rocks and the foaming

torrent, and the steep slopes waving with birch and

hazel, that ascend towards the uplands and the abrupt

heathy summit of Foyers overlooking the whole.-                                it I

trust your guides did not forget to point out to you the

two majestic oak trees of this wild dell, that are famed

as  by   far the finest        ;     Ross-shire. One of them has

                                 in
been valued at 100 and not many years since, when

the late Duke of Sutherland purchased the estate of

Ardross on which grows, there was road cut to
                           it                               a
                                                                  in
that he might go and see. You are now                                 the parish

of Urquhart with good Mr Macdonald. There not
                                                                      a is
much to be seen in your immediate neighbourhood. Do

not omit visiting, as                      quite beside you, the ancient
    I'
          I

                       it it
                               it
                                       is
burying-ground of Urquhart. See whether there be not

yet an old dial-stone on the eastern wall beside little

garden.      saw there fourteen years ago, and the

thoughts which suggested have since travelled far                              in
the stanzas beginning " Grey Dial-stone."

         am happy, dearest Lydia, that you are not going

   90 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

   to Cadboll. Typhus is still raging, I hear, in that part
                    IMy own dearest lassie, why am so
   of the country.

   much more anxious on your account than on my own ?
   But it is always thus when the heart takes a firm grasp

   of its object. Man in his colder moods, when the

   affections lie asleep, is a vile selfish animal ; his very
   virtues are virtues so exclusively on his own behalf that

   they are well-nigh as hateful as his vices. But love,

   my dearest, is the fulfilling of the law : it draws us out

   of our crust of self, and we are made to know through

   it what it is to love our neighbour not merely as well

   but better than ourselves. We err grievously in those
   analogies by which we attempt to eke out our knowledge

   of the laws of God through an acquaintance with the

   laws of man ; and quite as grievously and in the same

   way, when we strive to become wise by extinguishing

   our passions. The requirements of the statute book are

   addressed to the merely rational part of our nature ; and

   could one abstract the reason of man from the complex

   whole of which he consists, that single part of him would
   be quite sufficient for the fulfilment of them. But it is

   not so with the law of Deity : it is a law which must be

   written on the heart, and it addresses itself to our whole

   nature ; or, to state the thing more clearly, it is not more

   a law promulgated for man's obedience than a revelation

   of his primitive constitution ; and through grace this

   constitution must be in some degree restored ere the

   law, which is as it were a transcript of can be at all
         it
             is

                                                                   ; it,
                                                                                    it
   efficient in forming his conduct. We are mutually

   pledged, my Lydia, and the law of God commands us to

   love one another better than we love all human kind be

   sides, --than parents, relatives, or friends and how does

   the affection we bear to each other conform to this?

   Why,  the very injunction embodied. And would

S

                 A WALK ON THE HILL.            91

not be so to us with the requirements of the whole

law, were our natures as much restored in all as in part ?

    ' On the evening of Monday week I had a long walk
among the woods of the hill with a party to whom I

was showing " the lions." Licuterant C -- and his young

wife were there, Lieutenant W -- , too, and his wife, and

Miss  and the Misses  , with two of the young

      s. The ladies were talking altogether of bonnets

and scenery, and London and new patterns, and the two

gentlemen were discussing the world afloat, but one of

the young people, a fine-spirited boy, was curious about

stones and berries and old stories, and so I attached my

self to him. You remember the remark of Lamb's
brother on the boys of Eton school, " What a pity 'tis

that these nice  young fellows should in  !  a  few years be
come frivolous   members of parliament       "    There is as

much truth as wit in it. Most of our fine young boys

and girls are spoiled in the transition stage when shoot

ing up into men and women, and they do not recover all

their lives after. Mere men and women are but poor

things, my Lydia ; but it is well to love them as well as
we can, -- they will be better ere the world ends. Your

pupil, Miss Harriet, has, for one so young, a great
deal of heart about her. Children, it strikes me, are

little in their whole minds, in their affections as cer

tainly as in their judgments. There obtains, however,

a contrary opinion, from the fact, doubtlessly, that in

the present state of the world, children have indisputably

some affections, and grown-up people, in most instances,

little or none. But this, I am certain, is not according

to nature. A warm heart, well cultivated, cannot fail

of being warmer in one's twentieth than in one's twelfth

year. When a boy I could not love with half the
warmth either as a lover or a friend that I can now.

92 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

      ' Are you aware that wild deer sometimes swim

across wide estuaries such as the Frith of Cromarty ?
It was only last week that some of our boatmen found

a fine roe swimming across to the Black Isle side, nearly

opposite the church of Rosskeen, and fully three quarters

of a mile from the nearest shore. It is still alive, and in

the keeping of Mr Watson. My uncle tells me that in

calm weather deer not unfrequently cross the opening of

the bay from Sutor to Sutor ; and that when he was a

boy there was a fine large animal of this species captured

by some fishermen when swimming from the Black

Park, near Invergordon, to the Cromarty quarries, where

the Frith is fully five miles in breadth.

    ' I have seen of late some highly interesting articles

on the political designs of Russia, by David Urquhart of

Braelanguel, a talented young fellow, better acquainted

with the details of the question than perhaps any other

Briton of the present day. It is wonderful with what

art this mighty empire has been extending and con
solidating its power for the last century. Should it go

on unchecked for half a century more civilized Europe

must fall before and the world witness, second time,
a                                          a
                 it,                          by

                                is                     a
the arts and refinements of polished life overwhelmed and          a
lost in deluge of northern barbarism. The democratic

principle, says Hume,                      generally strongest among

civilized people -- the thirst of conquest among semi-

barbarous one. Urquhart shows me that the Russians

of the present time are strongly possessed  the latter,

and never, certainly, was the democratic principle stronger

civilized Europe than now. Witness the struggles of
in
                                       in  France, Austria, and Italy, and
the antagonist parties

to what extremes Whigs and Tories carry matters among
ourselves. And the democratic principle has this dis

advantage when contemporary with the other, that                      it

               FRASER OF K1RKIULL.            93

leads men to seek their opponents at home and draws

their attention from abroad. And hence they may re

main unwarned and disunited until warning and union

be of no avail. But forgive me, my Lydia, I am boring

you with politics ; remember, however, that I do not

often transgress in this way.

    ' Poor Kirkhill ! I could hardly bring myself to

believe the story of his death. Even in the present age,

when every college student arrogates to himself the praise
of superior ability, men of real talent are very few. The

proportion, too, of the people who are cut off by accident

in a quiet well-regulated country like ours, is exceed

ingly small ; and hence, in at least the later annals of

talent and genius, we find hardly an instance of other

than natural death. The lightning, says the proverb,

spares the laurel ; and Hume remarks that mankind

often lose more in the single philosopher, whom the

jealousy of a  tyrant cuts  off, than in the  thousands who
perish in an   earthquake   or conflagration
                                              --taking it for

granted, doubtless, that thousands may perish so without

there being a man of mark among them. But alas for the

poor minister of Kirkhill ! He has left few clearer heads

behind him in the Church. I have often wished, when

listening to him, that he mingled more of the philosopher

with the theologian ; that, instead of always strengthen

ing one Scripture doctrine by showing its correspondence

with another not better established than itself, he might

have occasionally descended to the broad level of self-

evident truth. But no one could admire him more
Ithan did in his own peculiar field. Do you really

think our Tory Churchmen will be unable to forgive
                                          '
him  his  Whiggism  even    in  death
                                       ?

     Readers will recollect Finlay, the gentle rhyming

rboy, who had been of the Marcus Cave band, and to

94 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

whom Miller had been ardently attached. Seventeen

years had passed away since he left Cromarty, and it does
not appear that any tidings of him had reached Hugh
in the interval. One day, however, he was surprised by
the arrival of a letter dated Spanish Town, Jamaica,

signed by the hand of Finlay. He had often, he said,
thought of writing, but he had fancied that Miller had
left Scotland, being convince 1 that, had he remained in

his native country, he must have distinguished himself.

I' Often,' he proceeds, ' have looked into the advertising

columns of Blackwood, Fraser, and Tait, to see the

announcement of a volume of poetry, tales, or something

to show that genius was not confined to the south, and

Iat length was yesterday gratified by seeing your name

in a stray number of Chambers' Journal for last year
as the author of the Traditionary History of Cromarty.
You have no idea, my dear fellow, how my heart glowed

when I read your praises ; and with the whole Scotsman
running riot in my veins, have I revelled in the story of

Sandy Wright (there is some of it like my own, entre
nous), so like the benevolent heart of my ain Hugh
Miller.'

      This was a great occasion for Miller. The image of
his boy-friend lay in his heart like a coin of pure gold

committed to a delicate casket, and when he looked upon
it after seventeen years the likeness was bright as on
the morning when he bade Finlay adieu. He seized his
pen and wrote as follows. As we read this letter can

we help loving Hugh Miller ?

' My own dear Finlay,  ' Cromarty, Oct. 15, 1836.

" As        ' Yes, the wise old king was quite in the right.
      cold waters to the thirsty soul, so is good news

\from a far country."  My very hopes regarding the

LETTER TO FINLAY.  95

boy-friend, whom I loved so much and regretted so long,
have been dead for the last twelve years. I could

think of you as a present existence only in relation to the
other world ; in your relation to this one merely as a
recollection of the past. And yet here is a kind, affec
tionate letter, so full of heart that it has opened all the
sluices of mine, that assures me your pulses are still

Ibeating, and shows me they desire to beat for ever.

cannot tell you how much and often I have thought of

you, and how sincerely the man has longed after and

Iregretted the friend of the boy ; you were lost to me ere

knew how much I valued and loved you. I dare say you

don't remember that shortly before you left Cromarty you
scrawled your name with a piece of burnt stick on the
eastern side of Marcus Cave, a little within the opening.

I have renewed these characters twenty and twenty

times ; and it was not until a few years ago, when a
party of gipsies took possession of the cave, and smoked
it all as black as a chimney, that they finally disappeared.
Two verses of the little pastoral you wrote on leaving us

are fresh in my memory still -- fresh as if I had learned
them only yesterday. But I dare say at this distance of

 time you will scarce recognize them.

                        " Ye shepherds, who merrily sing
                              And laugh out the long summer day,

                               Expert at the ball and the ring,
                                  Whose lives are one circle of play,

                 " To you my dear flock I resign,

                               My col ley, my crook, and my horn ;
                            To leave you, indeed, T repine,

                          But I must away with the morn."

' There they are, just as you left them in the winter
of 1819. What, dear Finlay, have the seventeen inter
vening years been doing with your face and figure ? The

96 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

heart, I -know, is unchanged, but what like are you?

Are you still a handsome, slender, high-featured boy,

dressed in green? John Swanson is a little black

manny, with a wig ; and I have been growing older, but

you won't believe for the last eighteen years. Great
reason to be thankful, am still ugly as ever. Five feet
           I
                       it,
                     I
eleven when straighten myself, with hair which my

friends call brown, and my not-friends red features irre
                                                     ;

                                                       a

                                                                       ;
gular, but not at all ill-natured in the expression an im

mense head, and forehead three quarters of yard across.
      a
              it
                   aa
                          a
                                           in
Isn't the last good thing these days of phrenology                                                        Is ?

And isn't  still better thing that bonny sweet lassie,
                                               a
                                                  a
with great deal of fine sense and highly-cultivated

mind, doesn't think me too ugly to be liked very much,

and promises to marry me some time in spring Do give
it

       a
           a
                                                                      ?

                                                                                                   ?
me portrait of yourself first time you write, and, dearest

Finlay, don't let other seventeen years pass ere then.
  not wonder we are both alive John Layfield, John

Mann, David Ross, Andrew Forbes, Adam McGlashan,

Walter Williamson, are all dead--yes, Finlay, all dead.

Of all our cave companions, only John Swanson survives.

John       capital fine fellow. He was quite as wild boy,
    is is                                                                                             aa
you know, as either of ourselves, and perhaps littleaa

worse tempered but, growing good about twelve yearsa

                                     ;
ago, he put himself to college with an eye to the Church,
and now missionary at Fort William. Dearest Fin-

                                               was danger of be
lay, have you grown good too                   ?

                                                 I

                                                                    ;;

                                                               in

                                                                                              a
coming wild infidel. Argued with Uncle Sandy about

cause and effect and the categories read Hume and

Voltaire and Volney, and all the other witty fellows who

had too much sense to go to heaven and was getting

nearly as much sense in that way as themselves. But

John cured me and you may now say of me what Gray;
says of himself, " No very great wit, he believes in

                     LETTER TO FINLAY.                                     97

IGod." The Bible is a much more cheerful book than

once used to think and has world of sound philoso
   '

        it
                               it,

                               Ia

                                                                                                                 ?
phy in besides.
       Do you remember how stole you from John

You were acquainted with him ere you knew me, and

used to spend almost all your play -hours with him on

the Links or in his little garden. But fell in love with
you, and carried you off at the first pounce. And John
                                          in
was left lamenting   aI !   brought you to the woods, and
                         I                  I
the wild sea-shore, and the deep dark caves of the Sutors,it I a

and taught you how to steal turnips and peas and          is
                                                                  in ;
succeeded (though could never get you improved intoa

  robber of orchards -- though you had no serious objec

tion to the fruit when once stolen) making you nearly

as accomplished        vagabond as myself.   Are                      not you
             " The   boy," Wordsworth says,  "                        father to
grateful  ?

the man."    If      so, your boy-father was warm-hearted

bonny laddie, worthy of all due honour from you your
present filial relation but as for mine, can't respect
                        ;

the rascal, let the commandment run as please. Don't

you remember how he used to lead you into every kind

of mischief, and make you play truant three days out of

four         perfect Caliban, too.
      ?

          A

                 I,
      " I'll show thee the best springs, I'll pluck thee berries,
        And with my long nails, will dig thee pig-nuts."

But he's gone, poor fellow and his son, much graver
                            !             a
                                                  a
person, who writes highly sensible letter, has thorougha
respect for all his father's old friends, and steals neither

peas nor turnips. Fine thing, dearest Finlay, to be able

now and then to play the fool.      is Iwouldn't give my non

sense -- to be sure the amount          immensely greater-- for

all my sense twice told.'           of your history,                  and

       You give me the outlines7,                                       Ir

      VOL. II.

98 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

must give you those of mine in turn. But they are sadly
unlike. You have been going on through life like a

horseman on a journey, and are now far in advance of the

starting-point.  I, on the contrary, have been mounted,

whip and spur, on a hobby, and after seventeen years'

hard driving, here I am in exactly the same spot I set out
Ifrom. But have had rare sport in the fine ups and

downs, and have kept saddle the whole time. You re

Imember was on the eve of becoming a mason appren

tice when you left me. The four following years were
passed in wandering in the northern and western High
lands, and hills, and lakes, and rivers, one of the hap

piest and most contented, though apparently most forlorn

of stone-masons. I lived in these days in kilns and barns,

and on something less than half-a-crown per week, and

have been located for months together in wild savage

districts where I could scarce find in a week's time a

Iperson with English enough to speak to me ; but was

dreaming behind my apron of poets and poetry, and of

making myself a name ; and so the toils and hardships

of the present were lost in the uncertain good of the

future. Would we not be poor, unhappy creatures, dear

Finlay, were there more of sober sense in our composition
Iand less of foolish hope ? In 1824 went to Edinburgh,
Iwhere I wrought for part of two years.
                                         was sanguine
in my expectations of meeting with you. I have looked

a thousand times after the college students and smart

Ilawyer-clerks whom have seen thronging the pavement,

in the hope of identifying some one of them with my early

Ifriend. On one occasion even supposed I had found
him, and then blessed God I had not. I was sauntering

on the Calton on a summer Sabbath morning of autumn,

when I met with a poor maniac who seemed to recognize

me, and whose features bore certainly a marked resem-

LETTER TO FINLAY.                    99.

I Iblance to yours.
cannot give expression to what felt ;

and yet the sickening, unhappy feeling of that moment is

still as fresh in my recollection as if I had experienced it
Ibut yesterday. Strange as it may seem, gave up from

this time all hope of ever seeing you, and felt that even

were you dead -- and I had some such presentiment --

there are much worse ways of losing a friend than by

death.

    ' After returning from Edinburgh I plied the mallet

for a season or two in the neighbourhood, working mostly
in churchyards --a second edition of Old Mortality --
Iand then did a very foolish thing.
                                     published a volume
of poems. IThey were mostly juvenile ; and was be

guiled into the belief that they had some little merit by

the pleasing images and recollections of early life and lost

friends which they awakened in my own mind through

the influence of the associative faculty. But this sort of

merit lay all outside of them, if I may so speak, and ex

isted in relation to the writer alone--just as some little

trinket may awaken in our mind the memory of a dear

friend, and be a mere toy of no value to everybody else.

My poems, like the Vicar of Wakefield's tracts on the

great monogamical question, are in the hands of only the

happy few ; they made me some friends, however, among

the class of men whose friendship one is disposed to boast
of; and at least one of them, Stanzas on a Sun Vial,

promises to live. Chambers alludes to it in the notice

to which I owe the restoration of a long-lost friend. The

volume which, maugre its indifferent prose broken into

still more indifferent rhyme, and all its other imperfec

tions, I yet venture to send you, is dedicated to our

common friend, Swanson, but being as tender of his

name as my own, the whole is anonymous. In the latter

part of the year in which it appeared, I sent a few letters

   100 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

   on a rather unpromising subject, the Herring Fishery,

   to one of the Inverness newspapers. They were more

   fortunate, however, than the poems, and attracted so

   much notice that the proprietors of the paper published

   them in a pamphlet, which has had an extensive circula
   Ition.
           send it you with the volume. Every mind,

   large or small,  if is,   you know, fitted for its predestined
                          make epic poems, and others to write
   work --some to

   letters on the Herring Fishery.

   I'      continued to divide my time between the mallet

   and the pen till about two years ago, when            II  was

   nominated accountant to           ;a  branch of the Commer

   cial Bank, recently established in Cromarty.              owe

   the appointment to the kindness of the banker, Mr

   Robert Ross, whom dare say you will remember as
                            of I
   an old neighbour, and who, when you left Cromarty, wasa

   extensively engaged as provision merchant and ship

   owner.  published my last, and believe best, work,
           I                                  of I
   Scenes and LegendsII            the North        Scotland, shortly

   after. Some minds, like winter pears, ripen late and
                                                         ; if
   some minds, like exotics in northern climate, don't           ;;
                                         a
                                                                 of I
   ripen at all, and mine seems to belong to an intermediate

   class. Sure am           it      still woefully green, somewhat
                                is

   like our present late crops but                       now twenty per
                                         I

                                               it
                                                     is
   cent, more mature than when published my former

   volume, and flatter myself with the hope that, winter

   doesn't come on too rapidly,             it  may get better still.

   Read, dear Finlay, my Scenes and Legends first you

   may afterwards, you feel inclined, peep into the other
   two as curiosities, and for the sake of lang syne but

   wish to be introduced to you as am at present, not as
                                            I

I  was ten years ago. The critics have been all exceed

   ingly good-natured, and would fain send you some
                            I

   the reviews with which they have favoured me (these

*

      LETTER TO FINLAY.                                              101

taken together would form as bulky a volume as the

one on which they are written), but I have only beside

me at present the opinion expressed by Leigh Hunt

(the friend and coadjutor of Byron, you know), and the

notice of a literary paper, The Spectator. These I make

up in the parcel.                 am I   now ? On the grassy
      ' Where, think you,
                                   Bed.   It is evening, and the
summit of McFarquhar's

precipices throw their cold dark shadows athwart the

beach. But the red light of the sun is still resting on

the higher foliage of the hill above ; and the opposite

land, so blue and dim, stretches along the horizon, with

all its speck-like dwellings shimmering to the light like

pearls. Not a feature of the scene has changed since

we last gazed on it together. What seem the same

waves are still fretting against the same pebbles ; and

yonder spring, at which we have so often filled our

pitcher, comes gushing from the bank with the same

volume, and tosses up and down the same little jet of

sand that it did eighteen years ago. But where are all

our old companions, Finlay ? Lying widely scattered

in solitary graves ! David Ross lies in the sea. John

Man died in a foreign hospital, Layfield in Berlin,

McGlashan in England, Walter Williamson in North

America. And here am I, though still in the vigour of

early manhood, the oldest of all the group. Who could

have  tyoolnddethre, sethpaotor"  fellows, when they last  met in    the
cave                              Eternity should have     s"o soon  in
                                  Time had been doing ?
quired of them what

' Regard, my dear Finlay, my Scenes and Legends as

a long letter from Cromarty. Do write me a little news

paper. Tell me something of your mode of life. Give

me some idea of a Jamaica landscape. What are your

politics? What your creed? What have you been                             '

102 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

doing, and thinking, and saying since I last saw you?
ITell me all. Your letter is the greatest luxury have
Ienjoyed for know not how long.'

     The Dr Waldie of whom we heard as a friend of

Miller's in Linlithgow, wrote to him after his return to

Cromarty, and received a reply. The science, or sham

science, of phrenology, was then making much noise in

the world, and Hugh was for some time disposed to trust

in it. The examination of his own head by a professional

phrenologist did not tend to confirm him in his pre
possessions ; and as he had argued with Dr Waldie in

favour of phrenology, he hastened to lay before the doctor

those grounds on which he was now constrained to ques

tion its pretensions.

    I' think with much complacency of our little dis

cussions on phrenology and geology and all the other

Iologies, and of the relief which used to derive from

them when well-nigh worn out with the unwonted em

Iployments of the desk. You will, dare say, be disposed
Ito smile when tell you that I am not half so staunch a
Iphrenologist now as was six months ago, and be ready

to infer that my head did not prove quite so good a one

Ias had flattered myself it should. Nay now, that is

not the case, the head did prove quite as good a one,

scarcely inferior in general size to that of Burns, and
Iwell developed both in front and atop.
                                         am more dis

posed to quarrel with the science for what it confers
upon me than for what it withholds. For instance, few

Imen are so entirely devoid as am of a musical ear ; it

Iwas long ere learned to distinguish the commonest
Itunes, and though somewhat partial to a Scotch song,

derive my pleasure chiefly from the words. Besides,

and the symptom  I iIs,suspect, no very dubious one, of

all musical instruments relish only the bag-pipe. Judge,

                  PHRENOLOGY.                                  103

then, of my surprise to learn from Mr Coxe (and I

warned him to be wary) that Nature intended me for a

musician. You are aware that 20 is the highest number

in the phrenological scale, -- the proportional develop

ment of music in my head is as 16. But if more than

justice be done me as a musician, in other respects I

have cause to complain. The organ of language is more

poorly developed than any other in the head. One, of

course, can't claim the faculty one is said to want with

as much boldness as one may disclaim the faculty

Ione is said to possess ; but you will forgive me if pro

duce something like testimony on the point. The effects

of an imperfect development of language, say the phren

ologist, are a difficulty of communicating one's ideas to

another from a want of expression, which frequently

causes stammering and a repetition of the same words,

and a meagreness of style in writing. But what say
the critics in remarking on my little book ? " What
we chiefly found to admire," says one, " is the singular
felicity of the expression." " The wonder of the book,"
says another, " lies in the execution ; there is nothing of

clumsiness, and the style is characterized by a purity

and elegance, an ease and mastery of expression, which

remind one of Irving, or of Irving's master, Goldsmith."

The Presbyterian Review and Leigh Hunt testify to a
                  " But has not
similar  effect.                   "   vanity something to  ;  do in
calling                               Nothing more likely       still,
         in such  testimony ?
Ihowever, the evidence is quite to the point ; and as

Ihave perhaps in some little degree influenced your

opinions regarding phrenology, deem it proper thus to

state to you the facts which have since modified my own.

The rest of the forehead, regarded as an index of mind,

has its discrepancies. Causality is largely developed ;

wit, will you believe it ? still more largely ; whereas com

104 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

Iparison and individuality are only moderate. Now,
know very little of my own faculties if this order should

not be reversed. Individuality, or the ability of remem

Ibering facts, if be not much mistaken, takes the lead,

comparison comes next, causality follows, and wit at a
Iconsiderable distance brings up the rear.
                                            find little
to remark regarding the rest of the head, --constructive-

ness, benevolence, conscientiousness, firmness, ideality,

and caution are all large, self-esteem is moderate, love
of approbation is amply but not inordinately developed,
and the lower propensities are barely full. You see it is

not altogether my interest to become a sceptic to the
reality of the science ; but my opinions regarding it

have, notwithstanding, undergone a considerable change.

Phrenology, however, whatever conclusion the world

may ultimately arrive at regardingIt        will be found to

                                       it,
have had an important use.  has brought the meta

physician from the closet into the world, and turned his

attention, hitherto too exclusively directed to the com

moner operations of our nature, as these may be ob

served in the species, to the wonderful varieties of in

dividual character.

          am glad you have read Edwards. He stands higha I'
as philosopher, even with those who differ with him.
Sir James Mackintosh, in his masterly dissertation on
Ethics, describes his reasoning powers as perhaps un
                     ;

                                    a

                                                                   '

                                                                          of
equalled, certainly unsurpassed, among men.' Nothing
so common among thinkers of low order as what are

termed common-sense objections to the Scripture doc
trine of predestination from minds capacious enough
to receive the arguments of Edwards, we have none

these. But the man who studies him would need be

honest. No sincere lover of the truth was ever the

worse for his admirable reasonings, and religious men

LITERARY EMPLOYMENT.  105

have been often the better for them ; but they may be

converted by the vicious into apologies for their in

dulgence of every passion, and the perpetration of every
crime.

     I' trust you will recommend me to Mr Turpie. Ask

him if he remembers how he used to mar my calculations
by getting astride of my shoulders, and my many threats
of beating him, which he learned to treat with so

 thorough a disregard.'
       In the course of the summer of 1835 Miller was

 applied to for contributions to the Tales of the Borders,

 a periodical series began by Mr J. Mackay Wilson, and

 highly and deservedly popular. Wilson had died, and
 the publication of the Tales was continued for the benefit
 of his widow. Hugh consented, and a sufficient number
 of sketches and tales from his pen to fill a considerable
 volume appeared in the series. His entire remunera
 tion, as he informs us in the Schools and Schoolmasters,

 was five pounds.

                          106

          CHAPTER V.

MARRIAGE  CORRESPONDENCE  DEATH OF DAUGHTER  VIEWS

          ON BANKING.

ON the 7th of January, 1837, Hugh Miller was mar
      ried to the lady whom he had so long and so ar

dently loved. Mr Ross, his superior in the Bank and
attached personal friend, gave away the bride, and Mr
Stewart performed the ceremony. It was a day to make

Hugh's heart, calm as he was in all things, profoundly

calm as to his own achievements and successes, glow

with honourable pride and well-earned joy. He had
dared, while in his mason's apron, to aspire to the hand

of one who was by birth and breeding a lady. The
attractions of personal beauty, enhancing those of a

cultivated mind and graceful and animated manners,

had led him captive, and for the first and last time,
in all the intensity of meaning that can be thrown into
the word, he loved. This affection had been for him

an inspiration, turning the current of his existence into
a new channel and rippling its smooth surface with the
genial agitations of hope. He had waited five years, and

HIS MARRIAGE.  107

at times he had been anxious and despondent, for he never
wavered in his determination either to marry Miss
Fraser into the position of a lady or not to marry her at

all. He had now established himself in all points
essential to right success in life, and might contemplate
the future in a mood of quiet assurance. He had made
his mark in the literature of his country. He had passed
into the ranks of the brain-workers of the community,
depending no longer for livelihood on the toil of his
hands. Any bride might now be proud of him. What
was very pleasant for him at the time, and is pleasant
for us to contemplate from this distance, his ascent had
been viewed with unaffected satisfaction by his fellow-
townsmen and by all who knew him. He had approved
himself a thoroughly friendly man, and he had been
rewarded by the good-will and kind wishes of many
friends. On the occasion of his marriage his hap
piness was heartily shared in by the people of Cromarty,
and the married pair drove off on their wedding trip
in the carriage of Mrs Major Mackenzie, which she
had offered, some time before, to her friend Miss

Fraser.

      ' Setting out,' says Miller, ' immediately after the
ceremony, for the southern side of the Moray Frith,
we spent two happy days together in Elgin ; and,
under the guidance of one of the most respected
citizens of the place -- my kind friend, Mr Isaac For

syth --visited the more interesting objects connected

with the town or its neighbourhood. He introduced
us to the Elgin Cathedral ; -- to the veritable John
 Shanks, the eccentric keeper of the building, who
could never hear of the Wolf of Badenoch, who had

burnt it four hundred years before, without flying into

108 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

a rage, and becoming what the dead man would have

deemed libellous ; -- to the font, too, under a dripping

vault of ribbed stone, in which an insane mother used to
sing to sleep the poor infant, who, afterwards becoming
Lieutenant-general Anderson, built for poor paupers like
his mother, and poor children such as he himself had once
been, the princely institution which bears his name.
And then, after passing from the stone font to the in
stitution itself, with its happy children, and its very un

happy old men and women, Mr Forsyth conveyed us to

the pastoral, semi-Highland valley of Pluscardine, with

its beautiful wood-embosomed priory,--one of perhaps

the finest and most symmetrical specimens of the un-

ornamented Gothic of the times of Alexander II. to be

seen anywhere in Scotland.'
     His wedding gift to his wife was a Bible, on which

he inscribed a few stanzas expressive of the pious joy,
deep but not exultant, and with its pensive vein, which
he felt on putting it into her hand.

                       ' 0 much-beloved, our coming day
                             To us is all unknown ;

                         But sure we stand a broader mark
                             Than they who stand alone.

                         One knows it all : not His an eye
                             Like ours, obscured and dim ;

                         And knowing us, He gives this Book,
                             That we may know of Him.

                       ' His words, my love, are gracious words,
                             And gracious thoughts express :

                         He cares e'en for each little bird
                             That wings the blue abyss.

                         Of coming wants and woes He thought,
                                 Ere want or woe began ;

                          And took to Him a human heart,
                             That He might feel for man.

        HIS HOUSEHOLD.                109

' Then oh, my first, my only love,
     The kindliest, dearest, best !

 On Him may all our hopes repose, --

     On Him our wishes rest !
  His be the future's doubtful day,

      Let joy or grief befall ;
 In life or death, in weal or woe,

      Our God, our guide, our all.'

Under such auspices, Hugh Miller set up his house
hold in Cromarty. His salary was but sixty pounds
a year, and the addition which he made to it by literary
contributions was as yet small. Mrs Miller continued
to take a few pupils. A parlour, bed-room, and kitchen

had been furnished, and one servant did the menial

work. An attic room was occupied with shelves, on

which his few books and fossils, the nucleus of a good

library and a valuable museum, were arranged. A

table and chair were placed in this room, and it became

Hugh's study. It was here that he wrote a number of

tales and sketches, published in the continuation of

Wilson's Tales of the Borders. They are, perhaps, of
all his compositions, the least marked by fascination
and originality. He had no enthusiasm, he tells us,
either for the memory of Wilson or for the publication
he had set on foot. The dreary, semi-intellectual rout

ine of a bank clerkship, besides, damped his literary
ardour ; and when, at a late hour in the evening, he took
up for literary composition the pen which an hour

 earlier he had used to chronicle his monotonous summa

 tion of figures, he seemed to have lost the power to con
jure with it. Add that the remuneration was wretchedly

small, --five pounds for matter to fill a goodly volume, --
 and enough will have been said to account for the de
 fectiveness of the pieces. His mind gradually regained

 its elasticity, and he soon found more lucrative em

110 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

ployment as a writer for Chambers's Edinburgh Journal.
     The month in which he was married had not yet

come to an end when he learned that John Swanson had
lost his mother. To comfort his friends in their distress
was always a sacred duty with Hugh, and he at once
wrote the following letter.

                                                         1Cromarty, January 31, 1837.

    ' You have lost a very dear relative, and I condole

with you. What a world of tender retrospection and
fond regret is associated with that one word, mother !
How many tender recollections that bear date from the
first dawn of memory to the moment of the last farewell !
How untiring her solicitude ! how innumerable her acts of
kindness ! How certain our assurance that these rose
out of a love which, perhaps the least selfish of all human
affections, sought only the welfare of its object ! And
then to think that she who loved us so much and did
so much for us has left us for ever ! You will now find
yourself much more alone in the world than you ever
did before. You have passed, as it were, into a new
state of life. For several years you have been the head
of your family ; but yet, so long as your mother was
with you, you must have felt that you were merely

residing in her house. It was the same person who sat

 at the head of the table beside you, that had done so
 when you were a little boy. You had your mother to
 come between you and the world, as it were ; there were
 some remains of the feeling of confidence in her protec
 tion with which, when you were a child, you have laid
 hold of her gown. But now she is gone, and you will
 deem yourself stripped of your shelter. There is no
 longer a breakwater between you and the casualties of

 life. Even the grave itself seems immensely nearer ; --

         HIS HAPPINESS.                            Ill

      generation you spring from has passed away, and
you stand in the front rank.

    ' There is little need, my dear John, that I should

address you in the language of consolation. You know
that she whom you loved " is not dead, but sleepeth."
Nor is yours one of those doubtful cases when he

who attempts to console is fain to rest in vague general

ities ;--fain to take it for granted without question that

the deceased has been living well, and therefore has died

safe. I have known Mrs Swanson for the last twelve
Iyears. have seen her character with all its peculiarities

in a hundred different aspects. And at what conclusion
Ihave    arrived regarding her ? Simply this, -- That I

never knew a woman more thoroughly conscientious. We

might deem her at times over wise and prudent, but who

ever saw her prudence chill her kindness, or her wisdom

set up in opposition to that of God, as displayed in the
gospel? Nay, but it is by much too little to say so.

Was she not a humble, devoted Christian ?

    ' I am happy, --happier than I was ever in my life be

fore, and my companion is happy too. Love marriages

Iare after all the most prudent of any. Had taken Lydia's
Iadvice, would have written you long ere now ; but be
Ilieve me, and do not accuse me of selfishness when say
so, I was by much too happy to write. Great enjoyment

naturally induces an inaptitude for thought and exertion.

I am convinced that, had not Adam fallen and become

miserable, the alphabet would have been yet to invent.'

So that Miller held the doctrine which, according to
                                                                    '
Goethe,  Shakespeare proclaims  ' with a thousand
                                                   tongues

in Antony and Cleopatra, 'that enjoyment and action

(Genuss und That) are irreconcilable.'

      On the 12th of September of the same year we find

him writing to Mr Robert Chambers, offering one or two

112 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

Ipieces for the Journal. ' am leading,' he says, ' a quiet

and very happy life in this remote corner, with perhaps

a little less time than I know what to do with, but by

no means overtoiled. A good wife is a mighty addition

to a man's happiness ; and mine, whom I have been court

ing for about six years, and am still as much in love with
Ias ever, is one of the best. My mornings
                                           devote to

composition ; my days and the early part of the evening

I Ispend in the bank ; at night have again an hour or

two to myself ; my Saturday afternoons are given to plea

Isure, --some sea excursion, for have got a little boat of

my own, or some jaunt of observation among the rocks

and woods ; and Sunday as a day of rest closes the round.

    ' Your collection of ballads I have found to be quite a
treasure, --excellent in itself as a most amusing volume,

and highly interesting, regarded as the people's literature

of the ages that have gone by. Barbour's Bruce and
Blind Harry's Wallace belong, also, to the same library,

and must in their day have exerted no unimportant in
fluence on the character of our great-grandfathers. You

yourself now occupy the place in relation to the people

which the metrical historians and the authors of the

ballads did a few centimes ago.'

To this there came a reply warmed by that true-

hearted kindness with which Miller's correspondent has

cheered so many of the youthful soldiers of literature.
' The account you give me of your domestic condition is

necessarily gratifying to one who feels as your friend and

is anxious to be regarded in the same light by yourself.

Your present circumstances are most creditable to you,

and show that your intellect has its true and proper
crown, --moral worth. May you ever be thus happy, as
Iyou deserve to be !
                      have sometimes thought of more

prominent and brilliant situations for you; but after all,

      CORRESPONDS WITH MR CHAMBERS.                      113

if you can be content with the love of a virtuous woman

in a place where you have the chief requisites and a

little of the luxuries of life, and where, exempt from the

excitements and sordid bustle of a town, you can employ

Ithose contemplative powers of mind which believe to

be your highest gifts, you are probably better as you are.

Wordsworth has been much laughed at for keeping so con

stantly in the country, but I believe he is right. There is

everything certainly in town that can make the mind

active, but it is not the place for doing anything great, and

it is not the place for a pure and morally satisfactory life.'

Hugh was gladly welcomed as a contributor to the

Journal.

As usual, he replies promptly to Mr Chambers's

' kind and truly friendly letter.' Having stated that Mr
                                                    --'
Ross  had  been  absent  in  London,  he  proceeds       Since
                                                    :
he left me-- now rather more than a month ago--I have
been a busier man than I was ever in all my life before ;

for though the business of the office here is perhaps not

very extensive for that of a branch bank, it is sufficiently

so for the employment of a single person, and I have

been left in charge of the whole without clerk or assist

ant. How strangely flexible the human mind ! Three

Iyears ago was hewing tombstones in a country church

yard, with perhaps a little architectural knowledge, and

rather more than the average skill of my brother me

chanics, but totally unacquainted with business. And

now here I am among day-books and ledgers, deciding

upon who are and who are not safe to be trusted with

the bank's money, and doing business sometimes to the

amount of five hundred pounds per day.

    I' have some legendary stories lying by me, which
I wrote about a twelvemonth ago, with the intention of

giving them to the public in a volume, but the Journal

114 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

will spread them much more widely. There is a dash of

the supernatural in some of them, but I trust that will

break no squares with us unless they should lack in in

terest ; --besides, I hope there is philosophy enough in

them to save the writer's credit with even the most scep
tical of your readers. Superstition, however, is not at all
the same sort of thing in these northern districts of the

kingdom that it is in those of the south. It is no mere

carcase with just enough of muscle and sinew about it
for an eccentric wit to experiment upon now and then
by a sort of galvanism of the imagination, but an ani

Imated body, instinct with the true life. am old enough

to have seen people who conversed with the fairies, and
who have murmured that the law against witchcraft
should have been suffered to fall into desuetude ; and as

for ghosts, why, I am not very sure but what I have seen

ghosts myself. Superstition here is still living supersti
tion, and, as a direct consequence, there is more of living
interest in our stories of the supernatural and more of
human nature. When man has a place in them, it is not

generic, but specific, man -- man with an individual cha

racter. The man who figures in an English or South of

Scotland legend is quite as abstract a person as the man

in a fable of iEsop ;--with us he has as defined a person

ality as the Rip Van Winkle of Washington Irving him
self. By the way, much of the interest of this admirable
story is derived from the well-defined individuality of
poor Rip.'

      One or two other letters or notes passed between

him and Mr Chambers, but they are of little importance.

Hugh once has this remark on the nature of content

ment :-- ' The content which is merely an indolent ac

quiescence in one's lot is so questionable a virtue, that it
seems better suited to the irrational animals than to man.

LETTER TO SIR T. D. LAUDER.      115

That content, on the other hand, which is an active en

joyment of one's lot, cannot be recommended too
strongly. And it is this latter virtue, if virtue it can be
called, that my papers attempt to inculcate. True, it

leads to no Whittington and his cat sort of result, but it
does better, -- it leads to happiness, a result decidedly
more final than a coach and six.' Mr Chambers once

 suggests that he might advantageously ' shift the scene '
 from his ' dearly beloved Cromarty,' and that the less he

 introduces of superstition the better. I' am at the same

 time very sure,' he adds, ' that whatever be the nature of

  your subject, you cannot fail to give it that certain yet

indescribable interest which so peculiarly characterizes all

that comes from your pen.'

     In a letter to Sir T. Dick Lauder, containing much
eulogistic criticism of a legendary work, just published

by Sir Thomas, Hugh refers incidentally to his maniac

friend of Conon-side, mentioning a particular or two
which he does not elsewhere touch upon. ' She was

a McKenzie, some of whose ancestors, as they had re
sided for centuries within less than a mile of the chapel
of Killiechrist, might probably have fallen victims to

the fiery revenge of the MacDonald. I wish you could

have heard some of her stories. She was, like Christy

Ross (one of the personages of Sir Thomas's book), a
wild maniac, and used to spend whole nights among

the ruins of the chapel, conversing, as she used to say,

with her father's spirit ; but her madness was of the

kind which, instead of obscuring, seems rather to

strengthen the purely intellectual powers (her malady

seemed but a wilder kind of genius), and so, mad as
Ishe was, used to deem her conversation equal to that
Iof most women in their senses.
                                 scraped an acquaint

ance with her when working as a mason apprentice,

116 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

about sixteen years ago, in the neighbourhood of Killie-

Ichrist. She had taken it into her head that was some

great person in disguise, and used to come to me every

evening after work was over, to consult me on such

questions as the origin of evil, and the eternal decrees,
Iand others of equal simplicity and clearness.
                                                  gave her,

of course, the benefit of all my metaphysics, whether

doubtfully bad, or bad beyond doubt, and got in return

sets of the finest old stories I have met with anywhere.

How her eyes used to brighten when she spoke of the

bloody and barbarous MacDonald, and the fearful raid

of Killiechrist ! She was a sister to that Mr Lachlan
McKenzie of Loch Carron --the modern prophet of the

Highlands, of whom you cannot fail to have heard ;

and in some respects she must have closely resembled

him. But she is gone, and many a fine old story has

died with her.'

     He gives Sir Thomas a bright little  sketch of    his
marriage trip, and subsequent happiness   --'  I       the
                                                  had
                                          :

pleasure, last winter, when on a two days' visit to

Elgin, of seeing the Priory of Pluscardine, which you

have so beautifully described in your tale of the rival

lairds ; and a painting could not have recalled it more

vividly to my recollection. I saw much during my brief

visit, and enjoyed much, for the occasion was a joyous

one -- my marriage-- and I had Mr Isaac Forsyth of
Elgin for my guide. I saw Lady-hill, with its rock-like

ruin, and its extensive view; the hospital, with all its

wards ; the museum, with its spars and its birds ; the

splendid institution, so redolent of the showy benevolence

of the present age ; and the still more splendid cathedral,
so redolent of the showy piety of a former time ; but

above all, it was the hermit-like priory, in its sweet

\half-Highland, half-Lowland glen, with its trees, and its

       THE SCOTTISH CHRISTIAN HERALD.                                  117

ivy, and all its exquisite innumerable combinations of

the simple and the elegant, that impressed me most
Istrongly.
            found, too, that my companion, whose taste

had been much more highly cultivated than mine, was

quite as much delighted with    You, who are yourself
            a
                a

                                        it.
                                               in
                                                       a

                                        I
                                             I
so happy in your domestic relations, will not be dis

pleased to learn that, after having enjoyed for full five

years all that lover enjoys in courtship, now possess

all that renders husband happy  wife. have now

been rather more than eight months married, and am as

much in love as ever.'

Pleasant as were Miller's relations with the Messrs

Chambers, he experienced the want of literary vehicle,
' in

                          a
                                                a

                                                      a
                                                                              '

                                                                                   a

                                                                                             is
which the deepest feelings of his nature, his religious

feelings, might have free expression. He accordingly

offered his services as occasional contributor to the Scot

tish Christian Herald, periodical conducted chiefly by

clergymen of the Church of Scotland. He forwarded for

publication sketch and poem. Both were declined.

The narrative,' said the editor, though well written,

scarcely of that description which accords with the design

of the Herald, our great anxiety having always been that

the interest of the periodical should rest, not on love

affairs or the operation of mere worldly motives, but on

the varied aspects in which Christianity presents itself

among men. From beginning to end, short, we wish
in

         ?
                                    '

                                    a

                             I a if

                                                                 ' in
not to be merely moral and entertaining, but decidedly
religious.' He added that, Miller pleased, he would

hand the piece to the Messrs Chambers for publication

the Journal.

Hugh was considerably pained. My story,' he

wrote in reply, turns on case of conversion. Who

ever heard of such thing in one of our lighter period

icals  Not in Blackwood, am sure, with all his zeal

 118 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

 for the Church, nor in Tait, with all his love of the Dis

 senters. Chambers, too, though beyond comparison less
 exceptionable than either of these, seems to have a pretty
 shrewd guess that stories of this kind are not at all the
 best suited to secure to him his hundred thousand read

Iers. would fain see a few good periodicals set agoing

 of a wider scope than either those of the world or of the
 Church --works that would bear on a broad substratum

Iof religion the objects of what may venture to term a
week-day interest. I can cite no book that better illus

 trates my beau ideal of such a work than the Bible itself.
 No book more abounds in passages essentially popular

Iin their interest. And yet question whether some of

these passages, were they now to appear for the first
time, would find admittance into many of our religious
periodicals. There are chapters in the Book of Proverbs
that would be deemed merely moral, and the stories of
Ruth and of Esther would be thought to rest too ex
clusively on the operation of mere worldly motives. But

Ithis is not at all what I meant to say. merely intended
Ito remark that would fain see periodicals established,

which would not only be suited to convince the man of
the world that it is more philosophic to believe than to
doubt the truth of Christianity, but which would also be
so written that the men of the world would read them.'

      The cup of Miller's happiness was full when a little
daughter began to smile upon him from the arms of her

mother. All gentle helpless things he loved with a pas

sion of tenderness, and his affection for his own little

prattler was inexpressible. He observed her movements
with ever fresh interest and charm. ' My little girl,' he
wrote once, ' has already learned to make more noise than
all the other inmates of the house put together, and is
at present deeply engaged in the study of light and

HIS INFANT DAUGHTER.  119

colour. She is still in doubt, however, whether the

flame of the candle may not taste as well as it looks.'
' She was,' says Mrs Miller, ' a delight and wonder to

Hugh above all wonders. Her little smiles and caresses

sent him always away to his daily toil with a lighter
heart. When he took small-pox, I, of course, slept on

a couch in his room, and was with him night and day.
But the great privation was, that he could not see her.
We ventured, when he was mending, to open the room
door, and let him look at her across the entrance lobby,
and allow her to stretch out her little arms to him. Her

own illness began soon after. It was a very tedious one,

connected with teething, and lasting nine or ten months.

All our mutual recreations, and many of my employ
ments, including a school for fisher-lads, which I had

taught for some years, at eight every evening, had to be

given up. In the spring of '39 I had a close nursing

of several weeks. Then there was a marked amendment.

One lovely evening in April I went out, for the first time
Ithat spring, to breathe the air of the hill. When re
turned, I found the child in her nurse's arms, at the

attic window, from which she used to greet her papa
when he came up street. She had been planting a little
garden in the window sill of polyanthus, primrose, and

other spring flowers. When she saw me, she pushed
them away, with the plaintive "awa, awa" she used to
utter, and laid her head on my breast. An internal fit
came on. The next time she looked up it was to push

my head backwards with her little hand, while a startled,

inquiring, almost terrible look, came into her lovely eyes.

All the time she lay dying, which was three days and

three nights, her father was prostrate in the dust before
God in an agony of tears. Whether he performed his

Idaily bank duties, or any part of them, do not remem-

                                                             /.

120 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

ber. But such a personification of David the King, at a
like mournful time, it is impossible to imagine. All the

strong man was bowed down. He wept, he mourned,
he fasted, he prayed. He entreated God for her life.

Yet when she was taken away, a calm and implicit sub
mission to the Divine will succeeded, although still his
eyes were fountains of tears. Never again in the course
of his life was he thus affected. He was an affectionate

father, and some of his children were at times near death,

but he never again lost thus the calmness and dignity,
the natural equipoise, as it were, of his manhood.' This

was the first and the last poignant domestic sorrow
Miller experienced. He cut the little headstone for his

darling, and never again put chisel to stone.

    It contributed not a little to his happiness at this
period that his relations with Mr Ross, his superior in

the bank, were amicable and harmonious in the highest

degree. Several years after Hugh had terminated

his connection with the bank, he took occasion to bear
witness to the ' unvarying kindness ' he had experienced

from Mr Ross. During the five years when they worked
together he had not once heard from Mr R. ' the slight

est word of censure or of difference,' and this though his

place had been one of ' great trust and occasional difficulty.'

Nay, his acquaintance with the character of Mr Ross

heightened his appreciation of that of mercantile men as
a class. ' During the not inconsiderable period,' he says in

Ithe dedication of a pamphlet to Mr Ross, ' in which en-
ioved vour confidence, I was conversant with the inner

details of your conduct in the various branches of trade

which you have prosecuted so long and so successfully, and

the effect has been  tmo ehrecighhantednisemyanedstitmraaftfeico--f tthoe  important
                                                                           which you
class -- our men of
Ibelong. Of the many thousand transactions in which

OBSERVATIONS ON SOCIETY.  121

 have seen you engaged, there was not one of a kind in
 any degree suited to lessen my well-founded respect for
 you, as a sagacious man of business, of genial feelings,
 of nice integrity, and a discriminating intellect.'

       Irksome as was the routine of bank business to one

who, in his hours of hardest toil, had always previously
 had the breath of heaven, the cool breeze of the hill-side,
to fan his brow, Miller soon found that as a bank ac

 countant he occupied a coigne of vantage from which
to conduct his studies of human nature and of human

life. If anything was still wanted to secure him against

those showy plausibilities and political, social, senti
mental extravagances, which are the besetting sins of
self-educated men, it was the opportunity afforded him
in a bank office of drawing the line between sound and

substance, between gold and glitter, between reality and
pretence. There is a passage in the Schools and School
masters illustrative of this remark, which has always

seemed to me to contain a singular amount of practical
sense, and of accurate valuable information.

      ' However humbly honesty and good sense,' thus it
proceeds, ' may be rated in the great world generally, they
always, when united, bear premium in a judiciously mana

ged bank office. It was interesting enough, too, to see quiet

silent men, like " honest farmer Hamburgh," getting
wealthy, mainly because, though void of display, they were
not wanting in integrity and judgment; and clever unscru
pulous fellows like " Ephraim Jenkinson," who " spoke to
good purpose," becoming poor, very much because, with

all their smartness, they lacked sense and principle. It

was worthy of being noted, too, that in looking around
from my peculiar point of view on the agricultural classes,

I found the farmers on really good farms usually thriv

ing, if not themselves in fault, however high their rents ;

122 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

and that, on the other hand, farmers on sterile farms

were not thriving, however moderate the demands of the

landlord. It was more melancholy, but not less instruct

ive, to learn from authorities whose evidence could not

be questioned, bills paid by small instalments, or lying

under protest, that the small-farm system, so excellent
in a past age, was getting rather unsuited for the ener
getic competition of the present one ; and that the small

farmers -- a comparatively comfortable class some sixty or

eighty years before, who used to   give dowries to their
daughters, and leave well-stocked
                                   farms to their sons --

were falling into straitened circumstances, and becoming,

however respectable elsewhere, not very good men in the

bank. It was interesting, too, to mark the character

and capabilities of the various branches of trade carried
on in the place, -- how the business of its shopkeepers fell

always into a very few hands, leaving to the greater
number, possessed, apparently, of the same advantages
as their thriving compeers, only a mere show of custom ;

how precarious in its nature the fishing trade always     a

especially the herring fishery, not more from the uncer        ;
tainty of the fishings themselves, than from the fluctua
tions of the markets, and how in the pork trade of the          I is,

placea judicious use of the bank's money enabled the curers
to trade virtually on doubled capital, and to realize,
          a
with the deduction of the bank discounts, doubled profits.a
In few months my acquaintance with the character
and circumstances of the business men of the district
a
       abecame tolerably extensive, and essentially correct and

on two several occasions, when my superior left me for

time, to conduct the entire business of the agency,

was fortunate enough not to discount for him single
bad bill. The implicit confidence reposed in me by so

good and sagacious man was certainly quite enough of

i

          VIEWS ON BANKING.  123

itself to set me on my metal. There was, however, at
least one item in my calculations in which I almost always
I Ifound myself incorrect.
                      found could predict every
bankruptcy in the district ; but I usually fell short from

Iten to eighteen months of the period in which the event
actually took place.  could pretty nearly determine the
Itime when the difficulties and entanglements which

saw ought to have produced their proper effects, and

Ilanded in failure ; but missed taking into account the

desperate efforts which men of energetic temperament
make in such circumstances, and which, to the signal

injury of their friends and the loss of their creditors,

succeed usually in staving off the catastrophe for a

season.'

When the financial policy of Sir Robert Peel threat

ened the one pound note circulation of Scotland with

extinction, Miller took part strongly with those who
opposed the measure. His views found expression in

a series of newspaper articles on Sir Robert Peel's Scotch

currency scheme, which were republished in the form

of a pamphlet entitled Words of Warning to the People
of Scotland. Having carefully examined this little work,

I am bound to admit that the writer appears to me to

have failed to appreciate with perfect accuracy and lucidity

the distinction between wealth and the machinery by

which wealth is exchanged. That he erred with some

of the shrewdest men the world has seen --with Benjamin
Franklin, for example, and Sir Walter Scott --is un

questionable, but the error does not change its nature

on that account. A passage which Miller quotes from

Franklin, with the italics as Miller inserts them, will

Ishow wherein, as conceive, all orthodox economists of

the present day would declare both men in the wrong.
' The truth is,' wrote Franklin, ' that the balance of

                                                              s

124 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

our trade with Britain being against us, the gold

and silver are drawn out to pay that balance, and

the necessity of some medium of trade has induced the

making of paper money, which cannot thus be carried

away. Gold and silver are not the produce of North

America, which has no mines, and that which is brought

thither cannot be kept there in sufficient quantity for a

currency. Britain, an independent great state, when

its inhabitants grow too fond of the expensive luxuries

of foreign countries that draw away its money, can, and

frequently does, make laws to discourage or prohibit

such importations, and by that means can retain its

cash. But the Colonies are dependent governments ;

and their people, having naturally great respect for the

sovereign country, and being thence immoderately fond

of its modes, manufactures, and superfluities, cannot be

restrained from purchasing them by any province law,

because such law, if made, would immediately be re

pealed, as prejudicial to the trade and interests of
ItBritain.
            seems hard, therefore, to draw all their real

money from them, and then refuse them the poor privilege

of using paper money instead of it.' So far Franklin,

as approvingly quoted by Miller. That a country which

has no real money can make money out of paper, is an

idea so palpably erroneous that one has difficulty in

comprehending how it could have imposed upon Ben

jamin Franklin.

     It was not, however, necessary to penetrate far into

the mysterious problems of the currency in order to find

sound reasons for leaving the circulating system of Scot

land alone. That system had worked well. Sir Walter

Scott and Hugh Miller knew the fruits of the tree, that

they were good, and they justly concluded that it was

a good tree. There was no cause for anxiety on the

                  VIEWS ON BANKING.                125

part of Sir Robert Peel that the Scotch might put too
great confidence in their one pound notes ; and the
opinion of eminent Scottish bankers, that if they were de
prived of their note circulation, they would be compelled

to close their branch banks, and thus curtail the accom

modation they had afforded to industry in the provinces,
was conclusive against tampering with a system which
might be injured but could hardly be improved. ' We
have the authority,' wrote Miller, ' of the first men of the

country for holding that our cash credits could not out
live the projected change of Sir Robert for a twelve
month.' In a provincial bank he had ample oppor
tunities of observing the operation of the Cash Credit

system of Scottish banking ; and as it would be difficult
to find a more lucid and appreciative account of that
far-famed system than Miller's, and the passage, apart

from biographical considerations, is interesting, I shall

here insert it.

                  SCOTCH CASH ACCOUNTS.

' In at least one department of banking the Scotch

have not yet been imitated in any other country. Hume
published the second part of his Essays, Moral, Political,

and Literary, in 1752, just ninety -two years ago; and

in this work, in his essay on the balance of trade, we

find the first notice of a Cash Credit Account. He de
scribes it as " one of the most ingenious ideas that has

been executed in commerce," and as first devised in

Edinburgh only a few years previous. And we see that

Sir Walter, in describing it a second time, seventy-four

years after, had still to characterize it as "peculiar to

Scotland." The    desc"riAptimonan  of Hume    is  singularly happy
and philosophic.                     goes to  the   bank," he says,
" and finds surety to the amount, we shall suppose, of a

thousand pounds. This money, or any part of        it,  he

 1 2G THE BANK A CCO UNTANT.

 has the liberty of drawing out whenever he pleases, and
 he pays only the ordinary interest for it while it is in
 his hands. He may, when he pleases, repay any sum

 so small as twenty pounds, and the interest is discon
 tinued from the very day of repayment. The advantages
 resulting from this contrivance are manifold. As a man
 may find surety nearly to the amount of his substance,

 and his bank credit is equal to ready money, a merchant
 does hereby in a manner coin his house, his household
 furniture, the goods in his warehouse, the foreign debts
 due to him, his ships at sea, and can on occasion employ

them all in payments, as if they were the current money

of the country. If a man borrow a thousand pounds

from a private hand (besides that it is not always to be
found when required), he pays interest for it whether he
be using it or not, whereas his bank credit costs him
nothing except during the very moment in which it is
of service to him. And this circumstance is of equal ad

vantage as if he had borrowed money at much lower

interest." This we deem a very admirable appreciation,
so far as it goes, of the peculiar advantages of the Cash
Credit Account, a mode of transaction, be it remembered,

in which our Scottish banks have invested millions of

money, but we do not deem it a full appreciation. It is

doubtless a great matter to our traders of Scotland that
they should be able to coin, through its means, their
houses, their furniture, their ships, and the debts
owing to them. But it enables them to do much more :
it enables them to coin their characters should they be
good ones, even should houses, ships, and furniture be
wanting. True, the banks must be satisfied that there
is property in every individual case to coin, but the
holder of the account may have none, it is enough that
what he wants his sureties have. He may have character

SCOTCH CASH ACCOUNTS.                      127

only, and this character his sureties enable him to trans
mute into gold. The Cash Credit becomes thus a pre
mium on integrity. Few men have risen in trade from
the lower walks whose character for honesty and per
severing diligence some kind friend has not enabled them
thus to coin into money ; but in Scotland alone does

there exist an ingenious system, tested by the experience
 of a century, which provides for accommodations of this
 nature, as a part of the regular business of the country.
 Benjamin Franklin devoted by will two thousand pounds
 to be laid out in loan to young industrious workmen of
 the cities of Boston and Philadelphia, whose moral cha

 racter was such that there could be found at least two

 respectable citizens willing to become sureties in a bond
 with the applicants for the repayment of the money so

 lent, with interest. I" myself," he says in the same

 document, in rendering a reason for the bequest, " was
 assisted to set up my business in Philadelphia by kind
 loans of money from two friends there, which was the
 foundation of my fortune, and of all the utility in life that

 Imay be ascribed to me ; and wish to be useful even

 after my death, if possible, in forming and advancing

  other young men that may be serviceable to their coun
 try." Now, such was the device of a wise and benevo
 lent man. But our Scottish scheme, though a matter
  of mere business, possesses a mighty advantage, both in
 wisdom and benevolence, over the device of Franklin,

  and this advantage we find admirably indicated by
  Hume. A hundred pounds borrowed from the Franklin
  Fund would bear interest on its full amount against the
  borrower from the moment in which it was consigned
 over to him till it was repaid. And during some pause
  in the commercial world, he suffered to lie unemployed
  beside him, would be positive disadvantage to him
it

                       a

                                   it if,

128 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

at such a time to possess it. It would be at least,

during the pause, not a means of bettering his circum

stances, but a means of reducing them ; and this very

conviction would be a spur that, in times of doubtful

speculation, might provoke to the unwise employment

of it. But lent on the Cash Credit scheme, no portion of

it would bear interest save the portion in present use ;
and if not only the whole was relodged with the bank

during some languid interval in which the wheels of

trade moved heavily, but also an additional sum, that

additional sum would bear interest to the holder's ad

vantage. A few figures, however, arranged in the form

of a Cash Credit Account, may give our readers a much

better idea of the nature of the device so admired by the

philosophic Hume for    its  ingenuity, than                 any mere

verbal description :--

       iredil; for '100, A. B., D r. to th e  Bank of Scotland

                                              C. D. Surety.

                                              E. F. Surety.

1844.            Dr. Cr.                      Balance Dr.

                                                          Days
                        --                                     2
Nov. 1 To 10                                  10
                        --                                     2
       3 To 20                                30               3
                        --                                     2
       5 To 10                                40               2
                        --                                     2
       8 To 12                                52
       10 By --
                        40                    Dr. 12

       12 By --         20 Balance Cr. 8
       14 By --
                        20                    Cr. 28

The nature of    the business represented by these           simple
                                                             as fol
figures, --part  of the page of a bank ledger, --is
lows : -- A. B. holds in one of our Scotch banks a Cash

Credit Account to the amount of a hundred pounds, for
which C. D. and E. F. are sureties, and on which he

began to operate on the first day of November last, by

        SCOTCH CASH ACCOUNTS.                                      129

drawing on it to the amount of ten pounds. These ten

pounds were straightway entered in both the "Dr."

column and the " Balance Dr." column, and bore interest

against him in the bank's behalf for two days, when he

again operated on his account by drawing twenty pounds
more, which raised the sum of his debit in the " Balance

Dr." column to thirty pounds ; and thus he continued

operating for nine days, when the balance at his debit
amounted to fifty-two pounds. And of these nine days

he had to pay interest during two of the number for

ten pounds, --during two more for thirty pounds, --

during three for forty pounds -- and during two, yet

again, for fifty-two pounds. He then lodged in the

bank    fo"rtyCr."poucnodlus,mnw, hiacnhd  were  entered  to  his  credit
in the                                      the  balance  to  his   debit
in the " Balance Dr." column sank to twelve pounds,

which a second lodgement, in two days after, of twenty

pounds, extinguished altogether, leaving a balance of eight

pounds in his favour, and these eight immediately began

to bear interest in his behalf. Yet another lodgement

raised the eight to twenty-eight pounds ; and thus the

account runs on, on terms immensely more favourable

to A. B., the holder, than if he had been a borrower on

the Franklin Fund. But what the holder of the Cash

Credit gains in this way, the bank, it may be said, loses :

the scheme, though the best possible for the borrower,

must be an indifferent one for the lender. Far better

for the bank it may be said, had A. B. taken out the

hundred pounds at once, and continued to pay full in

terest upon them. Nay, not so fast. What is best for

A. B. in this case is not by any means worst for the bank.

The account here, as shown by the dates, is actively

operated upon. Though the balance at the holder's debit

must at no time exceed a hundred pounds, many hun

130 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

dreds may be drawn upon it in the course of the twelve

month, and these all in the bank's notes ; and from the

notes kept in circulation through its means, the bank

derives a profit of three per cent. It draws interest for
its money from two distinct sources, -- in the first place,

from A. B. for the cash which it advances to him, and,

in the next, from the notes in which its advances to A.

B. are made. In no other part of the world are the in

terests of borrower and lender so admirably adjusted as

in Scotland under this scheme.'

The essential advantage of this Cash Credit system

is that, in the department of trade, commerce, and agri

cultural enterprise, it puts tools into the hands  of those
best fitted to use them. Men of character and
                                                   brains --

men who can discern openings for capital, and whom other

men can trust in the attempt to avail themselves of those

openings -- attain that position in society which nature

has prepared them to occupy. The country is benefited

in many ways, -- vitally, incalculably benefited. The right
men do the work, therefore it is effectually done ; the

right men earn the reward of competence and respect,

therefore there is comparatively little grumbling. It is

manifest that such a system promotes that genial circu

lation of talent from the low places to the high places

of society which does so much to prevent social stagna

tion, to give geniality and healthfulness to the relation
of class to class, to knit firmly yet freely together the
entire social framework. Hugh Miller knew Scotland,

as few men have ever known her, and it was his deep

conviction that, in certain important particulars, she had
the advantage of England. ' Scotland,' he said, ' is still

truly a nation, --not a mere province : her institutions
are diverse from those of England, -- her interests dis
tinct, --her character different.' It is fair to add that

MONEY MAKING.  131

the system of Cash Credits, with its distinctive feature
of enabling men to coin their character, experience, and

talents, is obviously better adapted to a small country,
where each man may know his neighbour, and where

the possibilities and limitations of enterprise admit of

easy calculation, than to a large one.

     It may be an exaggeration to say that it is from a

Bank parlour you can best observe modern society, but
it is the exaggeration of a truth. No one can under

stand modern society who does not apprehend to what
an extent every form of romance or enthusiasm peculiar

to other ages is drying up in the intense and scorching
thirst for gold. Our notion of modern society will
always be more or less fanciful, more or less of a morn
ing dream rather than an afternoon reality, if we do not
appreciate in its fulness of meaning the banker's defini
tion of ' a good man.' The banker's definition ; and,
 with but a half-hearted, ineffectual, semi-honest protest,
 the definition of literary, artistic, and clerical society.
We have to remark, also, that though as a Bank
 Accountant Hugh Miller had the best opportunities of
 witnessing the infinite importance attached by society
 to money, he was never conscious even of a temptation
 to devote himself to the task of becoming rich, and he

 never admitted into his breast that feeling of bitterness
 and exasperation, on account of the unequal distribution

of the gifts of fortune, which, according to Mr Carlyle,

 instilled its subtle, maddening poison into a heart so
 genial, healthy, and generous as that of Robert Burns.

                                                             132

                           CHAPTER VI.

                             SCIENCE IN THE ASCENDANT.

                       these last quiet years of his residence in Cro

  DURmIaNrtGy, when Miller was putting the last touches to

   the curiosa felicitas of his style, and choosing irreversibly
  the form in which his higher intellectual activity was to
   be exerted, the question came often directly or indirectly
  before him whether his supreme devotion should be to
  literature or to science. Poetry had been as good as
   abandoned. He did, indeed, as his wife and one or two
  of his most confidential friends were aware, cherish the
  resolution to return to verse, and had visions of bringing
  even his science ultimately to minister to the Muse.
  But for the present his critical faculty in the poetical
   department had outstripped his productive faculty, and
  he wrote almost exclusively in prose. We find, how
   ever, from his correspondence, that the legendary tales
  and biographical sketches to which he had so long de
  voted attention, had ceased to interest him as formerly,
  and that he contemplated a transference of his allegiance
  from literature to science. Literature has been called
  the science of man ; science may be called the literature

  of nature. If the hackneyed quotation from Pope as to

  man being mankind's noblest study has become hack-

^S

              LITERATURE AND SCIENCE.  133

neyed on account of its truth, and if Sir W. Hamilton's

favourite lines about man and mind being the only great
things on earth are not rhodomontade, and if Shakespeare

is higher than Newton among the moderns and Homer
higher than Aristotle or Plato among the ancients, it

would seem to follow that literary art, as displayed in

history, poetry, the drama, and prose fiction, takes le
gitimate precedence of that inquiry into the sequences of
the physical world, which bears specifically the name of

science. But it was under the influence of no ab

stract considerations that Miller determined in favour of

the latter. Literature, as it presented itself to his mind,

did not afford scope to his abilities. The traditions, the
              hhisetorhyadof khnios wnnatisvineceplabcoey, h--ootdh,e --chdairdactnerost
legends, the
of the men

appear to furnish materials out of which important

literary works could be constructed. The vein was

worked out.

     It is perhaps surprising that he did not, so far as can

be discovered, think of Scottish history as a field in

Iwhich to employ himself. He might, think, have

written a history of Scotland which the world would

have placed among the acknowledged masterpieces in
this species of composition ; a history in which the dis
tinctive character of the Scottish race, and the distinctive

contribution of Scotland to modern civilization, would

have been justly defined, and in which the patriotic en

thusiasm of the writer would have swelled at times into

the grandeurs of epic poetry. The view taken of Scottish
history by Miller was essentially the same as that taken
by Burns, by Scott, by Wilson, by Carlyle, and he was

more profoundly in sympathy with the religious genius
of his nation than any one of these. His strength as a

stylist lay in description, and all his books, particularly

                                                                                          V"-

 134 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

the Schools and Schoolmasters, and First Impressions of

England and its People, afford proof of his skill in con

tinuous narrative.

      In the history of literature, again, he was fitted to
excel. He could have given us, for example, a critico-
biographical work on Pope, Addison, and their con
temporaries, which might have been unique and super
lative of its kind. He knew those men as if he had

lived and talked with them. They were the models
whose chastened beauties appeared to him more worthy of

emulation than the passionate and metaphorical writing
in vogue in his own day.

      No such employment of his powers, however, seems
to have occurred to him, and it is certain that neither of

the works indicated could have been produced at so
great a distance from the original sources of literary
information as Cromarty. Science invited him to an

unbeaten path --to an assured originality-- and the scene

in which her wonders were to be sought had been his
playground since infancy. That devotion to science
was attaining in his mind the power of a ruling passion
is attested in that chapter of the Scenes and Legends in
which he presents himself to his readers as the ' Anti
quary of the world.'

      There is a curious interest in observing how much
this chapter contains of what, a few years subsequently,
made Miller famous as a geologist throughout the world.
As yet he is groping his way, feeling darkly round a
cave which he surmises to be coated with jewels and
precious metals, but able only to guess vaguely what may
be their nature and their value. He has already noticed
those ' flattened nodules of an elliptical or circular form,'
of which all the world was one day to hear. He has
laid some of them open and found them to contain, one

FIRST GEOLOGICAL IMPRESSIONS.  135

' the remains of a fish, scaled like the coal-fish or had
dock,' another, ' the broken exuviae of a fish of a different

species, which, instead of being scaled like the other,
seems roughened in the same way as the dog-fish, or the
'shark,' a third, ' a confused, bituminous-looking mass
that has much the appearance of a toad or frog,' a fourth,
' a number of shining plates like those of the tortoise,' a
fifth, ' a large oval plate, like an ancient buckler, which
 seems to have formed part of the skull.' Such were
 Hugh Miller's first impressions of the pterichthys and the

 coccosteus.

      The tenacity with which ideas and images, once con

 ceived, clung to his mind, is evinced by the fact that
 some of the illustrations which we have in this chapter

 recur on all subsequent occasions when he touches upon

 the subjects here treated. He never tired of explaining
 the advantage to the geologist of having strata uptilted
 by volcanic agencies by reference to ' the ease which we
 find in running the eye over books arranged on the
 shelves of a library, contrasted with the trouble which

 they give us in taking them up one after one when they
 are packed in a deep chest.' The materials of that de
 scription of the structure and aspect of the great Cale
 donian valley, which he subsequently wrought out with

 a breadth and a vividness belonging to the highest order
 of literary art, may all be discovered in this chapter,
 though they as yet lie about in comparative disorder, the
 dissevered fragments which the master-hand is one day
 to arrange into a symmetrical structure. The imaginative
 faculty by which he threw a mantle of beauty over the
scenes that ocular observation, or the restoring processes
 of scientific reflection, afforded him, is displayed in this
 essay with a delicate splendour of effect which he hardly

 surpassed in after-days. ' I remember one day early in

136 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

winter,' he writes, ' about six years ago, that a dense bank

of mist came rolling in between the Sutors like a huge

wave, and enveloped the entire frith, and the lower lands

by which it is skirted, in one extended mantle of moisture
Iand gloom.
             ascended the hill ; on its sides the trees
Iwere dank and dripping ; and the cloud which, as

advanced, seemed to open only a few yards before me,

came closing a few yards behind, but on the summit all

was clear, and so different was the state of the atmosphere

in this upper region from that which obtained in the fog

below, that a keen frost was binding up the pools, and

glazing the sward. The billows of mist seemed break

ing against the sides of the eminence ; the sun, as it

hung cold and distant in the south, was throwing its

beams athwart the surface of this upper ocean,--lighting

the slow roll of its waves as they rose and fell to the

breeze, and casting its tinge of red on the snowy sum

mits of the lower hills, which presented, now as of old,

the appearance of a group of islands. Ben Wyvis and

its satellites rose abruptly to the west ; a broad strait

separated it from two lesser islands, which, like leviathans,

raising, and but barely raising, themselves above the sur

face, heaved their flat backs a little over the line ; the

Ipeaks of Ben Vaichard, diminished by distance, were

occupying the south ; and far to the north could descry

some of the loftier hills of Sutherland, and the Ord-hill

of Caithness. I have since often thought of this singu

lar scene in connection with some of the bolder theories
Iof the geologist.
                    have conceived of it as an apparition,

in these latter days, of the scenery of a darkly remote

period, --a period when these cold and barren summits

were covered with the luxuriant vegetation of a tropical

climate, with flowering shrubs, and palms, and huge

ferns ; and when every little bay on their shores was en

SCIENCE AND RELIGION.  137

livened by fleets of nautili spreading their tiny sails to
the wind, and presenting their colours of pearl and azure

to the sun.'

      Nor is it only of his capacity as an observer and
skill as an imaginative describer that this remarkable

chapter gives us an earnest. It reveals with impressive

distinctness the Spirit in which he would cultivate
science. Not as a mere collector of facts, or word-

painter of geological landscape, would he work, but in
full view and constant recollection of every momentous
question relating to the nature and destiny of man on

which science might touch. Religion had become the
central and regulating force in his character ; religion
he believed to have been the source of all that was best

and most enduring in the character of his country ; re
ligion, turning the regards of man to a Divine Father,
and opening the human eye on a pathway of eternal
advance, appeared to him inseparably involved with the
majesty and well-being of man as a species. Inspired
with a passionate devotion both to science and to religion,
he could not but seek to put the hand of the one into
the hand of the other, and to mediate between the two.

The following passage might serve as a preface to that
whole series of works in which he subsequently made it
his effort to interpret the language of the rocks in a manner
which would not contradict the statements of Holy
Writ. ' Let us quit,' he says, as he turns from those
scenes of primeval creation on which he has been expati
ating, ' this wonderful city of the dead, with all its re
clining obelisks, and all its sculptured tumuli, the me
morials of a race that exist only in their tombs. And
yet, ere we go, it were well, perhaps, to indulge in some
of those serious thoughts which we so naturally associate
with the solitary burying-ground, and the mutilated re

138 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

mains of the departed. Let us once more look round
us and say whether, of all men, the geologist does not
stand most in need of the Bible, however much he may
contemn it in the pride of speculation. We tread on
the remains of organized and sentient creatures which,
though more numerous at one period than the whole
family of man, have long since ceased to exist ; the indi
viduals perished one after one, their remains served only
to elevate the floor on which their descendants pursued
the various instincts of their nature, and then sunk, like

the others, to form a still higher layer of soil ; and now
that the whole race has passed from the earth, and we
see the animals of a different tribe occupying their places,
what survives of them but a mass of inert and senseless

matter, never again to be animated by the mysterious

spirit of vitality, --that spirit which, dissipated in the air,

or diffused in the ocean, can, like the sweet sounds and

pleasant odours of the past, be neither gathered up nor
recalled ? And oh, how dark the analogy which would
lead us to anticipate a similar fate for ourselves ! As
individuals we are but of yesterday ; to-morrow we shall
be in our graves, and the tread of the coming generation
shall be over our heads. Nay, have we not seen a ter
rible disease sweep away in a few years more than
eighty millions of the race to which we belong ? and can
we think of this and say that a time may not come
when, like the fossils of these beds, our whole species
shall be mingled with the soil ; and when, though the
sun may look down in his strength on our pleasant
dwellings and our green fields, there shall be silence in
all our borders, and desolation in all our gates, and we
shall have no thought of that past which it is now our
delight to recall, and no portion in that future which it
is now our very nature to anticipate ? Surely it is well

        SCIENCE AND RELIGION.  139

to believe that a widely different destiny awaits us ; that

the God who endowed us with those wonderful powers,

which enable us to live in every departed era, every

coming period, has given us to possess these powers for

ever ; that not only does He number the hairs of our
heads, but that His cares are extended to even our very

remains ; that our very bones, instead of being left, like

the exuviae around us, to form the rocks and clays of a

future world, shall, like those in the valley of vision, be

again clothed with muscle and sinew; and that our bodies,

animated by the warmth and vigour of life, shall again

connect our souls to the matter existing around us, and

be obedient to every impulse of the will. It is surely

no time, when we walk amid the dark cemeteries of a de

parted   world, and see the cold blank shadows of the
tombs
        falling drearily athwart the way, --it is surely no

time to extinguish the light given us to shine so fully

and so cheerfully on our own proper path, merely because

its beams do not enlighten the recesses that yawn around

us. And oh, what more unworthy of reasonable man

than to reject so consoling a revelation on no juster quar

rel than that, when it unveils to us much of what could

not otherwise be known, and without the knowledge of

which we could not be other than unhappy, it leaves to

the invigorating exercise of our own powers whatever

in the wide circle of creation lies fully within their
grasp ! '

     His literary essays and his legendary tales had drawn
upon Miller the attention of men eminent in the world

of literature ; this chapter of his book constituted his in

troduction to circles interested in the pursuit of science.

I' may mention,' he says in a letter to Mr Robert

Chambers, ' that a geological chapter in my little volume

of Scenes and Legends has attracted more notice among

 HO TEE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

 the learned, than all the other chapters put together.

 Mrs had a hit at me in Tail for introducing such

Ia subject ; could now tell her, however, of Fellows of

 the Geological Society and Professors of Colleges whom

my chapter has brought more than a day's journey out
 of their route to explore the rocks of Cromarty.' The
 Old Red Sandstone was at this time a comparatively un
known region to geologists, and the palaeontological dis
coveries to which Miller was feeling his way excited
the keenest interest. Dr John Malcolmson, who had re

cently arrived in this country from India, visited Cro
marty, discussed geological problems with Hugh, and
examined with him the geological sections of the neigh-
bourhood. The Cromarty geologist began to correspond

with Sir Roderick, then Mr Murchison, and with M.

Agassiz. Fleming was at this time professor of natural
science in King's College and University, Aberdeen, and
he hastened to Cromarty to look with the only eyes he
ever trusted in matters of observation, his own, into the

wonders of Eathie burn and Marcus cave. It was doubt

less of great service to Miller at this stage in his geolo
gical studies to be brought into converse with the au
thor of the Philosophy of Zoology, and to have his
theories, just beginning to take shape, overhauled by one
of the acutest, most searching, most philosophically
sceptical intellects of the century. His controversy with
Dr Fleming on the old Scotch coast-line, the existence of
which the latter denied to the last, probably commenced

at this period, and twenty years afterwards, when the
eminence and authority of both were acknowledged in
the Geological Society of Edinburgh, the debate re
mained unfinished. But in none of its stages did it do
anything else than add zest to the cordiality of their
friendship. Miller knew how to value the trenchant

GEOLOGY.                                     141

logic, sharp analysis, and severe inductive cross-examin

ation of Fleming ; and to find a worthy antagonist, whom

he might bring under the raking fire of his argument

ative batteries, was one of the choicest pleasures Fleming

could find in life. He was now in the prime of his

faculties; and his brilliant, incisive talk, touching, often

with caustic humour, on a thousand men and things, is

remembered by Mrs Miller as very pleasantly enlivening

their quiet life in Cromarty.

      The following passage from a letter of this period to

Dr Malcolmson, with its critical notes upon the specula

tions of Agassiz and Lyell, has some interest as showing
Miller's geological whereabouts at the time.

     ' Mrs Miller has read to me in very respectable Eng

lish Agassiz' paper on the Moraines of Jura and the

Alps. I have been much interested in it. The pheno

mena it describes are as new to me as the theory founded
upon them, and both serve to fill the imagination. But

Iwhere am to seek a cause for the intense cold which

would cover Europe with one immense sheet of ice from

the pole to the shores of the Mediterranean ? and why

infer that the earth in cooling down, instead of gradu

ally sinking in temperature according to the ordinary

and natural process, should sink by sudden fits and

starts, and reach at each leap a much lower degree than

it was subsequently able to maintain? The theory, I

question not, accounts well for the appearances which

suggested it ; but then, like the tortoise, on whose

shoulders your old friends the Brahmins support the globe,
Iit seems sadly to lack footing for itself.
                                             have got a

copy of Lyell's late work, the elementary one, and find

that he, too, in accounting for erratics, introduces the

Iagency of ice. His theory, if may venture to decide,

seems much less open to objection than that of Agassiz,

142 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

--it is a good feasible theory, with a host of every-day
experiences to support it. I cannot square
                           ?                                     however,

                                                            it,
                                                               in
with some of the facts. Why have all the travellers of

this part of the country come from the west, and none

from the opposite quarter     We have masses                       abund

ance of blue schistose gneiss and micaceous schist from

the hills of Ross-shire, and blocks of basalt even from the

Hebrides, but we have no granites from Aberdeen, no

granitic gneisses or grauwackes from Banff or Moray,

no yellow sandstone from Elgin or Broughhead. The

hills of these counties are nearly as ancient as those of
Ross-shire or the Hebrides, and we have no winds so

violent as those which blow from the east; but these

winds have failed to convey to us single block from
those hills. There another rather puzzling fact. The
                       is
                                                      a

conglomeration which in this part of the country forms

the inferior bed of the Old Red Sandstone, contains                of in

some localities large water-rolled blocks, scarcely inferior

in size to our more modern erratics. Now, there was

surely no ice in the days of the Old Red Sandstone.

But truce with the subject. Lyell's theory seems excel

lent so far as goes, though may doubtless be pushedit
too far. Ice was most probably but one of several
        ?
agents,-- the most ancient of which, such as floods and
                   it
currents, must have existed  by    the earliest eras. As for
                               in
the appearances described        Agassiz, do you not think

the glaciers which produced them might have existed

in those comparatively modern times when the greater

part of Europe was covered    by   forests, and the climate,

even to the coasts of the Mediterranean, was chill and

severe  Hume, in his Essay on the populousness

ancient states, tells us that the Tiber was frequently

covered with ice even so late as the days of Juvenal.'
      From several letters of geological character, which,
                           a

V

              LETTER TO AGA SSIZ.                            H3

as containing information subsequently published by
Miller in a more mature shape, it is unnecessary to print

here, the following is selected as a good illustrative

sample :      'to m. agassiz.

                                                       'Cromarty, May 31, 1838.

' Honoured Sir,

      I' have just learned from my friend, Dr Mal-

colmson, that you have expressed a wish to see one of

the fossils of my little collection. I herewith send it you,

and a few others, which you may perhaps take some in

terest in examining.

    ' I fain wish I could describe well enough to give

you correct ideas of the locality in which they occur.

Imagine a lofty promontory somewhat resembling a

huge spear thrust horizontally into the sea, an immense

mass of granitic gneiss forming the head, and a long

rectilinear line of Old Red Sandstone the shaft. On the

south   side  are the waters of the      M--ortahey  Frith,  on the
north  those  of the Frith of Cromarty,              Portus  Salutis

of the ancients. The clay-stone beds, which contain the

fossils, occupy an upper place in the sandstone shaft,

covering it saddle-wise from frith to frith. A bed of

yellowish stone about sixty feet in thickness lies over

them, except where they are laid bare by the sea, or

cut into by two deep ravines ; a bed of redder stone of

unascertainable depth, but which may be measured

downwards for considerably more than one hundred

yards, lies beneath. The beds themselves average from

ten to thirty feet in thickness. They abound everywhere

in obscure vegetable impressions and fossil fish ; but in

some little spots these last are much better preserved

than in the general mass. All my more delicately-

marked fossils have been furnished by one little piece

144 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

of beach, hardly more than forty square yards in
extent.

     ' Of all the fossils of these beds, the one with the

tuberculated surface seems least akin to anything that

exists at present. I have split up many hundred

nodules containing remains of this animal, for in the
times of the Old Red Sandstone it must have existed by

myriads in this part of Scotland. All the larger ones I
have found broken and imperfect --the nodules in gen

eral are too small to contain more than detached parts of
these, and, besides, the hard plates of the animal, separ
ated apparently by open sutures, seem to have offered a
less equal degree of resistance to the accumulating
weight than those continuous coats of scales, which
covered the various fish of the period, and which seem
in consequence to have been thrown less out of their

original forms. It is only the smaller varieties that I

find perfect enough to furnish me with anything like an
adequate idea of the proper shape of the animal. In
these, however, though the general outline be better
preserved, the plates are invariably obscure. In the
larger specimens, on the contrary, they are as well de

Ifined as the bits of a dissected map, but lack skill to

piece them together. The form of the body seems to
have somewhat resembled that of a tortoise, the plates,
like those of that animal, received their accessions of
growth at the edges which form the fins of the fish, the
body of the creature, as shown by the plates, must have

preserved considerable thickness at the sides. I have

Ifound specimens from which infer that a transverse

section must have formed an oval. At the shoulders of
the animal there were two arm-like fins or wings. All
my better specimens agree in the form and position of
these. Each terminated in a sharp point, and there

               LETTER TO AGASSIZ.  145

was a slight curve in each, like that of an elbow a very

little bent.

    I' can say almost nothing regarding the head of the
animal. Almost all the specimens I have yet found

show it variously. In some the fossil has a decapitated

appearance, in others there are faint markings which

merely show that a part of the creature extended above

the arm-like fins, while yet a third kind shows a toler

ably well-defined head. But even in specimens such as

the last all is obscure. Among the detached plates,

Ihowever, occasionally find one of a peculiar form which

seems to have covered the upper extremity of the animal.

In shape it somewhat resembles the snout of a ray. It

is arched transversely, and a longitudinal depression

runs through the centre, beginning a very little from the
point. All my specimens of this plate are rather too

weighty to send you, but Dr Malcolmson writes me that

Ione which picked up for him you have brought with

you to Neufchatel      In specimens 5, 6, and

7 you will find the remains of a small fish a contempo

rary of the tuberculated one. Unlike the fish with a

single large spine in each fin which I find in the same

beds, it was furnished with teeth. The fins, too, were

not scaled like those of the other, and instead of being

fastened to single spines, somewhat like the sails of a

boat to the yards, the membrane of each fin seems to

have been supported in the commoner way by a num
Iber of rays.
                   find a striking difference, too, in the
appearance of the head ; -- the bones are strongly mark

ed, and the external surface much roughened; whereas

the head of the fish with the spines has always a

smooth, flat appearance, except at the neck, where

what seems to have been the gills, or perhaps rather

a sort of fringe which overlapped these, may be

VOl. II.           10

146 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

traced. In both fishes the scales were ridged longi

tudinally, but in the toothed one these ridges are
so much more strongly marked that, when examined
through a glass, each scale resembles a little bunch of

thorns. Pardon me, honoured sir, that I am thus minute

in describing these differences to you, who observe better
than any one else, and can make a better use of what

you observe. I have not succeeded in convincing some

of our northern geologists that we have two varieties

Iof small scaled fish in our beds, and am now appealing

to you as our common judge, and thus showing the

Igrounds of my appeal. Besides, as cannot send you
Imy specimens by hundreds, deem it best, though it

may seem presumptuous in one so unskilled, to send
you in this way the result of my examinations of the
whole. One single specimen sometimes furnishes a
characteristic trait regarding which perhaps fifty illus
trative of the same fossil may be silent. Among all my
specimens of the fish with the spines, only one shows
me that the animal was marked by a lateral line.

    I'The consistency of style, if may so express myself,

which obtains among the fossil fish of these beds, is

Ihighly interesting. In no single fish do find two

styles of ornament, --there is unity of character in every

scale, plate, and fin. In the large glossy-scaled variety,
for instance (Dipterus), the whole external covering of
the animal was marked by minute puncturings, so that

every scale and plate --every ray of the tail and fins, --

presents, when viewed through the glass, a sieve-like ap
pearance. Another variety of large-scaled fish, ap
parently of an entirely different family, has its distinct
and consistent style of ornament also. Each scale furn
ishes a broad ground (faintly lined by concentric mark
ings crossed by radiating ones) on which there are raised

        LETTER TO AGASSIZ.                                    147

a series of longitudinal ridges, --waved just enough to
give them a sort of pendulous appearance ; and, as if to

conform with this character, the rays of the fins and tail
have a pendulous appearance too. In the fish with the
spines, the silvery smoothness of the fins must have har
monized well with the smoothness of the head, and the

lightly -marked ridges of the scales with the light fringe
of the neck and the elegant lines of scales which covered

the tail. And the small-scaled toothed fish had its har

mony of ornament with the rest. Without bearing per

haps a single thorn, it must have everywhere presented

a thorny appearance. Each scale seems a bunch of

minute prickles ; the head and neck present the same

rough appearance, and the rays of the fins are all
Ijagged at one
                             find that, unlike at  least two  va
rieties of fish                                    fish with  the
        edge.                by the beds, -- the
        furnished

larger  pounnesc,tu--retdhe  scales and  the fish with the large
ridged                       caudal fin  spread equally on both
Isides the tail.
                             am afraid, however, that when thus
Icommunicating the results of my petty observations,

am but gaining for myself the reputation of being a

tedious fellow.

    I I' Do ask too much, honoured sir, when request

a very few lines from you to say whether the formation

in which these fossils occur be a fresh-water one or other

wise, and whether the small-scaled fish with the teeth

be of a kind already known to geologists, or a new one ?

I am much alone in this remote corner, a kind of Robin

son Crusoe in geology, and somewhat in danger of the

savages, who cannot be made to understand why, ac

cording to Job, a man should be making leagues with

Ithe stones of the field ! But am sanguine enough to

hope that the good-nature of which my friend Dr

Malcolmson speaks so warmly may lead its owner to

148 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

devote a few spare minutes to render these leagues useful
Ito me.  am, I trust, sufficiently acquainted with geology

rightly to value the decisions of its highest authority.'

    It is an illustration of the carefulness of Miller's

habits of study, that he not only rewrote, with minute
verbal emendations, one passage in the preceding letter,
but copied the second as well as the first version into
the book in which he preserved his letters.

     The fossils intended for the inspection of M. Agassiz
were forwarded, in the first instance, to Sir Roderick
Murchison. Miller wrote at the same time to the latter,

inviting him to read the unsealed letter to Agassiz, re
peating his question as to whether the Old Red Sand

stone was a marine or a fresh-water formation, and stating
his intention to draw up an account of the geology of the
Cromarty district ' for a widely-circulated periodical.'

He received the following reply :--

         ' London, June 23, 1838.

' Though exceedingly occupied in the effort to bring

out my ponderous volumes with their copious illustra

Itions, lost little time in opening your box and ex
Iamining its treasures as they passed to M. Agassiz.

invited my friend, Sir Philip de Grey Egerton, who franks

this letter, and is stronger in fossil-fishery than most of

us, to be present at the examination. The result of our

      is,

                                                                                  '

                                                                      is
view  that we have no hesitation in pronouncing your

small-scaled fish to belong to the genus Cheirolepis
Agass., the most striking character of which the dorsal

fin being placed far backwards, and immediately above
or opposite to the posterior portion of the anal fin. " The
fins of this genus," says M. Agassiz, " have no spinose
ray on their anterior edge. Small slender rayons,' very

LETTER FROM SIR RODERICK MURCHISON. 149

much pressed against each other, and imbricated like
the scales alongside of the great anterior ' rayons ' of

these fins, replace in this case the spinose rays which

support the fins of the two genera, Acanthodus and

Cheir acanthus!' We believe that your specimens belong
to the C. Traillii Agass., found in Pomona, Orkney, by
Dr Traill. There may be two species in those you have

sent, but it seems doubtful.

' As to the fossils 1, 2, 3, we know nothing of them

except that they remind me of the occipital fragments of
Isome of the Caithness fishes.
                                do not conceive they

can be referable to any reptile, for if not fishes, they more

Iclearly approach to crustaceans than to any other class.

  conceive, however, that Agassiz will pronounce them

to be fishes, which, together with the curious genus

Cephalaspis of the Old Red Sandstone (described at

length from the Scotch and English specimens), form

the connecting links between crustaceans and fishes.

Your specimens remind me in several respects of the

Cephalaspis.
      ' Although my work was intended to be exclusively

devoted to Silurian (or transition) rocks of England and

Wales, I have made a few allusions to other tracts, and

among these to the Old Red Sandstone of Scotland, in

doing which I have, in the descriptions of the organic
Iremains, briefly alluded to your labours. Now that
know the fidelity and closeness of your research, I shall

endeavour to introduce another allusion in the Appen
dix, which is all that remains imprinted.

    I' am delighted with your clear and terse style of

description, and beg to assure you that if you could

send us in the course of the summer any general and de

tailed account of both the Sutors and all their contents,

I shall have the utmost pleasure in communicating it to

m-- - -21L zb- H5aai ffiS' "n

.- -Vil-- 1-                   - - -- XTXcT" TTTntfOTLJ

                           ""          ar it Ttt
                    .'

                                                     .  "* '-,
                                                                       //,
tumr nr iMninsrmB * mm>             "inejr            i..

IItrt.- ] t'Hu HTltt mut      TTtPTiTDr THUr            -:

. n* -r^racnrcf a* :ifT paswid to

    ir*t?nd_      Sir        niEpde

   7
-""-r. and b stKnasr in

ot. t/j he prt*eiit at the waiimfton.

vjt*- i, that we hare do hesitation in prone
small-scaled fish to belong to the genu

A'J'ihh., the most                     er of which

fin being placed far                   and irmne

or opposite to the p                   on of the a

film of this genus.'                    assiz, ^J..
my on their miter
                                       all slem

*.;-'         *.>*                                                                               e

           ti      -'i                                                           d

  CD.                                                               dd

                                                                        led
                                                                  B of

                                                                       saw

                                                                ed in
                        * al too

                        1 y fever
                                                                ie time,
                                                               ctator at

                                                         bowman?
                                                         breaker of
                                                        i np a few
                                                          ving of the
                                                      lie, by main
                                                    V his hammer,
                                                        yeaTS a mason
                                                    in right earnest,

                                    Itti account of the
                                                  have picked nj
                                           U, some of them o

                                    IHd am of opmior

                                VWvvty well nnderstooi
                                                   of key to that <

                            "XVv^s in which there occi
                                            ours. More splend:

150 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

the Geological Society, to be read at the November

meeting.

    ' You write and observe too well to waste your

strength in newspaper publications, and a good digest

of what you have done ought to be preserved in a per
Imanent work of reference.
                                                  can give you no positive

answer as to whether the Old Red Sandstone of Scot
Iland was formed in a lake or in the sea.
                                                  have, how

ever, strong reasons for believing that it is a marine

deposit, for in England we find marine shells in it to a con

siderable height above the uppermost beds of underlying
Silurian rocks. Besides, it is so analogous in structure
and component parts to the New Red Sandstone, which

also contains concretionary limestone, spotted marls,

Ifishes, and marine shells, that cannot but believe that

the one as well as the other of these great Red systems
were formed beneath the sea, though doubtless, as in the

coal-measure periods, there may have been local excep

tions and partial lacustrine deposits.

      ' The oldest lake deposit as yet known e. purely
                                                  is
               in the upper zone of coal, and            described
lacustrine)it I'                                      (*.

          is
                 is

               I
                                         a
                                              is
by myself. Burdie House another example, but the

deposit seems to be of mixed character.

      much long to revisit the shores of Caithness and

Cromarty with my increased knowledge, and with the

conviction that should learn so much from you, but
                                                  :
fear      hopeless.'                                     '

                                                                  a

                                                               I
      One of Miller's correspondents at this time was Mr

Patrick Duff, of Elgin, an ardent geologist. In letter

addressed to Mr Duff in December, 1838, we meet with

the following   passage, descriptive of an        attack of illness,
under which    Hugh had recently suffered
                                                   -- During the

whole of November was toiled almost to death at the
                      I

             ATTACK OF ILLNESS.                      151

Ibank with our yearly balance, and have been confined

by small-pox ever since, with a face doubtless a good deal

less handsome than usual, and surrounded by faces uglier

than even my own. There were faces on the bed-cur

tains, and faces on the walls, and faces in abundance on

Imy wife's tartan gown ; and when shut my eyes to
I Iexclude them, just saw them all the more clearly.

strove hard to call up more agreeable pictures. The

tree-ferns and saurians of the lias, or the half-tailed

fish and coccostei of the Old Red Sandstone, it would

Ibe worth while getting into a fever to see ; but called

them         as vainly  as Hotspur did upon the      spirits of
vasty        deep."        saw faces, faces, faces,  and saw
Ituhpeon"

nothing else. The phenomena of mind as exhibited in

Idisease have, suspect, been studied a great deal too

little. Can you tell me how a person affected by fever

can be both a man and a magic lantern at the same time,

and marvel exceedingly in his capacity of spectator at

what he exhibits to himself in his character of showman?
I am as much a geologist as ever, --a huge breaker of
Istones ; and I expect, when
                              have broken up a few

hundred cart-loads more, to know something of the
Imatter.
             am fighting my way, all alone, by main
strength, --the very antitype of Thor and his hammer,
Iand find that have not been fourteen years a mason
                        I must set myself in right earnest,
for nothing

sometime next summer, to draw up an account of the
Igeology of this part of the country.
                                       have picked up

in a desultory way a good many facts, some of them of

Ivalue enough to be preserved ; and am of opinion,

besides, that the geology of Cromarty, well understood,

may serve, in part at least, as a kind of key to that of

Moray and of the various localities in which there occur

fish-beds of the same kind with ours. More splendid

152 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

sections are to be found nowhere. The burn of Eathie
is a study in itself.'

     In a critique on the poems of a local poet, named
MacColl, published by Miller about this time in the

Inverness Courier, there occurs a comparative estimate
of Celt and Saxon, as represented by the Highlanders

and Lowlanders of Scotland. Miller would probably
have agreed with Professor Huxley that physiologically
there is no important difference between the races ; but
it is evident that he considered them as widely differing
in those psychological characters which, though taken
no account of by the physiologist, are of immense im

portance to the historian. Here is the passage :--

 The Celt is essentially a different person from the
Saxon in the very constitution of his mind. Both are
shrewd, but each in his own way. The Highlander is
characterized by the shrewdness of observation, the Loav-

lander by that of inference ; the Highlander is delighted

by the external beauty of things, the Lowlander in
diving into their secret causes ; the Highlander feels
keenly, and gives free vent to his feelings, the Lowlander,
on the contrary, cautiously conceals every emotion,
unless it be a very potent one indeed ; the Highlander is
a descriptive poet, the Lowlander a metaphysician. Our
Adam Smiths and David Humes are types of the one

class,--the Ossian of MacPherson is no unmeet repre

sentative of the other. The Gaelic as a language is
singularly rich in the descriptive, and comparatively
barren in the abstract. Phrenologists remark nearly the
same thing of the Celtic head ; the reflective organs are

always less prominently developed than the knowing

ones. It may be adduced, too, as a corroborative fact,

that the native literature of the Highlands abounds in
poems which contain nothing but pure description from

CELT AND SAXON.  153

beginning to end. One of MacPherson's acknowledged
pieces, entitled the Cave, which may be found in a well-
known critique on Laing's Ossian, by Sir Walter Scott
(see Edin. Review, No. 13), and MacColl's address to
Loch Lomond, are of this sort of picture-gallery class.
We have nothing quite like them in the poetry of the
Lowlands, where natural imagery is made to hold a sub

ordinate place to sentiment and narrative, and where
description at its best serves but to mark the scene on
which some reflection is grounded or in which some
action is performed. Perhaps of all our Saxon poets,

Professor Wilson approaches nearest in this respect to a
Celtic one.'

                                                           154

                        CHAPTER VII.

     THE CROMARTY FAST- DAY FRIENDSHIP WITH REV. MR
                                              STEWART.

WHILE science was more and more absorbing the
          attention of Miller, a backward glance being now
and then cast upon literature, he did not cease to take
the same lively interest in the affairs of Cromarty
which we witnessed in connection with the ' Cromarty

Chapel Case.' In the summer of 1838 rejoicings

took place throughout the country, on account of the
recent accession of Queen Victoria to the throne. The
day appointed for celebrating the coronation coincided

with that on which the Cromarty Kirk Session had

decided to hold the fast which, in Presbyterian Scot
land, usually precedes the celebration of the Lord's
Supper. The Church authorities declined to alter their
day, and another was appointed for the loyal demonstra
tion. An outcry was instantly raised throughout the
North of Scotland on the subject, and the people of Cro
marty were proclaimed a parcel of old-fashioned bigots,

the slaves of their ministers. A minute clique in Cromarty

took the view of the vociferous remonstrants, and, under
the animating leadership of a gallant major, a small pro
prietor of the neighbourhood, got up a loyal display

                THE CROMARTY FAST DAY.                        155

of their own at the time when the majority of the inhabit
ants were in church. Miller found himself and his towns

men denounced in prose and verse far and wide. He

took pen in hand, and addressed a letter in their and his

own defence to the Inverness Courier. Adopting a tone

of good-humoured banter, admirably fitted to the occa

sion, he brought out the extreme absurdity of the trans

ports of indignation into which the newspaper poets

and tap-room loyalists had lashed themselves. The

major he struck off in a phrase felicitously descriptive of
                         --'
a large  class  of  men       No  one  ever  spoke  well  of  his
                         :

judgment or thought ill of his heart.' Space must be

found for a few sentences from the letter.

' The day of the fast arrived ; and not on the Sabbath

itself do our streets present a more solitary appearance,

or are our churches better filled. There was no music out

side to disturb the congregations, for the respectable and

talented musicians, who had been so vehemently urged

to lend their aid in desecrating the day, had gone to
attend service in a neighbouring parish, and the old

veteran, who had been so earnestly solicited to parade

his drum through the streets, had indignantly refused.

There were sounds of distant firing heard by the people

who sat nearest the windows,--the others heard only the

preachers, as they poured forth their fervent and impress

ive prayers   thoavt erthweiilrlinSgovearnedignaffemctigiohntatreeighenarltosn, --g tahnadt
prosperously

she might enjoy all the good of this world and all the

happiness of the next. After Divine Service was over,

the ghost of a forlorn and miserable pageant glided

through our streets. Every door was shut, as if an

enemy had landed ; a glimpse might now and then

be caught of some anxious matron drawing her too

curious urchin from a window ; a few boys had broken

156 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

loose, but they were wonderfully few indeed. The

major walked in front, supported by two placard bearers.
He was neatly dressed in what he had been pleased to
term " the garb of his Queen," with, of course, the sub

stitution of inexpressibles for the petticoat, and really,

for a gentleman of his standing, looked exceedingly well.
The suit he wore was certainly a very pretty suit ; all

agree, however, that he might have chosen a more appro

priate cap, and that the addition of a few bells would

have been a mighty improvement. About ten o'clock

there was a bonfire lighted, at which some of the town

children attended, and the major harangued. He was

witty on the clergyman and Kirk Session, and more than

a little severe on the treasonable disloyalty of attend

ing church. There was much benevolence, however,

shown in his concern for the town ; and much good

nature in his so kindly informing the decent fisher-

women, whom curiosity     had brought   "  within    earshot,
that the rejoicings were  in honour of     a lovely    young

queen, just like themselves."
      ' The people of the procession have been represented

as Liberals, those opposed to them as Conservatives or

Tories. Nothing more untrue. The parish had agreed
to postpone their coronation rejoicings till Wednesday

last ; and on that day, in a procession by far the most

numerous and respectable ever witnessed in Cromarty,

Iand headed by our magistrates and ministers, had the

pleasure of walking side by side with one of the most

intelligent and liberal Whigs of the place. At the

Idemonstration of the evening had the satisfaction of

drinking to her Majesty's ministers, --a toast given from

the chair. And I, too, am a Whig. I was a Whig

when Major  was a zealous Tory, and should we both

THE REV. MR STEWART.  157

Ilive for a few years longer, shall be a Whig when the

major may have become a Tory again.'
     The victory clearly remained with Miller and the

clerical and magisterial respectabilities of Cromarty.

His friendship with the Rev. Mr Stewart had now be

come close and confidential. Stewart was no writing
man. Wholly devoid of ambition, shrinking with the
fastidiousness of an intellectual recluse from celebrity on
the one hand and from sustained effort on the other, he

permitted his fine intellect to work in its own way and
at its own time. On one subject he was deeply in earn

est, and on one only-- the subject of religion. When

he spoke to his people from the pulpit every energy of
his soul was roused, and the intense, penetrating, subtle

spell of his genius enthralled the hearer. I heard him

preach once in my boyhood, and no second time ; but
the memory of that one sermon will never fade from my
mind. His manner was in marked contrast to that

which has commonly prevailed among fervid Highland
preachers, to that, for example, of Dr MacDonald of
Ferintosh. There was little action, no ejaculation ; the
fire rose from deep inner fountains, not in a lava torrent,
but in keen, concentrated, high-mounting jets of flame.
He was an evangelical of the old school in his theology,
and it was by a curious combination of qualities that

sermons theologically as old as the Shorter Catechism
were imbued by him with a true originality. He was
biblical, textual, in the highest degree, resting on the
infallible inspiration of the ipsissima verba of Scripture ;
but his imagination was so vigorous, his inventive faculty
so quick and fresh and fertile, that the words of Scrip
ture suggested to him what would have occurred to no

Iother man. The subject on which heard him preach

158 THE BANK ACCOUNTANT.

Iwas the flood, and recollect how, by casting every word

of the Scriptural record into the alembic of his mind,
and melting out of it every possible implication and
suggestion, he realized the scene with a vividness and an

intensity of effect of which I had not previously dream

ed. ' The Lord shut him in.' This was a very rich
nugget from the Scriptural mine. ' Noah did not close
the door. There are works which God keeps for Him
self. The burden of them is too heavy for the back of
man. To shut the door on a world about to perish
would have been too great a responsibility for a son of

Adam, --the stress of it would have borne too heavily on

a human heart. Another moment, and another, and an

other might have been granted by the patriarch, and the
door might never have been shut at all. And would he

have done the work conclusively, even if he had, in the
first instance, closed the door ? Who knows but that,

when the waters rose, and he heard the wailing around,
and friends whom he loved held towards him their little

ones and shrieked to be taken in, he might have relented,
and opened, and a rush might have been made, and the
ship that carried the life of the world might have been
swamped? He dared not open a door which God
had shut; perhaps he could not open it. We never

hear that he opened the door even when the earth was

drying. God told him when to go. And so it is

in the ark of salvation. It is not the Church, it is

not the minister, that shuts or opens the door. These
do God's bidding : they preach righteousness, they
offer salvation, they gather in ; it is God that shuts
and that opens the door. And what a sound was
that, when, in the listening ominous hush of earth's last
evening, God shut the door ! There have been sounds
as well as sights to make the boldest heart quail and the

THE REV. MR STEWART.                                        159

flintiest heart melt ; the cry that has gone up from cities

given over to fire and sword, the shuddering throe of

earthquake which hurries myriads to death ; but except
the cry on Calvary, which corresponded to no more
                                              it,
solemn and melancholy sound has been heard       by  human

ears than that which passed into the evening stillness

when the broad green earth was left to be the grave of
mankind, and God shut the door of the ark. Once

again God will shut the door. Man will not do it. AngelIa
will not do it. But oh, what sigh and shudder will
pass through the listening universe when God will shut

the door of the heavenly ark upon the lost
      Such, or something like such, was Stewart's manner

of preaching. He had brief outlines before him writ
                                              !
ing, and he brought out his picture, touch      '

                                                 by
                                                        in
                                              touch, as

he went along. His strokes were few, decisive, memor

able. shall not say that all have given above was his
aI                                 it is I                  ;I

      anever put my impressions of his discourse into black and
                  a
white until now but this my honest attempt to repro
                                ;
duce from the fossil bed of memory so much of the living

sermon. And living word was. The preacher, speak

ing in clear, intense, low, yet rich and ringing tones,

held large congregation, for, should say, at least an
hour, in attention as fixed and silent as that of child
                                              a

hearing wondrous tale from its mother.

     The two men of whom Miller used to speak as hav

ing done most to form his character and powers were

Chalmers and Stewart.              ; It  was the general feeling in

the Church of Scotland at this period that these were her

most remarkable preachers and considering the remote

ness of Cromarty, and the shy and retiring nature of

Stewart, this fact must be held to demonstrate that he

was man of high and peculiar order. After the
a
                      a

disruption of the Scottish Church in 1843, when was
                                                     it

166 EDITOR.

what he says of the influence of the Scottish Reformed

Church, he would doubtless permit us to regard as the

complement of his previous statement. ' Scotch Litera
ture and Thought,' he exclaims, ' Scotch Industry ;

James Watt, David Hume, Walter Scott, Robert Burns :

I find Knox and the Reformation acting in the heart's

core of every one of these persons and phenomena ;

I find that without the Reformation they would not

have been. Or what of Scotland ? The Puritanism of

Scotland became that of England, of New England. A

tumult in the High Church of Edinburgh spread into a

universal battle and struggle over all these realms ; there

came out, after fifty years' struggling, what we all call
the " Glorious Revolution," a Habeas-Corpus Act, Free
                                 '
Parliaments,  and  much  else
                               !

     No Church has been more thoroughly popular than
the Reformed Church of Scotland, and, if we apprehend

the character and history of that Church, we shall have

no difficulty in understanding how this has been the

case. The Scottish people embraced the principles of

the Reformation with unanimity and ardour ; and from

the tune when the Reformed Church gained the ascend

ant in Scotland down to the period of the Revolution

Settlement, the Church was always identified with the

party of political freedom and national independence.

The prosperity of the Church was coincident with the

vindication of the national honour and the spread of the

national influence ; the humiliation of the Church was

accompanied by the political debasement of the people.

These things go together in the history of those times

with a singular precision and constancy ; the one is to

the other, in the windings of Scotland's fortune, as

the bank is to the stream. The aggressive pride and

self-confident enthusiasm of Scotland never towered so

PATRIOT AND PRESBYTERIAN.  167

high as when the covenanting army marched to assist
the Puritans against Charles I. ; few worse civil go
vernments have ever existed than that which oppressed
Scotland and the Church of Scotland together under

Charles II. ; and in the interval between the reigns of
Charles I. and Charles II., when England, Scotland, and

Ireland alike lay prostrate at the feet of Cromwell, the
Church of Scotland had the felicity to represent a pitch
of national hatred against the victor of Dunbar keener
than was ever known in Scottish bosoms against the
race of Stewart. Thus, in Scotland, ' patriot ' and ' Pres
byterian ' became convertible terms.

     It may strike English readers as a mystery that a

Church intensely loved by a nation should have been
a Church of the loftiest ecclesiastical pretensions. Two

reasons make this appear strange to observers south
of the Tweed : first, that the Church of England has

been more willing to sacrifice the nation to its kings
than any Church in Christendom ; and, secondly, that
the word ' Church ' has been immemorially connected in
the English mind with the priesthood and not with the
people. Under cover of the theory that the sacraments

can be rightly administered only by men ordained by
episcopal successors of the apostles, the Anglican priest
hood have had no difficulty in identifying themselves
with the Church, and they have been practically so iden

tified by the English laity, whenever question arose as
to the spiritual powers of the Church. In the Reformed
communions, the word ' Church ' conveyed no such im
pression. For them the Church had reverted to her
apostolic acceptation as the assembly of the faithful, not
the members of a sacerdotal caste. The only reformer,
in the strict and complete sense of the word, was Calvin.
Luther, far more amiable and human-hearted, had no

168 EDITOR.

such grasp of principles, no such intrepidly destructive

and constructive genius. Contenting himself with res

cuing from the Papacy those doctrines which he deemed

essential to human salvation, Luther left the Church to

constitute herself, or to be constituted by princes, as cir

cumstances might direct. The mediaeval Church of

England became the Anglican Church of modern times

in virtue of one essential fact, that she surrendered,

under the mask of an evasion, her spiritual liberties to

the sovereign of the realm. This has been conclusively

established by Hallam, Macaulay, and others, and has

been treated as a self-evident truth by the highest

legal authorities in the England of to-day. That Henry

VIII. should assume spiritual supremacy need not sur

prise us if we reflect that he and his generation believed

kings to be divinely endowed beings, capable of working

miracles by their touch. Neither Luther nor the fathers

of Anglicanism, in digging the foundations for the Re

formed Church, cleared out the debris of Romanism and

of feudalism. They retained enough of Romanism to

change the Christian pastorate into a priesthood, enough
of feudalism to exalt kings, nobles, and ' upper ' classes

generally into an Unchristian pre-eminence and to de
press the body of the people. Calvin alone went sans
phrase to the Bible and to God, with a view to re-consti

tuting both the pastorate and the congregation on the

apostolic model. From the authoritative documents of

the apostolic age, he drew the doctrine, the discipline,
the rights, the powers, of the Christian Church. Whether

he fell or did not fall into errors of his own is not now

the question ; it is clear, at all events, that this was re
formation in a deeper sense than that in which the word

applies either  to the Lutheran or the Anglican com
munions; and
                the instinct of the sixteenth century, --

THE REFORMED CHURCH.  169

that vague sense of the general mind which seldom

errs, --both as manifested in the Church of Rome and

beyond her pale, recognized the fact by signalizing the
Church of Geneva, the Church of the Huguenots, the
Church of Holland, the English Churches of the Puritans,
and the Presbyterian Church of Scotland, as branches,
not of the Protestant, but of the Reformed, Church.

      The Reformed Church claimed spiritual independ
ence as a right bestowed on her in the Word of God ;
but her congregations found in this no cause why they

should dread her ecclesiastical assumptions, since the
Church meant the body of the faithful, not a mystically
endowed sacerdotal order. Recognizing the sacred im
portance of the congregation as an integral portion of
the Church, the Reformed communions naturally re
spected congregational rights, and laid it down as a
principle of practical administration that no pastor could
be appointed to minister to a congregation against their

will.
     All this was mother's milk to Hugh Miller. From

his earliest years his eye had flamed and his heart beat
quick at the names of Bruce and Wallace, and in the
Scottish Church he saw an institution which incarnated

more of the ancient spirit and freedom of his native land
than any other. Like all sane Scotchmen, he regarded
the union with England as a crown of blessing for Scot
land ; but he felt that those political questions which de
rived importance from their bearing on the interests of
the empire at large, had a comparatively remote and in
direct connection with the welfare of Scottish towns and

villages, Scottish peasants and artisans ; whereas the
preaching of the Gospel of Christ with purity and fer
vour, and the influence of a trusted, loved, and genially
earnest pastorate, and the feeling of honest pride and

170 EDITOR.

self-respect with which Scotchmen looked upon their
clergy as not forced on them by the will of man, but

sent by God to bless them, and called by themselves to

minister to them in spiritual things, he believed to affect,

in the closest and most penetrating way, the happiness
and well-being of ten thousand Scottish homes. He

denied with scorn the allegation that the Church of

Scotland gave up, at the time of the union with Eng

land, her cherished independence. The burst of elo

quent enthusiasm with which Chalmers asserted, in his

celebrated London lectures in defence of Church estab

lishments, the spiritual independence of the Scottish
                                        ' It should
Church expressed his clear conviction.

never be forgotten,' said Chalmers, 'that, in things

ecclesiastical, the highest power of our Church is

amenable to no higher power on earth for its decisions.

It can exclude, it can deprive, it can depose at pleasure.

External force might make an obnoxious individual the

holder of a benefice ; but there is no external force in

these realms that could make him a minister of the

Church of Scotland. There is nothing which the State

can do to our independent and indestructible Church,

but strip her of its temporalities.  Nee tamen consume-
batur; she would remain a Church
                                      notwithstanding, --

as strong as ever in the props of her own moral and in
herent greatness. And though shrivelled in all her

dimensions by the moral injury inflicted on many thou

sands of families, she would be at least as strong as ever

in the reverence of her country's population. She was

as much a Church in her days of suffering, as in her

days of outward security and triumph, --when a wan

dering outcast, with nothing but the mountain breezes

to play around her, and nought but the caves of the

earth to shelter her, --as now, when admitted to the

bowers of an establishment. The magistrate might

SPIRITUAL INDEPENDENCE.                                                       171

withdraw his protection, and she cease to be an estab
lishment any longer, -- but in all the high matters of

sacred and spiritual jurisdiction, she would be the same
as before. With or without an establishment, she, in

these, is the unfettered mistress of her doings. The

king, by himself or by his representative, might be the
spectator of our proceedings ; but what Lord Chatham

said of the poor man's house is true in all its parts of

Ithe Church to which have the honour to belong : " In

England every man's house is his castle."  Not that it is
surrounded with walls and battlements.
                                           It may be a

straw-built shed.    Every  wind of heaven may whistle
                   element
round --every               of heaven may enter                               but
it,
                                      is

                                                                         it,
the king cannot, the king dare not.'

      These views of Chalmers, unchallenged at the time,
are accordant with the constitutional theory of the Church
of Scotland. The decision of Hallam, based on express
and unequivocal provisions of the Treaty of Union be

tween England and Scotland, conclusive on the point.

The Presbyterian Church was accepted as an integral

and essential part of the constitution of the United King
dom, and the Confession of Faith was enrolled among
the fundamental statutes of the realm. But neither

Chalmers nor Hugh Miller perceived, until the cold iron

of experience sent the death-like truth to their hearts,
that the sardonic smile with which Hallam records that

 the Moderator dissolves the Assembly in the name of
the Lord Jesus Christ, the Head of the Church, and
'
                                       a

                                       it

                                                                                            a
                                                                                                by
the same authority appoints another to meet on certain
day of the ensuing year,' while the Royal Commissioner
subsequently performs the same ceremony in name of

the sovereign, had minatory and potent significance.

By the Treaty of Union was decreed that the spiritual
province and the ecclesiastical province should remain
independent of each other in Scotland, and that the

172 EDITOR.

Church should, in the spiritual province, be supreme.
But there was one thing which the framers of the Treaty
of Union omitted to specify. They did not say who
would decide in the event of there being a difference of
opinion between the representatives of the civil power and
the representatives of the spiritual power, as to the limits
of their respective provinces. To leave this point unde
termined was inevitably to give it on the side of the

stronger. A lady contracts marriage under favourable

conditions. These are inscribed in the marriage settle
ments, and the swords of her kinsmen, casting their
gleam on the parchment, make it certain that, at the
moment, those settlements have a real value. But they
put their swords into the scabbard, there to rest and
rust, nevermore to be again drawn in the lady's quarrel.
They betake them to their farms and their merchan
dise, become comparatively indifferent to her affairs,
and dream no longer of risking life or land for her sake.
Then a dispute between husband and wife arises. He de
clares that he wishes to fulfil with loyalty the provisions
of the marriage settlements. She maintains that he

essentially misinterprets them, that the question affects

her honour in a vital point, that, if he persists, the mar
riage will, ipso facto, be dissolved. He persists. She

calls on her kinsmen. They are languid and lukewarm ;
are inclined, on the whole, to agree with her ; but do not

recur even in thought to the idea of defending her claims
by force. The husband has the power in his hands ; he
decides in his own sense ; and the lady announces to him
and to all the world that the connection between them is

at an end. Voila, the history of the Disruption of
1843. The Church of Scotland, at the time of the

Union with England, was the lady of our allegory. The
Revolution settlement, the Treaty of Union, secured her
spiritual independence as well as pen, ink, and parch-

THE GROUNDS OF DISPUTE.  173

merit could secure it. To have refused the guarantee
would have been to encounter the risk of a war be
tween the nations. As old Earl Crawford said at

the time, an army of twenty thousand men would not

have preserved the peace in Scotland if an attempt

had been made to trample on the Church. But the

Union was completed. A hundred and thirty years

passed away. Scotchmen learned to feel that the inter
ests of Scotland had been drawn into the mighty current

of the interests of the British empire. Scotchmen, side

by side with Englishmen, had defended the common
cause on many a bloody field from Assaye to Waterloo.
Then the dispute between the Church of Scotland and

the Legislature of the empire --for to that it soon came--

arose. The Church interpreted the compact in one way,

the State in another. The representatives of Scotland
in the British House of Commons were, by a majority,
in favour of the claims of the Church. But the State,

with all the power of the empire at its back, insisted on

its view being taken ; resistance by the Scotch members
or their constituents was out of the question ; and the
 Church, as represented by the party which had swayed
her councils for eight years, dissolved her connection
with the civil Government.

       The battle-field on which the conflict between

 Church and State in Scotland was fought out was
 exactly that which, since the battle had become inevit
 able, the Church would have chosen. Had the majority
 in the General Assembly been checked by the civil
 tribunals while engaged in the rigorous enforcement

 of Calvinistic doctrine or of domestic morality, --while

 deposing some unfortunate Arminian preacher, or sus
 pending some genial divine who in his cups had
 not been true to his moderate principles, -- the cry of
 priestly oppression could hardly fail to have been raised

 174 EDITOR.

 against them, and it is inconsistent with all we know of

 human nature to suppose that they should have been en
couraged by the plaudits of popular enthusiasm. But in
the struggle which issued in the disruption of the Church
of Scotland, the cause of the Church was the cause of the

people. The spiritual independence of the former was

a shield held forth to defend the congregational privi
leges of the latter. The jurisdiction of the Church
would have been a poor rallying word even in Scotland,

if it had not been linked with the cause of non-intrusion.

The right of the people to have no pastor forced upon
them was that which the Church brought out all her

artillery of suspension and deposition to protect. It is
unquestionable that if the majority in the Church courts
could have been induced to betray the people, -- to make
common cause with the patrons, --to put off congrega
tions with some plausible make-believe, --they might

have availed themselves of inviting opportunities to
secure their own predominance. But no artifice of
statesmen, no subtle influence of aristocratic favour, no

comfort of pleasant manses and fixed incomes, no pride
of State establishment, dear to the clerical bosom, could

tempt the Church to prove false to the ancient league,
or to abandon that guardianship of congregational rights
which had made her the darling of the Scottish com
monalty from the days of Knox to the days of Chalmers.*

     * It is interesting to observe that Sir Walter Scott, who had a

marvellously exact comprehension of the Presbyterianism of Scotland,
represents David Deans as sensitively anxious on the subject of his son-
in-law's ' real harmonious call ' to the parish of Knocktarlity, and as
ready to maintain ' the right of the Christian congregation to be con
sulted in the choice of their own pastor ' as ' one of the choicest and
most inalienable of their privileges.' David Deans is expressly drawn
by Scott as a patriarch of the Kirk, and Dr William Cunningham him
self could not have defined with nicer exactness the Non-intrusion

claim of the Church, -- not that the people should choose their pastors,

but that they should be 'consulted in the choice' of their pastors,--
than old Davie.

175

CHAPTER II.

LETTER TO LORD BROUGHAM CALL TO EDINBURGH                    LEAVES
                                                  CROMARTY.

THE most plausible of the make-believes with which
      the Evangelical majority were tempted by statesmen to

put off the people was the concession to congregations of
a right to specify certain objections to presentees, which,

if supported by adequate proof, would afford valid

grounds for their being set aside by Presbyteries. If

the pastor or probationer selected by the patron could
be proved to be unsound in doctrine, defective in
literary acquirement, or lax in morals, the rights of the

patron were, in that instance, to lapse. At first sight,

it may appear to many that the liberty of congregations
would thus have been abundantly fenced. What more
could they ask than that their pastor should be accurate
in doctrine, accomplished in letters, irreproachable in
life? The reply is simple and conclusive. They could
ask that he should be one whom they could personally

love, and from whose preaching and ministering their
souls could derive nourishment ; and the reasons why

 one man might answer to this description, and another

 man might not, are obviously of a nature to evade
 distinct apprehension even in thought, and which it might

176 EDITOR.

be quite impossible to set down in black and white.
Members of the Anglican Church, or of the Episcopal
Church of Scotland, are hardly in a position to appreci
ate the importance, as conceived by a member of the
Reformed Church, of positive acceptance by a congrega
tion of its pastor. The Episcopal Church retains, in the
first place, the mediaeval doctrine of a peculiar sanctity
and power of blessing attached to episcopally ordained
clergymen. The Reformed Church in all her branches,
certainly not least in her Scottish branch, discards
the idea of a mystic power inherent in the priesthood,
and rests the value of the clergyman on his personal
qualities. The Anglican Church, in the second place,
has a Prayer Book, and the congregational devotion
does not depend on the clergyman. The pastors of the
Reformed Church of Scotland compose the prayers which
they offer up in the name of the congregation, and
though comprehensive, minute, and admirable directions
for congregational prayer are given them in the formu
laries of the Church, it is inevitable that the character
of their prayers will be in large measure dependent on

their personal qualifications. But if we would get at

the very heart of that invincible objection to intruded
pastors which the communicants of Scotland have
shown in every age, we must call to mind the intense
personal religiousness of the Scotch. The religious Scot
is not, like the corresponding type in England, demon
strative and emotional. He shrinks with sensitive dislike
from those effusive recitations of spiritual experience

which Wesley found congenial to large classes in England.
He rejects the notion, practically acted on by a proportion
of the English Congregationalists, and a still larger pro
portion of the English Baptists, that presbytery or parson,
elder or deacon, has the right or the capacity to investi

          LORD BROUGHAM'S SPEECH.  177

gate a man's religious state before God and to say
whether he is or is not converted. Not the less but the

more, however, for his thus deeming conversion an in

scrutably sacred process transacted in the secret places

of a man's soul between himself and his Maker, does

the Scottish religionist of the historic type regard con

version as infinitely important, and desire, as the one

essential thing, that his pastor shall be a man of God.

His judgment on the point may be narrow, uncharitable,

superstitious ; but it will depend mainly upon sympathies

of the soul's life which have never shaped themselves

even to himself in an articulate whisper, and which he

feels it to be utterly preposterous to attempt to express

under specified heads of objection to a presentee. Never,

therefore, for one moment were the congregations of

Scotland beguiled into the belief that the right of

objecting to pastors selected for them by patrons was

equivalent to being certified that no pastor should be
' intruded ' upon them.

    It was Lord Brougham's adoption and enforcement

of the view that the right to specify objections to a

presentee was the sole concession made by law to the

congregations of the Church of Scotland, which roused

Hugh Miller from his domestic repose in the shadow of
the hill of Cromarty. The patron of the parish of
Auchterarder, Lord Kinnoul, had presented the Rev. Mr

Young to the charge. About forty of the parishioners
abstained from positively opposing him; nearly three

hundred expressly declined to have him as their pastor ;

and only three individuals, two of them not members of

the congregation, signed the call. Under these circum

stances the Presbytery rejected Mr Yoimg. His soli

citor, not carrying the case to any of the higher courts

of the Church, turned at once to the Civil Authority.

VOL. II.  12

173 EDITOR.

The case was elaborately and very ably argued in the

Court of Session. Eight of the judges were of opinion

that the rejection of Mr Young by the Presbytery was

illegal. Five were of opinion that the Church had a

right to reject the presentee, and among these were
Cockburn, Jeffrey, Moncreiff, and Glenlee. The decision

of the Court against the Church was pronounced on the

10th of March, 1838. In May, 1839, it was confirmed

by the House of Lords, and on this occasion Lord

Brougham delivered his famous speech on the Scottish
Church question. He dismissed, as wholly untenable,

the proposition that congregations of the Scottish Church

had a right to choose their pastors.

    ' Could I do nothing,' writes Hugh Miller in de

scribing his feelings at the time, ' for my Church in her
Ihour of peril ? There was,
                             believed, no other in

stitution in the country half so valuable, or in which

the people had so large a stake. The Church was of

right theirs, --a patrimony won for them by the blood of

their fathers, during the struggles and sufferings of more

than a hundred years ; and now that her better ministers

were trying, at least partially, to rescue that patrimony

for them from the hands of an aristocracy who, as a body

at least, had no spiritual interest in the Church,--

belonging, as most of its members did, to a different

communion, -- they were in danger of being put down,

unbacked by the popular support which in such a cause
they deserved. Could I not do something to bring up
Ithe people to their assistance ?
                                   tossed wakefully
throughout a long night, in which I formed my plan of

taking up the purely popular side of the question ; and

Iin the morning sat down to state my views to the

Ipeople, in form of a letter addressed to Lord Brougham.
    devoted to my new employment every moment not

                  LETTER TO MR PAUL.                     179

imperatively demanded by my duties in the bank office,
and, in about a week after, was able to despatch the
manuscript of my pamphlet to the respected manager of

the Commercial Bank, -- Mr Robert Paul, --a gentleman
from whom I had received much kindness when in

Edinburgh, and who in the great ecclesiastical struggle

took decided part with the Church.'

     This is the letter, addressed to Mr Paul, which

accompanied the pamphlet.

                                                             'Cromarty, 13th June, 1839.

   I' feel deeply interested in the question which at

present agitates the Church. It is a vital one ; and

unless the people can be roused to take part in it (and

they seem strangely uninformed and woefully indifferent

as yet), the worst cause must inevitably prevail. They
may perhaps listen to one of their own body, -- to one

who combines the opinions of the old with those of the

modern Whig, and who, though he feels very strongly

on the question, has no secular interest involved in it.

    ' In this hope I have written the accompanying letter,
which I now submit to your perusal. May I request

you, should you deem it fitted in some degree to accom

Iplish what have intended, to put it into the hands of

some publisher interested in the welfare of the Church,

and of influence enough to secure to it an extensive cir

                  I                   think             will secure
                                iIs,
                                                       districts --
                                                     it
culation. Humble as my name

to me good many readers in our northern
I                                                        ;
               a
in those of the south am of course less known, but as       by

   occasionally contribute to Chambers's Journal, the
readers of that extensively circulated periodical will re

cognize me as an old acquaintance, and may be led
curiosity to listen to what have to say on the subject.

   fair hearing on the part of the people of the Church, --
of the common people, at least, -- surely all the cause
A                 I

                                  is

180 EDITOR.

requires to secure their support. The price, should my
letter suit a publisher's views, may be very low; -- the

writer's interest in it will not add to the expense ; -- it is

an offering for the altar.'

      The circumstances which followed upon the arrival
of the Letter to Lord Brougham in Edinburgh will be

best conceived from an account of them given by Dr
Candlish in a letter to Mrs Miller, dated 3rd December,

1860.

    I' remember them,' he writes, ' as if they had

occurred yesterday. Walking along the streets one fore

noon, I met quite accidentally Mr Robert Paul. After
conversing on general topics, and as I was leaving him,

he said to me, in a sort of casual, off-hand manner, " By-

the-by, I have a manuscript in my pocket which I wish

you would read at your leisure. It is on the Church

question. The writer is a friend of mine in a bank in
Ithe north."
              suppose he mentioned Mr Miller's name,
I Ibut had not heard of him before.
                                     took the manu

script home and laid it aside ; intending to give a cur

sory glance over it in the course of a day or two, and

then return it ; certainly expecting to find nothing re

markable in it,-- nothing beyond what might perhaps

be useful in the writer's own neighbourhood and circle.

IThat same evening, being alone, -- for recollect that my

family were in the country, -- and being somewhat dull
I Iand listless, thought might as well look at the manu
script Mr Paul had given me. I began to read it in a
Ithoroughly indifferent mood.
                               never can forget the
rapture, -- for it was nothing short of that, --into which

the first pages threw me. 1 finished the reading in a

state of great excitement ; so much so that, though it

Iwas late, could not rest till I had hastened with the

manuscript to Mr Dunlop, beseeching him to read it

     DR CANDLISH READS THE LETTER.                               181

that very night. The following day Mr Dunlop and I

met with Mr Paul and a few friends, and either then, or

within a day or two thereafter, it was agreed to ask Mr
Miller to become editor of the Witness newspaper, then

about to be started. We had been looking out for an

Ieditor. Whenever had read the manuscript, which
Iwas, need not say, that of the letter to Lord Brougham,
I came at once to the conclusion that we had found the

man. So did Mr Dunlop when he had read it. The

thing was thus immediately and enthusiastically settled.'

     The Letter to Lord Brougham was at once published.

Hugh Miller has left behind him no more masculine,

idiomatic, close-knit, or melodious piece of writing, nor

is any of his productions more strongly featured with

the characteristics of the man. He opens with a glow

ing, yet nowise fulsome, tribute to Lord Brougham.
' I have been no careless or uninterested spectator
of your lordship's public career. No, my lord, I have
Ifelt my heart swell as
                                  pronounced the name of

Henry Brougham.' He then makes an admirable

point by referring to Brougham's prowess as a Par

liamentary Reformer and the relative capacities of Scot

tish communicants, on the one hand, to elect members of

the British Parliament, and, on the other, to choose their
parish ministers. ' Surely the people of Scotland are not

so changed but that they know at least as much of the

doctrines of the New Testament as of the principles of

civil government, and of the requisites of a gospel minis
                                                                               '
ter as of the qualifications  of  a  Member                 of   Parliament
                                                                             !

His argument on behalf of the Church and her congrega
tions he bases upon the original constitution and dis

Itinctive character of the Church of Scotland. ' read in

the  First Book of    "Dinsocimplainnesh(oaus lddreanwtner  up   by Knox and
his                                                         the  ministry with
     brethren), that

182 EDITOR.

out a lawful vocation ; and that a lawful vocation stand-

eth in the election of the people, examination of the minis

try, and admission of them both." I find in the Second

Book, as sanctioned by our earlier Assemblies, and sworn

to in our National Covenant, that as this liberty of elec

tion was observed and respected as long as the primitive

Church maintained its purity, it should be also observed

and respected by the Reformed Church of Scotland ; and

that neither by the King himself, nor by any inferior

person, should ministers be intruded on congregations,
contrary to the will of the people.' His expression of

devotion to his Church may be not uninstructive to those

who cannot conceive of a Church which has a definite

and comprehensive creed, as anything else but a grinding

Iintellectual tyranny. ' To no man do yield in the love
Iand respect which I bear to the Church of Scotland.

never signed the Confession of her Faith, but I do more,
I I-- believe it ; and
                        deem her scheme of government

at once the simplest and most practically beneficial that

has been established since the time of the Apostles. But

it is the vital spirit, not the dead body, to which I am

attached : it is to the free popular Church, established

by our Reformers, --not to an unsubstantial form or an
empty name,--a mere creature of expediency and the

State : and had she so far fallen below my estimate of

her dignity and excellence as to have acquiesced in your

lordship's decision, the leaf holds not more loosely by

the tree when the October wind blows highest, than I

would have held by a Church so sunk and degraded.'

     A large part of this masterly tractate is necessarily

devoted to a consideration of the law of patronage en

acted by the British Legislature in the reign of Anne.

The incompatibility of that law with the fundamental

principles of the Church of Scotland, the baseness of the

THE PATRONAGE ACT.  183

intrigue, hiding treason to the House of Brunswick under

very genuine hatred of the Presbyterian clergy, by which
it was carried through Parliament, the opposition offered
to it during the earlier part of last century by those
members and ministers of the Church of Scotland who

incarnated her ancient spirit, its effect in driving into in

voluntary exile her most earnest pastors and most pious ad
herents, are demonstrated and enforced with extraordinary

vigour. But there is one thing Hugh Miller does not
assert in his Letter to Lord Brougham, and the omis
sion is of importance. He does not say that the British
Legislature, in restoring to the patrons of benefices in
the Church of Scotland those rights of patronage which
the Church, in the plenitude of her power, had swept
away, did not mean to transfer to the patrons what the
Church had conferred on the people. In order to do

justice to the majority of the judges of the Court of Ses

sion, and to the Moderate party in the Church of Scot
land, we are bound to admit that the rational interpreta
tion of a law restoring patronage is that it conferred
upon the patrons real power, and that, by implication, it
disallowed, what the Church was ready to agree to, an
assignment of the income of the parish to the patron's
minister, and the appointment of another minister, ap
proved of by the people and the Presbytery, to be its pas
tor. In making this admission, we do not invalidate the

main argument of the Evangelical majority; but we set the
matter in its tr ue historical light ; and we render it in
telligible that men of eminent ability, men whom it
would be unpardonable, except in the actual heat and

dust of the struggle, to describe in any other way than

as upright and honourable, pronounced the claims of
the Church indefensible. The argument of the Evan

gelical majority rested inexpugnably on this position, --

   184 EDITOR.

   that the spiritual independence of the Church and the

   non-intrusion rights of congregations were essentials of
   Ifthe ancient ecclesiastical constitution of Scotland.
                                                           this

   statement is incorrect, the whole world has mistaken the

   character of the Kirk ; Knox, Melville, Henderson have

   been totally misunderstood ; and such Presbyterians as

   Dr Thomas McCrie and Dr William Cunningham knew

   nothing of the subject which was the study of their lives.
   Whatever version you may give of the proceedings of the
   Church, in the eighteenth and part of the nineteenth cen

   tury, in relation to the Patronage Act, you cannot impair

   the force of an appeal to the fundamental principles of
   the Scottish Reformation. Is your theory that the Church

   did her best to neutralize the patronage act and to resist

   and protest against it ? Then the Evangelical majority
   had a right to carry on the contest until it became
   hopeless. Do you affirm that the Church failed in her

   duty and practically accepted the law of patronage?

   Then the sooner she roused herself and harked back on

   nobler  days  and   native principles the better. Will you
   admit   that  the  Church, on the whole, shilly-shallied, --

   that she was content with laying a thin film of plausi

   bility and compromise over a wound in which lurked

   poison ? Once more, the party representing her funda

   mental principles had a clear right to content themselves

   with no half-measures, with no prudent evasions, but to

   breathe a new spirit into the policy of their fathers, and

   to proclaim that the patronage bane was to be removed

   at all hazards.

   The intention of the Veto Act, passed by the Church

   as soon as the Evangelicals took the lead in her councils,

   was to annul the Patronage Act of Queen Anne. In
   putting the veto into the hands of congregations, the

   Church did openly and decisively what, for many years

(

THE ARGUMENT OF THE EVANGELICALS. 185

after the passing of the Patronage Act, she had attempt
ed indirectly and irresolutely. Dr Robertson, in initiat

ing the policy which he pursued during his leadership

of the Church, took this position, that, as the Patronage

Act was law, and the Church did not avowedly resist        it,

her consistent and honourable course would be to render

frank and complete obedience. The majority of the
it

     a

                        by it

                                     a
judges of the Court of Session, bound to give to Acts

of Parliament the effect which their terms required, were
convinced that was their duty to enforce the Patron

age Act. The Church,                    by   her Veto Law, declared, on
                                           by
the other hand, that, irrespectively of the proceedings of

her own courts for hundred years, irrespectively of any

statute passed                        the British Legislature, irrespectively

of whatever decisions the Court of Session might pro

nounce, the principles of Knox, Melville, and Henderson

were her principles, and                       her principles she would

abide.  It  complicated, and did not strengthen, the

argument of the Evangelicals to maintain that the law

of the State as well as of the Church was on their side.

No statesman or legal authority could be expected to
attach weight to the assertion that an Act of Parliament,

which had been on the Statute Book for hundred and
                                               a

thirty years, had infringed the constitution of the realm
and was therefore null and void.

The champions of the Evangelical majority in the

Church of Scotland held themselves bound, during the

whole continuance of the conflict, to maintain two theses
                                               ;
                                                                                                            :
first, that the spiritual independence of the Church and

the non-intrusion rights of congregations were essential

to the Presbyterian constitution second, that these

could be secured although the Church maintained her

connection with the State. The theory that the civil

authority must and will, sooner or later, usurp the

186 EDITOR.

powers of the Church which it establishes and endows,

they rejected not without scorn, and the Established

Church of Scotland they pointed to as a visible de
monstration that a State Church might be free. We

have found Hugh Miller declaring in his Letter to
Lord Brougham, that, if the Church of Scotland had

acquiesced in his lordship's decision in the Auchterarder

case, ' the leaf holds not more loosely by the tree when

the October wind blows highest,' than he would have
held to ' a Church so sunk and degraded.' He ulti
mately made good his words ; but in his ' Whiggism of
the Old School,' a pamphlet by which the Letter to Lord

Brougham was immediately followed, he vehemently
maintains the Establishment principle against ' Volun

taries,' and seems to say that, though the decision of the

Courts ' has practically determined the law,' the clergy
ought not to sever their connection with the State. ' The

duty of our ministers '--these are his words --' is not the

less clear. They owe it to themselves and to their peo

ple, to their country and to their God, that they neither

obey this iniquitous law, nor yet quit the Establishment.'

The second pamphlet is an inferior performance to the

first. It is more ponderously controversial, and lacks

the racy vigour and stern imaginative glow of the famous

' Letter.'

     Without question, Miller, now and subsequently, was

a decided maintainer of the State-Church theory. It was

with inexpressible reluctance that he brought himself

ultimately to admit that the Church of Scotland had no

alternative but to sever her connection with the civil
Ipower. Nay,
              have a distinct recollection that, in

earnest talk with me after the Disruption, he hinted

a wish that the leaders of the majority had been some

what less imperious in their dealings with clergymen

                 THE MODERATES.  187

who obeyed the civil law rather than the law of the

Church, somewhat less fiery and impatient in urging
the matter to an issue. Hugh Miller had seen much of

infidel voluntaryism, and little of that power of religion

in a state of freedom which has in recent times fright

ened the Pagan party into swift abjuration of the prin

ciple of a free Church in a free State, and cordial sup

port of civil establishments of religion. The conception

of a State Church as a bed on which Christianity,

ascertained by cultivated men to be moribund, may

die soft, had not dawned upon the intellect of Hugh
IfMiller.
           convinced that the choice lay between dis

establishment on the one hand, and a State Church

on the other, which was specially recommended by its
usefulness in controlling the might of free religious

principle, he would with passionate indignation have
declared for the former. He lived and died, however,

a believer in the soundness of the State-Church theory.
     Nor was this the only circumstance which might have

disposed him to look with indulgence upon the Moderate
party. His literary sympathies, his pride in the modern

literature of Scotland, must have pleaded strongly in
Iftheir behalf.
                 he could have granted, which he could

not, that the ministers of a Christian Church can claim

approval or applause on any ground save that of preach
ing, in season and out of season, the Gospel of Christ, he

would have found it difficult to repress his enthusiasm
for that party which placed the Church of Scotland in

sympathetic harmony with all that was refined and

intellectually progressive in the literature, the science, the
art, of Scotland. One knows not where to look in ecclesi

astical history for a party, of which the nucleus consisted
of clergymen, so loyal to the higher aims of the human
spirit, so ardent in its love of knowledge, so free from

188 EDITOR.

sectarian bigotry, so genial and tolerant in its habits of

thought and feeling, as the Scottish Moderates. Under
their influence the rugged face of old Scottish Presby-
terianism mantled with a smile of calm and bright

intelligence which drew upon Scotland the astonished
gaze of Europe. Robertson was in his own day known
in Paris almost as well as in Edinburgh ; his books had
an honoured place in the library of Voltaire ; and there
is no University in Europe at this hour in which his
name is not held in esteem. He was the friend and

historical rival of Hume, who, except in his specu

lative philosophy, was a true Moderate. If it is to be

held a disgrace to the party that its chiefs were in
friendly intercourse with the prince of iconoclasts, we

ought to remember that there went out also from theitIt is it
       it                                                                   it,
Moderate camp those champions who, both in the fieldin
of pure philosophy and in that of apologetic divinity,it
challenged Hume to the combat, and, in the judgment
of a world certainly not prejudiced in favour of parsons

and against philosophers, put Hume to his mettle. I

allude of course to Principal Campbell and Dr Reid.
The philosophy of Reid assaulted Hume along his whole
line of battle. Interpreted as Hamilton interprets
that philosophy one in fundamentals with every great
constructive system of spiritual thought from that of Plato
to that of Kant. consists, one word, of an intelligent

and critical appeal to the common spiritual nature --call

    the communis sensus, call reason, call intuition,

call what you will, --of the human race. This re

mains and must remain, whatever the dialect in which

             it,

                      It

                                is
you express  the sole philosophical refuge from

universal scepticism.               characteristic of the noble

tolerance and candour and high intellectual serenity of

those old Moderates, that Reid forwarded to Hume           in

1 jM

        THE MODERATES.  189

manuscript his reply to the philosopher. A finer proof

of a desire to deal fairly with an opponent, and of an
absolute rejection of every weapon of personal or vituper

ative controversy, cannot be imagined. But the Moderate
party of the Scottish Church can claim not only Camp
bell, Reid, and Robertson, but one who would now be

placed  by many higher than either of the three, the
author  of The Wealth of Nations. Smith's Theory of
Moral   Sentiments is a thoroughly Moderate book,

moderate in its eloquent and high-toned moralizing,

moderate in its lucidity and logical coherence, and also

perhaps in its want of intensity, enthusiasm, and pene

trating, exhaustive power. It was under the genial

auspices of the Moderate party that the Scottish Uni

versities attained to such renown that young Palmerston

and Russell went from England to study in their halls.

It was under the auspices of the Moderate party that

Edinburgh became the Weimar of Great Britain, that

the most important publications of the time in Europe,

the Edinburgh Review and Blackwood and the Quarterly,
arose. When John Murray conceived the scheme of the
Quarterly, his first step was to start for the North, to

confer with Scott and the literati of Edinburgh. The

leaders of Moderatism showed a wise and a nobly patriotic

spirit in never trying to exclude Seceders from the
Universities. They indulged the shrewd preference of
the Scottish commonalty for ' college-bred ministers,'

and spared their country the stunted and acrid growths

of illiterate Dissent. It may doubtless be argued that

Moderatism was itself but part of a wider phenomenon, to
wit, the prevalence and predominance, throughout society,
not Scottish and English alone, but European, during

the eighteenth century, of literary and scientific tastes

and ambitions as contrasted with those of a religious

 190 EDITOR.

nature ; but the truth of this statement does not neu

tralize the fact that, under the reign of Moderatism, a
literary and philosophical lustre was thrown over Scot
land for which, in the more earnest epoch of dominant
Evangelicism, we look in vain.

     It may be asked how we can hold, first, that ' Scotch

literature and thought' in modern times owed their
superiority to ' Knox and the Covenanters,' and secondly,
that the ecclesiastical party under whose influence the
literature and thought of Scotland have fallen from that
ascendency which they attained under Moderate sway,
were in deeper sympathy with 'Knox and the Covenant

ers ' than their Moderate antagonists. The answer, if
we will reflect for a moment, is not difficult. Sir Walter

Scott painted a hero in Claverhouse ; Burns was ' the
fighting man ' of the Moderate clergy of his district, and
did not scruple to sneer in his satirical verses at the
' holy folks ' who ' believe in John Knox : ' yet Carlyle
expressly mentions Scott and Burns as having become
what they were through the accomplished work of the
Scottish Reformers and Covenanters. And he is right.
These, under God, made the nation strong of spirit
and proud of heart, capable of producing a Burns
or a Scott. In like manner the Moderatism of Scot
land, with its mellow splendour of intellectual light,
was a fruit of that tree which had been planted in
the olden time amid the storms of war and the

fierce cont en dings of faction. It would not be pleas

ant to think that the good there was in Moderatism
has been lost to Scotland and the world. One may be
permitted to hold both that the Evangelical majority
which led forth the Free Church in 1843 bore with

\them the old Scottish ark of the covenant, --the essential

principles of the Scottish Reformed Church, --and that

THE MODERATES.  191

the cosmopolitan sympathies and high intellectual tastes
of the Moderate party will once again prevail within

the Church of Scotland. A few State cobwebs and

a few abstract propositions are all that prevent the

branches of that Church from again growing visibly on

one stem ; and were this the case, religious Scotchmen
would be able to think, as they ought, with equally
diffused gratitude and pride, of the unrivalled systematic
theology of Hill, the sturdy dogmatism and unconquer
able logic of Cunningham, the historic fame of Robert
son, the artistic genius of Thomson of Duddingston,
and the moral grandeur of Chalmers.

     In religion Hugh Miller was an Evangelical, but in

literature he belonged essentially to the Moderate school.

His literary ideal was that of grace and elegance, and
quiet glow of imaginative fire ; from declamatory vehe
mence and the strut and stare and swagger of the
modern 'earnest' school, he shrank with sensitive re

pugnance. To become what Moderate critics would
have pronounced a classic was an object of ambition
incomparably nearer his heart, than to dazzle with

splendid metaphors, or to produce a temporary sensa
tion. Hence the satisfaction with which we found him

csmirdeituniactiroyonfinlegtghaeteotehldaot sfc'htBhoeoalr,o'h--nisthoHarduiamnd,ee--,schrtiihbmeedsenlefhpishveeSwrycenamensudcahrneda

Legends as a work ' written in an English style, which
he had begun to regard as one of the lost arts.' The
literary skill with which Hugh Miller was to assail
Moderatism had been acquired at the feet of its own

Gamaliels.

     The conclusion that the author of the Letter to Lord

Brougham was the man to edit an Edinburgh non-in

trusion paper had, as we saw from Dr Candlish's letter,

192 EDITOR.

been speedily arrived at by the Evangelical leaders in
the capital of Scotland, but the proposal was not imme

diately made to Miller. A note reached him from Mr

Robert Paul, manager of the Commercial Bank in Edin

burgh, an ardent non-intrusionist, requesting him to
visit Edinburgh ' in the course of the summer,' in order
that he might be ' brought into communication with

some gentlemen,' who thought that his talents could be

employed ' in some literario-Christian objects '--as Mr

Paul, with cautious indefiniteness, puts it. There is no

hint of a newspaper, no allusion to the Church question,
but, under the circumstances, Miller may have read all

that between the lines.

     Mr Ross, his judicious and friendly superior in the

Bank at Cromarty, acquiescing in the arrangement, he
proceeded, in company with Mrs Miller, to the south.

They resided with Mr Paul. It was the third time
Hugh Miller had come to Edinburgh. The first time,

he was in quest of employment as a journeyman mason ;

the second, he wanted to qualify for the post of banker's

clerk ; he now    (1839) found himself ' looked upon as a
                  remarkable phenomenon.' The leaders of
lion --a sort of

the popular party in the Church welcomed him as a valu
able ally. ' There was, of course,' writes Mrs Miller, ' a

famous dinner party, at which we were introduced to
Dr Cunningham, Dr Candlish, Dr Abercromby, and

others.' The precise nature of the enterprise in which

it was proposed that Miller should be engaged was now
explained to him, but Mr Paul found that the business

could not be got forward so speedily as might be wished.
Hugh still had his doubts, his hesitations, his fears.

Though his nature was stirred to its inmost depths by

sympathy for the cause of the Church and the people,
and though the success of his Letter to Lord Brougham

                 LETTER FROM FINLA7.                            193

had been splendid, that timidity, that caution, that habit

of despondent brooding and of looking at things on

their dark side, which blended so curiously in his com

position with a high estimate of his own powers and a

courage which, when roused, no opposition could daunt

or peril dismay, held him back. True prophets have

always shrunk, like Moses, from the work assigned them,

and only the false prophet, intent not on the message to

be delivered but on the rewards and honours to be

earned in delivering  a it,  rushes into momentous tasks with

frivolous hardihood. Miller, however, ultimately accepted

the Editorship of the projected paper, and returned to

Cromarty to resign his situation  A in in       the Bank and to

arrange for permanent settlement Edinburgh.

His mind was far from cheerful.                 pleasant episode,

however, occurred about the time of his return to Cro

marty. His friend Finlay had returned from the West

Indies, and, making tour through England and Ireland,

bent his steps to the North to revisit the scenes of his
youthful gipsyings with Miller. From Stratford-on-Avon,

whither he had gone to do homage at the shrine of

Shakspeare, he wrote to his friend. The letter so full  is

of kind intelligence that we must make room for the

greater part of it.

                     FROM ALEX. FINLAY.

                      'Stratford-on-Avon, 4th September, 1839.

I'  little thought the last time wrote you that the
                                  II

                                                    in
next letter should have been dated from this classic spot.

My last was from Jamaica about three years since, in
answer to your excellent letter which have my port
manteau, and which have treasured most carefully, as
               it
                  in

                    I
                           I
suring me, as did, that had one heart at least the          in

world that beat      unison with my own.        I  have suffered

      VOL. II.                              13

194 EDITOR.

Imuch sickness since received and am travelling to my
             it
                 in
                              in

                           by I
                                I a it,

                                                   in

                                              I

                                                  I
                                                         I
native land to try the climate in removing some chronic

affection of the stomach which causes spasms and cramps

that on occasions nearly deprive me of existence.

left Jamaica on the 1st June, and  St Iago de Cuba

was seized with the yellow fever which happened to rage

there at the time, and was as nearly as possible left there.

Two died of  the house was in, and was insens

ible. An American doctor, however, rescued me from the

Spanish Sangrados, and  bleeding and calomel re

covered, but was as yellow as guinea. After visiting
all the principal places Cuba, left Havana for Charles

ton, in South Carolina, and visited Philadelphia, Wash
ington, Baltimore, and other chief towns in the States,
and sailed or rather steamed from New York in the

British Queen on the 1st August. Our departure from
the Hudson was the most enthusiastic scene ever saw.
                                             I

The city was emptied of its inhabitants. Upwards of

150,000 people lined the banks of the noble river, manned

the rigging of the forest of masts, and crowded about

thirty steamboats, which accompanied us nearly 20 miles

down the river with bands of music, singing, and huzzas
I

                by it
                                                                       1
                                                                             ;
                                               I
                                                                                                                                  1
                                                        I;
when to this was added the beautiful green islands, the

romantic banks, and the unclouded flood of light poured

from an American August sun, and the noble steamship
herself, -- was really singularly pleasing.
                                             arrived at

the Isle of Man on the 5th, and at London on the 6th.

The leviathan city confounded me, notwithstanding all

was prepared to expect, especially in the river
  had an interview with his Grace the Duke of Welling

ton on West India affairs he was pleased to say he was

obliged  my information, mentioned his being intimate

with my father, expressed willingness to serve me, and in

vited me to pass some days with him in winter at Wal

LETTER FROM FINLAY.                                  195

Imer Castle. I also saw Lord Normanby.       hope some
thing may be done for our unfortunate Colonies. I was

in the House of Lords when Lord Lyndhurst, the Duke,

Iand your friend Lord Brougham gave the wretched min
istry such a thrashing at the close of the session.  have

not read your Letter to Lord Brougham, but suppose you

take part with the Assembly, in which case I fear you

are on the wrong side

IAnd now here am within a few yards of the spot where

Shakspeare breathed existence and not far from where

he expired. I have walked over his grave. I have just

returned from the churchyard (10 p. m.), and the wish

was ever uppermost in my mind that you had been with

me to enjoy the half-superstitious awe with which I eyed

the tombstones and the abutments of the handsome old
Ichurch as they glimmered in the imperfect light ; and so
Ihave been constrained to write to you.
                                         do not know

why, but I only half enjoy the pleasure of a scene unless
I have some one I love along with me to show it to. . .

            IThis is a beautiful rural village ; some parts

very like what they were in Shakspeare's time. passed

a few miles off an old house which has the reputation of

being the scene of the poet's high jinks. Adieu, my dear
IHugh, till I visit Scotland.
                               do not feel at home al
though all my family are in England, nor will I till my

eye is blessed by the sight of the mountains of dear old

Scotland, and my hand is grasped by thine.'

      When this letter was put into Miller's hand, he was
in the act of repelling one of those pieces of insolent
annoyance with which the Radical and semi-Radical
section of Cromarty politicians loved to tease him. Be
longing as he did to the extreme right of the Whig party,
and seeing, in its half-Radical left, 'the plague-spots

                                                             r

196 EDITOR.

and running sores of the party,' he was naturally to them

an object of hostility. Here is his reply to Finlay.

   I I' received your kind-hearted letter at a time when
Iwas in no kind-hearted trim.
                               was engaged amid the
Iturmoil of a Court of Appeal into which had been

summoned at the instance of a political shop-keeper

who indulges in the ambition of becoming great in the

Town Council of Cromarty, and who, regarding my vote as

an obstacle in the path, would fain have swept it away.

I was a good deal annoyed by the fellow and somewhat

angry to boot, for nothing, as the event showed, could

Ibe more frivolous than the objection ; but your letter,
which  first perused amid the hum of the Court,

brought me to myself at once, and made me ashamed
Ithat I could be either.
                          am less a politician than most
I I Imen.
       love peace, love leisure, love my friends,
I Iand when let alone never think of my enemies ; but

have been born under a vile, bustling, political, knock

down sort of planet, and, like Yorick's starling, can't get

Iout. Well, shall be quiet enough one day, and till
Ithen, since fate is fate, must just try and keep up the

quarrel on the right side.

    ' And so you are in our own country once more, --in

the country of green fields and temperate suns ; and

Iafter a separation of twenty years am to have the

pleasure of grasping your hand as of yore. We shall

wander among the woods together, and visit the caves,

and climb the Sutor roadie and MacFarquhar's Bed. The

rowans and blae-berries will be all gone, and the crows'-

apples are a failure this year, but you will be in time for
the brambles and the sloes ; it will go hard, too, if we

won't be able to steal a pocketful of potatoes out of one

of the Square parks, and get them roasted among the

rocks, and we shall at least try whether two old fellows,

                      REPLY TO FINLAY.                197

on the wrong side of thirty-five, can't be as foolish and

happy for a day or two as when they were twenty years
Iyounger. My wife, whom
                             dare say you will deem
worth liking, is nearly as anxious to see you as I am
Imyself. She knows all about our early intimacy.
                                                  have

shown her the cave in which we have had so many

happy days' experience of the ease with which man can

lay down the usages of civilized life and take up the
Isavage.
                  have told her of the little closet in which

we used to draw vile, libellous landscapes without

knowing they were libellous, and read foolish books ;

and of the deep pit which we dug in one of the thickets
of the hill when we intended becoming robbers, and

were furnishing ourselves with bloody-minded daggers,

fashioned out of table-knives, to frighten the girls who

Icame to the wood for sticks. You, presume, are still a

single man, and the married have but one advice for
Isuch ; but am not a giver of advices, nor a taker of
Ithem neither, and so
                       spare you. There is little

danger of men becoming too happy in any state. It

Iwas only last week placed a tombstone over the grave

of my infant daughter, a sweet little girl, who in less

than two years had found means to lay strong hold on

the hearts of both her parents, and who left us when our

hopes for her were at the highest. But we must just

live on, thinking as much of duty and as little of enjoy

ment as we can ; which, after all,
                             ;          believe, the way

                               is it

                                     iIs,
                                           I

                                              I

                                                         by I is
in which most to be enjoyed. Philosophy, however,is

of no use on such occasions  just serves now and then

to point sentence, and that all.
    '
                probable that in little more than two months
     It

            is a

shall leave Cromarty for Edinburgh, where am invited

aa  most respectable and influential body of men to conduct

    Whig newspaper on the side of the Church.  do feel

198 EDITOR.

Isomewhat like a shrinking of heart when think of the

undertaking.     There is incessant labour and many a

hard battle before me ; and all my hopes of happiness
have been wrapped up in dreams of some quiet retire
ment with abundance of leisure to devote to literature

and science. But my present choice is not between

literary leisure and a course of literary agitation. It is

between ceaseless employment of a less, for ceaseless

Iemployment of a more, congenial character ; and am

just making up my mind for the decision. You fear I

am in the wrong in taking part with the General Assembly

in its present quarrel. I have luckily no such fears for

Imyself, however ; and as know you too well to suspect

Ithat you will condemn me unheard, have some hopes

Iof yet seeing you on the side of the Assembly too.

have written two pamphlets on the subject ;--the Letter

to Lord Brougham, to which you allude, and the Whig-
gism of the Old School. The first, after passing through

four editions in as many weeks, has been stereotyped, --

the second, though it contains a larger amount of

thought, is circulating more slowly.

     ' It is a sad thing to suffer among strangers,-- sick

ness is sickness everywhere, but in a strange land it is
Isomething more.
                                    have experienced just enough of it

is

           I
                               is,
to know what it                     and to sympathize with those who

know more of it. Had you died in St Iago de Cuba,
                                             ;
   probable would have              been left  to mere surmise                    and
conjecture regarding your                        itwould have been                one
                                    fate --
                                                                         ;

                                                                         is
                                                                                 a

                                                                               it
of the many sad secrets of the same kind which await

the last day.     trust you will be able       to--ltahye  in    large
stock of health  and strength in Scotland                  air  of our
is

        it I

                         a
hills keen and shrewish, but the same pair of lungs

may breathe for hundred years, and there no sky

            REPLY TO FINLAY.          199

beneath which there are better braced muscles or spirits

of a more vigorous tone.

   I' But what apology am to make you for not writing

on return   of post as you wished me ? Just this,
 as Burns

grindstone
Iyou

that,
the
                   "    my nose has   been held so closely to
            s"ayse,ver   since, that     have not had more

than time to write you a hurried note, and I was desirous
to write you a letter. I hate Chartists and Radicals in
the gross from my very heart, but I have great sympathy

with the poor Chartists and Radicals who, having to

work sixteen hours per day for a meagre livelihood,

avenge their hard fate on all and sundry when they

break loose. It does not surprise me that a man who

has no other amusement should take a longing to cut

throats.'

The visit thus eagerly anticipated proved as pleasant

a translation of hope into fact as is ordinarily experienced.

The friends, it is true, did not reach that climax of resus

citated boyhood which Miller imagined. No potatoes
were stolen or roasted. Time failed, and perhaps heart

also, even for the kindling of fires in the caves. The men

found, when they engaged in confidential talk, that they

had notes to compare which eclipsed in interest the

memories of their boyhood. Finlay had been engaged

to a young lady who perished at sea, and the tender
hearted man remained single for her sake. His affairs

in Jamaica had not prospered, -- affairs in Jamaica seldom

did in those years. In one word, Hugh also having a
weight on his mind, there was probably as much of

pensive reflection, prospective and retrospective, in the
intercourse of the friends, as of gaiety and mirthfulness.

This was the last meeting of Finlay and Miller. The

former returned to Jamaica, was elected to the House of

200 EDITOR.

Representatives, advocated a wise and liberal policy,

based on the necessity of educating the Negroes in the
duties of free men and elevating them to the level of the

whites, and died in three years.

     Before the arrival of Finlay, Miller wrote to Mr

Dunlop, in answer to a request from that gentleman to
furnish a prospectus for the paper to be started in Edin

burgh. The letter consists mainly of despondent expres

sions as to the risk run by the writer in undertaking the

         a
                            a

                               a
                                                             is,

                                                                                              '
editorship. His situation in Cromarty       at least, he

represents, certainty, permanent certainty, and he re

quests information as to what he may expect in the event

of the paper proving complete failure.

     Mr Dunlop replied to this letter with assurances

fitted to dispel the apprehensions of his correspondent,

at least on the head of pecuniary venture.                                                       We shall

in the first place require security for your salary in all

events for three years, so that, whether the plan succeeds
or not, you will have some time to look round for an

other situation. Then, assuming    to fail, although
                                   : it

                                      I' a
                                                       I
could not point out anything so definite as you might

wish, yet can scarcely conceive the possibility of our
      aI
not being able to procure for you situation equal at'
least to what you possess.' For the rest, he encourages
Miller to summon courage to make an advance,' and

concludes in these brave words -- do believe that

when man has an opening through which to do essen
tial service to the cause of religion and his country, he
may very generally enter with confidence that he will

not be loser.'
      a

      Mr Dunlop enclosed certain resolutions, adopted at

a  meeting of the promoters of the forthcoming news

paper, and embodying the leading principles which
'was                '

                             It
                                                             '
                                                            it
      to represent  and advocate.  was to be in the

        CORRESPONDS WITH MR DUNLOP.                            201

common sense a newspaper, comprising political and

general intelligence ; to be ' pervaded by a spirit of de
                      '
cided                    to  espouse  the  cause  of  no  one  political
       piety ;
party, but be ' scriptural and constitutional ; ' to main

tain the spiritual independence of the Church, combat
Erastianism, and ' place the connection of Church and

State upon its true and Scriptural footing.' Of non

intrusion, or the choice of their pastors by congregations,

there is no express mention in these resolutions. Taking

them as his leading lights, Miller composed a prospectus

for the new paper. The name he suggested was the
' Old Whig,' and by this name he designated it in his

prospectus. He followed his instructors in merging the

special interest of non-intrusion in the more general one of
spiritual independence. The prospectus was ' shortened '

by the Edinburgh Committee before being printed.

     In the note which accompanied the prospectus to
Edinburgh, he remarks that the production is ' unique

in one respect, perhaps, as it is not merely the only one

its author ever wrote, but also almost the only one he ever
Iread.
        have set my best leg foremost,' he adds, ' and
Imade my bow, --a stiff enough sort of bow, dare say,

as becomes my breeding, but made with hearty good
will and a great deal of respect.' Though ' as much a

coward as ever/ he has now, he says, ' determined on

making the leap.' He refers to a Pamphlet on the

Intrusion side by the Dean of Faculty, from which he
                                      ' If he could have printed his
has seen some extracts.

wig and his silk gown,' thinks Miller, ' it would have

been doubtless a splendid affair ; but bad prose and

little ill-packed arguments that look for all the world

like bundles of pointless needles are not very serious

matters. It is well that the Dean is no Jeffrey. Wit

rwould do us a world of mischief; and good wit, unlike

202 EDITOR.

good argument, can be made to fight on the worst side.'

     Having forwarded his prospectus to Edinburgh,
Miller waited with eagerness for tidings from the

South. Day by day, week by week, dragged itself

away, and no answer came. To increase his anxiety

some vague rumour crept northwards that a hitch

had occurred in the newspaper project, and that

it was likely to fail after all. He saw no public ad

vertisement of the paper, and it was evident that

his prospectus had not been printed. At length his

patience gave way, and on the 20th of September,

exactly two months after the date of Mr Dunlop's last

letter, he wrote to Mr Paul, requesting a few lines of

explanation. Alluding to the ' vague report of some

misunderstanding ' which had arisen, ' I cannot help

feeling,' he proceeds, ' that the elements of such a mis

understanding exist in sufficient amount among our

friends.' He is 'somewhat uneasy.' Not to be too

severe on 'our friends,' he couches his rebuke in the

terms of a philosophical reflection. ' It  iIs,

                                                          is,
                                           am afraid,

too certain fact that, the more honest any party               the
a
                  of being ill-organized and full of conflicting
         it
              is
surer

opinions. The Jesuits have but one heart and mind

among them --the Evangelicals of the Church of Scot
                  ;

land, on the contrary, differ as much among themselves

on minor points as they do from their opponents on the

truly important ones.' He returns to the subject of the

Dean's pamphlet, of which his opinion has not improved.

Its arguments have neither the dignity of vigorous'

thought nor the charm of elegant expression to recom

mend them, --they are tedious without the recom

mendation of being just, and sophistical without the

merit of being ingenious.' How exactly Miller had

at this time caught the tone of the Queen Anne

DELAY.  203

critics ! ' It is a fatal sign,' he adds, ' in a literary

man when he cannot cease being professional. Who

would ever have guessed from his lighter writings that
Currie was a physician, or Rogers a banker, or Sir
Walter a clerk of session, or Jeffrey an advocate ? But

the Dean, a man of a very different stamp, is nothing apart

from his trade ; --he can write law papers, and nothing
else ;--his pamphlet is a piece of mere special pleading ;
--he is a lawyer, and a lawyer only.'

     This of course brings a prompt reply. Mr Paul,
deeply grieved, has been trusting to Mr Dunlop to keep
Miller informed ; Mr Dunlop, deeply grieved, has been
trusting to Mr Paul. On the main point, however, all

is right. The capital which the publisher who was

to have undertaken the practical part of the enter

prise could divert from his general business and de

vote to the paper had been deemed inadequate, and
the affair had hung back. But ' a respectable young

man with a few hundred pounds ' had consented to join
him in part-proprietorship of the paper, and to give his

whole attention to its management. The young man

thus described by Mr Dunlop was Mr Robert Fairly,

bred a printer, experienced in the printing department
of a newspaper, whose steady industry, high moral

character, and eminent common sense had placed him

in a position to make this offer. Mr Fairly was pre
pared to enter into friendly relations with Miller. He
had seen the Lines to a Dial in a Church-yard, and

was greatly struck with them. From the time when

Miller came as editor to Edinburgh to the day of his
death, Mr Fairly continued his warmest admirer and

most affectionate friend, and now cherishes his memory

with a reverence and tenderness which would satisfy Mr

Carlyle's utmost requirements in the way of hero-worship.

   204 EDITOR.

        In Mr Paul's letter to Miller on this occasion the

   inevitable pamphlet of the Dean turns up. Mr Cun
   ningham, Mr Candlish, Mr Dunlop, and Dr Chal

   mers have set about replying to it. ' The whole skep,'
   remarks Chalmers, ' will be overturned upon the Dean,' so

   that, as Mr Paul hopefully adds, ' he will be absolutely
   stung to death.' It may be stated for the information of

   curious readers, that the production of which Miller

   spoke so contemptuously, but which raised so fierce and

   general a buzz in the non-intrusion hive, was entitled

   ' A Letter to the Lord Chancellor, on the claims of the

   Church of Scotland in regard to its jurisdiction, and on
   the proposed changes in its polity, by John Hope, Esq.,

   Dean of Faculty.' It has been described as ' a very

   leviathan among pamphlets, extending to no fewer than

   290 pages.' This fact will, I trust, be accepted as my

   apology for not having made its closer acquaintance, or

   attempted to estimate the effect of the stings inflicted

   by the aforesaid bees upon its extensive surface.

       It more concerns us to note that Miller is at last

   ready to take flight for Edinburgh. The name suggested

   by him for the paper has been discarded, and that of The
   Witness adopted in its stead. On the 23rd of Decem

   ber he once more writes to Mr Dunlop from Cromarty,

   in answer to a note from that gentleman telling him that

   all difficulties have been vanquished, and that the sooner
   Ihe appears in Edinburgh the better. ' still,' he says,
   I' feel occasional shrinkings of heart when think of the
   Iuntried field on  am so soon to enter. " Tremble
                      one of Ossian's heroes when on
   thus the brave
   ?w"hiacshks
   Ithe eve of his first battle. But think of the past
   and take courage, -- of the past in my country's history,
\
   with its clear unequivocal bearing on the cause in which

   1 am to be engaged, --on the past, too, in my own expe-

ESTIMATE OF HIM IN THE NORTH.  205

Irience of life.  have seen much of the goodness of the
IAlmighty. Twenty years ago was a loose-jointed boy

in rather delicate health, taxed above my strength as a

labourer in a quarry. It is surely a much better thing

Ito be employed as an advocate of principles which

have ever regarded as sacred, and of whose importance

Ithe more carefully examine I am convinced the more.'

Hugh Miller did not quit the North of Scotland

without some public recognition of his worth and

talents. His name was already well known through

out the northern counties, and in Cromarty and its neigh

bourhood he was not only looked upon with pride as the

literary wonder of the place, but regarded with affection

ate confidence as a judicious counsellor on local affairs

and a ready friend and help in every little business
which his townsmen might have in hand. His friends

were many. He had not sought them, but they had
come, and he had never lost one. Sensible men in the

middle and upper classes are apt to be shy of workmen
who emerge into local celebrity by writing or speechify
ing. In the vast majority of instances they turn out to
have no real basis of information or talent, and to pos

sess no better claim to distinction than vehement volubil

ity in the expression of political or religious opinions of
an extreme type. But Miller's poems were marked by
no extravagance ; his Letters on the Herring Fishery

were full of well-selected facts, and were written with

animation, picturesqueness, and good taste ; his Scenes
and Legends were remarkable for the quiet elegance of
their style and the vigorous simplicity and home-bred

force of their thinking. His scrupulous sense of honour
in money matters and pride of independence were felt
by all who became acquainted with him ; and it is a
painful but unquestionable fact that when a man of

,206 EDITOR.

assured position in society finds himself approached
by a person who has been transformed from an in
competent artisan into a shabby-genteel hanger-on of
literature, he has an instinctive suspicion that the gen
tleman of the press will beg. No such suspicion in re
lation to Hugh Miller could hold its place in the mind
of any one who was three minutes in his company.

His keen interest, and considerable acquirements, in

geological science, had brought him into intercourse
with the Messrs Anderson of Inverness, and made him

known to every enthusiast in geological or antiquarian

research in the north of Scotland. Mr Carruthers
will stand well for the literary culture of the northern

counties, and he was not the sole cultivator of literature

in those parts who had formed high expectations of
Miller's future career as a man of letters. He had now

been for five years connected with the Bank, and this
sufficed to place him behind the scenes with regard to
all business operations in the district, and to make his
name known to its men of capital. Enough : Hugh
Miller was already a public man in the north of Scot
land ; and, ere he departed for Edinburgh, a number of
his friends and admirers entertained him at a public
dinner in Cromarty, and presented him with a tea-
service in plate. Seldom has a demonstration of the
kind attested a warmer or more sincere feeling on the one
hand or been more honourably earned on the other.
Those who had watched Miller most closely and who
knew him best stepped forward to declare that they
loved him and considered him a credit to them.

      The best room in the best Cromarty Hotel was tastefully laid out
and lighted for the occasion. The dinner and wines gave complete
satisfaction. The chair was taken by George Cameron, Esq., Sheriff
Substitute of the eastern district of Ross-shire, supported by General
Sir Hugh Fraser, Captain Mackay Sutherland of Udale, the Bev.

           PUBLIC DINNER AT CROMARTY.                                       207

Messrs Stewart and Mackenzie of Cromarty, Dr Macdonald, Mr Fowler,

younger, of Raddery, Mr Hartley of the 93rd Regiment, Mr Grigor, bank

agent, Invergordon, Mr Joyner of Cromarty, Mr Murray, Mr Middleton

of Davidston, Mr Taylor of Westfield, Mr D. Ross, merchant, &c. &c.

The croupiers were Robert Ross, Esq., banker, and Mr John Taylor, sheriff-

clerk. On the right of the chairman sat Mr Miller ; near him his friend
Mr Carruthers. After the cloth was drawn, the usual loyal toasts drunk,

and an air played by the musical band in attendance, the silver service

intended for presentation to the guest of the evening was brought

into the room and placed on the table.

      The  Cheaffiercmt a:n--  '  then called for  a special  bumper, and    spoke to the
following                         Before calling   upon you,   gentlemen,   to drink your

glasses, it becomes my duty, as you have done me the honour of placing

me, however unworthy, in this chair, to state that Mr Miller, being

about to leave this, his native town, to enter upon a wider field of

literary labour in Edinburgh, it was deemed fitting to invite him to this

public entertainment, and to present him, at the same time, with some
substantial proof of the high estimation in which he is held where he

is best known.   (Cheers.) The articles on your                 table  have accordingly
been procured   for that purpose, and procured,                        happy to say, by
                                                                I am

means of a contribution as free and cordial as the most sensitive mind

could desire. It is for this reason, rather than on account of their in
trinsic value, that I now, sir (addressing Mr Miller), in name of this

most respectable company, and of the absent subscribers, request your

acceptance of them, with our best wishes for your prosperity and happi

ness  in that other part of       tohfethkeingpdoeotm, --where  Providence  has cast your
lot.   As, in the language

           " Tis distance lends enchantment to the view,"

we do not anticipate that you will think less frequently or warmly of
this district, or admire its physical or moral beauty the less, because
you cease to reside in it ; but should you, amidst the toils and cares of
business, forget it for a time, these things will recall it to your recollec

tion, and tend to strengthen the ties by which you must ever continue
bound to a place which you have illustrated by your writings, and the
inhabitants of which, while they contemplate your past career with

pride, will watch your future progress with mingled feelings of interest

and affection. (Loud cheers.) I need only add, in the words of the

inscription, which express shortly the motives that prompted the gift,
that this plate is " presented to Hugh Miller, Esq., by his friends in the
shire of Cromarty and Easter Ross, in testimony of their admiration of
his talents as a writer, and of their respect and regard for him as a

member of society." Permit me now, gentlemen, before I sit down, to

request that you dedicate this bumper to the health of our excellent

guest. (Cheers.) For my own part, I feel peculiar pleasure in propos

ing this toast, because we are assembled not to do honour to a man of
rank or title, however highly we may think of those distinctions, but
to pay the homage of our respect to a man who has been truly desig

208 EDITOR.

nated by an eminent individual one of Nature's nobles. Fortunately

for me, this subject requires little to be said to ensure to it from you a

hearty reception. Here, where he is so well known, and where his

merits are so justly appreciated, the mere mention of Mr Miller's name

suggests to the mind all that is pure, and honourable, and exemplary

in conduct, associated with talents and acquirements of no ordinary

kind. This has, indeed, been the birthplace and residence of men re

markable for their intelligence, sound sense, and public spirit. None

can think of George Ross of Cromarty, and of his liberality and patriot

ism, by many proofs of which we are now surrounded, without respecting

his memory. Nor of William Forsyth, whose enlarged views, commer

cial enterprise, and active benevolence, extended in their efforts over

the whole of this northern part of the kingdom, without a feeling of

exultation, that this was the scene of so much excellence. But in Mr

Miller we see kindred qualities combined with gifts of a rarer, if not a

higher order. Passing over his Scenes and Legends, with which you

are all acquainted, his genius and industry have enabled him, without

the aid of a scholastic education, to present to us the history of the

lives of those men in a style as pure, and elegant, and captivating, as

that of similar works by authors better known to fame. The same

genius has enabled him to read the book of nature, and by means of

geological investigations in this locality, to add to the general stock of

knowledge, in a department of the greatest interest and importance.

His recent writings on a debateable subject have attracted a good deal

of attention throughout Scotland. There are now hearing me gentle

men who concur in his views on ecclesiastical questions, and others

who dissent from them ; but however widely our opinions may differ

on this point, I infer, from our presence here on this occasion, a una

nimity of sentiment as to the honest earnestness, the originality of

thought, the beauty of composition, and the ability by which those

productions are distinguished. (Great cheering.) These things estab
lish a strong claim to our respect, and we do but a simple act of justice

in acknowledging it. Gentlemen, you have marked this brief and

feeble expression of my feelings in regard to Mr Miller, by your concur

rence and approbation, and I shall not detain you longer. It only re

mains for me to call upon you to drink his health with all the honours,

and success to him in the Scottish metropolis.' Mr Miller's health was

drunk with tremendous cheering.

Mr Miller then rose to return thanks, and was received with loud

cheers. He said, ' Mr Chairman and gentlemen, the vocabulary of feel

ing is much more limited than that of thought. We have many words

to express what we think, but comparatively few to express what we

feel, and often, too, the more intense our feelings, those few words be

come the fewer. Never have I so forcibly experienced the truth of the

remark as this day.      There is  a fine   line  in  one of our  modern  poets,
worth whole pages        ordinary  poetry
                     of                    --

                         " The old familiar faces."

                         PUBLIC DINNER.                        209

I Ifeel myself among them, and feel that am not to be among
                                 when I think of the
them long.    My  heart is full  you have done me --         kindness you have
shown me,   and   the honour                                so unmerited on my
part ; yet I do feel proud and gratified when I reflect that the kindness
Iand honour have experienced have been rendered by individuals for
Iwhom have ever cherished the kindest feelings, and entertained the

I                                    believe, no mind, however humble its
                               iIs,
highest respect. There

powers or its views, that does not cherish some spark of ambition, and

have cherished my own particular wishes and hopes. They were

not fixed very high. Burns tells us of an ambition which had animated

chsisopitmuriecnatfrdwryoiinsm--gh htwwhisiaedsee--loa"vreliteoswt"hdiscpahaysrlee--dthahenimsaymmwbbhioetlinondheeafors.u"anwd(eC"dhtehoenersir.n)otuegnHhsiesblocuhvraerrtaohciftsethlries

            " That he, for puir auld Scotland's sake,
              Some useful plan or book might make,

                      Or sing a sang at least."

My wish was of more humble kind, and more in accordance with my
            Ia

                            it

                                     a

                                               it

                                                                  I
powers. Even at that early age when our estimates of ourselves are

highest, and our hopes most sanguine, rose no higher than that

might be able to give some name in literature to the interesting dis

trict of country in which we live, of which scarce any one had written

before. (Cheers.)      found          new and untrodden     field, full of those
interesting vestiges  of past    times which are to be      found-- not in the

broken remains of palaces and temples, but in the traditional recollec

tions of the common people. These traditions formed my earliest
literature. (Cheers.) My humble wish of making this district of Scot
land known in literature has been but partially accomplished but my
                                                            ;

enjoyment has been great, not my success.                   have found literature
                         if

                                                         a

                                             I
to be truly its own reward. My advice to every one desirous to

increase his happiness would be, Cultivate your mind. (Cheers.) It
natural for man to look beyond his present circumstances. It no
                                                               is
                                                                    is

doubt, in its original integrity, an instinct of his constitution, bearing

reference to his spiritual nature, and to future state. Both his       of

imagination and his hope-- and we are all, in some degree, creatures
hope and imagination -- have their seat, not in the present time or the
existing circumstances, but in the past or in the future. In the field

of literature, above every other, this principle finds its fullest scope.

The shepherd in Ramsay boasts that, when tending his flock upon thea is,

hills, he could converse with kings. It indeed, no small privilege

to be admitted to the converse of the true kings of the human race,

the men of the most comprehensive minds and the most exalted senti

ments --to the profundities of Bacon or Locke, the high imaginings
                                 a

of Shakspeare and Milton. (Cheers.) There another principle tois
which would advert. The love of novelty inherent in man, and
is                    a
   a
                                               is               it
      I
natural for him to go on in acquirement, adding idea to idea, and one

species of knowledge to another. This one of the grand distinctionsis

VOL. II.                             M

210 EDITOR.

between the human intellect and the instincts of the inferior animals.
In accordance with this principle, there are few who would not be
travellers if they could. The great bulk of mankind, however, are tied
down by circumstances to some one particular locality, and it is for
tunate that there is no locality in which the love of novelty may not
be gratified -- in which, however tied down, we may not become
travellers, and enter, time after time, on a new field ; and this, not by
changing place, but by connecting it with some newly-acquired science,

and thus changing, as it were, its nature. I have strikingly experienced

this with regard to this district of the north. Having exhausted it
with respect to its connection with the history of our country and those
remnants of the belief of our forefathers, which let us more thoroughly

into the thoughts and feelings of the past, I have set myself to exhibit

Iit as a locality in which the naturalist -- a White of Sclbourne, for

instance -- might have delighted : and I straightway found that had

travelled into a new district. Objects, before unnoticed, or but slightly

Iregarded, rose into interest. Even the spiky leaves and light florets of

the thirty or forty sorts of the humble family of the grasses, which
met with in my short walks, every insect that enjoyed itself on the

Ibreeze or the stream, grew into beauty and importance. Still more was

   interested when, passing from the present creation, I found the

locality a rich museum of the remains of former creations. Set your
imaginations to work, conceive the most wonderful and unheard-of
things, and the history of the district in which we now are will go

beyond your extremest conceptions. Would that I could raise the

curtain, as it rises in a theatre, and show you scene after scene as it
arose! (Cheers.) We are surrounded by the well-known creatures of
the present creation ; and the remains of two older creations, each

different from the other, and both from the present, are under our feet.
Where we now are, in the remote past there existed an immense lake,
more extensive, perhaps, than the Lake Superior in North America,
filled with the strange uncouth creatures of the second age of the
world, creatures whose very type is lost. This state of things passed ;
untold ages went by, and where we now are there extended a wide
ocean, filled with its peculiar inhabitants. The master reptiles of a
later time and the strangely beautiful plants of a tropical climate

flourished upon its shores. (Cheers.) But enough of this. It has

been well remarked by Burke, that by fixing the mind strongly on any
set of ideas, the sense of present evils may cease to annoy us. This is
one of the great advantages resulting from the pursuit of literature.

It raises the thought above the annoyance of the present time, and

Imakes those troubles which come to all sit upon us more lightly.
trust I may say I have had experience of this ; but I have dwelt upon
the subject too long, and shall not further detain you. I have ever owed

much to the kindness of friends, and never before perhaps did I see so

many of them assembled together.' (Cheers.) Mr Miller again ex
pressed his grateful acknowledgments, and sat down amidst the cheers
of the company.

               PUBLIC DINNER.                                             211

     The toast of the Church of Scotland called up the Rev. Mr Stewart,

who, having shortly referred to the Church, added his warmest wishes

for the welfare of Mr Miller. By his departure he would lose a valued

friend and a most enlightened hearer, but he rejoiced that he was to
enter on a more extensive scene of usefulness. (Cheers.)

     Mr Carruthers returned thanks for the toast in honour of the press,
and stated the great gratification he enjoyed in being amongst them
that evening. He had early discovered in their respected guest the
germ of those fine talents and moral dispositions which had elevated

him in the scale of society, and rendered his progress in life and the
development of his mind an object of the deepest interest and solici

tude. In him the manifestations of original genius had not been ac
companied with any of those debasing and revolting alloys which were
sometimes mingled with it ; he had advanced onwards by a straight

path and a spotless life. There was a fine passage in Pope, where the
reproaches and detractions which envy sometimes throws around

merit were compared to the vapours that rise around the sun ; instead
of obscuring the great luminary of day, they only added to its bril
liancy, and formed a new temple for its effulgence. In like manner,
the early difficulties of their friend in the acquirement of knowledge,
his solitary hours of study, amidst hardships, toil, obscurity, and neg
lect, but enhanced the merit of his present position,

' For even those clouds at length adorn his way,
  Reflect new lustre and augment the day.'

He trusted his friend was destined to run a long career of usefulness

and honour, and he might rely upon  that his townsmen and his
a

                                                                     it,

                                                                   is
early friends could never become indifferent to his future fortunes.

Speeches alternated with songs, and cheers were liberally allotted

to both, until, after an evening spent with utmost hilarity and good

humour, without one jarring word or circumstance, the party broke up

about ten o'clock. Mr Miller next day left Cromarty for Edinburgh,

carrying with him, we need hardly add, the prayers and good wishes

of his friends and townsmen.

Such, very considerably abridged,                                         the account of

this festivity, surely one of the best of its kind, and that

good kind, which adorned the columns of the Inver

ness Courier.

                                                        212

                      CHAPTER III.

                               AT THE EDITORIAL DESK.

IN the last days, then, of 1839 Hugh Miller proceeded
     to Edinburgh to edit the Witness. He stepped into
the arena alone. His wife and infant daughter he left for
the present at Cromarty. Taking lodgings in St Pat
rick's Square, in the old part of the town, he applied

himself with ardour and assiduity to his task. ' In weak

ness and great fear,' diffident of his power to maintain
the conflict against ' well-nigh the whole newspaper
press of the kingdom,' he was nevertheless ' thoroughly
convinced of the goodness of the cause,' and willing to

Idevote to it the whole energies of his mind. ' found

myself,' he was soon able to say, ' in my true place.' The
 Witness started with a circulation of about 600, but the
high character of its articles at once attracted attention,
and it became evident in an exceedingly brief period
that an immense accession had been made to the power
with which the majority in the Church acted on the
body of their countrymen. And from the first, the per
 sonality of Hugh Miller was felt to be too massive and
 original to be absorbed in the anonymity of journalism.
 The voice of the Witness was known to be his voice, and

THE EXCITEMENT OF THE TIME.                    213

the name of Hugh Miller was mentioned with affection

ate enthusiasm, as that of the people's own champion,

who among the laymen of the conflict was what Chal
Imers was among the clergy.
                             may be permitted to
quote here a few sentences which I have written upon
the subject elsewhere. ' Of the influence exerted upon

the public mind of Scotland by Hugh Miller's articles

in the Witness on the Church question, there are thou

sands still living who can speak. A year or two before

the Disruption I passed a winter in a Highland manse.
I was too young to form a distinct idea of the merits of
the dispute. But there was a sound in the air which I
could not help hearing. It seems as if it were in my
Iears still. Never have witnessed so steady, intense,
enthralling an excitement. And I have no difficulty,

even at this distance, in discriminating the name which
rang loudest through the agitated land. It was that of
Hugh Miller, --the people's friend, champion,          '
                                               hero
                                                     !

It was appropriate that a self-educated man should
speak for the commonalty of Scotland. It suited the

stubborn independence and self-helping vigour of the

race. The popular imagination, besides, ready always

to be moved by adventitious circumstances, found an

additional charm and picturesqueness in his having been
a stone-mason, one who had actually ' bared a quarry '

and hewn in a church-yard. But this rugged plebeian,

who stood forth to fight the people's battle, was not one

who required the indulgence of refined critics. No pen

wielded on either side in the controversy was more classic

than that of Hugh Miller.

He shared the excitement which he contributed so

largely to produce. Not only was he animated by the

clearest sense of duty, and profoundly convinced that the

cause was that of conscience, liberty, and Scotland, but

214 EDITOR.

he was conscious that the fray was not without its spec
tators. ' The series of events which terminated in the

Disruption '--the words are his own -- ' formed a great

and intensely exciting drama, and the whole empire
looked on.' He shared the excitement of his country
men ; but he also, it need scarcely be added, suffered
from it. Never did Hugh Miller toil as during these

first three months of his editorship of the Witness. He

wrote not merely the leading articles, but a large pro
portion of the remarks introductory to the reports of
public meetings, paragraphs on the decease of eminent
men, and so on. The paper was published twice a
week, and Miller would often have more than one re
gular leader in each number. His brother combatants,
his personal friends, the buzz of applause arising through

out Scotland, cheered him on. In nothing was his tem
mpearnamoefntgenmiuosre--cohfarliatcetrearrisyticgaellnyiust--hethteamn pienrahmisenstusocef pa
tibility to the influence of praise. It was once truly

said of him that ' he was like a horse which can be urged
by the voice of encouragement beyond its power of living
exertion.' Soon also the new paper was attacked by
one or other of its many rivals of the opposite side, and
with all his gentleness Miller was, when roused, a ter
rible foe. Michelet holds that there is a trace of ferocity

in the artist's temperament. ' He is kindly --he is fero

cious. His heart is full of tenderness for the weak and
little. Give him orphans to watch over, he will watch
over them, and clasp them to his heart ; ' but set him at
defiance, touch a person or a principle which he honours,
and he glares on you with an eye like Apollo's on Mar-
syas, ' watching how the whetting sped.' Professor
Masson has remarked that Hugh Miller never engaged
in controversial battle without not merely ' slaying,

HIS POLEMICAL SEVERITY.                              215

but battering, bruising, and beating out of shape ' his

antagonist. But the moment his enemy was vanquished,

his anger died away. A magistrate of Edinburgh once

awakened his wrath. He thought that the civic digni

tary had used the power of place to annoy or crush a

more honest man than himself, and there was a pomp-

ousness in his public behaviour, and a meanness in

some of his money-making practices, carefully disguised
from the public eye, which gave Miller advantage over
him. An article appeared in the Witness which made

him the laughing-stock of Edinburgh. Next day, when
Miller stept into the publishing office, some one made
a remark on the severity of his article. ' Ah,' said

Miller, in his calmest tone--a very dangerous tone --

I' have another shot in the locker for the Baillie.'
' Really, Mr Miller,' replied the first speaker, ' I think

you ought to forbear. Baillie  has had his head

shaved.' Miller left the second shot in the locker.

      Occasionally he was hounded on his prey by the

clerical magnates who took interest in the Witness, --

Inever, believe, by Chalmers ; and he has been heard,

on becoming acquainted with persons to whom he

had administered the lash, to express his regret, and

to add that, 'if he had known what manner of man

this was, not all the ministers in the Free Church

would have persuaded him to inflict the castigation.'

That his blows should fall sometimes on the wrong head,

or descend with undue momentum, was a necessity of

the case. Among the contradictions and limitations of

our condition none perhaps is more sad than this, that

the very intensity of one's devotion to one's principles

tends to incapacitate him for dealing fairly with men

who deem it their duty to assail them. ' If we clearly

perceive any one thing,' says Coleridge, with fine wisdom

   216 EDITOR.

"  and delicate charity, ' to be of vast and infinite importance
   to ourselves and all mankind, our first feelings impel us
   to turn with angry contempt from those who doubt and
   oppose it. Whenever our hearts are warm, and our

   objects great and excellent, intolerance is the sin that

   does most easily beset us.' Few controversialists have
   erred less on the side of severity than Hugh Miller, none
   perhaps with keener contrition when he found that he
   had been in the wrong. He told Mrs Miller that he
   found it necessary to ' abstract ' men before he could
   punish them, and that ' the sight of the human counte
   nance, if it had but a tinge of geniality, so softened and
   unmanned him,' that he could not shake off the thought

   of the individual, and had no heart to attack him.

        It has been said that Miller, as editor of the Witness,

   felt himself in his place. The stimulus of a strong ex
   citement was useful in rousing his mind to full exertion,

   and in dispelling the meditative, pensive, almost languid
   mood in which, in the stillness of Cromarty, he might
   have indulged. His style, after he came to Edinburgh,
   compared with that of the Scenes and Legends, is
   improved in energy and fervour. To do his best, he

   required to be moved ; and his most powerful composi

   Itions are, think, his earnest newspaper articles and

   the Letter to Lord Brougham. Dr Guthrie said with

   reference to the article on the siege of Acre, that he

   would rather have written it than taken the fortress.
   Doubtless, also, Miller was at this time happy. ' He

   drank delight of battle with his peers.' Fervid emotion
   bathed the framework of his intellect in flame. The ex

   citement brought its own reward. The additional power
   and keener sympathetic joy, which a great agitation pro
   duces, more than compensate for the daintier pleasures of
   the intellectual recluse. But of course, in this heroic joy

OVER-WORK.  217

there is a burning which consumes the earthen vessel.
While Miller rejoiced in spirit as a strong man to run a
race, his body and brain gave unmistakeable evidence
that the pace bore hard upon him. Hour after hour he

would sit writing, until the letters danced before his eyes
and every nerve tingled under the strain. Heedless of
exposure, and working deep into the long winter nights,
he caught influenza. No matter ; he would not pause ;
he would not lay aside the pen which he had taken up

in the cause of his Church and his country. The giddi
ness of mere exhaustion became the semi-delirium which

accompanies inflammatory affections of the lungs and
pleura. Had the intense excitement of the conflict been

suspended, he would probably have fallen into a state of
prostration like that which overtook his father in the
sea-fight, who, while the guns continued to roar, did the

work of two men, and, when they ceased, fell upon the
deck more feeble than a child. Miller grew haggard in

the conflict, but he never flinched.

      The darkest hour, however, was now past, and streaks

of dawn appeared on the horizon. In April, 1840, he
was joined by Mrs Miller, who brought with her his infant
daughter, Harriet. It was a dark and dreary evening
when Mrs Miller saw his figure, in grey suit and plaid,
looming through the mist on Granton pier. Her
presence, she found, was much needed. Miller looked
ill, and his circumstances were comfortless. His sitting-

room was dingy with dust and littered with papers.
The lodgings were kept by a widow, who, with her
family, occupied the rest of the floor. One of the
sons took the style of artist, and sat painting in the
principal sitting-room. Another cultivated poetry. The
only daughter spent a large part of her time in the
practice of singing, with a view to appearing before the

218 EDITOR.

public. She accompanied herself on the piano, and her

shakes and bravuras, on which she industriously lingered,

would not have a soothing effect on Hugh's nerves
while engaged with his articles. The only servant in the

establishment was a ' little maid of all work --a child

some twelve  years of age who did not look above nine,'
             'had all that passed for cleaning in the
-- and who

apartments to accomplish by her own little self.' Mrs
Miller did something to alleviate for her husband the
horror of all this, but it is obvious that the sole adequate

remedy was to get out of it.
     So deeply had Miller felt the discomforts of his

situation that, before Mrs Miller's arrival, he had taken

a small house in Sylvan Place on the southern or country

side of the Meadows. ' It was No. 5, the house

farthest up the lane. There was a tiny morsel of railed

ground in front, a bit somewhat larger under grass at

the back. A pleasant market-garden surrounded this

enclosure on two sides. A small white-washed dairy

stood embowered in trees at the farther end of the lane.'

A short walk through lanes and fields led to the gently

sloping rise of the Braid hills, from which Scott described

and Turner drew Edinburgh. Under these improved
aspects Hugh Miller set up his first household in the

Scottish capital.                              It had
     To furnish the house was no easy matter.

been thought best to dispose of the furniture which had

been in the dwelling in Cromarty, but, owing to a con

tinuance of heavy rains, the attendance at the sale was

meagre in the extreme, and the household goods, valued
at about 150, had yielded a net amount of 40.

Such was the sum available for the new furnishing.

Miller's salary was 200. He absolutely refused to
permit any article to be bought on credit. The diffi

HIS EDINBURGH HOUSEHOLD.  219

culty of solving the problem was increased by the Edin
burgh custom of requiring the occupant of a house to
supply grates and ' fittings ' of all kinds. Nevertheless,
with activity in attending sales of furniture, contentment
with small beginnings, and patient waiting between
purchases, Mrs Miller, to whom, in his entire absorp
tion in the work of the paper, her husband left the matter,
contrived to make the house first habitable and then

comfortable. After a little time she began to assist in
the editorial department, first with paste and scissors,
then with pen, as contributor of reviews of books, earning
thereby some 20 per annum, which went to the furnish
ing. Once when Miller returned from breakfasting with
Chalmers, he told his wife that the great man had com
plimented him on one of the Witness critiques, and that
he had never felt so proud in his life as in saying that
it was by his wife. The business of furnishing, though
difficult, was not without its alleviations.

      Capable of existing with perfect convenience in a

cave, one stone serving for table, another for seat, and a

plate, knife, and fork the whole ' plenishing,' Hugh

suffered nothing from the anxiety to put things on a
respectable footing which oppressed Mrs Miller. The
spring leaves opening round him, the blue sky above, the
family of genius with their piteous little drudge at safe
distance, his wife beside him and his little daughter on

his knee, he could feel once more that he had a home.

     A daily visitor from the first was the sub-editor, Mr

James Mackenzie, then a student of theology, subse
quently minister of Dunfermline. Young, ardent, en
thusiastic beyond measure in the cause of spiritual
independence, proud of Miller as the popular champion,
affectionate in disposition and caressing in manner,
sincere, natural, impulsive as a child, he completely won

220 EDITOR.

IMiller's heart. ' scarce ever,' says Mrs Miller, ' saw

any one get so near my husband as James Mackenzie
Idid.
     of  often remarked    that men     of a   certain feminine
cast                                    could    approach him
         affection --not  intellect --

more closely than others. Mr Mackenzie had that

clinging affectionate nature which nestles into a home

wherever it finds space. He brought down to the editor

all the latest pieces of intelligence, accompanied always
with vehement comments of his own. He saved him a

vast deal of personal trouble, and was indeed to him as a
son or younger brother. Ten to one, when he had run

down with some piece of information, and was shouting

it out, our little Ha-ha, whom he loved with a most

intense fervour, would have climbed into his arms, wound

her arms round his neck, prattling her sweet words into

his ear, and his awful epithets would be thundered out

in the interval between kisses and caresses.'

The Ha-ha here referred to was Harriet, Miller's little

child. ' Ha-ha, as she styled herself, was an uncommonly

lovely and attractive child. A fair, azure-eyed little

thing, with golden curls which reached to her waist.

Naturally refined, with great elegance of figure, she

glanced about the house like a sunbeam, her childish

voice bursting out in a continual ripple of prattle and

song. Song more often even than prattle -- for she was

one of those children richly gifted as children, with a cer

tain genius blended with infantile graces which sometimes

developes with the growth, sometimes falls away like the

blossom of a too early spring. Such was Scott's pet

IMarjory. Little Ha-ha, however, had one gift which

have never met with in any other child. It was that of

natural improvisation. Every little incident, every phase

of feeling, was embodied in song and poetry, which she

would continue through a long summer's day. The

      SOCIETY.                                             221

music was always full of melody, the poetry a sort of

measured blank verse, sometimes rhyming,                   sometimes

not.  It fell on the ear like the ripple of a

                                     " hidden brook
                       In the leafy month of June,
                     That to the sleeping woods all night

                           Singeth a quiet tune." '

      The section of Edinburgh society which Miller would

probably have found at heart most congenial was closed
to him by the sectarian animosities of the time. Scotch

literature had found him out before the clerical world of

Scotland cast eyes on him, for it was as a literary man that
he had interested Principal Baird, and we have seen

proofs of the cordial feeling with which he was regarded

by Mr Carruthers, Sir Thomas Dick Lauder, and Mr

Robert Chambers. But these, with the large majority

of literary men throughout Scotland, viewed the claims

of the Church either with positive disapproval or with
indifference, and would have told Miller that, in be

coming the fighting man of the non-intrusionists, he was

throwing himself away. He, on the other hand, was so
fervent in his devotion to the cause he had espoused, so

confident that the best and dearest interests of his coun

try were at stake, that he could not enjoy any society un
less it gave him on this point not only tolerance but

sympathy. He did not, therefore, during the early
period of his residence in Edinburgh, mingle in literary

circles. The clerical leaders, with the exception of Dr

Chalmers, with whom he soon grew into warm friend

ship, did not welcome him to their firesides with the
genial hospitality to which he had been accustomed in
Cromarty. His only intercourse with them in a social

capacity was at an occasional dinner-party given by an
evangelical publisher or lawyer.

     His editorial contests in capacity of non-intrusion

222 EDITOR.

man-at-arms, were occasionally so severe, the castigation

he administered so stinging, and the fury it awakened

so conspicuous, that he conceived it possible that he

might be personally assaulted, and, with that constitu

tional timidity or constitutional pugnacity which charac

terized him, took means to guard against such a con

tingency. One evening Mr Carruthers had called for

him in company with a friend at his house in Sylvan

Place, and, not finding him at home, was returning in

the thick dusk by the road across the Meadows. Sud

denly Miller strode past without recognizing them, and
Mr Carruthers turning round exclaimed with mock fero
city, ' There goes that rascally editor of the Witness.'

Hugh at once faced round and presented a pistol.

Another word and glance of course revealed the mis
take, and Miller excused himself by saying that it would

not surprise him to be attacked any day. As Mr Car
ruthers and his friend resisted Miller's request to return

with him, he accompanied them to their hotel, and they

spent one or two pleasant hours together.
     Miller never became what printers and newspaper

proprietors call a ready editor. To receive at mid

night proof-sheets of the report of a long Parliament

ary debate, or to sit to a still more advanced hour with

attention  fixed upon  every  --tedainousexoerrciwseanedxehrainugstivsepeaaknedr
who has    taken part  in
           a

                            by
                                it,

                                                                                               a
distressing in the last degree to soul and body, --and

then to take pen in hand and strike off, as fast as the

letters can be traced, an analysis of the discussion, with

examination of the principal arguments and judgment

upon the whole, in clear and forcible language, garnished

with historical allusions, pointed illustrations, and

spicing of eulogy or banter, -- this feat, accomplished

fifty times session    practised hands on the London

EDITORIAL CAPACITY.  223

and, mutatis mutandis, the provincial press, was never
attempted by Hugh Miller. Chalmers remarked of him
that, when he did go off, he was a great gun, and the re
verberation of his shot was long audible, but he required

a deal of time to load.

     It was his delight to find the subject of an article
in some topic suggested by a friend, the more if old

and pleasant associations were recalled by it. When a
Danish corvette, for example, appeared in the Bay of
Cromarty, and Mrs Allardyce, widow of a Scottish
clergyman and one of Miller's valued friends, sent him
from his old home a few lines which she had written on

the occasion, the lines were at once felt to be too good
for the mere poetical corner, and were kept back until
they could be presented to the reader in the setting of

an editorial article. For days or weeks the thing would
dwell in Miller's thoughts, and at last the article, with

gossippy speculation as to the relationship between the
Danes and the Scotch, and a copious account of the
friendship of Cousin Walter and young Wolf, and one
more description of the Sutors and the Bay, would charm

all those--and they were not few --who took the Witness

for the sake of the editorial essays of Miller.
       The routine work of editing he never so completely

mastered as the routine work of banking ; rather, per

Ihaps, should say that he never could feel or affect that

transcendent interest in the petty political questions of
the day, which beseems the man whose function it is to
keep others perpetually interested in them. On Church
 questions he viewed things in his own way, and even
 when there was no discrepancy of opinion between him

 and the leaders, he was apt to surprise them by the
 time and manner of his discussing questions or advocating
 causes. During the few months preceding the Disrup

224 EDITOR.

tion, for example, Chalmers was bringing all the energies

of his genius to solve the grave economical problems

with whose practical solution the Free Church would

require to grapple. The religious mind of Scotland,

however, was at the moment deeply agitated by what

may be called the Railway phase of the Sabbath ques
tion. Hugh Miller's enthusiasm for the Sabbath was as

great as his enthusiasm for the Church, and he appre

hended national disaster on a large scale as the ultimate re

sult of the running of railway trains on Sunday. Accord
ingly, on the 4th March, 1843, there appeared in the

Witness a couple of columns from his pen, headed,
' A Vision of the Railroad,' in which the possibilities of

the future were delineated in appalling hues. ' Writing

a Vision of the Railroad,' growled Chalmers, ' when we
               '
want  money               The Vision is so characteristic, and, as a
             !

piece of literary workmanship, so striking, that I insert
it here. The ' Mr McNeill,' who somewhat spectrally ap

pears amid the imagery of the piece, can be understood to

have been some lawyer of the period whose opinions on the

first day of the week seemed to Miller to be latitudinarian.

                     A VISION OF THE RAILROAD.

                                                                                , Isle of Skye.

* * * I know not when this may reach you. We are much shut

out from the world at this dead season of the year, especially in those
wilder solitudes of the island that extend their long slopes of moor to

the west. The vast Atlantic spreads out before us, blackened by

tempest, a solitary waste, unenlivened by a single sail, and fenced off

from the land by      an  imwpriatess, a--bleforlinmeyoflittblreeackoetrtsa.ge  Even from the   ele
                     now                                                        stands high on
vation where I                                                                                  the
hill-side, -- I can  hear the measured boom of the waves, swelling                              like

the roar of distant artillery, above the melancholy moanings of the

wind among the nearer crags, and the hoarser dash of the stream in the

hollow below. We are in a state of siege ; the isle is beleaguered on

its rugged line of western coast, and all communication with man in that

quarter cut off; while in the opposite direction the broken and precari

ous footways that wind across the hills to our more accessible eastern

                   VISION OF THE RAILROAD.                                                            225

shores, are still drifted over in the deeper hollows by the snows of the

last great storm. It was only yester-evening that my Cousin Eachen,
with whom I share your newspaper, succeeded in bringing me the

number published early in the present month, in which you furnish

your readers with a report of the great Railway meeting at Glasgow.

    My cousin and I live on opposite sides of the island. We met at

our   tryst among   the hills,        not        half an  hsoeuermebdefobrreewsuinngs,et--;  and as   each
had   far to walk  back, and           as        a storm                                     for the  wind

had suddenly lowered, and the thick mists came creeping down the

hill sides, all dank and chill, and laden with frost-rime, that settled,
crisp and white, on our hair, -- we deemed it scarce prudent to indulge

in our usual long conversation together.
     1You will find,' said Eachen, as he handed me the paper, ' that

things are looking no better. The old Tories are going on in the old

way, bitterer against the gospel than ever. They will not leave us in

all Skye a minister that has ever been the means of converting a soul ;

and what looks as ill, our great Scotch Railway, that broke the Sabbath

last year in the vain hope of making money by
'                                                                                 to break this
          a
                                                                                it,
                                                                                    is

                                                                           I,
                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                           it

                                                                                        it
year at dead loss. And this for no other purpose that people can

see, than just that an Edinburgh writer may advertise his business by

making smart speeches about it. Depend on't, Allister, the country's

fiy.'*

      The old way of advertising among these gentry,' said                                   before

became necessary that an elder should have at least some show of

religion about him, was to get into the General Assembly, and make

speeches there. If the crisis comes we shall see the practice in full

blow again. We shall see our anti-Sabbatarian gentlemen transmuted

into  voluble Moderate elders, talking                    hard for clients        without    subject
ing   themselves to the advertisement                                             railway    mayhap
                                                          duty, -- and the

keeping its Sabbaths.'

      Keeping its Sabbaths replied Eachen, ay, but the shareholders,
''                                                            I,
                                           a ? !'                        '
                                                a                     I
perhaps, having little choice in the matter.                                wish you heard our

Catechist on that. Depend on't, Allister, the country's fey.'

      Keeping its Sabbaths                       Yes,' said catching at his meaning,                  '

                                                                                                       if

we are to be visited by                           permanent    commercial   timdee,p--restshieonr,a--ilwaandy
there are many things less                       unlikely at  the present

may keep its Sabbaths, and keep them as the land of Judea did of old.

It would be all too easy, in period of general distress, to touch that

line of necessarily high expenditure below which would be ruin for
                                                                            ' it
the returns of the undertaking to fall. Let but the invariably great

outlay continue to exceed the income for any considerable time, and

the railway must keep its Sabbaths.'

       Just the Catechist's idea,' rejoined my cousin. He spoke on the
subject at our last meeting. " Eachen," he said, -- " Eachen, the thing
it,

     '

               *

                      I

                                  it
lies so much in the ordinary course of Providence, that our blinded

Sabbath-breakers, were  see           to         happen, would recognize          only       disaster in
                                      at         times, with distinctness          that      my father
  -- not judgment.                                            a

               Marked for early death or overwhelming calamity.

      vol. n.                                      15

226 EDITOR.

would have called the second sight, that long weary line of rail, with

its Sabbath travellers of pleasure and business speeding over and
it

                I

                                                                   it,
                                                                                                          it,
                                                                                                                                       a
crowd of wretched witnesses raised, all unwittingly and unwillingly

on their own parts, to testify against and of coming judgment, at

both its   ends.    see that                the walks of the one             agrtriezaatns,ci--ty ainndtothwathitchhe
    opens                                   shoals of unemployed
           are blackened by

lanes and alleys of the other number by thousands and tens of thousands,

their pale and hunger-bitten operatives, that cry for work and food.

They testify  caollnttionouesutroelygrotwh,a--t jundagym, elentt     needs   no miracle here. Let
but the evil                                                      but one    of our Scottish capitals,
-- our great mart of commerce and trade, sink into the circumstances

of its manufacturing neighbour Paisley, and the railway must keep its

Sabbaths. But, alas there would be no triumph for party in the case.
Great, ere the evil could befall, would the sufferings of the country be,

and they would be sufferings that would extend to all." What think
   '
you, Allister, of the Catechist's note      ?
           if I                                '
       Almost worth throwing into English,' said. But the fog stillit it
thickens, and will be dark night ere we reach home.' And so we
                                         !                        ;I             '
                                                                          ;
                                                                                         it
parted.

      Dark night was, and the storm had burst out. But was pleas
ant, when had reached my little cottage, to pile high the fire on the

hearth, and to hear the blast roaring outside, and shaking the window

boards, as some rude hand were striving in vain to unfasten them.

I  lighted my little heap of moss-fir on the projecting stone, that serves

the poor Highlander for at once lamp and candlestick, and bent me

over your fourth page, to scan the Sabbath returns of Scottish rail
                                                                                      a

road.  But my     roufgglaesdsitjuoduer,n--eythaendwitnhde        beating    of the storm had in
duced    degree                                                   outside,   too, had forced back
       a
                        had filled with     --a MdrrowMsy'N, euilml bseeerymeadtmcoosnpshideererabtlhye
                      itlittle apartment,

                     I
the smoke, until
whole of my dingy

less smart than usual, and more than ordinarily offensive, and in the

middle of his speech fell fast asleep. The scene changed, and found                            I
myself still engaged in my late journey, coming down over the hill,

just as the sun was setting red and lightless through the haze, behind

the dark Atlantic.    The dreary            prospect on                    which I    had      looked so
shortly before was  restored in all          its features                             was      the blank,
                                                                            -- there

leaden-coloured   sea,  that seemed         to mix                all      around  with the blank,
leaden-coloured   sky                       spread                out      around   me, brown and
                        --the moors
barren, and studded with rock and stone -- the fogs, as they creptI
                                 ;
downwards, were lowering the overtopping screen of hills behind to onea

dead level.   Through the landscape, otherwise                               so  dingy       and sombre,
there ran a  long line of somewhat brighter hue,                                   was        long line of
                                                                             --it

                                                                                            a

breakers tumbling against the coast far as the eye could reach, and                               it

seemed interposed as sort of selvage between the blank, leaden

sea, and the deep, melancholy russet of the land. Through one
of those changes so common in dreams, the continuous line of surf
                  looked, to alter its character. It winded no longer
seemed, as
around headland and bay, but stretched out through the centre of

                     VISION OF THE RAILROAD.                                                                                          227

the landscape, straight as an extended cord, and the bright white

saddened down to the fainter hue of decaying vegetation. The entire

landscape underwent a change. Under the gloomy sky of a stormy

evening, I could mark, on the one hand, the dark-blue of the Pentlands,

and on the other, the lower slopes of Corstorphine. Arthur's Seat rose

dim in the distance behind ; and in front, the pastoral valley of Wester

Lothian stretched away            mthielemibdesyt,o--nd    mile, with  its long rectilinear
mound running through                                                  stood beside one of
                                                         from where I
the massier viaducts that rose an hundred feet overhead, till where the

huge bulk seemed diminished to a slender thread on the far edge of

the horizon.
It seemed as if years had passed, --many years. I had an indis
                                               faringdhtofuf lsuwffaerrfianrge,,----ooff
tinct recollection of scenes of terror                                                                                  the        shouts   of
maddened multitudes engaged in                                                                                           the         cries  of
                               and children, -- of streets and
bfalomoids,h--ingof  women                                             lanes flooded with
                     raging  flames enwrapping whole villages
                             arms, and the roaring of artillery,        in terrible ruin, --
of the flashing of                                                     -- but all was dim

ness and confusion. The recollection was that of a dream remembered

in a dream. The solemn text was in my mind, --' Voices, and thunders,

and   lightnings,     and    --a  great earthquake, such      as was                                                    not since men
were   upon the      earth,       so mighty an earthquake      and so
                                                                                                                        great ; ' and I
now felt as if the convulsion was over, and that its ruins lay scattered
around me. The railway, I said, is keeping its Sabbaths ! All around

was solitary, as in the wastes of Skye. The long rectilinear mound

seemed shaggy with gorse and thorn, that rose high against the sides,

and intertwisted their prickly branches atop. The sloe-thorn, and the

furze, and the bramble choked up the rails. The fox rustled in the

Ibrake ; and where his track had opened up a way through the fern,

could see the red and corroded bars stretching idly across. There was

a viaduct beside me : the flawed and shattered masonry had exchanged

its raw hues for a crust of lichens ; one of the taller piers, undermined

by the stream, had drawn two of the arches along with                                                                              and lay
                                                                                                                        a
a-down the watercourse shapeless mass of ruin, o'ermasted by flags
                     A                                                                                                      I it,

                                          a
                                            a
and rushes.          huge ivy that had taken root under neighbouring

pier, threw up its long pendulous shoots over the summit.                                                                          ascended

to the top.            Half buried in           furze and sloe-thorn there rested on                                                        the
rails what                                                                                                                                  lay
                     had once been             train of carriages --the engine ahead
                                                           ;

scattered in fragments, the effect of some disastrous explosion and
                                                                                                                                   ;

damp, and mould, and rottenness, had done their work on the vehicles

behind. Some had             already fallen    to pieces,  gsroowthnatupthaerior upndlacethsecmo,u--ld
be no longer traced          in the thicket    that had

others stood comparatively entire, but their bleached and shrivelled

panels rattled to the wind, and the mushroom and the fungus sprouted

from between their joints. The scene bore all too palpably the marks

of violence and bloodshed. There was an open space in front, where

the shattered fragments of the engine lay scattered and here the rails
a

                                             A
                                                                                                                     ;
had been torn up by violence, and there stretched across, breast-high,

rudely piled rampart of stone.                 human skeleton lay atop, whitened

   228 EDITOR.

 by the winds ; there was a broken pike beside it ; and, stuck fast in

 the naked scull, which had rolled to the bottom of the rampart, the

 cruhsatryneflr-haogumseen, t--obf iandswwooordd.    The space behind resembled the floor of a
                                                   and ground-ivy lay matted over heaps of
 bones ; and on the top of the hugest heap of all, a scull seemed as if

 grinning at the sky from amid the tattered fragments of a cap of liberty.
 Bones lay thick around the shattered vehicles, -- a trail of skeletons

 Idotted the descending bank, and stretched far into a neighbouring

 field ; and from amid the green rankness that shot up around them,

 could see soiled and tattered patches of the British scarlet. A little
 farther on there was another wide gap in the rails. I marked beside

 the ruins of a neighbouring hovel, a huge pile of rusty bars, and there

 Ilay inside the fragments of an uncouth cannon, marred in the casting.
         wandered on in unhappiness, oppressed by that feeling of terror

 and disconsolateness so peculiar to one's more frightful dreams. The

 hwcstoaiuutdnhntaterldytikuefttrsseseeuesom,nfkewdfuiintrzhteoevwerauirdnyinedwshgbe;--arropeoshmearine;d--teethrspheeoerswdt.egindedroo;T--wwhssecohstattfiadielglldserhseotaatwninudeerpdeminatrthnooeouirgrl-ihhneosehnusaesetdof

 ttehreedflofroarm, --es,yoanndderthteheroobfla-tcrkeneeslasyorfoftitriengh,adamleidft  the dank   vegetation of
                                                                                        its mark,  and there re

 mained but reddened and mouldering stone. Wild animals and doleful

 creatures had everywhere increased. The toad puffed out                                                       its freckled

 sides on hearths,  wbuhsohsees, --firetshehmadastbeerelnesslodnogg  extinguished,                              --the fox
 rustled among the                                                   howled from
                                                                                                               the thicket,
 --the hawk screamed shrill and sharp as it fluttered overhead. I passed

 what had been once the policies of                daamtiptlegdrapssro, --prieatlol r.exceTphteotnreeeshulgaey
 rotting and blackened among the

 giant of the forest, that girdled by the axe half a man's height from the

 ground, and scorched by fire, stretched out its long dead arms towards
 the sky. In the midst of this wilderness of desolation, lay broken

 masses, widely scattered, of what had been once the mansion-house.

 A shapeless hollow, half filled with stagnant water, occupied its imme
 diate site ; and the earth was all around torn up, as if battered with

 cannon. The building had too obviously owed its destruction to the

 irresistible force of gunpowder.

   There was a parish church on the neighbouring eminence, and
                                                                                                               a!
too, was roofless and a ruin.                      Alas,' exclaimed, as drew aside the
                         I                                                              'I                         aI
rank stalks of nightshade          '                             thtehatintheerdiogre, d--upaltahse            breach in
the wall through which                           !                                                              have the       it,

                                      'I
                                                   and hemlock
                                                   passed into

churches of Scotland also perished                               The inscription of a mutilated

tombstone that lay outside caught my eye, and paused for moment's
                                                                     I

space in the gap, to peruse it. It was an old memorial of the times

 of the Covenant, and the legend was                             hamlfo-sreenttheanncesh,a--lf 'dkeilflaicnegd.        suc

 cefaeditehdfulinmdaertcyipr,h' e--ringblomodeyrelPyrealafteews                                                  time,' --

1                   '                                            and beneath there was frag

                                                ' ;'
mentary portion of the solemn text, How long, Lord, holy and true,
                                                                 ?'
dost thou not judge and avenge our blood                                                stepped into the in
                                                                    I0

                     VISION OF THE RAILROAD.                                                                       229

terior :-- the scattered remains of an altar rested against the eastern

gable. There was a crackling, as of broken                                 gflraasgsm, eunntde;--r mit ybofreeeta,

and stooping down, I picked up a richly-stained

portion of  that   much-revered     --sigtnh,e  the pelican                 giving her young to
eat of her  own   flesh and blood,              sign which                 Puseyism and Popery

equally agree in regarding as adequately expressive of their doctrine

of the real presence, and which our Scottish Episcopalians have so re

cently adopted as the characteristic vignette of their Service-Book.

The toad and the newt had crept over and had borrowed newit,
                                                                           a it                       a
tint of brilliancy from the slime of the snail. Destruction had run                                           aa
                                                                             I
riot along the walls of this parish church. There were carvings chip

ped and mutilated, as in sport, less, apparently, with the intention of
defacing than rendering them contemptible and grotesque. A huge
    aa
cross of stone had been reared over the altar, but both the top and one;

                    if
of the arms had been struck away, and from the surviving arm there

dangled noose. The cross had been transformed into gibbet. Nor
                                                                                            aa
were there darker indications wanting. In recess set apart as                                     aa

cabinet for relics, there were human bones all too fresh to belong to

remote antiquity and in a niche under the gibbet lay the tattered re

mains of surplice dabbled in blood.             I                    stood amid the ruins, and felt
a sense of fear and horror creeping over rne, -- the air darkened under
                                                    a
the scowl of the coming tempest and the closing night, and the wind

shrieked more mournfully amid the shattered and dismantled walls.

There came another change over my dream. found myself wan

dering in darkness, knew not whither, among bushes and broken
    ;

                II
ground there was the roar of a large stream in my ear, and the savage

howl of the storm.             retain a confused, imperfect recollection of
l--ighatndstorefaamtinlegnguthponshbarroinkgeninwtahteer,re--poosef                                                '
                                                                     hard struggle                  in deep ford,
                                                                     and safety of                     cottage soli     a

tary and humble almost as my own. The vision again strengthened,

and found myself seated beside a fire, and engaged with few grave
'I
and serious men in singing the evening Psalm with which they closed

for the time their services of social devotion.

       The  wpaesrioodver,o--f triagrleyw-heaairrsed,faspt atarwiaaryc,'hasla-ildookonineg  oofldthmeann,u--mbethr,e
when all          is
                            a
period of trial      well nigh over, -- the                          storms of our long winter are
past, and we
                  have survived them all                              -- patience, -- a little more
patience, -- and   we shall see the glorious
                                                                      spring-time of the world be
                                                it ;
gin The vial at length exhausted.'                              if
'!                   is
         '
How very simple,' said one of the others, as giving expression

rather to the reflection that the remark suggested, than speaking in

reply, -- how exceedingly simple now seems, to trace to their causes

the decline and fall of Britain. The ignorance and the irreligion of

the land have fully avenged themselves, and have been consumed, in
turn, in fires of their own kindling. How could even mere men of the
world have missed seeing the great moral evil that lay at the root of--                                            '

Ay,' said well-known voice that half mingled with my dreaming
'

                  a

fancies, half recalled me to consciousness nothing can be plainer,
                                                                     ;
                                                                        '

230 EDITOR.

Donald. That lawyer-man is evidently not making his smart speeches

or writing his clever circulars with an eye to the pecuniary interests

of the railroad. No person can know better than he knows, that the

company are running their Sabbath trains at a sacrifice of some fouror

five thousand a-year. Were there not an hundred thousand that took

the pledge ? and can it be held by any one that knows Scotland, that

they aren't worth overhead a shilling a-year to theruilway ? No, no ; de

pend on't, the man is guiltless of any design of making the shareholders

rich by breaking the Sabbath. He is merely supporting a desperate case

in the eye of the country, and getting into all the newspapers, that peo

ple may see how clever a fellow he is. He is availing himself of the

principle that makes men in our great towns go about with placards set

up on poles, and with bills printed large stuck round their hats.'

    ITwo of my nearer neighbours, who had travelled a long mile

through the storm to see whether had got my newspaper, had taken

their seats beside me, when I was engaged with my dream, and after

reading your railway report, they were now busied in discussing the

various speeches and their authors. My dream
;                                                          am aware, quite

        if
               it

                        is

                                   I

                                                       it

                                          iIs,
unsuited for your columns, -- and    yet send      you.  ofThpeoressiabrielitnyo, --ne
of its pictured calamities that lie  beyond the   range

nay, there are perhaps few of them that at this stage may not actually

be feared but so,  at least equally sure that there can be none

of them that at this stage might not be averted.

We should hardly have known Miller for what he

was without reading this remarkable performance.                    '

will occasion astonishment to not few. Puritanism so                    It
                   a
                                a

                                           a
austere, confronting us in the middle of the nineteenth

century, shows like massive boulder, standing, grey

and stern, in the midst of modern meadow.                           One

man esteemeth one day above another; another man

esteemeth every day alike let every man be fully per
                   :

                               is
suaded in his own mind.' This Paul's deliverance on

the subject, and Calvin was content to accept              it       in all

its breadth of Christian liberty. Miller knew, however,

that in Scotland devout religion had for two centuries

been inseparably connected with Sabbath observance,

and he naturally looked upon desecration of the day as
leading to profanity and licentiousness. For the rest,
we are to recollect that, though the concluding words of

the 'Vision' prove Miller to have seriously believed

          HIS LEADING ARTICLES.                      231

that the running of Sunday trains on the Edinburgh and

Glasgow Railway might bring calamity on the empire,

its colouring is avowedly the colouring of a dream.

     In a short preface to a volume of leading articles by

Hugh Miller, selected from the file of the Witness, I have

made some remarks on his capacities as a writer of jour
                         I may be permitted to insert here :
nalistic  essays which
          meditated his  articles as an author meditates his
-- ' He

books or a poet his verses, conceiving them as wholes,

working fully out their trains of thought, enriching them

with far-brought treasures of fact, and adorning them

with finished and apposite illustration. In the quality

Iof completeness, those articles stand, so far as know,

alone in the records of journalism. For rough and

hurrying vigour they might be matched, or more, from

the columns of the Times ; in lightness of wit and smart

lucidity of statement they might be surpassed by the

happiest performances of French journalists, -- a Prevost

Paradol or a St Marc Girardin ; and for occasional bril

liancies of imagination, and sudden gleams of piercing

thought, neither they nor any other newspaper articles

have, I think, been comparable with those of S. T. Cole

ridge. But as complete journalistic essays, symmetrical

in plan, finished in execution, and of sustained and splendid
ability, the articles of Hugh Miller are unrivalled.'

In short, he modelled his newspaper essays, as he

modelled the chapters of his books, on the productions of

his beloved Addison and Goldsmith, rather than on those
of the ' eminent hands ' whose slashing leaders have made

their reputation on the London press. It was his habit

to fix upon his subject a few days, or even longer,

before the article was to appear, and nothing pleased him
better than to have Mrs Miller as volunteer antagonist,
to maintain against him, at the supper table, the thesis

            232 EDITOR.

             he proposed to controvert. Supper was his favourite

           meal. At breakfast he hardly tasted food, a cup of coffee
            and crumb of bread being the limit of his wants. After
            working at his desk in the early part of the day, he would
            walk out, make his way into the country, saunter about
            the hills of Braid or Arthur-seat, with his eye on the

             plants and land shells and geological sections, or explore
            for the thousandth time the Musselburgh shore or the
            Granton quarries. He never clearly admitted the canon
            ical authority of the dinner hour. He expected some

          thing warm to be kept ready for him ; but if the day was
          particularly favourable, or if a storm had strewn the coast
          with the treasures of the deep sea, or if some new phe

            nomenon struck him in connection with the raised beach

            of Leith and required interpreting and thinking out, or

          if he met with a brother naturalist and got into talk, the

            shades of evening would be falling thick before he again
            crossed his threshold. Even at that hour he had little

         appetite. It was not until his brain, obeying what his

            habits of night-study had made an irresistible law for him,
            awoke in its fervour about ten o'clock, that he showed a

            keen inclination for food. Porter or ale, with some kind of

            dried fish or preserved meat, formed his favourite supper.
            On these occasions he conversed with great freedom, and
            found it both pleasant and profitable to have his views
            and arguments vigorously controverted. There can be
            no doubt that the extraordinary success of many of his

         articles, --the repeated case of their being the town-talk
         and country-talk of the day, --was due, in a considerable

            degree, to his having beaten over the ground with Mrs
            Miller.

                In illustration of his habits of composition as an

         editor, I may refer to sundry slips which have been found

            among his papers, containing what seem the outlines of

'

                             DAILY HABITS.                                                  233

contemplated essays. He first states a question, and
then sets down the heads of an excursive reply to it.

IHere is one of these essays in skeleton, -- copy verbatim

from Miller's MS.

'Query --Whether Writing or Painting convey to the mind the

more vivid ideas.

ideas'O. rigiEngayl ptimanethoHdieroogf lytprahnicssm--ittMinegxicahnistodriyttoa--ndNocrotmhmAumniecraitcianng.

The deaf boy.
      '
able,    --Distahdevaancthaigeevsemoefnttshis   method.     The operation of       mind   indescrib
                                               of conduct.       Causes given       for  effects and

effects for causes. Winter personified as a Hog. The animals made

symbolical. Idolatry.
     ' 1st Conclusion, that the field of Painting is extremely narrow, and

that narrow field filled with uncertainty. That of Writing, on the

other hand, wide and clear.'

     ' Painting in a different view. In one particular province of
description more clear than Writing. A drawing gives a more

minute idea of a person, a building, a landscape, or a machine, than
any written description. To men of common minds it gives more

vivid ideas of things of a different province, but not to men of genius.

Tohf eShiallkuesstrpaetaiorne.s--oTfhitshepeWrhaavpseralecyonNsoevqeulesnc;e  of   Milton's Paradise Lost ;
                                                                               of   the painter's inferiority

to the writer. Happy illustration              inTvholeveIdtaliinanTasmchoOo'lS--haTnhteer  by Thorn
and the sculpture of the ancients.                                                          Flemish.

      ' Conclusion 2nd.  In                    one narrow     fiiet ldalmPoasitntdinisgpugteivsesthemopraelmviv;--id
ideas than Writing.      In                    another field

but the fields of Writing as extended as human thought or the works

of the Creator. Nay, infinite ; seeing God is a writer.'

      We shall take another of these outlined essays or

Debating Society speeches, --they would serve equally

well for either.

' Query --Whether Luxury be advantageous or disadvantageous to

a State.

     ' A brief view of the history of Luxury from the most remote to

the present times. Assyria. The feast of Belshazzar. Persian

Luxury in its primitive cast. The savage a great drinker, the Persian

so. The boast of Cyrus over his brother Artaxerxes. The men who

live by hunting often obliged to fast for a long time, and in the habit
of gorging voraciously. The Persians ate only once a day. Consola
tion of the Abderites. The Greeks similar in this respect to the

Persians.  Plato's remark on the Sicilians. The Spartans and

Athenians luxurious in the latter days of their respective States.
' Roman luxury very peculiar. Cleopatra's pearls. Esopus the

234 EDITOR.

player had one dish that cost nearly 5000 -- the tongues of singing-

birds. Lucullus's   suppers  amounted to    of16s0ca0rie--achth. e  Favourite dishes
were the fat paps  of a sow                                          brains of pheni-
                             -- the livers

copters. Apicius sails from the coast of Italy to that of Africa to taste
a species of oyster -- one of the common dishes of Rome the (word
undecipherable) boar.
' Ancient Scandinavian feasts. Intemperate in eating and drink

ing. As among the Persians, to hold much liquor reputed a heroic
virtue. Drinking to the gods and the souls of departed heroes. Their

heaven that of the Turks. The old English. William of Malmes-
bury's account of them -- continuing over their cups night and day.
Saints' days times of festivity. In Scotland the extreme sumptuous-

ness of the feasts at marriages, christenings, and funerals restrained by

Act of Parliament in the reign of Charles II. These great feasts a

proof that the people were not habitually luxurious. Our own recol

lection of Christmas and New Year's day. Luxury of the monks in the

Middle Ages. Giraldus Cambrensis' anecdote of the monks of St

Swithin who prostrated themselves at the feet of Henry II., com

plaining of their Bishop. His decision regarding their suit. Angels,

patriarchs, apostles, prophets in poetry. Luxury of the present age.

Its effects on small farmers, operative manufacturers. Rack-rented

tenants. People becoming extremely poor or oppressively rich.
     ' Luxury the cause of decline in almost all nations. The Persians

as invaders and invaded. Alexander conquered by luxury. The

Greeks, both Athenians and Spartans. The Romans employ mercen

aries. Our own country. Goldsmith's apostrophe.'

     Hugh Miller conducted the Witness for sixteen years,
and he cannot have written for the paper fewer than a

Ithousand articles. ' Having surveyed this vast field,

retain the impression of a magnificent expenditure of

intellectual energy, -- an expenditure of which the world
will never estimate the sum. By far the larger portion
of what he wrote for the Witness is gone for ever. Admir

able disquisitions on social and ethical questions, felici
ties of humour and sportive though trenchant satire,
delicate illustration and racy anecdote from an inex
haustible literary erudition, and crystal jets of the purest

poetry, --such things will repay the careful student of

the Witness file, but can never be known to the general

public.'

     It was a tragic element in Miller's lot as a newspaper

JOURNALISTIC LITERATURE.  235

editor that he had no particle of enthusiasm for the press,
no confidence in the newspaper as an educating agency.
He has put it on record that the mechanics he had
known whose culture consisted in life-long familiarity
with newspapers were uniformly shallow and frivolous.
Of himself he has spoken as doomed to cast off shav
ing after shaving from his mind, to be caught by the
winds, and after whirling lightly for a little time, to
be blown into the gulf of oblivion. Perhaps he did
not enough take into account the essentially ephemeral
nature of human productions, or reflect that the longest-
lived book and the newspaper article of the hour are

alike covered up one day.

                     ' The memory of the withered leaf
                     In endless time is scarce more brief
                        Than of the garnered autumn sheaf.'

Nay, inasmuch as a powerful newspaper writer lodges
his thoughts in the minds of men engaged in affairs,
and has them thus woven into the web of events and
the fabric of institutions, it might be argued that he
least of all toils without result of his labours. Hugh
Miller, at any rate, looked with fixed distrust upon jour
nalistic writing, both as culture for a man's own mind
and as a means of influencing his fellows. He regard

ed science as a counteractive to the deteriorating effects
of this kind of work upon his intellectual powers.

                          CHAPTER IV.

                                  THE DISRUPTION.

IN writing the history of any event or series of events
     an author is inevitably influenced by the point of

view which he has taken. It would be possible to draw

up an historical account of the French Revolution with
out mention of the Paris newspapers of the period.
These had no official, formal, technical connection with
the occurrences of the time, and from the dynastic point
of view, or the Parliamentary point of view, or the
official point of view, it would be easy to delineate the

Revolution without naming them. If a just account,

however, of a great historical transaction involves a de
scription of those agencies which, assisting its progress
and modifying its character, contributed mainly to make
it what it was, the omission of all mention of the French
press in a history of the French Revolution, would be a
capital mistake. When the movement which resulted
in the Disruption of 1843 and the creation of the Free
Church of Scotland is contemplated from the ecclesiastical
point of view, it is possible, without any intentional in
justice, to overlook the importance of the part played
in it by Hugh Miller. The Courts of the Presbyterian
system, though the congregation is represented in them

' THE TEN TEARS' CONFLICT.'  237

by the lay elders, are essentially Church Courts, and the

clergy constitute their preponderating element. It was

in these courts that the battle of the Church, in its

formal and technical aspect, was fought ; and one who

took part in their discussions, and subsequently wrote an
account of the movement, might think that, when he had

detailed what took place in Presbytery, Synod, and Gen
eral Assembly, with mention of corresponding occurrences
in the Court of Session and the British Parliament, and

occasional glances at the chief public meetings and the

most notable pamphlets, he had presented a just and
adequate view of the historical transaction which he
undertook to depict. Such is doubtless the fair explana
tion of a circumstance which has often been the sub

ject of remark, namely, that, in a well-known history,
entitled ' The Ten Years' Conflict,' distinguished on the

whole by lucidity, vigour, and animation, the name of
Hugh Miller is conspicuous by its absence. An eloquent
passage is quoted in that work from the Letter to Lord
Brougham, and the author, Dr Robert Buchanan, has
never hesitated to acknowledge the importance of the

service rendered by the Witness and its editor to the
Evangelical party ; but Miller nevertheless felt that, in a
history of the origin of the Free Church, he ought to
have been named. The book was put into his hands

for review, and with characteristic magnanimity and can
dour he reviewed it favourably.

     At the time when Hugh Miller undertook the editor

ship of the Witness, the sympathies of the people of Scot
land had been to but a comparatively slight extent awaken

ed and secured for the contending Church. A vague but

potent impression swayed the public mind that the agi

Itation was a mere clerical affair. can still recollect how

this notion would crop up in the small talk of the day.

238 EDITOR.

' The ministers wanted power. They would like to put
down patrons with one hand, and to silence with the
other every luckless parson who did not vote in the
Presbytery and preach in the pulpit as the Evangelical
majority were pleased to dictate. Perhaps it was just as
well that the Court of Session should keep these petu
lant little popes in their own place.' No man did so

much to dissipate these notions, so perilous to the move
ment, as Hugh Miller. The Church of Scotland, he pro
claimed, was standing once more, as she had so often
stood, on the side of the people, and he tore to shreds

the flimsy plea that the dogs, valiantly defending the fold,
had an eye only to their class interests. On the other

hand, his influence was mightily exerted to prevent the
mere ecclesiastical element from assuming that predom
inance which many alleged to be the object of the whole
struggle. Hugh Miller felt with a depth and solemnity
of conviction which converted the feeling into a senti
ment of duty, that the Witness was to be the organ of no
clerical party, the sounding-board of no Church Court,
but was to represent the movement in all the breadth
and independence of its national characteristics.

     He took no vulgarly practical, no merely political
or secular, view of the interests at stake in the Ten
Years' Conflict. His appreciation of the position and
claims of the Church was, in a strictly theological point
of view, masterly. He recurred, as we saw, to the first
Reformed Assembly of the Church of Scotland, its Book
of Discipline and Confession of Faith ; nor did he stop
there, but pressed onward until the principles which he
found in these instruments led him to ' the fundamental

ideaof all Revelation,' that, man's supreme allegiance being
due to God, the ultimate formula of freedom in relation

to his fellows, a formula which he is bound to enunciate

THE NATIONAL ENTHUSIASM.                        239

and maintain, is liberty to do his duty towards God. The
ancient standards of the Church of Scotland ' embodied,'

he said, ' in all their breadth the Redeemer's rights of
prerogative as sole Head and King of His Church, and,

with these, all those duties and privileges of the Church's

members which His rights necessarily involve and ori

ginate.' The Church, therefore, owed it to Christ that

she should not surrender either her spiritual independ
ence or the rights of congregations.

      The lofty and ideal conception of the cause he

championed, which animated Hugh Miller, was enter
tained also by the people of Scotland. A thrill of spirit

ual enthusiam passed through the heart of the nation more

ardent and elevating than has been experienced in the
IUnited Kingdom since the seventeenth century.
                                                con

sider it one of the greatest advantages of my life to

have witnessed the excitement of the time. So stead

ily do the forces at work in modern society tend to

make the possession of money the all-absorbing ambition

of life, --so pallid and ineffectual, in contest with this tre

mendous power,   are the aesthetic and  political influences
which act upon                           it is a strengthen
                 cultivated men,--that

ing and priceless consciousness to have lived in a society

which in very deed esteemed principle more highly than

gold. More highly than gold ; yes, and more highly
than what to finely-toned minds is of greater value than
gold, to wit, the distinction belonging to an Established

Church, the deference, the social consideration, yielded

to the representatives of a legally recognized and honour

ed institution.

Within the present century no day has dawned on

Scotland when the heart of the nation was so profoundly

agitated as on that on which the majority in the General

Assembly of 1843 left St Andrew's Church and pro

240 EDITOR.

ceeded to Canonmills Hall. There had been no intention

on the part of the protesting ministers and members to
form a procession, but when the first exultant shout with
which the emerging figures were greeted had subsided,
the crowd fell back on either side in spontaneous rever
ence, and formed a lane through which the procession
moved. Dr Welsh, the Moderator of the preceding year,
with Chalmers and Gordon, two men whose appearance,
the one for its massive and leonine manhood, the other

for its severe intellectual majesty, would have attracted
notice in any assemblage in Christendom, led the way.
Cunningham, Candlish, MacDonald of Ferintosh, Camp
bell of Monzie, Murray Dunlop, men whose names had
become household words in Scotland, followed. As they
headed the long column on its way down the broad swell
of undulation on which the new town of Edinburgh is
built, the Frith of Forth before them, the Bass Rock far

on the right, the blue hills of the north closing in the
distance, there were lookers-on who, although they had
opposed the movement, felt their eyes moisten with proud

joy that they had seen such a day. It was the old land
yet,--the stuff of immortality, the asbestos thread of in

corruptible national character, the light that struggled
in Falkirk's wood, and beamed out at Bannockburn, and

played in fitful gleams upon the storm-tost banner of
the Covenant, survived in Scotland still.

    What to most Englishmen--to those who have de

rived their idea of clerical character from the recent his

tory of the Anglican Establishment --will seem specially

surprising in this event, is that the Scottish clergy who,
in 1843, abandoned their livings, did not find some
plausible pretext, some ingenious sophism, some ' softly-
spoken and glistening lie,' wherewith to lull their con

sciences and enable them to evade their duty. Such

               THE ANGLICAN CHURCH.                                                241

plausibilities lay round in abundance, --the raw material

of them, thatbyrequiring only to be woven into webs
                  is,
and veils. The protesters might, for example, have con
                                         a
tinued their protest within the pale of the Establishment.a
They might have raised the flag of rebellion, have told
                                                   is
                                                                                a
the civil authorities that, let them do what they chose,

the majority would exercise the spiritual government of

the Church, and have declared that, whenever minister

called himself the pastor of parish against the will of

the people and in defiance of the Church, they would

let him consume the loaves and the fishes, but would

depose him from the office of the ministry, appoint

another man in his stead, and direct the people to re

cognize the latter as their pastor. This course of de

nouncing and defying the State the highest pitch of

devotion to Church principle to which the typical Angli

can attains or aspires. Henry, Bishop of Exeter, over

ruled     the Privy Council in his dealings with one

whom he believed to be heretic, excommunicated all

men, the Primate of the Church of England included,

who should dare to interfere with his ecclesiastical juris

diction. When his gesticulations and exclamations, his

protests and pronouncements and anathemas, were treated

as so much amusing pantomime, Henry crossed his legs

in the House of Lords and was content. The gesticulat

ing and exclaiming, though had produced no manner

of effect on Mr Gorham, or on the Archbishop of Canter

bury, or on the Judicial Committee of Privy Council, or
'
                           '

                                             it
on any other earthly man or thing, possessed the sin

gular property of calming Henry's agitated bosom, and

setting free his energies for assault and battery upon all
 schismatics from the Anglican Church. But in all ages

of the world save ours, and in all countries of the world

save that Eden which lies between the Cheviot hills and

VOl. II.       16

242 EDITOR.

the English Channel, the proceedings of the Bishop of

Exeter, when beaten down and baffled in the Gorham case,

would have been considered a mixture of unseemly in

solence and atrocious humbug. Mr Bennett, of Frome, re

fuses to plead in what are called the ecclesiastical courts, re

garding them and their doings as mere imaginary entities

in relation to the Church of which he holds himself to be

a member. How he would name that Church I cannot

tell, but he stands before the public as a minister of the

State-Church of England. The Rev. Mr Mossman of

Wragsby, rejoicing that 'the lurid, murky flame of Pro

testantism, enkindled in the sixteenth century, is rapidly

becoming quenched, and the true light of the gospel,

which twice before came to England from Rome, is once

more beginning to beam upon us from the Eternal City,'
hoping for the day when ' it will come to pass that Angli

cans will see that it is God's will that they should sub

mit to the Holy Apostolic See, and that it is their duty

as well as their privilege to be in communion with that

Bishop who alone is the true successor of Peter, and, by

Divine Providence, the Primate of the Catholic Church,'

nevertheless continues an official of the Anglican Estab

lishment. By the simple process of regarding the doc

trinal formularies of the Church as meaningless and the

ecclesiastical courts as imaginary --by merely ignoring

the little ceremony of subscription, the preliminary fib

which has to  be uttered, the  passing  of conscience under
the Caudine   Forks which      has to
                                        be undergone --un

limited freedom is obtained to expatiate in the sweetness

and light of the English State-Church. Thank God, the
clergy of the protesting Church of Scotland in 1843
did not content themselves with rendering it an in

soluble or even an intricate problem to make them

out to be honest men. They had distinctly defined

           THE POSITION OF THE PARTIES.                                 243

their position, and the popular intelligence apprehended

it ; they said what they would do, and they did it. The
          broefasat l--l raegsepso--ndtshe
morality                                     instinct    of veracity    in the
human                                       to the     declaration of    Chal

mers, perhaps the noblest which ever came from his

lips, that, if the majority in the Church had belied their

position and remained in the Establishment, they would

have made it a moral nuisance. A Church of Christ

which would have perplexed the human sense of truth
fulness, which would have shuffled out of its promises
and nestled comfortably into its benefices, which would

have given sanctimonious phrases and slippery evasions
for plain deeds, would, God wot, have been a moral

nuisance.

      Strange to say, this declaration of Chalmers's has not
only been misrepresented, but has been turned into
something which, while retaining a resemblance to it in

sound, it

           is,
                            by
                                                                     a

                                                           It
           as nearly as possible, its opposite.                         has been

alleged that he pronounced the Scottish Establishment,

after     was left  the Free Church, moral nuisance.

Happily he had an opportunity, before the Parliamentary
Committee on the refusal of sites to Free Church con

gregations, for exposing this malignant falsehood, and

stating what he actually said. In point of fact, the

mere circumstance that the battle had been bravely and

honestly fought on both sides enabled the two sections of

the dissevered Church of Scotland to regard each other,

though with inevitable irritation, yet with manly and
soldierly respect. Dr Cunningham of Edinburgh and
Dr Robertson of Ellon, the foremost clerical athletes in
                                                       a
                                                           a

                                                                       in
the controversial fray, were in their latter years intimate
personal friends. No candid historian of the contest will

refuse to admit that the genuine Moderate party, the
heritors of the policy of Robertson, occupied position

244 EDITOR.

which upright men, of good intellectual parts, could occupy.
They would not grant that they yielded the fundamental
principle of spiritual independence as maintained by the
ancient Scottish Church. Even in respect of the right of
the people to have no ministers intruded on them, they
objected, not to the claims of congregations in themselves,
nor to the sympathy and co-operation of the Church with
the popular efforts to give those claims effect, but to the
means which the Church had taken to express her sym

pathy and enforce her co-operation, -- to the want, to say

the least, of deference to the civil law evinced in the
enactment of the Veto and in the admission of the
chapel ministers to full Presbyterial powers. There was,
they argued, no intention on the part of the State to de
prive the Church of the privileges recognized as hers in
the Treaty of Union ; but, in definitely bestowing, by the
Veto, a power upon congregations to set aside rights of
patrons which the State legally countenanced, and which
could not practically be distinguished from rights of
property, and in giving chapel ministers the status and
authority of parish ministers, the Church, they maintained,
had dealt arrogantly and domineeringly with the State,
and the natural consequence was that the State put its
back up against the Church. Accordingly the course
prescribed alike by sound policy and by Christian temper
was, they said, that the Church should rescind her ob
noxious legislation, and take counsel with the allied
State, in a friendly spirit, as to how the fundamental
principles of her constitution could be carried out.

    The reply to these arguments might be satisfactory,
but it is impossible to deny that honest and able men
could use them. The majority might say that, since
the principles involved were confessedly fundamental,
since the Church had done no more than guard them

MORAL VALUE OF THE DISRUPTION.  245

in what she deemed an effectual manner, and since she

was willing to let the Civil Courts do what they pleased
with the temporalities, the State was bound to ratify her
proceedings ; that persistence in the course she had

taken was no rebellion, inasmuch as appeal was made

to fundamental principles of her constitution, but that,

if the Church retraced her steps and did the bidding of

the Civil authorities, she would be held by all the

world to have surrendered at discretion, and would, at

best, possess her freedom in future by sufferance of the
IState.
         humbly hold, with Chalmers and Cunningham

and Hugh Miller, that the reply of the majority was

conclusive; but the scales of argument were rather

nicely balanced, and perfect respect could be ac
corded to every man of either party who was ' firmly

persuaded in his own mind.' The essential point was
that word should correspond to belief and that action

should correspond to word. This is the foundation
canon of all morals. Whether a man or a Church stands

morally on a foundation of adamant or on a foundation of

sand is determined by the answer to be rendered to the

question whether said man or said Church conforms to
this canon or does not. The founders of the Free Church

did not 'palter with eternal God.' Whatever was the

persuasion of their opponents, they believed that it was

their duty to sacrifice emolument and position rather
than submit to the Civil Courts. They conferred not,

therefore, with flesh and blood, but did their duty.
Their act was the noblest thing done in Europe in their

Itime. This, understand, is Mr Carlyle's estimate of

the Disruption.

      Among those who were assembled in Canonmills
Hall to welcome the Free Church, the stalwart form and

great shaggy head, and earnest, thoughtful features of

 246 EDITOR.

 Hugh Miller, were particularly noticed. One can fancy
 how the fire would glitter in his moist eye, and the
 enthusiasm glow on his face, as he listened to words like
 these in the address of Chalmers : -- ' We read in the

 Scriptures, and I believe it will be found true in the

 history and experience of God's people, that there is a
 certain light, and joyfulness, and elevation of spirit,
 consequent upon a moral achievement such as this.
 There is a certain felt triumph, like that of victory over
 conflict, attending upon a practical vindication, which
 conscience has made of her own supremacy, when she
 has been plied by many and strong temptations to de
 grade or to dethrone her. Apart from Christianity
altogether, there has been realized a joyfulness of heart,
a proud swelling of conscious integrity, when a conquest
has been effected by the higher over the inferior powers
of our nature : and so, among Christians too, there is a
legitimate glorying, as when the disciples of old gloried
in the midst of their tribulations, when the spirit of
glory and of God rested on them, when they were made
partakers of the Divine nature and escaped the corrup
tion that is in the world ; or as when the apostle Paul
rejoiced in the testimony of his conscience. But let us
not forget, in the midst of this rejoicing, the deep humility
that pervaded their songs of exultation ; the trembling
which these holy men mixed with their mirth : trembling
arising from a sense of their own weakness : and then
courage, inspired by the thought of that aid and strength
which were to be obtained out of His fulness who

formed all their boasting and all their defence.'

    It is worthy of mention that the name ' Free Church

of Scotland ' appears to owe its origin to Hugh Miller.
He had made use of it in articles in the Witness months

before the Disruption. Calmly foreseeing that event, he

THE ESTABLISHMENT PRINCIPLE.  247

had meditated profoundly on the position which the pro

testing Church would occupy, and the course she ought to
pursue. Loving the Church of Scotland with passionate
attachment, his grand anxiety was that the Free Church
should be, in all respects save that of formal alliance
with the State, the old Scottish Church. He dwelt

earnestly on the necessity of separating her cause from
that of political party, and letting it be known that she
was to do the work neither of Whigs, Tories, nor
Radicals. The strength of her foundation was to be

the personal godliness of the Scottish people, and she
was to seek no other basis. The counsel of Hugh Mil

ler to the Church on this point was as wise as it was
pious, and there can be no doubt that it contributed
largely to secure for him that confidence of the devout,
quiet, solid-minded laymen of the Church, which con
stituted a power rendering him independent of every
political section as well as of its clerical partisans. ' There
is a call in Providence,' he said, ' to the Church, that she

dissipate not her powers in the political field.'
      At great length, also, he insisted upon the importance

of Free Church maintenance of ' the Establishment prin

ciple.' He looked upon that principle as an integral part
of the British Constitution, and his reverence for the

Constitution was such as would have been sympathized

with by Burke or by Johnson rather than by modern

Whigs. ' It would be as impossible,' he said finely,

' for mere politicians to build up such a Constitution by

contract, as it would be for them to build up an oak, the
growth of a thousand summers.' And in the Constitu
tion he believed that ' the Establishment principle ' was
embodied, whereas ' the Voluntary principle ' was not.
The testimony of the Church of Scotland had, he de
clared, been ' for the Headship of Christ, not only over

248 EDITOR.

the Church, but over States and Nations in their charac

ter as such.' His experience had made him acquainted

with secular voluntaryism rather than with the spiritual

voluntaryism represented by such men as Dr Heugh of
Glasgow and Dr Cairns of Berwick. According to these,

the principle of a free Church in a free State, with

clergy sustained by the free-will offerings of their flocks

on the apostolic model, affords amplest scope for the re

cognition and performance, both by States and Churches,

of their duty to Christ as King, and is therefore in
strictest consonance with the spirit, if not with the

letter, of the old Scottish testimony. Be this as it may,

the fact must be clearly stated in a biography of Hugh
Miller, that, at the moment when he saw what he con

sidered the infatuated policy of the State rending the

Church of Scotland asunder, he ' would fain press on

every member of the Free Church the great importance

of the Establishment principle.'

By joining the Free Church, however, he declared in

the most forcible manner that the only Church, estab

lished or disestablished, to which he could adhere was a

Church exercising every right of self-government. Un
less ' the Establishment principle ' meant that the State

was to recognize and endow the Church, and the

Church to arrange her affairs and exercise her dis

cipline in subjection to the law of Scripture alone, he

practically discarded it. All the rights of the Church
--all that constituted her vitality as an institution --had,

he held, been bought by Christ and had descended from

heaven. Speaking as a theologian and a Churchman,

\John Henry Newman concentrated his rhetoric of con
demnation, applied to the State-Church of England, into
                                                '
the phrase,  'a  mere  national  institution       and  Hugh
                                              ;

Miller, as he looked upon the spectacle of the Disrup-

RESULTS OF THE DISRUPTION.  249

 tion, could say nothing more sternly sad of the State-
 Church of Scotland than that she had become a ' State-

 institution.' The difference between the Oxford doctor

 and the Free Church champion was this, that, whereas

Anglican Bishops have since Henry VIII. 's time ordained

 vice regis, in the person of the king, thus recognizing the
sovereign as sole fountain of spiritual authority for the
establishment, the Scottish layman could point to the
Treaty of Union, expressly exempting the Church of
Scotland from the spiritual supremacy vested in the Eng
lish Crown, and guaranteeing to her all those rights and
privileges which a century and a half of terrible con

tending had secured her.
      The importance of this distinction became evident in

the sequel. Dr Newman left the Anglican Church more

conspicuously a ' mere national institution ' than before :
the Free Church won not only her own battle, but the
battle of the Scottish Establishment also. The dust of

the conflict having cleared away, the men of character
and power in the State-Church of Scotland, the Macleods,
the Cairds, the Tullochs, and men of like stamp, took
up the position of the old Presbyterian fathers, claim
ing spiritual independence for the Church, and doing
their best to secure for congregations the election of
their ministers. Nay more, the Court of Session has,
by a recent decision, treated the right of the Church to
exercise spiritual discipline in the suspension and depos
ition of ministers as unquestionable. Whether the law

lords would have been thus generous, if the Established

Church of Scotland had not become so modest, unassum

ing, and inoffensive that a wigged gentleman might safe
ly pat her on the head, were perhaps an ungracious
subject of inquiry.

      That an event shall become of world-historical

250 EDITOR.

significance, --that it shall be a grain cast into the seed-
field of Providence to grow and bring forth fruit, --

depends not upon its consequences being foreseen by

isthose who take part in    but upon its being, at the
        is

                             ' it,

                             It
                                                    It

                                                                          by is
moment of its occurrence, true and right.                                        the

branch which sheds its leaves timeously in autumn that

puts forth buds vigorously in spring. Sufficient unto

every day the work thereof, and no generation ever
trod this world which could exactly measure the shoes of

the succeeding generation.    always happens that the

future an

                                          Offspring strange

Of the fond Present, that with mother-prayers
And mother-fancies looks for championship
Of all her loved beliefs and old-world ways
From that young Time she bears within her womb.'

We have already ceased to be particularly moved                                  the

watchwords of the Voluntary Controversy, or the Non-

Intrusion Controversy, and the Constitution seems to

have survived the disrespect shown to the Establishment
principle in recent legislation on the Irish Episcopal

Church but the Disruption was brave, resolute, and

honest piece of work, -- triumph of veracity and pious
courage, -- and its fruits are following it. The principle

of the headship of Christ over His Church, which the
:

                it

                               a
                                                   a
whole world heard proclaim, may be slightly regarded

in its theological aspect, but reasonable men acknowledge

that, when interpreted into the right of Churches and re

ligious denominations to manage their own affairs,           it
                                                                 is

one which liberates the energies of statesmen and lawyers

for their proper duties, and              eminently conducive
;

                                      is
to the welfare of the State. Not one man in ten

thousand knows or cares to know the exact difference

between the Voluntary principle and the Establishment

principle but the Free Church has afforded the noblest

           HIS PART IN THE DISRUPTION.          251

demonstration the world ever saw of the power of a

Christian Church to maintain an educated ministry

throughout the entire extent of a country, and common

sense drives home the conviction that this is the obvious,

the natural, the expedient, and, from the statesman's
point of view, the economical way of managing the
business. There is not an institution of recent times

from which the world has learned so much as from the

Free Church of Scotland.

     It is on the lines of principle laid down by the Free

Church, that the remarkable union which has been pro
ceeding for many years among the branches of the Re
formed Communion throughout the world has taken
place. The Reformed Church of the sixteenth century,

--justly so-called because, in contradistinction to the

Lutheran and Anglican Churches, which contented them

selves with washing the dirty clothes of Rome and put

ting them  on again,  she went direct for her   Constitution
to Christ                                        her broken
           and His    apostles, --has reunited

ranks in Australia and in America, and there are, as we

have seen, none but circumstantial hindrances to her

reunion in Scotland. Disunion on Christian principles

-- disunion at the bidding of conscience and duty -- is

the natural prelude to union on Christian principles.
     In how far Hugh Miller would have sympathized

with the recent movements for union in the Reformed

IChurch, shall not pretend to say. At the time when

he wrote his articles extolling the Establishment prin
ciple, his views were those of Dr Cunningham and of
others who subsequently shared in the impulse towards
union. Hugh Miller was a man of definite opinions,
and held them tenaciously ; but he was not devoid of
that capacity of growth, which is perhaps the ultimate
characteristic of great minds. Such an intellect as his

252 EDITOR.

could not become a fossil, however exquisitely coloured

and definitely traced might be the markings on it.

As a man of science he kept the gates of his soul grandly

open, and as a churchman and theologian he would as
suredly have seen ' what main currents draw the years '
and permitted the wind of Providence to fill his sail.

More I cannot say.

There are some who think that, in devoting himself

to the Free Church, Hugh Miller abandoned a higher

Icareer, which might have awaited him if he had given his

undivided energies to science. To this view cannot sub

scribe. To take part in founding an important national

institution is a higher and more honourable service to

humanity than to make discoveries in science or to write

eloquent books. So long as the Free Church endures,

she will bear upon her the image  manodnumsuepnetr,s--cripatiosnounodf
Hugh Miller. She is his best

piece of building, creditable to the journeyman mason.

All things considered, there was no one of her founders

who played a more important part in rearing her than he.

It was at his voice that the people of Scotland awoke to

a perception of what they had to lose or gain in the Church
controversy. ' There does not,' he said, ' exist a tenderer

or more enduring tie among all the various relationships

which knit together the human family, than that which

binds the Gospel minister to his people.' No one pro

claimed this during the conflict so powerfully as Hugh

Miller, and it was his proclamation of this, with accom

panying exhibition of the fact that all the tenderness and

all the sacredness of the relation between pastor and

people were at stake in the conflict, which tended more
than aught else to fill the courts of the Free Church

with the acclaiming voices of the people of Scotland.

                    253

                    CHAPTER V.

     DIFFERENCE WITH DR CANDLISH.

NO company of earnest men in this world, --whether
      good or bad,  wahsetdheesrcraibseidmabgyinatthiveelyhistdoerilainne,a--tedfrobmy
the  true poet, or

Achilles and Agamemnon to the Apostles Peter and Paul,

-- have ever been able to agree. An agreeable man --
the definition is Mr Disraeli's -- is one who agrees with

you, and the talent of agreeing all round is precisely that

in which men of original and decisive character, keeping

a conscience, are apt to be defective. Hugh Miller, as

we have had occasion to see, had his own convictions as

to what the Free Church, and the Witness as the prin

cipal representative of the Free Church in the press,

ought to be. He had not derived these from man, and

there was no man living at whose beck he would change

them. On two points his mind was made up with an

impassioned emphasis of determination, first that the

Witness should be kept independent of party, and,

secondly, that there should be no entering into league
with ' Voluntaries ' for the purpose of assailing the

254 EDITOR.

Established Churches. He was resolved, also, that the
 Witness, under his management, should have a high
character as an intellectual newspaper, by no means con
fining itself to ecclesiastical topics, but making wide in
cursions into the realms of literature and still more into
those of science.

      We have seen the active part taken by Dr Candlish
in bringing Mr Miller to Edinburgh. In his sketches of
the General Assembly of 1841, the latter expressed en
thusiastic admiration for Dr Candlish, and for some time
the relations between them were most cordial. At what
date they began to differ it were bootless to inquire, but

no serious discrepancy seems to have occurred in their
views of principle and policy until after the crisis of the
struggle and the formation of the Free Church. Three

years after the Disruption, Miller felt so deeply aggrieved
by the proceedings of Dr Candlish, that he addressed
a letter to the Committee of gentlemen who had from
the first interested themselves in the paper, repelling the
attacks of which he believed himself to be the object.
The document contains every particular with which it
is necessary for the reader to be acquainted, and the
only preface which it may require is a statement of the
reasons which have induced Mrs Hugh Miller, her family,
and myself to publish it.

     I. Although it was formally private and confidential,
Mrs Miller has a distinct recollection that Mr Miller
always held himself at liberty to make it public, and did

not look upon that contingency as improbable.

    II. Mrs Miller and her family are convinced that,

since the vindication of Hugh Miller can be trusted to
no pen but his own, the publication of this letter is

              REASONS FOR PUBLICATION.              255

necessary in order that justice may be done to his

memory.

    III. It is widely known that such a letter was

written, printed, and sent ; and were it either withheld,
or tampered with in any way, this biography would not

secure or deserve the confidence of the public.

     IV. Several copies of the letter are certainly known
to be in existence, besides those possessed by Mr Miller's
family. Its publication, sooner or later, therefore, may

be considered as certain ; and it seems best that it should

be published by those who are specially bound to guard
the good name of Hugh Miller.

      V. As rumour magnifies all things, the fact that an

important document written by Mr Miller against Dr

Candlish was withheld in this biography would lead

suspicious and scandal-mongering persons to suggest that

the disagreement between the two men was of some

specially dark and terrible character. It
                                      it            therefore,
                                          is
best that the simple truth should be stated.
                                               is,
   The copy of the letter from which          now printed

   that which was sent by Hugh Miller to Dr Chalmers.
is
Many of its paragraphs have vehemently assenting pencil
           '
marks on the margin, and Chalmers adds one very brief
but characteristic note, which will be found in its place.

The send back the money business,' alluded to
                            a
Miller, was the noise raised
                               by

                                                                     a
                                                                         by
                              sundry enemies of the

Free Church because, when the Churches of the Southern

States of America sent her civil greeting and con

tribution of money, she did not requite the former with

a  snarl and throw back the latter in their faces.

256 EDITOR.

                [Strictly Private and Confidential]

                    LETTER

                                                                           FROM

                 HUGH MILLER,

                                               EDITOR OF THE ' WITNESS,'

                                                                              TO

DR THOMAS CHALMERS ; DR ROBERT GORDON; DR R. S. CANDLISH j DR WIL
    LIAM CUNNINGHAM ; DR JAMES BUCHANAN J THE REV. THOMAS GUTHRIE ;
    THE REV. JOHN BRUCE; THE REV. JAMES BEGG J THE REV. ANDREW GRAY
    OF PERTH ; THE REV. ALEXANDER STEWART OF CROMARTY ; ALEXANDER
   DUNLOP, ESQ. ; ROBERT PAUL, ESQ. ; J. G. WOOD, ESQ.; AND JAMES BLACK-
    ADDER, ESQ.

      ' Gentlemen,

           It' is with much pain, and not without much
serious deliberation, that I avail myself at this time of

this peculiar mode of addressing you. My communica
tion, however, though a printed one, is strictly con
fidential . the gentlemen named above are the only in
dividuals who receive copies ; and such has been the
amount of precaution taken in passing it through the
press, that it is even more, not less, private in its present
form, than if it had been simply engrossed by a clerk.

     ' In one certain quarter the Witness Newspaper has
of late given extreme dissatisfaction. Influential gen
tlemen of the Parliament House, and gentlemen whom
the influential gentlemen influence, have indignantly
thrown it up ; and such has been its effect on the nerves
of Dr Candlish, that he never opens it now " without a
feeling of dread lest something untoward should be in
it." The Papers of the editor evince, the Doctor is clear,

                         PAMPHLET.                      257

an entire want  of delicacy, --there  is no " taste or  tact "
shown in the                                             " the
                handling of public    questions, --and

damage done by certain recent editorial articles to the
Sabbath cause is," he holds, " incalculable." In short,

a great crisis has arrived in the history of the Paper;

and Dr Candlish, to prevent its rapid sinking, can be

think himself of but one expedient : the individual who

now addresses you must retire forthwith from his place
as Editor of the Witness, to make way for an Editor of

taste, tact, and delicacy, --a gentleman connected with

the Parliament House.

     ' Now, while I entirely agree with Dr Candlish that a

crisis has arrived in the history of the Newspaper with

Iwhich I have been so long connected, --may not add,
identified ?--I differ from him very considerably regard

ing the means best suited for obviating the danger. On

Ithe policy of my removal from the Editorship am, of
course, incapacitated from deciding. It may be the

best possible policy in the circumstances, and yet, from

the disturbing influence of personal feeling, may seem

bad policy to me. But on some of the other points my

                think, less open to bias. The Doctor
judgment  is,

           I

                     it
communicated his scheme to my co-partner in the Paper,

Mr Fairly, whom          took somewhat aback and who,
                                      it ;
                                                      it a
not exactly seeing at the moment how much involved,

or perhaps with some tacit reference to my standing as

bond fide proprietor the concern, asked him whetherin
should be the new Editor or the old whose decision should

be the final one, were we to come to differ on some point

of principle or policy The matter, replied Dr Candlish,
          a
                               ?

                                a
might be referred to Committee. There are thus,

obviously, two elements in the Doctor's scheme,--the

element of Parliament-House Editor, prepared, doubt

less, by the peculiar practices of his profession, to take

258 EDITOR.

his clue from his clients ; and the element of a controlling

ICommittee ; and either of them would, am convinced,

be fatal to the Witness. It is with great diffidence that

I in any case oppose my judgment to that of Dr Cand-
lish ; but in this matter I possess peculiar opportunities

of information. The (Fitness has been not merely an

Iorgan through which have communicated with my

readers, but it has also led my readers to communicate
Imuch with me.
                have received many a hint and sug

gestion in many a note and letter, signed, initialed, and

anonymous ; and have thus felt, as with a stethoscope,

how the heart of the Free Church has been beating out

side the disturbing influences of Edinburgh society.

And it is in a large measure from the knowledge thus

acquired-- though I am not without other sources of
information --that I derive my convictions regarding the

ineligibility of the scheme of improvement suggested by

Dr Candlish. The Doctor seems convinced that the

Witness, as at present conducted, is in imminent danger
Iof sinking.
              will stake its life any day against that of

a Witness redolent of the peculiarly unwholesome atmo

sphere of the Parliament House, and under the direct

control of a Managing Committee !

    I' must speak my mind on this point with the full

freedom which the urgency of the crisis demands. And,

first, let me indulge in a few general observations, which

I Imay, trust, be found, ere conclude, not much beside

the mark.

    ' I remark, then, in the first place, that the destruction,

or even very considerable diminution, of the Sustentation

Fund, would be one of the gravest evils which could

befall the Free Church. The Fund constitutes the

great heart of her material frame, --the all-important

Imuscle, if may so express myself, whose propelling

PAMPHLET. .                 '259

energies preserve, as in the body natural, the distant
extremities from torpor, gangrene, and death. And

whatever threatens to injure it from without, or to affect

it as with disease from within, is to be guarded against

with the most sedulous care. The central habitat of this

institution in Edinburgh must of necessity connect, in an

especial manner, with its management and control, the

Edinburgh Free Church leaders ; and the soundness of

its condition, and its consequent measure of prosperity,

must in the future very much depend on two classes of

circumstances, --on the conduct of these men, and their

degree of independence of suspicious secular influence ;

and on the amount of confidence reposed in them, and

of cordiality entertained for them, by the ministers and

people that occupy the Church's great outer area, --all of

Scotland that is not the capital.
      ' There is one important respect in which the circum

stances of the Free Church differ most materially from

those in which the members and ministers that compose

it were placed previous to  the Disruption. There has
ever existed in the true
                            Church of Scotland, --that

Church which has ceased to exist as an Establishment,

--a sort of Presbyterian jealousy, not unwholesome when
under the influence of right principle, of what our

country clergy used to term the ' big wig ' influence,

ecclesiastical and lay. And how often has not the

perfect parity of Presbyterian ministers been insisted
upon by the rasher spirits, even in a sense in which
parity does not exist ! In the most important sense

possible Presbyterian ministers are not equal. Their

equality is merely an equality of the letter, appointed, it

would seem, in order that the true episcopacy, which is

of the spirit, may have room to develop itself, and that

the Church may be benefited by the graces and talents

260 EDITOR.

of her true bishops, the good and great men whom God
has given her. But even the jealousy which clung thus
to the dead letter of equality was, when confined within
due bounds, a thing not to be greatly regretted. Our

Church is very differently circumstanced now from what

it was when the frame-work of the Establishment

sheltered its ministers, and rendered them independent
in their secular affairs, each of all the others. The in

stitution of the Sustentation Fund is an institution new

to a Presbyterian Church ; and there is the profoundest
prudence and discretion demanded, in order to accom
modate it to the Presbyterian genius and character.
And, further, the Free Church has, what no Dissenters

ever had, the Highlands of Scotland, where there are not

a few parishes entirely with us which will too certainly

never be self-sustaining ones. There is thus a centre of

comparative wealth in the body, and a large circumfer

ence of dependency. And to the influence of central

wealth there besides, added centre of official managea is,
                                           a
ment, with         certain amount of patronage attached.a
                                                            a
Wesleyism has also its centre of official management, and
                                                                 is
its outer circumference             of poor  non-sustaining          Churches.
                                    England                          from Eng
But the Wesleyism of                         --an offshoot

lish Episcopacy,   and still, to              considerable extent,
                                  Episcopal character -- essentially
markedA     the

different in its genius from old Scottish Presbytery.by
                              in a
Even among the Wesleyans, however, reaction on the
centralization system has produced the New Connexion.

     reaction on the analogous tendency in the Free
Church would be very different affair indeed. Among

the Wesleyans the reactionists are persons infected                  by

modern notions and feelings, and, in many cases, sin

gularly unsound                     their creed while among us the re
                                           ;

actionists would, on the contrary, be men of the long

PAMPHLET.  261

derived historic type and sternly orthodox school. The
reaction in the one case is that of new liberalism against
old centralization ; in the other it would be a reaction
of old Presbyterianism against new centralization.

    ' Now, I need scarce remark to any of the gentlemen

Iwhom have now the honour of addressing, that the

development of a spirit of this character would be one of

the gravest evils which could befall the Free Church.

It would be found mainly operative in those large and

most important tracts of country in which the congrega
tions are self-sustaining and a little more, and which lie

between the outer circumference of necessity and the

inner focus of influence. And if once developed, it is all

too obvious that it might come to operate with most
disastrous effect on the Sustentation Fund, and, by

consequence, on the very existence of the Church in the
non-sustaining localities. And that this spirit exists in

Ia semi-latent state, have the most direct means of

knowing. Sorley's five-edition pamphlet was a mere
straw thrown up by a man of infirm temper, in a moment
of excitement ; but, straw as it was, it indicated the

direction of a current. And be it remembered, that we

are tending, in the natural course of events, to a state of

things that must be greatly more favourable to the
development of the jealous spirit than the present. The
great and good man who now imparts lustre to the Free
Church by the splendour of his name, and ballasts it by
the moral weight of his character, is far advanced in

years ; nor can the eye rest on a successor who will be to
it what he has been. The men of the Disruption will be

dropping away, and leaving their places to others less
under the influence of the kindly feeling of a soldiery who
have fought side by side in the same battle. And as
they are removed and disappear, the scheme of unequal

262 EDITOR.

incomes will be coming into effect. But above all, in an

age in which there are great religious questions arising

among the governed classes, and a singularly temporizing

spirit manifested with   regard   to them by the classes  that
                        on the   part of the Church that   the
govern, --a suspicion

central body had in any degree lent itself to party

purposes, or was desirous, for party ends, either to mis

direct or neutralize the Church's proper influence, would

be of a nature peculiarly perilous, reactive, and dis

organizing. Nothing can be more certain than that,

unless all the greater care be taken, the Parliament

House may prove a most unneighbourly neighbour to

the Sustentation Fund. There is much in prospect,

of a character fitted to foster the natural Presbyterian

Ijealousy of centralization ; and must be permitted to

say, that the various schemes suggested during the last
three years for the improvement of the Witness have
been all of a kind suited to add to their effect. The

several courses recommended of steering the Paper have

all been courses that bore direct upon the rock.

     ' It is now about two years and a half or so since Mr

M'Cosh of the Northern Warder suggested to Dr Cand-

lish a scheme of centralizing the Free Church Press. I

am unacquainted with the details of the suggestion, but

it at least involved the control of the Witness by a

Icentral Edinburgh body. The scheme met, am in

formed, Dr Candlish's approval; and, with the intention,

apparently, of carrying it into effect with regard to the

Witness, I was waited on, at the time, by Mr J. G.

Wood, and sounded as to whether it would be agreeable

to me that Mr M'Cosh should have a share given him in

the Proprietorship of the Paper, and to have him at the

same time as my Sub-Editor. I may mention, that I had

not yet become one of the proprietors of the Witness.

                    PAMPHLET.                263

IThe proposal did not take my fancy at all.  did not like

the centralization idea ; nor could I realize what my

position as Editor would be with a Sub-Editor who, as a

Proprietor of the paper, would, of course, be one of my

employers, and be perhaps backed, to boot, in his cen

tralization views, by the influence of Dr Candlish. And
                                            for proposing that I
as the   time had   Endoittorye"t    come
         not to be                 of the  Witness, the design was
" ought

suffered to drop.

    I I' What, however, most dreaded in the scheme was,

must say, the direct control of some Edinburgh Com

mittee, and the inevitable effect of the arrangement on

the centralization jealousy outside. It is of great ad

vantage to a purely political newspaper, that it should
be the accredited organ of the Government of the day.

The Ministry, as such, is a standing part of the Consti

tution, -- it is the Monarch in his responsible servants ;

and its choice of a newspaper, as an organ through

which to speak, imparts to the Paper selected not a little
of that weight which the Treasury must always possess.

But it is not according to the constitution of Presbytery

that it should have a central government, analogous to a

King's Ministry, and armed with a sort of secular Trea

sury influence. Nor, were the peculiar necessities of

some Presbyterian Church to demand that a body of the
kind should be called into existence, would it be desir

able or prudent to put into its hands any such control

over the newspaper press of the body, as that which a

King's Ministry possesses, and ought to possess, over its
organ. And, further, were the true Presbyterian pulses
to beat vigorously in the body, and were its Presbyter-
ianism to be of the old earnest school, that man might
be well deemed over-sanguine who would calculate large

'ly on the influence and success of a press so controlled

264 EDITOR.

and directed. Mr M'Cosh's centralization scheme would

be fraught with danger, not only to the Free Church

from its inevitable tendency to foment and exaggerate a
feeling to a certain extent inevitable in the Church's

peculiar circumstances, and which every means should
be taken to sooth and allay, but with danger also to the

press which it would centralize. It is peculiarly unsafe

to fasten an undecked skiff to a central pier in a tide
way, against which it is the tendency of the current to
run strong. Let the stream but reach a certain momen
tum, and the skiff is sure always to founder at its moor

ings.

     ' I may remark in the passing, that as the Witness is
already tied down to principle by legal document, the
arrangement suggested by Mr M'Cosh could have but
the effect of tying it down to policy also. So long as
the Paper rests on its present independent basis, the
Editor stands alone. He is an insulated individual,
possessed of no other influence than what he owes to the

degree of confidence reposed by his readers in the
integrity of his principles or the soundness of his judg
ment. He is not the mere convenient pendicle of a cen
tralization scheme ; he is a felt check on it rather ; and,

considering the nature of the danger, not wholly useless

in that capacity. If he take a false step, the error is

that of an individual ; and its effects, if it have any, are

easily neutralized. But a false step taken by a news
paper which represented a central body of management
would be in reality the false step of the body itself, and,
in consequence, a greatly more serious affair. What, for

instance, would be the position of the Witness, if thus

tied down, were some such controversy as that of the

year 1837 to arise now ?-- a controversy in which a great

majority of the central Edinburgh body would take

PAMPHLET.                   265

decidedly the one side, and at least nineteen-twenticths

of the entire Church take as decidedly the other.
      ' The scheme next originated for improving the

Witness, --a scheme of uniting into one Edinburgh
paper both the Witness and Guardian, --was still more

directly fraught with danger ; and the fact that it should

be at all entertained shows how thoroughly the disturb

ing influence of the sort of cross eddy which Edinburgh

society in reality forms, prevents some of our leading

Free Churchmen, who live much in the whirl, from

taking note of the current outside. What would be the

first effect of an union of the two Papers ? At present

the proceedings of the Edinburgh Presbytery are re

ported at great length in the Witness, and those of the

Glasgow Presbytery in the Guardian ; but in no single

paper could both be published in a manner equally full.

Even had the Edinburgh Paper a reporter at Glasgow,

for the special purpose of giving the Glasgow Presby
tery as much attention as it now receives, no set of

newspaper readers would bear, after they had perused

some three or four columns of the proceedings of

the one Presbytery, to set themselves to peruse some

three or four columns more of the proceedings of the

other. The Glasgow Presbytery would assume, in con

sequence of the curtailment in its reports, unavoidable

in the circumstances, a secondary and provincial cha

racter ; and one mighty step towards the dreaded cen

tralization would be accomplished. The Church would

come to have its Archbishop Presbytery, associated

with its centre of secular influence. Such was the view

which I could not avoid taking of the intended union of
Ithe Witness and Guardian.
                            had received very direct

information regarding the matter, but it had not been
formally proposed to me ; an union of the Scottish Re

266 EDITOR.

cord and Edinburgh Evening Post was opportunely

taking place at the time ; and I wrote such an article on

the sort of marriages through which expiring newspapers
get into a state of coverture and disappear, as rendered
it impossible that, without the most ludicrous inconsist
ency, the Witness and Guardian should ever be united.

    ' I may mention, that I received about this time two

several visits from Mr Sheriff Monteith. What the

Sheriff had to suggest on these occasions was a good
deal veiled in that peculiarly delicate kind of phrase
ology, somewhat professional, which has to a simple man
the effect of casting a misty obscurity over the subjects
which the words envelop. On thinking, however, with

all my might, over his proposals, I came to discover that

they embodied a scheme of salaried censorship for the
Witness, devised, it would seem, for the express purpose

of keeping the editorial articles right ; and I straight
way intimated, in a note to Mr J. G. Wood, that what I
had succeeded in seeing of the business I did not at all

Ilike. The judgment of the proposed Censor might,

thought, be scarce worth a hundred a-year to the Wit

ness: it might be even a judgment not a great deal
stronger or more honestly directed than my own, save
and except, of course, in the matter of Whig elections :

Iand, besides, if the Censor and came to differ, we
might quarrel. After communicating with Mr Wood, I
Iheard no more of the design, nor did I receive, though

have experienced some kindness at the Sheriff's hands,

any after-visits from the Sheriff. It is perhaps scarce

worth while adverting to this circumstance ; but it may
probably have some bearing on the present state of
matters, and there can be no doubt that it indicated at

least one incipient attempt more to improve the Witness.
      ' The next scheme of improving the Witness was

               PAMPHLET.  267

originated a few months later, and it was on this occasion

that I became one of the Proprietors of the Paper. I

undertook to repay, by instalments, the thousand pounds
originally advanced by the subscribers to Mr Johnstone,

with the interest, year by year, of the unpaid portion in

hand, until the entire debt should be extinguished. It

had at first been proposed to make the thousand pounds

over to me as a boon ; but I was startled by some of the

conditions attached, and insisted that the terms of the

transaction should be those of ordinary business. Strange

enough, however, though the wish was acceded to, the

terms were not softened ; and the document drawn up
for the signatures of the Proprietors by Mr J. G. Wood
Iappeared so strange, even to my unpractised eyes, that

requested my partner, Mr Fairly, to submit it to his man
Iof business.
               found 1 had not mistaken its character ;
--the man of business had never seen such a document

before. And so a somewhat different sort of document

had to be drawn up by another hand ; and it is this

second document that defines the existing relations of

the Witness Proprietors and the Committee. Nothing

certainly could be more strangely despotic than the terms

of the first. To one of these I must specially refer : it

would have so stringently fastened down upon the Pro
prietors, Mr Somers of the Scottish Herald, in the ca
pacity of Sub-Editor, that were they subsequently to be

come dissatisfied with him (and he was an untried man
at the time), they could not have shaken him off. His

position was to be rendered legally independent, both of

the Editor and the Proprietors of the Witness. I shall
not here inquire whether Mr Somers's after-management

of the Paper quite justified the wisdom of the position

which Mr Wood, in the behalf of his clients, would so

Ifain have assigned to him ; but may surely take the

   268 EDITOR.

   liberty of asking, whether a standing so independent of

   the parties within the Witness establishment did not

   bear a too obvious reference to the exercise of an influence

   from without, and to the favourite centralization scheme ?
   I may be"                                      as the " tact, taste,
                  permitted to ask      further,                              and
   delicacy                             did not   prove quite what            had
                  of Mr Somers

   been expected, whether Dr Candlish's proposed Parlia

   ment-House Editor be a man known in the republic of

                                                  first proof of liter
   I Iletters, or one

   ary ability ?
                  who has yet to give his         freely  --               am on
                   must speak my mind
                                                          ;

   my trial ; and, be it remembered, that I address myself

   not to the public at large, a la Sorley, but to a select few

   of the wisest heads and soundest hearts of the Free
   IChurch. I injured no one by the stand which
   Ion this occasion ; had not made                                           made

                                                  would have greatly
                  I
                          I

                             a it,I

                                                                                              ;

                                                  I
   injured both my partner and myself, and degraded my

   self to position which no man of right spirit could for
   a
               a                                  injured no one but
       moment submit to occupy.

   must say that the part acted seems never to have been

   pardoned me. Are there men among us who, though

   they have perhaps principle enough to forgive an enemy,

   have not magnanimity enough to forget disappointa

   ment   '

   of    *     ?'The following extract  from an outline, by our man of     b--usiness,
       Mr       Wood's document, may    serve to illustrate its character  :
               *
          " Clause third provides that arrangements shall be made for the
   copartnery publishing the Scottish Herald, or some similar weekly news
   paper in connection with the Witness, at the present price of the He
   rald, viz. threepence, and to engage the present Editor of the Herald
   as its Editor, and Sub-Editor of the Witness; and from this obligation
   the Company cannot be relieved, until they shall have satisfied the
   Committee that the undertaking cannot be continued without certain
   loss to the Proprietors of the Witness, after trial. The Committee's
            a
                is
                                                                                      a

                                                                                                            ;
   consent also declared to be necessary in dispensing with the services
   of Ihe Editor of the Herald as Sub-Editor of the Witness; and the
/  copartnery are again taken bound, at the sight of the Committee, to
   allow good and sufficient salary for the Sub-Editor of the Witness

                                    PAMPHLET.                                                                                         269

    I I' became, have said, a Proprietor of the Witness

on ordinary business terms. The printing material, in

thereby investing the Committee with the absolute power of determin
ing what is ' a good and sufficient salary,' without regard to the Com

pany's idea of the matter. Another obligation laid upon the Company

that in the event of their obtaining the consent of the Committee to
is,
                             it
                                      it
                                                is

                                                           if

                                                                                                                        '
discontinue the IleraUl, they shall be bound to permit the Editor of

that paper to carry on upon his own account, he shall be disposed

to do so. [At page 14]              declared that, for the better regulation

and carrying on of the said business (of printing and publishing (he Wit
ness and Scottish Herald newspapers), the Company bind and oblige

themselves to implement and fulfil the whole conditions of the above-

quoted minute, and to make payment of the penalty of 500, in the

event of their not implementing the whole or any one of said condi

tions.'" And the following the opinion given us for our guidance by
it

        :

                                    is
                                                     a

                                                                                                 ;
our man of business, regarding the legal consequences of the entire
document -- " The effect of such contract would be to divest the co

partnery of every vestige of control over their own business, and to

throw wholly into the hands of the Committee whilst the only con

ditions attached to the loan of the 1000 to Mr Johnstone were, those

which provided for the maintenance of the principles of the Paper and

for the repayment of the loan."

        must further mention here, that to these strange terms had
is

  a ' 'I

                         it it

                                                                          ;

                                                 if

                                                                                                                                 :

                                                                       it I

                                                                                                         it
strongly objected by letter, in Mr Fairly's name and my own, ere they

had yet been embodied in the document, and existed but in a Minute,

said to be that of the Committee and that Mr Wood at once sustained

my objections as just and reasonable, but proceeded, notwithstanding,

to frame the document founded on the Minute, without intimating to

me his  intentions on the subject, as no such objections                                                                   had  ever  been
made.    The following paragraphs form part of my letter
                                                                                                                           --

" And, first, with regard to the Scottish Herald: We find stated

absolutely that  should be published at its present price. Now,

occurs to us that could be only necessary to do so, so long as there

competing paper in the field at the same price, or so long as the

competitor does not advance his price. Suppose Harthill's paper were

to come down, just because its price proved not remunerative, the

clause binding us not to advance ours might, in such circumstances,

have but the effect of bringing the Herald down too and this at
                                               it                                                                                     it
time when the removal of our rival gave us chance of keeping
                                                  a                                                                                          a
                                                      is,                                                                             up

by an advance of price.                        that we should not beAa
      "What we desiderate, in the next place,                              ;
a'
                                 a
held bound to keep up the Herald unless proved fair speculation,

in business point of view. Profit we do not expect, but an unvaried

return of loss we cannot bind ourselves to incur.                                                                          simple fact may

place the matter in strong light. Within the last quarter of cen
                                                                                                                                a

tury no fewer than eleven papers have been started in Edinburgh, and                                                                            /"

270 EDITOR.

which Mr Johnstone had invested the 1000 originally
advanced him by the subscribers for the purpose of start
ing the Paper, had so far deteriorated, that its value, at

the time I entered on the proprietorship, was estimated,

on the principle usually adopted in such cases, at some-

of those eleven only one --the Witness --has succeeded.  The attempts

to establish the others have all ended in disappointment, and have en

tailed on the proprietors losses in each instance of from a thousand to

fifteen hundred pounds. But how much greater would the losses have

been had the parties been taken bound to maintain their papers, what

ever the amount of loss sustained ! Some of them could not continue to

be published at a defalcation of less than from eight to ten pounds per

week. Now, the Herald may possibly turn out such a speculation as

the one Edinburgh paper that during the last twenty-five years has
succeeded, but it is as possible it may turn out such a speculation as the
ten that have not ; and what Mr Fairly and myself ask, is simply not

to be bound to keep it afloat perforce, should it prove unable to float

itself. We promise to give it a fair trial ; but should it refuse to live
on its own means, as an honest paper ought, it must just be permitted

to die.

     ' " In the third place, we are not sure that Mr Somers's name should

have been included in the Minute. He is yet in a considerable de

gree an untried man. He may turn out to be all we wish him, or he

may turn out something else. Suppose a great majority of the sub

scribers were by-and-by to be dissatisfied with his mode of conducting

the sub-editorial department of the Witness, or the editorial depart
ment of the Herald/ Or suppose we were to find him too much a

Radical, and impracticable to boot ! His name in the Minute, in these

circumstances, might possibly be found a rock a-head. There could

be little danger of our breaking with him so long as we found the

arrangement a good and beneficial one, though his name were not in

the Minute ; and the introducing it there may have merely the effect

of embarrassing, should the arrangement prove not good or beneficial."

' Such were some of the objections which were held reasonable, and

yet suffered to weigh nothing. The Minute on which Mr Wood found

ed his document was said, as I have stated, to be that of the Witness

Committee ; and the Committee have now an opportunity of knowing
whether it was in reality such. The members are, Dr Cunningham, Dr

Candlish, Mr Begg, Mr Dunlop, Mr Blackadder, and Mr Wood. I may

mention, that none of the meetings on this business were attended by

Dr Cunningham ; and Mr Dunlop I saw but at one meeting, and that
for only a very few minutes. I may further mention, that the names

of both these gentlemen were added to those of the Committee, as re

mapypsoeilnf,te--d    on   this occasion, at the express request of Mr Fairly  and
                          Cunningham at Mr Fairly's, and Mr Dunlop at mine.'
                    Dr

                PAMPHLET.                 271

Iwhat under nine hundred.  undertook, however, on its

being made over to me by Mr Johnstone, the whole of

the original debt ; and of course the money-interest of

the Witness Committee in the Paper ceased immediately

on my becoming bound to pay them the sum invested in

it by the subscribers. It was suggested, however, that a

certain yearly sum should be put at the disposal of the

Committee, for securing occasional contributions to the

Paper, in addition to the editorial ones ; and, regarding

Ithe gentlemen that composed it as thoroughly identified

with Free Church interests and feelings, at once did

what the mere man of business would have declined to

do,-- acquiesced in the proposal. I, however, did not at
all like the form which it took in Mr Wood's document ;

and, in consequence, submitted to him, in the letter

already referred to in my note, the following statement

respecting it :--

' With regard to the second article in your minute, Mr Fairly and

myself feel that we cannot treat with it until it takes a more definite
form. It would be desirable, we think, that a sum for occasional con

tributions should be specified, which the Committee could in no case

exceed, and that the said sum should be subject to a sort of slidiug-

scale reduction, proportioned to any fall that might take place in the

profits of the Paper. There are Papers in Edinburgh which, though

they have existed for many years, and were at one time highly re

munerative, yield no profits now, and can scarce pay an Editor. The

, for instance  And yet, at one time the  was a

piece of more valuable property than the Witness is now, and could

have afforded more for occasional contributions. But what would be

its present condition, were there an outlay nearly equal to the Editor's

salary rendered imperative on the Proprietors, without reference to

existing circumstances ? I have suggested to Mr Fairly a scheme of
arrangement in this matter which satisfies him, and which, I trust, you
will deem reasonable. He tells me that the profits of the Witness for

the present year promise to amount to six hundred pounds. Let us

assume six hundred as the average profits, and fix the sum to be set

apart for occasional contributions as equal to the one-sixth of these, i.e.

one hundred. Should the profits sink, let the sum set apart sink in an

equal ratio. Let a profit of three hundred pounds per annum yield, for

instance, only fifty pounds for contributions ; but should the profits

272 EDITOR.

sink to two hundred, I trust you will deem it but fair that the claim

should be extinguished altogether, and that the Paper, thus reduced to
the level of what are the lower orders of Scotch newspapers in a busi
ness point of view, should be restricted, like them, to merely the usual

newspaper staff of Editor, Sub-Editor, and Reporter. Just one word

regarding the occasional contributions themselves. I trust it is un
necessary for me to stipulate, that I must possess over them, in every
instance, the proper editorial control. I shall pledge myself to exert

it on no occasion, without being prepared to yield a sufficient reason

to the Committee, whether for curtailment or rejection.'

   'I regarded this proposal as fair; the mere man of

business would have perhaps deemed it something more ;

Mr Wood at once admitted it to be at least nothing

less. The next time, however, that his document was

submitted to me as altered and modified, I found it did

not embody the proposal which he had apparently deem

ed so reasonable ; but that, without having made a

single objection to the suggested proportion of a one

sixth part of the profits being set aside for the occasional
contributions, he had quietly inserted in his document a
one fifth. And then finding myself treated, not as a
man who would fain have dealt with friends whom he

trusted, in a generous and liberal spirit, but as a mere

simpleton, who, having already yielded much, might be

expected to yield more, I indignantly broke off all

negotiation in the business, resolved that, if the terms
of Mr Wood should turn out to be those of his clients

the Committee, to receive at the hands of such a body
no share in the proprietorship of the Witness on any
conditions whatever.

    I' Some short time after had arrived at this deter
mination, I waited on Dr Candlish at the Doctor's own

request, and we talked over the business alone together
                                           I can give but
in his study.    At this distance of time  the words. I
the purport    of the conversation, --not

immediately opened to him my intention of demanding

               PAMPHLET.  273

of the Committee whether the terms of Mr Wood's

Idocument were in reality theirs, and if so, to have done

with them at once. was taking, said the Doctor, much

too serious a view of the matter. Wood was my friend,

and a good fellow ; but, of course, a lawyer, who did

things in the stiff, strict, professional style. His con
Iditions were really nothing,-- it was with friends that
Ihad to deal.
               stated to the Doctor the terms which

Mr Wood had in so strange a style rejected, and asked
him if they were not fair. Oh, certainly, he replied ;

nothing can be more fair; but the difference between

you and Wood is a mere misunderstanding, and it will

never do to let it come to a serious quarrel, by laying it

formally before the Committee. Now, of course, in all

this Dr Candlish may have acted simply the part of a
peace-maker between Mr Wood and me, irrespective of

the merits of the point at issue. It may have been a

perfectly indifferent matter to him, on at least his own

Iaccount, whether submitted the matter to the Com

mittee or no. He perhaps sent for me on this occasion,

and borrowed time from his sermon to converse with me

(for 'twas on a Saturday), on Mr Wood's account alone.
At all events, in consequence of what he recommended,

I did not appeal to the Committee ; I merely submitted,
Ias have already said, Mr Wood's document, through

Mr Fairly, to a man of business, instructing him at the

same time to draw out another, on what I deemed more

reasonable terms. The man of business did so ; and his

paper, on being submitted by Mr Wood to Mr Dunlop

for his professional opinion, was pronounced by the lat

ter gentleman to be a not unfair embodiment of the in

Itentions of the Committee. It is with great pain that

have thus adverted to a transaction, the remembrance of

which still lies heavy upon me ; but circumstances de-

TOL. II.       18

274 EDITOR.

maud that the whole truth should be known to the select

Ifew whom, in now addressing, constitute my judges.
I sincerely trust there are no such arts employed else

where in the management of the more secular concerns

of the Free Church, as those which I found all too palp

able in this intended settlement of the Witness. They

are arts that can lead to but doubtful advantages and

damaging exposures ; they form but short-lived substi

tutes --hurtful in their life and offensive in their death
--for that broad and massive simplicity, profound in its

wisdom and immortal in its nature, which leads in a way

everlasting. And, further, they too strongly savour of
       --wilywhdoispelomaacthiisetvse--mennotts
those                                            of the Church, but  of  the
world                                            and character one   of  the
English satirists has so pointedly described, --

       " Men in their loose unguarded hours they take ;
        Not that themselves are wise, but others weak."

To one very agreeable incident connected with this affair

I cannot deny myself the pleasure of referring. A report
had gone abroad, I know not how, that I had differed on

business matters with certain individuals connected with
Ithe Witness ; and a gentleman whom
                                                 scarce at all

knew, and whose sympathies had been awakened in my
behalf on purely literary and scientific grounds, came
at once forward, and generously offered, through the
medium of a common friend, to place a thousand pounds
at my disposal.

    'I Imay just mention, ere pass on to something else,

that there has been no call made on the part of the Com
mittee for money with which to enter the literary market

and purchase articles.
      ' The fifth and last scheme of improving the Witness

is that which has proved the occasion of this letter. For

Ithe special benefit of the Paper am to retire, it seems,

                  PAMPHLET.                                     275

from the Editorship, and a Parliament-House Editor

(with perhaps a Committee of Control in the distance), is

to take my place. A word or two here on the Parlia

ment House, and the peculiar position of the Free Church

portion of it. IIn all my remarks, however, must be
held to except at least one Edinburgh lawyer. I need

not name him. It may be enough for me to say, that of

Ialmost all the men ever knew, he possesses a mind the

most exquisitely disinterested and honourable. The
I Imsteapyhwaphicohffendhavheimn, --owa
                  taken will,            fear, greatly grieve,
                                          which would have
                   consideration

so weighed with me against  could any consideration
                            it,

                                                     I
not founded in absolute principle have done so, that

would have adopted, for the sake of his friendship alone,

more timid and submissive course.
a
       The adherents of the Free Church may be safely
        '

       iIs,
               I
divided into two classes, the people who belong to the

Parliament House, and the people who do not and in
                                                   is
at least matters political, when Whiggism                  ;in office,

there  am afraid, no such thing as urging the duties

of the one class without running counter to the interests

of the other.     need scarce say, that there exists no

body of men among whom political feeling more      ; is         vi

vacious than among our Edinburgh lawyers nor that

peculiarly on the legal profession in Scotland the dew of

Government patronage descends, like the dews of heaven

on the fleece of Gideon, when all often      ; is  dry around.

For almost all the higher civil appointments of the coun

try, gentlemen of the law alone are eligible and must
                                                            it

be admitted at least as fact, that of these our Parlia
                  a

ment-House friends have, in proportion to their number,

got competent share. Now, be remembered, that
a                                        it

these legal Free Churchmen occupy at the present time,
with reference to the Whig Government, singularly im
                                             a

            276 EDITOR.

            portant position. The Free Church, ever since the Disrup
            tion, has been giving significant indications of her strength;

            and, fairly broken loose from the moorings of party, she is

            in circumstances either considerably to damage or consider

            ably to strengthen the cause politic which she may oppose

            or adopt. And so, if the Whig lawyers possess much in

            fluence with the Free Church, they must of necessity, on

            that account, possess much influence with the Govern
            ment also. For through them exclusively, and some one

            or two Free Churchmen high in rank, can the Whigs

            alone expect to manage the Free Church, either by
            rendering it subservient to Government designs, or by

            neutralizing its influence against Government measures.
            The only other mode of conciliating our Church is a mode
            which the present Ministry are obviously not to adopt.

            They might endear themselves to us on the broad groundit,

            of principle ; but the withdrawal of the Sites Bill, --

            which certainly would not have been withdrawn were the

            Whigs, as a party, disposed to support -- demonstrates

            too surely that that course they are not prepared to try.
                can well understand how, with reference to these
a it I
          isgrounds, the Witness should be an exceedingly obnoxious

            paper to our Whig Free Churchmen of the Parliament

            House, and how   it  happens that some of the more in

            fluential among  them have of      late indignantly thrown
                                              and to Whiggism Tory
                up. Whigs    as they are, --  must be more decidedly
            ism naturally     opposed, --
                                   It It it
            rock a-head than all the Tory newspapers of the

            kingdom put together.          comes between them and

the Free Church people.                       abides firm by the Old

Whiggism, but warns its constituency against the de
                 it
signs of the New.                prefers Protestantism to Macaulay  ;
                    It

and might be found exerting damaging influence on
                                           aa
            the coming elections. Hence large amount of Parlia-

                      PAMPHLET.                   277

ment-House criticism on a want of " tact and taste " in

the Paper ; its views are narrow and its spirit and policy
bad. The real cause of condemnation cannot be assigned,

but condemned it must be.
      ' There are no doubt ingenious gentlemen among the

Free Church lawyers of the Parliament House, and it is
peculiarly their vocation to plead causes ; but in this

special cause, should the annoyance of insinuation and

inuendo continue, I shall not hesitate to encounter them

one and all. It;

                  iIs,
                             I
                      trust, in no proud or boastful spirit

that say so and that my confidence                rather in the
I                                a

character of the men whom shall have to address, thanI
                                              is
in any peculiar ability of my own.              shall have the

ministers and the people of the Free Church of Scotland
                           the case, -- class not particularly
for judges and jury   in
remarkable, mayhap, for " taste, tact, or delicacy," butin

certainly not wanting the characteristic shrewdness of

their country, and most assuredly not devoid of solid

principle. If compelled to lay open the policy of our

Parliament-House friends to the landward readers of the

Witness, the good men will, fear not, with all their
                 a

                         I
                              I
bluntness and rusticity, be quite intelligent enough to
understand it. Nor do despair even of Edinburgh.

There has been strong disposition evinced of late to
count heads in our metropolitan Free Kirk-Sessions, and

no high satisfaction evinced at finding the lawyerly heads

so numerous.

'

 It

       is
                  by
   not mere tact and management that differ

ences consequent on the position of Parliament-House

Free Churchmen with regard to the Government, and the

peculiar duties of the Witness with regard to the
ministers and people of the Free Church, are to be

reconciled. So long as the Whigs continue what they
are, and our Free Church lawyers persist at all hazards

278 EDITOR.

in supporting them, the difference must, in many points,
be irreconcileable. The Parliament-House Editor who

produced a Witness suited to satisfy them, would fail most

egregiously in his duty to the Free Church and its
Ipeople.
          may here state, as not quite out of place, that
I entertain no factious dislike of our Whig members of
Parliament. I am not Tory, Conservative, Radical,
IIChartist.
          am a Whig, and have been so ever since

was able to form an opinion. When many of my
respected friends in the north country, alarmed, some

ten or twelve years ago, by the Whig measures of the
day, were casting their influence into the Conservative

Iscale, remained a Whig still ; nor have I yet laid down
any one of the political principles which I then held.
IThat am now no thorough supporter of the Whig

Ministry, is a consequence, not of my having changed
my Whiggism, but of my being more a Protestant than
a politician, and that my real party principles are those of
the Free Church of Scotland.

    I' have of late heard much regarding the faults of the
IWitness, and am, I trust, not blind to them. It may

be well known, however, --for on scarce any other topic
do newspaper Editors so frequently insist,--that what

one reader deems a fault, another does not deem a fault

at all ; and that a Paper thoroughly to the mind of one
class, would be in utter discordance with the taste of

another. The Witness has many faults which Dr Cand-
lish has observed, --it has perhaps some others which he

has not discovered yet. There are occasional complaints
made at the IVitness Office, which at certain times bear

on a particular point ; and the following extract from

Ia letter dated the 21st November, which received in

Cromarty from my partner Mr Fairly, ere the present
storm arose, indicates its nature very directly :--" You

        PAMPHLET.  279

will observe," says Mr F., " from the state of the Paper

to-day, that it was impossible to find room for the

twentieth chapter of your Impressions. I am sorry that

our efforts to please, by giving a full report of the Com

mission, have had a very different effect. There have

been a good many grumblers about the Publishing Office
to-day, who say they would like an outline of the busi
ness much better than a full report, and would willingly

wait the publication of the Monthly Statement for such

documents as Dr Candlish's speech [Report] on Educa
Ition.
        suspect that now, when the great excitement is

over, a succinct outline of ecclesiastical affairs, in a well-

selected general newspaper, would be more acceptable to

the greater part of our readers, than a Paper almost

entirely filled with heavy reports. A question may
occur occasionally to fill the public mind, and it would be

Iwell to give full scope to all such ; but have found

that our very full reports of the ordinary Church busi

ness have, for some time back, attracted no notice except

to be grumbled at for their length, and have failed to

 defray the extra expense of getting them up."
"^ ' Now, there is a meaning in this little bit of fact,

 which the proprietors of the Witness cannot afford to

 disregard. Dr Candlish, in his present scheme for im

 proving the Paper, suggests that " occasional Supple

 ments ought to be given, if required." Certainly the

 necessities of the Paper require them : in the course of

 one fortnight I reckoned up no fewer than nineteen

 columns of ecclesiastical reports and intelligence, which

 appeared in no other Edinburgh Paper.* And the

     * ' In the two last Witnesses alone, that of Saturday the 9th and that
of Wednesday the 13th instant, there are upwards of fourteen columns
of Free-Church-speech reports, which are to be found in no other

Edinburgh newspaper.'

              280 EDITOR.

              other Edinburgh Papers, possessed of an equal breadth
              of surface, had, of course, instead, their nineteen columns,
              filled with the staple news of the day. But though in
                this sense the Witness very much requires Supplements,
              the public, it seems, does not require them at all ; a
              single half-sheet Supplement costs 16, and 16 worth
             of speaking, given often away, for which we, the Pro
              prietors, would not receive the thanks of those who
             got it gratis, and which those who did not would not
             buy, though it might be sport to the speakers, would be
              death to us. Free Churchmen, in Edinburgh and else
              where, must not fall into the mistake of reckoning on
              what is by what has been. The series of events which
              terminated in the Disruption formed a great and
              intensely exciting drama, and the whole empire looked
             on with an interest much more than commensurate with
              the ability of the men who spoke or the men who wrote.
              The speeches and motions were pregnant with a trans
              action of vast historic importance. But we are now
              thrown more on our own resources, and are simply
              speakers and writers of a certain definite calibre. The
              curtain has fallen on the master drama, and the after
             piece resembles, in comparison, that unfinished play of
              Bayes in the " Rehearsal," which was complete, said the
              poet, in all the dialogues, and wanted only the plot.

                    ' There is obviously some grave difficulty in the way

           of rendering the Witness a good general newspaper. It

              has now had in succession no fewer than six Sub-
             Editors, and all of them have failed to satisfy. And for

            eight months it had the incessant attention of Mr Fyfe, a

              gentleman for many years connected with the Scotsman,

            one of the best sub-edited newspapers in Scotland, --and

              who, thoroughly a master of his profession, had found no
              difficulty in giving order, interest, and an air of lightness

\^\

                     PAMPHLET.                                281

and intelligence to the columns of that Paper. The very

superior ability of Mr Fyfe attracted the notice of the

Times, and he was lost to us, through an arrangement

with that journal which no Scotch Paper could afford to
Imake.
           requested him to state, when leaving us, why

it was he could not make the Witness what he had pre

viously made the Scotsman, and he did so, assigning

three distinct reasons, --first, our long and heavy reports,

the weight of which the Scotsman and every other Edin

burgh newspaper escape ; second, the insertion of docu
ments, such as the Reports of Committees, &c., which,

though highly important in themselves, are unsuited to

the columns of a newspaper ; and, third, disturbances

from without, of a kind which he had never before ex

perienced :--time after time, at a late hour, when the

order of the paper had been completed for publication,

Mr Fyfe found that some document, or article, or report,

hneadwstoofbethiensedrateydh, aadgrieneacbolynsteoquinesntcreucttioongsi,veanpdlatchea,t--thteo

be inserted in some succeeding number, when no longer

fresh. Such was the decision of a practical man, long

Iconversant with the getting up of a newspaper ; and

submitted  among others, to Dr Candlish. And the
           it,
                 is
Doctor now tells the Proprietors that "on passing topics"
the Witness "
                     often silent or tardy," and that he
" attaches no weight to the excuse of long reports having

to be inserted." With regard to what Dr Candlish
                                                        the Paper, --those
deems the still more serious faults of
                                                          want of taste and
of the writer of this letter, -- such as "
                     Ia
                                            a
                                                       a
tact in the handling of public questions," --faults of so

grave and hopeless      character, that the Doctor        is  con
                     ought not to be Editor " any         longer,
vinced " Mr Miller

but reduced to the standard of mere subordinate con

tributor of articles, -- shall go direct to the point at

282 EDITOR.

once. The scheme in view is simply that of a censor

ship ; and the Censor, assisted by the nice taste and

tact of the Parliament-House Editor, is to be Dr Cand-

lish.

      ' There are important questions on which the Doctor

I Iand entirely differ ; and one of these must be per

mitted to adduce, that it may be at once seen how such

a censorship would work.       The opening article in  Lowes
Magazine for the present                               " Duty
of Electors," --              January, --that on the

                  have the most direct means of knowiIs,

ing, from the pen of Dr Candlish and contains anI
                             It          ;

                                      a           it

                                                         if
advice, entirely practical in its nature, to the Free

Churchmen of Scotland.                 earnestly urges them, they

wish effectually to prevent the endowment of Popery,

to join the Voluntaries in vigorous attack on all the

existing religious Establishments of the empire.
       Now, this advice deem so singularly unwise and
it
dangerous, that on no account could be induced to
       '                                 I

            it
second in the Witness. Whether right or wrong in

my convictions, am at least thoroughly convinced that
                I
                                       acted upon, of placing the
                              if
would have the effect,

great Protestant front of the empire     a     a  fatally false

position, and would, besides, be peculiarly injurious toin

the Free Church. In the first place, war with Estab

lishments would have the inevitable effect of cutting

off the earnest Protestantism of our own body from
the earnest Protestantism of the English and Irish

Churches and, be              remembered, that in these
       ;

                          it

Churches, notwithstanding their signal faultiness as

Establishments, there are very many truly excellent men

who are doing what the Voluntaries have long since for

gotten to do, --honestly maintaining consistent protest

against Popery. In the second place, would have the

effect of arraying on the side of Popish endowment
                                         a

                                            it

                                                                            a

\

                     PAMPHLET.                                                283

numerous class who now stand neutral, --men who, like

the ministers of the Scottish Establishment, and the

men, clerical and lay, of a corresponding character in
England and Ireland, have a large secular stake in
volved in the question, and who, much rather than that
Establishments should fall altogether, were they to find
them assailed in the mass, would unite in calling in to

their assistance and support the seven millions of Popish

Ireland. In the third place, we have, I think, direct

                     ;                                                        in its

                                       is it,

                                                                      ;

                                                                         is,
evidence, that though the war against Popery

effects on those who prosecute  an eminently safe war,
the war against Establishments
                                 not -- never, at least,

was the Church more spiritual than when she was war
ring against Popery -- never did any Church, in any

controversy, become more thoroughly secular than the

Voluntaries of Scotland when warring against Establish

ments. In the fourth place, while the war against

Popery would be strictly constitutional, the war against

Establishments would not  would of necessity endan
                          :
                            ;

                             it
                                      it
                                             is,

                                                      a
                                                                    a
ger, with the assailed institutions, not few precious

remnants of the Revolution Settlement, in which no class

have larger stake than we and   besides, grave
a
         a

                 by
question, whether the Free Church would not lose im

mensely more         forfeiting the esteem of all solid men,

hostile to position so decidedly revolutionary, than she
could possibly gain through any consequent accession to
the number of her allies, from the ranks of the restless

and the dissatisfied. In the fifth place, such war as the
Doctor desiderates would justly lay our Church open,
                          a
                                                             ;a

                                                                a if
waged ere the present generation had passed away, to
charge of gross and suspicious inconsistency seeing he
recommends should be war carried on not simply on
it

mere consideration of expediency, which may lead at
various times to various courses of conduct, but also on

 284 EDITOR.

 a strictly religious principle, --a principle which, if sound

 at all, must have been as much so ten years ago,
 during the heat of the Voluntary controversy, as it is
 now ; and seeing, further, that though since that time
 the Scottish Establishment has been revolutionized and

 degraded, no change has taken place in the constitution
and government of the English and Irish Establishments,
both of which we in the course of the controversy strenu

Iously defended. And, in the sixth and last place, deem

it all too obvious, that the Voluntaries would not, as a
body, be heartily our allies in the conflict. A vast
majority of their number in Scotland lost their hearty
dislike of the Scottish Establishment when we left it ;

and it is to us, --as manifested in the " Send back the

money'' business, and several other transactions of re
sembling character, -- that the dislike now points. When
the vast majority of the old Dissenters of the country
put the slave-having Churches of America so emphatic
ally under the ban, it was a clear proof, to my mind at

least, that the Voluntary controversy was fully over. A

State never dismisses its auxiliaries until its wars are

ended. Dr Candlish's scheme, if promulgated from

the platform in the Music Hall, would, I doubt

not, elicit the hollow hosannahs of Edinburgh Vol

Iuntaries ; but am equally clear that it would do in

finite mischief to the cause of Protestantism, by lower

ing its spirit and dividing its forces. It seems all too

characteristic of a mind greatly more adroit in prelimin
aries and details, than sagacious in the master businesses
to which the preliminaries should lead and the details
belong,-- a mind skilful in coasting along shallow bays
and miniature promontories, but that, when it launches
into the open sea, lacks both compass and rudder, and
carries with it no nicely graduated sextant, by which

                           PAMPHLET.  285

to determine lines of bearing or points of position.*
      ' Nay, even on considerations of expediency, in the

lowest sense of the term, I entirely differ from Dr Cand-

lish regarding the policy of what he recommends. His
proposed means of check and counteraction are ludi

crously inadequate. Great bodies of men can be moved

by but the lever of great interests or great principles ;

and there is no possibility of awakening a nation to
                        "
enact   a stratagem.  of   Let   the demand," says the Doctor,
       the removal         all  existing Establishments, on the
" for

ground of those two principles, be as clear and unequivo

cal as the cry for new Popish or miscellaneous endow
ments. Let statesmen of all parties know, that they
have to deal with a firm and compact body of men,
opposed to all Establishments as now constituted, on

religious considerations, and determined, on every oc

casion, when new endowments are talked of, to move the

previous question of confiscating of the old for public
exigencies of the State." Ingenious, but surely not very
wise. The people are to be made earnest and energetic,
it would seem, on the strength of splitting hairs and
drawing distinctions, and a weak-minded Ministry to be
appalled and arrested by the manoeuvre of " moving the

previous question." Does Dr Candlish in reality hold,

that a country is to be aroused, or a Government over
awed, by the exercise of the same kind of arts through
which a Kirk-Session is to be managed, or a Deacons'

Court held in check ?
      ' Now, here is exactly one of the sort of matters on

     * ' In the entire article in Lowe's Magazine for January, --very-
unworthy of its November precursor, -- the trumpet gives an uncertain

sound. Independently of the fatal advice which it tenders, it is of a
character suited to give the Protestant cause no help, and the policy of
the most secular-minded Whig that walks the Parliament House, be

he who he may, no hindrance.'

286 EDITOR.

which the proposed censorship would be brought to bear.

But though it seems natural enough that on so difficult

Ia question Dr Candlish and should differ, it is perhaps

not quite so obvious on what principle his judgment

should invariably control and over-ride mine. Such,

however, is the principle which a censorship involves.

It might be all quite well that Dr Candlish should keep
me right ; but, pray, who is to keep right Dr Cand

lish?

    I' must speak my mind freely ; --much better now, in

secret conference, ere matters have yet gone too far, than
from the house-top. I complain that the most justifiable
stand which I made regarding Mr Wood's document has
                                           " How comes it
Inever been forgiven me by the Doctor.  "
                                        "      was asked, a
that you have offended Dr Candlish ?       have you quar

considerable time since, by a friend ;
                         all," I said;
relled?" "Not at                        "what   can have led
                      "  " The marked           in his mode of
you  to  think  so                      change
                    ?

addressing you in the Witness" was the reply; "you

Ionce used to be his     dear Sir ;  you are now    simply  Sir."
                         the Doctor   never thinks  of his
" Oh," rejoined, "                                          mode
Iof addressing people ; he has something else to do." "
beg your pardon," was the reply ; " in matters of that

kind Dr Candlish is always wide awake." Let me not

I Ibe misunderstood : solicit no man's friendship ;

merely advert to a circumstance that has attracted notice.

I complain, further, that disadvantageous criticisms have

been dropped into circulation regarding the Witness,

which, had the real interests of the Paper been consulted,

should have been addressed direct to myself. A remark

let fall in the hearing of the pliant officials of No. 38,

York Place, flees far without losing its original character.

I have been cognizant of what was going on in certain

quarters, in this way, for a considerable time past.

PAMPHLET.                                            287

" For wherever he went, he was 'ware of a sound,
  Now heard in the distance, now gathering round,
  And it irked him much that that sound should be,
  But the soul of the cause of it well guessed he."

I yet further complain of the part acted by Dr Candlish

in the Edinburgh Presbytery, when he stood up to say

he had detected a sophism in an article of mine on com

munion with the slave-having Churches. Did the

Doctor really imagine that, by casting the Witness as a

tub to the whale on that occasion, he could neutralize the

bitter hostility evinced by the Establishment and the

Voluntaries on the slave-having question, to the Free
IChurch ? Alas ! the hostility lies too deep.
                                                     build

nothing on the fact that, for the article to which Dr

ICandlish so pointedly and so publicly referred, had al

ready received, in an exceedingly kind note, the thanks
of Dr Chalmers ; and that he, in consequence of seeing

either worse or better than the critic, had failed to detect

the sophism. Nor did it in the least move me that the
criticism should have furnished Mr M'Beth of Glasgow

with a text on which to deliver himself, in a pamphlet,
of a little of his superfluous nonsense. The article did,

perhaps, contain a sophism, though I have yet failed to
see or Dr Candlish to show that it did. I shall, how

ever, take the liberty of asking the Doctor whether it

Iwas wise, -- shall not say friendly, --to strike thus, as if

from behind, at a humble but devoted man-at-arms, en

gaged in fighting in the same front of battle with him
Iself against the same common enemy?
                                      ask him,

further, if he thinks it was from a sense of fear, or from

a lack of materials for criticism in his productions, spoken

or written, or from any other cause than simply a

sincere regard to the interests of the Free Church, that

I Imade no reprisals ? This shall dare say,--that were

288 EDITOR.

I disposed to make sport to the Philistines, I could find

in the recorded thinking of Dr Candlish not a few mag

nificent immaturities with which to amuse them. There

are some minds that, from a certain structural idiosyn

Icrasy, lie peculiarly open to animadversion ; and were

as regardless of general as of personal consequences, --of

Imy Church as of myself, -- might perhaps find exercise

for ingenuity in the dissection of one special intellect of

this character, that, like a summer in the higher lati

tudes, produces much, but ripens little, -- that is content

often to acquiesce in its first hasty conclusions, without

waiting for what the second cogitations may produce, --

and that bears on its incessant stream of thought, ever
copious and sparkling, many a fragile air-bell, that,

though it reflects the rainbow hues of heaven on its

surface, owes all its dancing buoyancy to a lack of

weight, and is singularly hollow within.
     ' Of the more elaborate articles on the Sabbath

question which lately appeared in the Witness, three

Iwere of my writing, and the others by the Assistant-
Editor, Mr Wylie.           may mention, that Sir Andrew

Agnew, in writing to the office, deemed them at least

worthy of thanks ; and that immediately on the appear

ance of my first paper, --the one with the reference to

Bishop Gillis, --I was requested by Mr Hanna, son-in-

law of Dr Chalmers, to furnish him with an article on

Sabbath Observance, "more in its social than its

peculiarly religious aspect," for the North British Review.
Now, on these articles Dr Candlish founds one of his

urgent reasons  "foTr hmey   retirement from  the Editorship of
the Witness.                damage done,"           isnacyas,lcu"latboleth; e"
                                              he
Sabbath cause   by certain recent articles      is

and I have learned from Edinburgh,* through more

* This letter was written in Cromarty.

                   PAMPHLET.                                       289

than one channel of communication, that he has been

unsparing in his condemnation of my assault on Bishop
IGillis.                                                           It has
          shall not defend myself in this matter.

perhaps been my misfortune that, somewhat curious in

Imy reading, have lived too much in the past, when

even the best of men were unconscious of fault in taking

liberties equally great with Jesuitical bishops, extreme

I Iunction, and the wafer ; and have, am afraid, failed

to note that the atmosphere of the present time has been

materially changed by exhalations blown aslant, over the

face of even the Evangelic Churches, from the bogs and

fens of a hollow liberalism, that professes to respect all
I Ireligions, and believes none.
                                    make no defence.               am

convinced, too, that were all the errors to which man is

liable of the especial character of mine, Dr Candlish
might with a clear conscience cast at the peccant Editor

the first stone.

    'I have thus stated my views on the general question,
Iin its bearings on the Witness newspaper ; and must
Inow be permitted to say a few words regarding myself.

am neither in the mood nor the circumstances to act

rashly. My health and strength, though gradually im
Iproving, are not what they have been.
                                                      have several
Ipoor relatives dependent on me for support.
Iwife and family.                                                  have a
                   have been doing what little I could
for the Church ; and as I have not yet touched a farthing
of the profits of the Witness, --and, until the debt to the

ICommittee be honourably discharged, never will, -- am

a poor man.* But though not in a condition, and cer

Itainly not in a frame, to act rashly, trust, with God's

help, to be enabled to act firmly, and in a manner not

unworthy of the Church of the Disruption. I need not

    * Should   not refuse that  money -- subscribers  are willing  to give
up.-- Note by
               Dr Chalmers.

VOl. II.                        19

290 EDITOR.

Iremind some of the gentlemen whom now address, that
Ithe place which occupy as Editor of the Witness was
Inot of my seeking, and that entered upon its duties in

weakness and great fear, thoroughly convinced of the

goodness of the cause, but diffident indeed of my own
ability to maintain it as it ought to be maintained,

against the hostile assaults of well-nigh the whole news

paper press of the kingdom. Little did I think, after

reading Lord Brougham's speech in the Auchterarder

case in my house in Cromarty, and then passing a sleep

less night, brooding over the state of great peril in which

the Church that I loved was placed, that the result of

my cogitations should have had the effect of leading me,

Iby a " way which knew not," into so peculiar a position.
IOnce there, however, found myself in my true place ;
I I Iand trust may be permitted to say, that have striven

to perform its duties not without reference to the Pro

vidence whose hand T recognized in the entire transaction.

I have been an honest journalist. During the seven
I Iyears in which have edited the Witness, have never
Ionce given expression to an opinion which did not con

scientiously regard as sound, nor stated a fact which, at

Ithe time at least, did not believe to be true. My faults

have no doubt been many ; but they have not been faults

of principle ; nor have they lost me the confidence of

Ithat portion of the people of Scotland to which belong,
and which I represent. And possessing their confidence,
I do not now feel myself justified in retiring from my

post. Dr Candlish and his Parliament-House friends

are not the ministers and people of the Free Church of
IScotland; nor do
                   recognize the expression of the

Doctor's will in this matter as a call to me in Providence

to divest myself of my office, in order that the Free

Church Press may be made the subject of a centralizing

          PAMPHLET.                                                      291

experiment, or that the Free Church itself may be laid

open to the temporizing influences of the Parliament
I IHouse.
          shall at least, ere yield, carry my appeal

from one minister of the Free Church to all the others,

Iand from the Sheriffs to the counties.
      ' may, however, cease to be Editor of the Witness.

Dr Candlish and Mr Wood I consider as parties in this
Ibusiness, and so do not put myself into their hands ;
but with regard to the other gentlemen whom I address,
I do so with the fullest confidence. The Witness is

property ; it belongs bond fide to Mr Fairly and me. If,

Ihowever, the friends whom now consult think I should

cease being its Editor, the course is obvious. Let it be

valued by persons mutually chosen by the Witness Com

mittee and the Proprietors ; and immediately on the
Committee's coming under the necessary obligations, it

Ishall be made over into their hands, and as its Con

ductor, and Mr Fairly and I as co-Proprietors, shall close

our connection with it for ever. Permit me to state

further, that if there is to be war between Dr Candlish
and me, it must be open war. " Of wiles, more inex
Ipert,
      of  b"ohaisnttendotf.a"ultsT"heantdrue"hesspirtiantgesd  of the    u"ndmeurs-tcubre
rent                                                           dislikes

fairly uncovered, should the stream continue to flow.

The difference must either close entirely, or the people

of Scotland must be made fully acquainted with the
grounds on which it rests.

     I' am, Gentlemen,

          ' With sincere respect,
                 ' Your most humble,

          ' Most obedient servant,

           ' HUGH MILLER.'

   292 EDITOR.

                                                                                                                          

                 POSTSCRIPT.

        ' The above was forwarded from Cromarty in MS. to
   Mr Fairly, who, with his own hands, assisted by my

   Ibrother, a printer in the Witness Office, set it into type.

   On my arrival here found it awaiting me in proof, and,

   with the proof, a note from Dr Candlish, in which the

   Doctor states that, having come to learn from a letter he

   had received from Mr       Stewart  afofafirCs roomf athrety,Wtihtnaet sshis"
   " well-meant interference   in the

   had been wholly misunderstood both by Mr Stwart and

   me, he now wished, in consequence, all his communica
   tions on the subject to be " superseded, set aside, burned,

   /and held as non-existent." The request comes too late ;

   -- take the present step ; it will of course be the Doc
   tor's turn to take the next. If my views regarding the

   danger to be apprehended from a system of Free Church

   centralization, and the influence of secular politics on our

   Edinburgh leadership, possess any measure of sound
   ness, it would be well, surely, that they should be soberly

   discussed by our wiser and cooler heads, so long as Chal

   mers is still with us. Dr Candlish's written communica
   Itions have,                                                                                                              " private   "
                 may here state, been marked
                                                                                                                                        ;
   Ibut neither Mr Fairly nor were the proper depositories

   of the secret which they embody. The man who has let

   his neighbour understand in strict secrecy that he intends

   bleeding him for his benefit, by sending a bullet through

   him in the evening, has no reason to complain that his

   neighbour betrays his confidence by blabbing to the
   Ipolice.
             understand from various quarters, that there

   is to be forthwith another Free Church paper started in

   Edinburgh. Assuredly one special class of Edinburgh

   Free Churchmen shall by-and-by greatly need such an

   Iorgan ; for so long at least as edit the Witness, it shall

^

                     THE QUARREL.       293

never be the representative of their views, or the advo
Icate or apologist of their policy.
                                        would fain advise
them to term their vehicle " The Free Church Cen

tralization Journal, and Parliament- Home Gazette;"
and I shall have very great pleasure indeed in contribut

ing the Prospectus.

' Edinburgh, 14th January, 1847.'

     In a biography of Hugh Miller an opinion on the

merits of this quarrel may be expected, but I am not
sure that I am qualified to form one with impartiality,

because, on the most important matter in dispute, the

duty of the Free Church to take her place in line of

battle with the Nonconformists of the realm, in order
to strike their bonds from the ' State institutions ' and

change them into Free Churches, my humble opinion

Icoincides with that of Dr Candlish. have also had the

opportunity of taking note, in quite unguarded moments

when we happened to meet at Kilcreggan on the estuary
of the Clyde, and were sometimes together alone in a
little boat on Loch Long, of Dr Candlish's feelings
towards Hugh Miller in the last years of his life. Clear

acknowledgment of his intellectual power, satisfaction

with the part played by himself in bringing him to

Edinburgh, and a regretful, not angry, feeling that he

could not forget     and   forgive and  let by-gones be by
                      the  impressions  which remain with
gones, --these are
me of what I heard from Dr Candlish in 1856 respect

ing Hugh Miller.

    If the readers of these pages have formed the same
conception of Miller as I have, they will not fail to

understand how offence, and just offence, might be

taken by him at the conduct of Dr Candlish, although

the latter was imperfectly conscious, or not conscious at

294 EDITOR.

all, of the offence he was giving. Miller was a man of
exquisite sensibility, and his life in Cromarty, the ad
mired of all admirers, the delicious incense of Miss
Dunbar's worship ever in his nostrils, was not adapted
to fit him for those rough collisions of man with man
which are every-day occurrences in political and eccle
siastical life. Not only was he personally sensitive,
he was filled with a devotion more than knightly to the
cause of the Church, and anything like a hint, direct or
indirect, that he had not served her efficiently wounded
him to the quick. Dr Candlish has lived in the eye of
the public for more than thirty years, and every one who
has either watched him or worked with him knows that,

in carrying out a public object, in giving effect to an
idea which has taken possession of him, he consults no
sensibilities, is reckless of minute proprieties, and hur
ries to his mark in conspicuous disregard of the ribs
he may elbow or the toes he may crush. There can,

Ialso, think, be no doubt that the conception formed

by Dr Candlish as to what the Witness ought to be

and to do differed in essential particulars from Hugh
Miller's. Dr Candlish may never have said as much in
words, or even brought the thought to distinct conscious
ness, but fundamentally his notion was that it should be
more exclusively a Church paper, and more emphatic
ally a Whig paper, than its editor could or would make
it. Miller felt that he had a right to put his own image
and superscription on the Witness. Throughout Scot
land he was identified with it ; the acclamation of Scot

land justified him in the belief that the splendid success
which had attended it was due to him. Surely this was
no more than that honest pride, that manly independence,
which prompts a colonel to resent interference with him
in fighting his regiment or a captain in sailing his ship.

HIS VICTORY.  295

     It was, of course, in no sense or degree incumbent on
Dr Candlish to think that the Witness was faultlessly
conducted ; but, presuming Miller to be correct in

believing the Doctor to have considered his positive
removal from the editorship necessary, most of us pro
bably will think the decision surprising, and no one
will be astonished that Hugh Miller should regard it
with indignation. For the rest, opinion will be divided
upon the views taken by him and by Dr Candlish
respectively on many of the questions which crop up,
somewhat in the manner of geological strata through
fields bearing the corn and the weeds of to-day, in
this pamphlet. Miller appears as the representative of
Free Churchmen ' of the long-derived historic type and
sternly orthodox spirit.' Bishop Gillis was simply a

Jesuitical bishop, to be unmasked; the Sabbath was
to be maintained in all strictness, without regard
had to ' exhalations blown aslant, over the face of even

the Evangelic Churches, from the bogs and fens of a
hollow liberalism, that professes to respect all religions,
and believes none ; ' and the splendour of Macaulay's
genius, the energy of his political Whiggism, the bril
liancy of his Parliamentary career, were to be made of
no account by the citizens of Edinburgh in electing a

member of Parliament, if only he adhered to his deter
mination to vote in favour of the Maynooth grant. Ex

halations, whether of the fen or of the dawn, have

assuredly been dimming the glory of this ' long-derived
historic type ' of Scottish Presbyterian religion ; but it
has been the faith of many a brave heart and strong brain,

and never of a braver or a stronger than Hugh Miller's.
     The triumph of Miller was instant, absolute, final.

Dr Chalmers, having perused the letter, lost not a mo

ment in convoking the Committee. He addressed it

   296 EDITOR.

   with great animation on behalf of Miller, dwelling on

   the absurdity of officious meddling with such a man,
   and asking, with peremptory, leonine glance, ' Which of

   you could direct Hugh Miller ? '

   There seems to have been a kind of understanding

   among the members of the Committee who were present

   at the meeting that the copy of the letter which each

   possessed should be destroyed. Dr Begg tells me that he

   ' went honestly home and destroyed his ;' but the under

   standing must have been vague, or several of the mem

   bers of Committee were absent, for there is no doubt that

   a plurality of copies exist, and Dr Bruce is known to

   have declared, with characteristic emphasis, that he set

   far too high a value upon his to think of burning
        No accurate information as to what had occurred
It
                                                                             ;
                                                                                       it.

                                                                                                         a
   reached the general public but an indistinct conviction

   pervaded the Free Church that Hugh Miller had vindi
   cated the independence of the Witness against Dr Cand-

   lish, and the lay element in the Church against the clerical.

   was clearly understood that the opinions of the Witness

   would be those of its editor, and that the weight and

   worth of his independent judgment were guaranteed

   against all extraneous influence. After being shaken

   little by Parliament-House defection, the paper pursued

   its career of prosperity.
        Though Miller triumphed, the memory of the fray

   rankled deep in his heart to the last, and its result on
   the whole, even to the paper, was melancholy. He

   had imbibed an invincible repugnance to handling

   the Free Church questions of the day. Resolute to

   speak no man's mind save his own, and shrinking from
   the bitter necessity which he knew to be entailed upon

   the frank utterance of his own sentiments, he became

   shy of Church matters altogether, made  it  his aim to

^

   ISOLATION OF THE " WITNESS."                                          297

afford scope, in the columns of the paper, for an expres

sion of opinion, in speech and letter, by rival parties,

rather than to influence either in leading articles, and

sought for himself a more congenial sphere in science

and literature. In these views his partner, Mr Fairly,

entirely acquiesced, and held after Miller's death, notit,
                               is is
only to be due to his memory, but to be advisable on
                                             it
other grounds, to maintain the same policy in the con-is it

duct of the paper. The independence of the journal hadby I
it t
been vindicated, once and for ever; the clergy never          it
                     a
came near the Witness Office; but, after all, was iso

lation rather than independence that was attained, and

there was gaunt and desolate feeling about it. What

   must have been to Hugh Miller not easy to realize.

Mrs Miller thinks that about the sum of                            that

broke his heart. But even the successor of Hugh

Miller in the conduct of the Witness, for whom am

qualified to speak, found the position sometimes peculiar.
   brief illustration will show what meant.
A

   The liberty of every Free Church in the United

Kingdom was directly or indirectly threatened                      the

attempt of Mr MacMillan of Cardross to induce the

Court of Session to punish the Free Church of Scotland

for excluding him from her ministry. The most in

fluential Edinburgh newspaper tried to make appear

that Mr MacMillan plea against the Free Church was

strictly analogous to Sir William Dunbar's plea against
                        's

                                                               it

Bishop Skinner, Primate of the Free Episcopalian Church
of Scotland, when the Bishop visited, or attempted to visit,
Sir William with ecclesiastical censures. The question

was the key of the Free Church position in legal point
of view, for the Reverend Sir William Dunbar, on the
   if

                                                                a

one hand, and the Primate of the Free Episcopalian

Church of Scotland, on the other, had consented to plead,

298 EDITOR.

and had been accepted as pleaders, at the bar of the
Court of Session, how could the Free Presbyterian Church
claim exemption from their jurisdiction ? A perusal of
the report of the Dunbar trial in the records of the Court
of Session showed, what any one acquainted with the
historic position of the Sir William Dunbar section
of Scotch Episcopalians might have guessed before
hand, that the cases were essentially distinct. Sir

William Dunbar and his section claimed relations with

the Church of England, and repudiated the jurisdiction of
the Scottish Episcopal Church. This independence con
stitutes, in Scottish ecclesiastical history, the very mean
ing and ratio essendi of the little knot of Episcopalian

congregations referred to. In relation, therefore, to

the Primate of the Scottish Episcopalian Church, Sir
William Dunbar was a layman ; and the plea of
Sir William, when the Bishop flung his ecclesiastical
net over him, was substantially that the latter had no
more right to meddle with him than with the editor of
the Scotsman. To determine the question of fact,
both parties came, and rightly came, before the Court of

Session. Mr MacMillan, appearing in his character as a

Free Church minister, demanded that the Court of

Session should compel the Free Church to remove the
ecclesiastical censures which she had pronounced upon
him. On the question whether she owed him money,

or the question whether she had masked a private
attack under ecclesiastical forms, or any other question

involving the civil rights of Mr MacMillan, the Free

Church declared herself ready to plead : but she main

tained that, if Mr MacMillan admitted her ecclesiastical
jurisdiction over him, which he did, and if his claim was
not for money, which it was not, and if the proceedings

against him were allowed to have been ecclesiastical,

ISOLATION OF THE " WITNESS."  299

which they were, then she could not be compelled to
answer to the Court of Session at his complaint, save on
grounds which would subject to the Court of Session
the internal discipline of every unendowed denomination
in Scotland.

      The first articles in the Scotsman attempting to
mystify the public as to the relation between the Sir
 William Dunbar Case and the Cardross Case may have

been contributed, for what I know, by some sleek

 Edinburgh parson, whose hatred of the Free Church
was an illustration of the infinitely great, and whose
love of truth was an illustration of the infinitely little.
 The busy, careless public were ready enough to take the
view suggested by the Scotsman. The editor of the
 Witness, having read the report of the Dunbar trial,
perceived that the matter was one on which it was im

possible for men who took this trouble to hold two
opinions. He said so in the columns of the Witness,

stated the evidence, told people to satisfy themselves by
turning for an hour into the Signet Library and reading
the report, and, with a simplicity quite primeval and
lamb-like, argued that the Scotsman ought to retract a

demonstrated error. The misleading articles continued
to appear. Hereupon the virtue of our Nathaniel took
fire, and he inveighed against the dishonesty of his con
troversial opponent. Whether the editor of the Scots
man had previously interfered, or had not, he now came
upon the field, cudgel in hand, and with the experienced
fury of one who had fought many newspaper battles,
showered his blows upon the head of the ingenuous young
man. Upon the merits of the controversy, the cudgel-
bearer said little ; what nerved his arm for vengeance

was the preposterous idea that, if black is black and

white white, and a gentleman of the press, knowing

300 EDITOR.

black to be black and white white, calls white black and
black white, it is consistent with the usages of society to
tell said gentleman of the press that he is not a gentle

Iman in the ordinary sense. What had to remark, how

ever, was that, all the time the Witness was striving, amid
the most virulent opposition, to defend a vital point of
the Free Church position, not one syllable of recognition
of the Witness as taking part in the defence, was uttered
by any minister, or in any Court of the Free Church.
The matter at length came up in the General Assembly.
Speaker after speaker, lay and clerical, among the
leading Free Churchmen, took the same view of the
Sir William Dunbar Case as had been taken by the
Witness, and the essential importance of disabusing
the public mind of the fallacy of comparing it to the
Cardross Case, except by way of contrast, was amply
acknowledged ; but not one syllable betrayed that the
Witness had done the work beforehand, or that the

Free Church had any manner of connection with a paper

called the Witness.

      The experience of the proprietors and the editor
on this occasion enabled them to realize with vivid

ness the isolation, which, under circumstances incom
parably more agitating, pressed upon the soul of

Hugh Miller. In times of danger and of difficulty he
had been the eye of the fleet, keen to discern the ap

proach of peril, ready always to draw the fire of the
enemy upon himself and his ship ; and now, when
smoother waters had been reached, all the services of

the night, and the tempest, and the fray were forgotten,
and uniformed captains of the fleet, waiving him a cold
adieu, held on their way without acknowledging that he
or his ship were in existence. He never flagged in his
service. While he continued to breathe, his name was

HIS PROTESTANT ZEAL.                                                  301

a tower of strength for the Free Church, and had he seen

her in danger, he would have rushed to the rescue as in

those days of young and proud enthusiasm when he
addressed his Letter to Lord Brougham ; but his mind

dwelt with brooding anguish upon the isolation into

which he had been thrown, and on the whole, in its

incidents and its results, we may pronounce this quarrel
with Dr Candlish the unhappiest occurrence of his life.

      One word must be added, to obviate misconception.
Though Hugh Miller belonged to the school of sternly

anti-Popish Scottish religionists, and had no mercy
for Roman Catholic Bishops, he recoiled from the

acrid extravagance and toothless bigotry of those self-

elected representatives of Protestant zeal, who band

themselves into associations, publish hateful prints, make

Protestantism a laughing-stock in Parliament, and on the

whole render considerable, though contemptible, service

to Archbishop Manning and the Pope. Miller honoured

the intention of these poor creatures, and went with them

as far as he could. Though few of the anti-Popish ar

ticles in the Witness were from his pen, he permitted a

great number to be inserted by an eloquent and popular

contributor, and any one who glances over the old files of

the paper must be surprised that even Miller's genius

could render it acceptable to readers with those perpetual

doses of anti-Popish harangue. Nevertheless the bigots

were not satisfied. The Witness was pronounced luke

warm in the Protestant cause.    Arocnke, w--pwaapsers,tacratellded,  the
                                                                      and
Rock,-- Miller called it a trap

for a limited number of weeks or months the craziest

Protestant champion in Edinburgh could not complain
that ' the banner ' was not held high enough. Miller
had that hatred of Popery which seems constitutional to

Scotchmen of strong religious instincts, --it has always

302 EDITOR.

characterized Mr Carlyle, for instance, --but he had no

fellowship with those bigots who, having lost that fervour
which made the intolerance of the seventeenth century
respectable, retain that intolerance which cast over the
fervour of the seventeenth century a ghastly and ensan

guined glare.

     And now, not without satisfaction, we can turn the

leaf upon this Sturm und Drang --storm and stress --

chapter in Hugh Miller's history.

                         BOOK VI.

            MAN OF SCIENCE.

   Thus you see we maintain a trade, not for gold, silver, or jewels ; nor for silks ; nor for
spices ; nor any other commodity of matter ; but only for God's first creature, which was
Light.


          305

          CHAPTER I.

THE OLD RED SANDSTONE LETTER TO A CHILD FIRST IM
                 PRESSIONS OF ENGLAND AND ITS PEOPLE.

AMID the stormful enthusiasm of a great popular

       conflict, Hugh Miller had not forgotten the serener
if not more lofty devotion which had inspired him as a

servant of science. ' Of Bacon,' he once wrote, ' I never

tired ; ' and often, probably, when the excitement and

sword-clashing of polemical battle filled the air around

him, would that vessel rise before the eye of his imagina
tion which Bacon saw, speeding on, age after age, across
calm ocean spaces in search of light, horizon after hori

zon opening before her, constellation after constellation

kindling in her skies. And now, when he had been for

the better part of a year editor of the Witness, he

ventured to yield to the prompting of his heart, and to

recur to those geological studies which had been his

delight in the quiet days of Cromarty.

On the 9th of September, 1840, there appeared in

the Witness the first of a series of articles under the

title, The Old Red Sandstone. There were seven in all,

each occupying two or three columns. The last was

published in the Witness of October 17th, 1840. The

moment was propitious. Hugh Miller could state in

vol. ii.  20

306 MAN OF SCIENCE.

the outset that the Old Red Sandstone formation had

been hitherto considered as remarkably barren in fossils ;

that a continental geologist, in tabulating the various

formations, had appeared to omit this one altogether ;

and that Lyell, whose standard work on the Elements

of Geology had been issued two years previously, had
devoted but two and a half pages to its description.
He could add that he had ' a hundred solid proofs '

lying close to his elbow, that the fossils of the system
are ' remarkably numerous.' Nor were they less strange
than they were abundant. ' The figures on a Chinese

vase or an Egyptian obelisk are scarce more unlike what

now exists in nature than the fossils of the lower Old

Red Sandstone.' They seemed to be products  of
' nature's apprenticeship.'

      The importance of the Old Red Sandstone, as part
of the geological record, had begun to be surmised by

naturalists ; and remarks like these were fitted to

awaken the curiosity of the general public. The ear of

the world, therefore, was open for the word which Hugh
Miller could speak. Before September had closed, his

reputation as a geologist was made. On the 23rd day
of that month the British Association for the Advance

ment of Science held its annual meeting. In the
Geological Section, Mr Lyell in the chair, Miller's dis

coveries were brought under the attention of leading

geologists. Mr Murchison, now Sir Roderick, spoke in

terms of high eulogy of his perseverance and ingenuity

in the geological field, declared that he had raised him

self to a position which any man might envy, pointed to
the specimens forwarded by him to London, and invited
M. Agassiz to describe the class to which they belonged.

The distinguished Frenchman followed in a similar

strain, and proposed to name one of the most remarkable

   HIS WELCOME TO THE WORLD OF SCIENCE. 307

specimens Pterichthys Milleri. Dr Buckland's enthu
siasm knew no bounds. He ' had never been so much

astonished in his life by the powers of any man as he had
been by the geological descriptions of Mr Miller. That
wonderful man described these objects with a felicity
which made him ashamed of the comparative meagreness
and poverty of his own descriptions in the Bridgewater
Treatise, which had cost him hours and days of labour.
He would give his left hand to possess such powers of

description as this man.' It was, in Dr Buckland's

view, ' another proof of the value of the meeting of the
Association, that it had contributed to bring such a man

into notice.'

      There is something fine in this spectacle of the
magnates of science welcoming with glad acclaim a
brother who, coming at one stride from the quarry,
makes out his title to rank as one of them. Men of

letters were almost equally astonished at the performance

of the Cromarty stone-mason. The benefit which Miller
had derived from his long discipline in literary com
position was now evident. Into the description of bare
and rigid organisms, he could throw a fascination
which charmed every lover of literary form. Here was
a self-educated man who had educated himself not to

mere copiousness of glittering words, but to the chastened
strength, the subtle modulation, the placid-beaming
clearness, of a classic. Every page spoke of ripe thought
and confirmed intellectual habits.

     The Old Red Sandstone, which, in the following
year, appeared in the form of a book, was the first
literary work executed by Miller in the maturity of his
power. It stands at the head of a series of unique and
remarkable books with which he permanently enriched
English literature ; books in which the results of face to

308 MAN OF SCIENCE.

face inspection of nature in the quarried hill-side or on

the ribbed sea-shore, are interwoven with fresh, racy,

sagacious judgments on men and manners ; books in

which observations distinguished by exquisite scientific

accuracy furnish the ground-plan for landscapes over

which is poured the softest, ruddiest glow of imaginative

colouring. The nature of Hugh Miller's imaginative
power is characteristically exhibited in this work. His
imagination is bold, yet its audacity is always restrained

by reference to ascertained fact. Its pictures are never

Ifvague.          as one critic remarked, his fossil fishes swim
                                                      in '
          itand gambol,' they do so as the mind's eye of Hugh
             If,Miller, after severe inspection and long gaze into the
past, had seen them swim and gambol in primeval seas.

the stone branch budded like rod of Aaron on his
                                 a
page, and forests, breaking from their sepulchresis         the

rock, grew green again in the sunlight and rustled in the

wind,      was not that an oriental fancy delighted in

clothing phantom hills with visionary foliage, but be

cause the science of the West had put into his hand         a

lamp which lighted for him the long vistas of bygone

time. This species of imagination       the most valuable

which scientific man can possess, and without noa     it
man, however accurate his observation, however just his

conception of individual facts, can be great in science.
True workers in science are of three kinds, in ascending

order of excellence, --the accurate observer and com

piler the sound generalizer and the seer of nature,
;                 ;

who first observes, then generalizes, and lastly illuminates

his generalizations so that they become visions. There

were many geologists of his time who, having devoted

themselves exclusively to science for nearly as many

years as Hugh Miller lived, traversed wider fields of
observation and attained greater acquaintance with fact
                  a

                                                                                                           ;

THE ' OLD RED SANDSTONE:  309

but not the most distinguished of his contemporaries sur
passed him in those august operations of the mind, which

may be claimed indifferently for science and for poetry.
      Viewed in relation to the dimensions of the field it

covers, the Old Red Sandstone of Hugh Miller is a
comprehensive account of the formation as it appears in
Scotland. The journeyman mason presented to the world
of science a monograph on one of the chief rock-systems
of his country, and it proved to be an imperishable
masterpiece. On that division of the Old Red which is
exhibited at Cromarty, and to which Miller had special
access, it was almost exhaustive. He added little after

wards to his discoveries in the Cromarty beds, and no
other eye has been keen enough to detect in them any
thing else of importance. Subsequent research has proved
that what he regarded as the Lower Old Red is the
Middle division of the system. In relation to the Old
Red Sandstones of the southern shores of the Moray Frith
and of Fife, Perth, and Forfar, the book was necessarily
less complete at its first appearance, but even of these it
presented a distinct, and, in the main outlines, a correct
account, and when Miller put his finishing touches to it
in later editions, it could claim to be the standard work

on the Scottish Old Red. Sir Roderick Murchison

has since demonstrated that the geological position of
the conglomerate of the Western Highlands is in the
Silurian system. But this would not have surprised
Hugh Miller, who entertained doubts upon the subject.

      With every year of his life his skill and care as a
geological observer increased, but the keen and exquisite
discernment he had already attained may be illustrated
by a fact which can be stated in his own words. ' After
carefully examining many specimens,' he wrote in 1855,

I' published a restoration of both the upper and under

310 MAN OF SCIENCE.

side of pterichthys fully fifteen years ago. The greatest
of living ichthyologists, however, misled by a series of

specimens much less complete than mine, differed from

me in my conclusions ; and what I had represented as

the creature's under or abdominal side, he represented as
its upper or dorsal side ; while its actual upper side he

regarded as belonging to another, though closely allied,

genus. I had no opportunity, as he resided on the

Continent at the time, of submitting to him the specimens

Ion which had founded ; though, at once certain of his

thorough candour and love of truth, and of the solidity

Iof my data, felt confident that, in order to alter his
decision, it was but necessary that I should submit to

him my evidence. Meanwhile, however, the case was

Iregarded as settled against me ; and found at least

one popular and very ingenious writer on geology, after

referring to my description of the pterichthys, going on

to say that, though graphic, it was not correct, and that

he himself could describe it at least more truthfully, if

not more vividly, than I had done. And then there

followed a description identical with that by which mine

had been supplanted. Five years had passed, when one
day our greatest British authority on fossil fishes, Sir

Philip Egerton, was struck, when passing an hour among

the ichthyic organisms of his princely collection, by the

appearance presented by a central plate in the cuirass of

the pterichthys. It is of a lozenge form ; and, occupy

ing exactly such a place in the nether armature of the

creature as that occupied by the lozenge-shaped spot on
the ace of diamonds, it comes in contact with four other

                        and represent, so to speak, the
;plates that lie around

                it,
                      it
                                it,
white portions of the card. And Sir Philip now found,

that instead of lying over,     lay under, the four con

tiguous plates they overlapped       instead of being over

              LETTER TO A CHILD.                    311

lapped by it. This, he at once said, on ascertaining the

fact, cannot be the upper side of the Pterichthys. A

plate so arranged would have formed no proper pro

tection to the exposed dorsal surface of the creature's
body, as a slight blow would have at once sent it in

upon the interior framework ; but a proper enough one

to the under side of a heavy swimmer, that, like the flat
fishes, kept close to the bottom ; -- a character which, as

shown by the massive bulk of its body, and its small

spread of fin, must have belonged to the Pterichthys.
Sir Philip followed up his observations on the central

plate by a minute examination of the other parts of the

creature's armature ; and the survey terminated in a
                              restoration, --set aside so long
recognition   of the earlier  true one ;-- a recognition in
              virtually the
before, --as

which Agassiz, when made acquainted with the nature of

the evidence, at once acquiesced.' This is the kind of

fact which proves consummate practical ability of that

character which cannot be derived from books.

We may here take in a letter written by Miller,

about the time when the Old Red Sandstone was getting

into circulation as a book, to a little boy whom he had

known in Cromarty. It contains a few details as to his

history at the time which cannot be presented to the

reader so pleasantly in any other way, and it adds one other

illustration to the many we have already had of his

gentle, playful, sympathetic manner with children.

                                     ' Edinburgh, 5, Sylvan Place, Sept. 8, 1841.

    'My dear Alie Munro,

           ' I will tell you how it was that I did not reply

to your kind letter last spring. It was all in consequence

I Iof another letter which received only two days after

received and which entirely put out of my mind for
it,
                                        it

312 MAN OF SCIENCE.

the time. This other letter was a Cromarty letter ; and

it informed me that my poor mother was very, very ill,

I Iand that unless hurried north to see her, might never
Isee her more. And so did hurry away north, with the

Ivery first coach that set out, and was one day and two
nights on the road.  found my mother much better

than my fears had anticipated, for the disease that

threatened her life had taken a favourable turn ; and ere

I parted from her, which was in about a week after, she
Iwas well-nigh recovered. Meanwhile, however, had
Iforgotten your letter. Now know, my dear Alie, you

will forgive me when you take all this into your grave

consideration. My journey was a very unpleasant and sad

one, so sad and unpleasant that one might almost make

an agreeable story out of it. Wrecks and battles, you

know, make good subjects for stories ; and the worse

I Iand more unpleasant the wreck or battle, just all the

better is the story. So long as was with the coach

had nothing worse than sad thoughts and very bad

I Iweather to annoy me. From Fortrose to Cromarty,

however, had to grope my way as if had been play
Iing all the way at blind man's buff. Never yet have
Ibeen out in so dark a night.
                               had to feel for the road
Iwith my staff, and discovered on two or three occasions
Ithat had got off it only by tumbling into the ditch.
IIt was at least three hours after midnight ere reached

my journey's end.

    ' I saw Aunt and Uncle Ross in Cromarty, and Cousin

Mora. Cousin Mora is a smart, pretty little girl. But

I dare say you will deem my news of the north somewhat

old, and there is no denying that it is less new now than

it was six months ago. It is not so old, however, by a

Igreat deal, as the news you gave me about the battle of

Hastings ; and of late have been giving much older

                     LETTER TO A CHILD.              313

news to the public in a book on the Old Red Sandstone.

You remind me, dear Alie, of the stones and fossils
Iwhich used to point out to you on the shore of Cro
Imarty.
                have written a whole book about them, with
curious-looking prints in --the portraits of fish that
                                I it,
lived so very long ago that there were no men in the

world at the time to give them names. But they have

all got names now, stiff-looking Greek names, which

only scholars can understand. One of them has been

named after me, Pterichthys Milleri, which means Mil

ler's winged fish, and send you prints of that you
                       a                  it it
may see what strange-looking creature
                         I                                        ?
                     Ia                    was. By
                            if
the way, have you not great chalk cliffs at Hastings

There are very curious fossils found in chalk, sea-eggs,

of kind no longer found alive, spindle-shaped stones,
I' a
called Belemnites, other stones called Ammonites, that

resemble coiled snakes, cockle-like shells with spines on

their backs, and         great many other curious things

besides that were once living creatures.
          trust you will remember me to Aunt Munro,

whose kindness to me in Cromarty very often remem
                                       I

ber, and who has since been very kind to my sister

Jane.   aI  dare say that by answering your letter, though

at this late time, have made her lose her wager. You

know lose she must, there was no particular time
            I it
specified.        am very, very busy in these days, thinking,

reading, writing, beating one day, beaten the next
                                                     It
called      blockhead at one time without believing
                                                          is it, ;
believing at another without being called            living,
            a it                           it
in short, hurried, bustling, fighting sort of life.
                                            I;
very seldom       I  can command leisure enough to write

letters, and sometimes when have the leisure want

the will. But you see have at length written to you,I
and had not been for one circumstance, of which
            it                                       I

314 MAN OF SCIENCE.

Ihave already told you, would have written you six
Imonths ago.
                       have a little daughter who helps me at

times in putting wrong my papers, books, and fossils.

She has got language enough to call a dog bowwow, and

a cat mew ;

and calls
is

         it

                            I
                                    I

                                                         it a

                                                                                   a

                                                                                                                                     ;

                                                                               a it,
             and when       she sees a fossil she points to
                            fish." She had philosophical
              " papa's

desire long ago to ascertain whether the flame of candle

might not taste and feel as pleasantly as            looked but

she no longer curious on this head.                  sometimes sing

to her, and she seems much pleased with my music,

thing no one ever was before.                am afraid, however,

that her mother will spoil her just and simple taste in
this matter but know not how to prevent it. And
            It
                               have come to the close of my
                 is ;
now, my dear Alie,          I

letter.                not long, you see, but there  good deal
                                             I
                       it,
of nonsense in for all that.                       is is
                                                         aa

                                                       I
                                          I  would like very much

to be little boy once more, but, alas, am big man,a

and cannot play myself so much or so often as could

wish. Some of my reddish-brown hair actually get

ting grey.             am, my dear boy,

                                         Your affectionate friend,

                                                  'Hugh Miller.'
            I

                                       '

     There perhaps no work of Miller's which the
general reader can better judge him than his First Im
            of is                         I
                                                               by
                                                                          is
pressions        England and its People. The subject has

the look of being hackneyed beyond all chance of

effective writing yet the book, venture to say, one
                       ;

of the most fresh and charming in the language. The

materials were gathered in eight weeks of autumnal

wandering through England in 1845, and the composi

tion occupied the leisure hours of hard-worked editor
for six months. Yet how admirable the style With
                               it

                                                 a
                                                   is

                                                                                                !
what subtle felicity does combine the dignity of ela

FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF ENGLAND.  315

borate literary form with perfect ease and freedom !
And how completely do we feel, as we read, that we are
in converse with a cultivated mind ! The treasures

which Miller had been accumulating since he was six

years old, --the impressions, facts, reflections, fancies of
life-long observation and study, --flow out upon the page

in stintless yet chaste abundance, absolutely without

straining or parade. There is no gaudy metaphoric
daubing, no wearisome drawing out of similitudes, but
the right illustration, brief and happy, always comes in
at the right place, and the nice bright word of metaphor,
like the honey-touch on the lip of Jonathan when he was

weary, never fails.

      The skill in which Miller has to this day no rival,

the skill of bringing poetic hues and musical tones out
of the stony tombs of geology, is in this book exquisitely
exhibited. In Dudley glen, for example, he finds him
self surrounded with rocks containing Silurian fossils of
remote antiquity amid and upon which stand the ordinary
trees of English woodland. This is enough to awaken his

fancy. ' I scarcely know,' he says, ' on what principle it

should have occurred ; but certainly never before, even
when considerably less familiar with the wonders of geo

Ilogy, was so impressed by the appearance of marine

fossils in an inland district, as among these wooded soli

Itudes. Perhaps the peculiarity of their setting, if may so

speak, by heightening the contrast between their present
circumstances and their original habitat, gave increased
effect to their appeals to the imagination. The green
ocean depths in which they must have lived and died
associate strangely in the mind with the forest retreats,
a full hundred miles from the sea-shore, in which their

remains now lie deposited. Taken with their accom
paniments, they serve to remind one of that style of

    316 MAN OF SCIENCE.

    artificial grotto-work in which corals and shells are
    made to mingle with flowers and mosses. The
    massy cyathophyllum sticks out of the sides of grey
    lichened rocks, enclasped by sprigs of ivy, or overhung
    by twigs of thorn and hazel ; deep-sea terebratulae
    project in bold relief from amid patches of the delicate
    wood sorrel ; here a macerated oak leaf, with all its

    skeleton fibres open as a net, lies glued by the damps
    beside some still more delicately reticulated festinella ;
    there a tuft of graceful harebells projects over some
    prostrate orthoceratite ; yonder there peeps out from
    amid a drapery of green liver-wort, like a heraldic
    helmet from a mantling, the armed head of some trilo-
    bite : the deep-sea productions of the most ancient of
    creations lie grouped, as with an eye to artistic effect,
    amid the floral productions of our own times.'

          He lies down on an English hill-side, and as he
    gazes musingly upon the landscape spread below, and
    thinks of the time when it was the bottom of a broad

    ocean sound washing the rocky island that was one
    day to constitute the Highlands of Wales, rises into
    this serene flight of prose poetry : * Was it the sound of
    the distant surf that was in mine ears, or the low moan
    of the breeze, as it crept through the neighbouring
    wood? Oh, that hoarse voice of Ocean, never silent

    since time first begun, --where has it not been uttered !

    There is stillness amid the calm of the arid and rainless

    desert, where no spring rises and no streamlet flows,
    and the long caravan plies its weary march amid the
    blinding glare of the sand, and the red unshaded rays of
    the fierce sun. But once and again, and yet again, has

    the roar of ocean been there. It is his sands that the

    winds heap up ; and it is the skeleton remains of his

    vassals,--shells and fish and the stony coral, --that the

/*

OCEAN.  317

rocks underneath enclose. There is silence on the tall

mountain peak, with its glittering mantle of snow, where

the panting lungs labour to inhale the thin bleak air, --

where no insect murmurs and no bird flies, and where

the eye wanders over multitudinous hill-tops that lie far
beneath, and vast dark forests that sweep on to the
distant horizon, and along long hollow valleys where the
great rivers begin. And yet once and again, and yet
again, has the roar of Ocean been there. The effigies of
his more ancient denizens we find sculptured on the
crags, where they jut out from beneath the ice into the

mist-wreath ; and his later beaches, stage beyond stage,
terrace the descending slopes. Where has the great

destroyer not been, -- the devourer of continents, --the

blue foaming dragon, whose vocation it is to eat up the
land ? His ice-floes have alike furrowed the flat steppes
of Siberia and the rocky flanks of Schiehallion ; and his
nummulites and fish lie embedded in great stones of the
pyramids, hewn in the times of the old Pharaohs, and in
rocky folds of Lebanon still untouched by the tool. So
long as Ocean exists there must be disintegration, di

lapidation, change ; and should the time ever arrive when
the elevatory agencies, motionless and chill, shall sleep
within their profound depths, to awaken no more, and
should the sea still continue to impel its currents and to
 roll its waves, every continent and island would at
 length disappear, and again, as of old, when " the
 fountains of the great deep were broken up,"

                 " A shoreless ocean tumble round the globe." '

      Of Miller's power as a critic, the passage in this book
 recounting his visit to the birth-place of Shakespeare, as
 well as several others, furnish ample proof, and the sketch
 of the younger Littleton is managed with great adroitness
 and lightness of touch. There is too much of Shenstone

        318 MAN OF SCIENCE.

        and the Leasowes. Comparing the notes Miller gives us

        of his visit to Stratford-on-Avon with those on Shenstone's

        landscape-gardening, we cannot but regret that his
        modest avoidance of fields whence the ' originally luxu
        riant swathe ' had been ' cut down and carried away,'

        prevented him from journeying to the shrines of Eng

        land's great men and detained him so long beside the

        work of one of her ingenious versifiers.

               '

                                        is,

                                                                '

                                                                 I
        The Scotchman  of course, seen peeping from

        beneath the plaid of Miller as he journeys through Eng
               To my eye,' he says, my countrymen, -- and
        land.

        have now seen them in almost every district of Scotland,

        --present an appearance of rugged strength which the

        English, though they take their place among the more
        robust European nations, do not exhibit and find the
                                   by
                                      by

                                                                   ;

                                                       I

                                                                                    a
        carefully-constructed tables of Professor Forbes, based

        on large amount of actual experiment, corroborative of
'
        the impression. As tested  the dynamometer, the
       a
        tahveerafguell-gsrtorewnngthEnogflisthhemfaunll-growabnouStcootnee-xtwceeendtsiethth, a--t  of

                                                                                                    to

        be sure, no very great difference, but quite enough in

        prolonged contest, hand to hand, and man to man, with
        equal skill and courage on both sides, decidedly to turn
        the scale. The result of the conflict at Bannockburn,

        where, according to Barbour, steel rung upon annour      in
                                                                     a in
        close fight for hours, and at Otterburn, where, according
        to Froissart, the English fought with the most obstinate

        bravery, may have good deal hinged on this purely
               A
physical difference.' But he dearly loves to puta
                             if
good word for Scotland, he can do justice to England.;
  Scotland has produced no Shakspeare Burns and Sir

Walter Scott united would fall short of the stature of

the giant of Avon. Of Milton we have not even re
                                                  a

presentative.  Scotch poet has been injudiciously

                   IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY.                          319

Inamed as not greatly inferior ; but shall not do wrong

to the memory of an ingenious young man, cut off just

as he had mastered his powers, by naming him again in

a connection so perilous. He, at least, was guiltless of
the comparison ; and it would be cruel to involve him
in the ridicule which it is suited to excite. Bacon is as

exclusively unique as Milton, and as exclusively English ;

and though the grandfather of Newton was a Scotch

man, we have certainly no Scotch Sir Isaac. I question,

indeed, whether any Scotchman attains to the power of

Locke ; there is as much solid thinking in his Essay on

the Human Understanding, greatly as it has become the

fashion of the age to depreciate    it,         and notwithstanding

its fundamental error, as in the works of all our Scotch;

metaphysicians put together.' Few people, to whatever

school of philosophy they belong, would now agree with
Miller in setting Locke above Hume but we cannot

read these words without feeling that, though he loved

Scotland much, he loved truth more.

An apology may, perhaps, be thought necessary for

quoting from book which you see, beside the popular
                   a
novels of the day, at London Railway Stations but
                    I                                   iIf I' ;
Miller's acknowledgment of what he owed to the litera

ture of England, suggestedis        his visit to Poet's Corner
                                by
in Westminster Abbey, so beautiful and so strictly auto

biographic, that must take liberty to insert it.                  had

no strong emotions,' he says, with signal honesty, to             '
exhibit when pacing along the pavement in this cele                      '

brated place, nor would have exhibited them                     had.
                       I

                                             '
But the reader will feel that deep and true emotion per

vades the words which follow.                   There was poor Gold

smith he had been my companion for thirty years                   ;I
a

                ;
had been first introduced to him through the medium of

common school collection, when little boy in the
                                                a

320 MAN OF SCIENCE.

Ihumblest English class of a parish school ; and had

kept up the acquaintance ever since. There, too, was

IAddison, whom had known so long, and, in his true

poems, his prose ones, had loved so much ; and there
were Gay, and Prior, and Cowley, and Thomson, and

Chaucer, and Spenser, and Milton ; and there, too, on a

slab on the floor, with the freshness of recent interment

still palpable about  it,

                            if

                                                       I
                            as to indicate the race at least

not long extinct, was the name of Thomas Campbell.
had got fairly among my patrons and benefactors. How
often, shut out for months and years together from all

literary converse with the living, had they been almost

my only companions, --my unseen associates, who, in

the rude work-shed, lightened my labours by the music

of their numbers, and who, in my evening walks, that

would have been so solitary save for them, expanded my

intellect by the solid bulk of their thinking, and gave

me eyes,!          their exquisite descriptions, to look at

               by
nature How thoroughly, too, had they served to break

down in my mind at least the narrow and more illiberal

partialities of country, leaving untouched, however, all
that was worthy of being cherished in my attachment to

poor old Scotland     I!    learned to deem the English poet
                         I
not less my countryman than the Scot,  but felt the
                                     ;

                                      iIf

                                                       a
true human heart beating in his bosom and the intense

prejudices which had imbibed, when almost child,
from the fiery narratives of Blind Harry and of Barbour,

melted away, like snow-wreaths from before the sun,

under the genial influences of the glowing poesy of Eng

             not the harp of Orpheus that will effectually
land.   It

             is
                  is
tame the wild beast which lies ambushing in human

nature, and           ever and anon breaking forth on the

nations, in cruel, desolating war. The work of giving

peace to the earth awaits those Divine harmonies which

X
       V

1 1 HIS POWER AS A GEOLOGIST.             321

breathe from the Lyre of Inspiration, when swept by
the Spirit of God. And yet the harp of Orpheus does

exert an auxiliary power. It is of the nature of its
songs, -- so rich in the human sympathies, so charged

with the thoughts, the imaginings, the hopes, the wishes,
which it is the constitution of humanity to conceive and

entertain, -- it is of their nature to make us feel that the
nations are all of one blood, --that man is our brother,

and the world our country.'

     Though this book is less geological than most of his

other works, there is none, I think, in which his power

as a geologist is more characteristically displayed. As

a naturalist, as a palaeontologist, he has been often ex
celled; but as a geologist, in the strict sense of the term,

as one whose aim it is to see the rocky bones of a country
beneath its robe of broidered green, he will not easily be

matched. For this his work in the quarry, his fifteen

years' journeying through various geological districts,

had been an education, potent and precious, before he

thought of formally studying geology. England was
new to him, and he had but a few weeks in which to

make himself acquainted with its geological aspects ; yet
he apprehended every essential feature of English land
scape, and sets before us, in brief, rapid, vivid outline,
the geological anatomy of the country. The breadth of

his handling is superb, revealing the artist and the
master. And when he deals with intricate and com

plex matters, when he gets among the coal-measures

and the salt-works, his lucidity is as remarkable as his

breadth. The light never is so dazzling as to obscure

the object on which it falls ; and yet we feel that the

light itself is pleasant to the eyes, and that its touch

lends beauty to that which it illumines.

' Sir, you have an eye,' Pope's friends in need, when

VOL. II.  21

322 MAN OF SCIENCE.

they wanted to get something out of him, used to
observe. Thanks, by the way, to them, for so doing,
since they would not, even for purposes of adulation,
have ventured on the remark, if there had not been con
spicuous splendour in the orb. ' Sir, you have an eye,'
was what English critics said when Miller's chapters, de
tailing his impressions, were published in the columns
of the Witness. A Birmingham editor, ignorant as to

Miller, and fancying, for what reason I know not, that he

was a ' dominie,' quoted passages descriptive of Birming
ham and its district, and said that the writer must be a

very remarkable man, since he had seen a great deal

which had escaped the observation of the natives, but
which, on its being pointed out to them, they also could
see. Mr William Drummond, then sub-editor of the
Witness and an esteemed friend of Miller's, showed him

the article in the Birmingham paper, and he had a
hearty laugh at it. Truth to speak, he had an eye
that was worth its place in a man's head; searching,
inevitable, keen, swift, sure ; which gathered informa

tion at every moment and in all places, to be hoarded

up in the cells of a memory which seems never to have
lost an atom of the store.

      His judgment on those two grand English institu
tions, the Church of England and Dissent, is shrewd.
He discerns the incommensurable strength of the one,
and the ineradicable vitality of the other, representing
as each does a separate phase of the individualism of
English character. While pronouncing the Englishman
distinctly superior to the Scot as an asserter of civil
independence, he recognizes that, for all religious ends
and aims, the Scot is gregarious, the Englishman in
dividual. The Anglican Church does not, for all its
Bishops and Convocations, hide from him the fact that

CHURCH AND DISSENT IN ENGLAND. 323

it is essentially a huge, amorphous, loosely-rolling mass
of congregational units, the rector king in his own

castle, the parish a little realm in itself only vaguely
related to other similar realms. Religious Dissent in

England he believed to have sunk wholly into politi

cal Dissidence. Alliance between religion and politics

always excited his jealousy, and the time when he

visited England was perhaps unfavourable for under

standing the character and estimating the prospects
of English Nonconformity. The Puritan watchwords

had fossilized ; but they had hardly yet visibly begun

to be formed into a concrete for the foundation of

Free Churches.

    It is impossible not to see that Miller's heart warmed

to England every day he continued within her borders.

He was surprised with the frankness, the ready hospitality

a
                                                                 by

                                                                                 a is,
                                                                                              in
and generosity of the people. The fact clearly  broad

as was his accent and plain his garb, that he had

England as elsewhere an irresistible charm for every one

who came near him. The old lady who, after chat in

railway carriage, astonished him  an invitation to

visit her, had perceived in that little time that he was
gentle and good. Readers of the First Impressions

will recollect the Temperance Coffee-House of Dudley,

with its eight-year-old orator, who savagely denounced
every one that tasted wine or strong drink. No preface,

therefore, required to the following, with which have
in
                is

                   It

                     I

                                               a

                                I
                                                       :I

                                                                                                                                 '

                                                                       It
been favoured by an intelligent correspondent

was about 1849 that arrived one afternoon in Dudley,

and took up my abode in the Temperance Coffee-

House there.  was very unpretending hostelry,

but clean and comfortable.  The thing that soon

arrested me was that though had never before been

this town, yet the tile-paved kitchen, the elde

    324 MAN OF SCIENCE.

    hostess, her daughter, the little boy drawing at table,

    in fact, the whole establishment and its dramatic

    persona seemed known to me. What kind of new
    optical or mental illusion was this ? At last the idea

    dawned upon me that my memory was reproducing one
    of Hugh Miller's graphic descriptions in his First Im

    pressions of England and its People. The story of the
    spinet-player, the account of the boy before me who

    spoke at Temperance Meetings, and other living touches

    came fast upon me. On my asking the head of the
    house whether a Scotchman had once lived there, she

    eagerly took up the theme, and in one almost incessant
    flow ran on thus : " Oh, he was such a nice man. But

    then he had odd tastes. Eliza there used to take

    him to quarries and out-of-the-way places all round
    the town, and there he chopped and chopped away with
    a hammer till he filled a bag with stones. 1 never knew
    such a man. What could he ever do with all these

    bits of stone? But he was so kind to us all. Then

    after he had gone away who should come to our door

    one day but the schoolmaster, with a book in his hand.
    ' Here's a fine description of you all,' said he. ' The

    Scotchman has been writing about you.' So there, to be

    sure, was such a nice account about my son playing

    upon the spinet, and Eliza, and Tommy, and me.

    Who'd 'a thought that he would write about us ? Do

    "I Iyou know

    Scotland ?
             "him,  sir, and  can you tell me         what he does  in
                       can't  say," replied,                        an
                                                      " that he is

    acquaintance of mine, but, like many people in the
    INorth,
             know a good deal about him.                        He has

    raised himself from being a workman to be a writer of

    remarkable books, and he is Editor at present of the

    Witness, the  "orLgaa,n   of a  body called  the  Fsore?e"  Church of
    Scotland."               now,   sir, do you  say               was the

/"

THE DUDLEY COFFEE-HOUSE.                 325

overpowering reply.    " Well, do  y"ou  know, my eldest son
plays the organ at    Penkridge ?        More followed that

need not be repeated, about the patronage which fol

lowed the son thither, but my efforts to conceal the

tendency to laughter produced by the two organs may

easily be imagined.'

                  326

                  CHAPTER II.

          SCIENCE AND RELIGION.

O' Cj UCH is the state of progression in geological science
        that the geologist who stands still but for a very

little must be content to find himself left behind.' The

words are Hugh Miller's, --they occur in his preface to

the first edition of the Old Red Sandstone. Their ap

plication is of course peculiarly forcible to the geologist

whose activity has been arrested by death. No man

can do more than his own piece of work in science, and

the question on which our estimate of the merit of a

scientific worker must depend is not whether he pene

trated to the limits of any one province in nature, or

uttered the final and absolute truth as to any one of

nature's laws and processes, but whether he did the

work he professed to do faithfully, honestly, and, to the

point to which he carried thoroughly.by
                            by

                                  it,
As science continues to advance, the several positions

taken up  Hugh Miller, in prosecuting the sublime

enterprise of proving the existence, and illustrating the

character, of God from His works, may or may not

prove tenable. Without question some of them would

now be abandoned  the most eminent geologists.

On taking the chair as President of the Royal Phy

         THEORY OF SUCCESSIVE CREATIONS.  327

sical Society of Edinburgh, in 1852, he enunciated
the following proposition : ' There is no truth more

thoroughly ascertained than that the great Tertiary,

Secondary, and Palaeozoic divisions represent, in the

history of the globe, periods as definitely distinct and

separate from each other as the modern from the

ancient history of Europe, or the events which took

place previous to the Christian era from those that

date in the subsequent centimes which we reckon

from it. All over the globe, too, in the great Palaeozoic

division, the Carboniferous system is found to overlie
the system of the Old Red Sandstone, and that, in

turn, the widely developed Silurian system.' Having

spoken thus without evoking one dissentient symp

tom in his audience, he could expect an affirmative

Ianswer to the question which he proceeded to put : '
Iwould ask such of the gentlemen whom now address

as have studied the subject most thoroughly, whether, --

at those grand lines of division between the Palaeozoic

and Secondary, and again between the Secondary and

Tertiary periods, at which the entire type of organic

being alters, so that all on the one side of the gap be

longs to one fashion, and all on the other to another and

wholly different fashion, --whether they have not been

as thoroughly impressed with the conviction that there

existed a Creative Agent, to whom the sudden change

was owing, as if they themselves had witnessed the
                         '
miracle  of Creation  ?     Professor Huxley now declares

without contradiction that it is ' admitted by all the

best authorities that neither similarity of mineral com

position, nor of physical character, nor even direct con

tinuity of stratum, are absolute proofs of the synchron

ism of even approximated sedimentary strata : while,

for distant deposits, there seems to be no kind of

328 MAN OF SCIENCE.

physical evidence attainable of a nature competent to de

cide whether such deposits were formed simultaneously,

or whether they possess any given difference of antiquity.'

In the same historical tone, as of one referring to what
is no longer open to dispute, Mr Huxley continues :--
' For anything that geology or palaeontology are able to

show to the contrary, a Devonian fauna and flora in the

British Islands may have been contemporaneous with

Silurian life in North America, and with a Carboniferous

fauna and flora in Africa. Geographical provinces and

zones may have been as distinctly marked in the Palaeo

zoic epoch as at present, and those seemingly sudden ap
pearances of new genera and species, which we ascribe
to new creation, may be simple results of migration.'

      The tendency of scientific research throughout every
province of nature has been to obliterate lines of demarc
ation, and to show, stretching beyond us into the in

finitude both of time and space, immeasurable curves

and undulations of unity. The definite proof afforded

by spectrum analysis of the sameness of matter through

out the solar and stellar expanses marked a stage
of sublime advancement in our conception of the har

mony of things; and correspondences, indubitable though

mysterious, between terrestrial magnetism, the spots

of the sun, and those systems of aerolites which have

recently attracted so much of the attention of philo

sophers, suggest that the unities of nature are as in
Itimate and as wonderful as her diversities.
                                              venture

to throw out the suggestion that a key lately put into
our hands by Professor Tyndall may possibly unlock for
us the secret that there is unity of life, as well as unity

of matter, throughout space. Germs of life, Professor

Tyndall has taught us, are of what may be called in
finitesimal smallness ; and what proof have we that, if

           DEVELOPMENT THEORIES.              329

aerolites can traverse space, life germs cannot traverse

space likewise ?

The unity of life throughout even the solar system

may be no more than a speculative guess, but something

not far short of authoritative unanimity in the scientific

world supports Professor Huxley in maintaining the

unity of succession in the vital organisms of our planet,

against the theory of an indefinite number of creations,

each preceded by a cataclysm destructive of all the life

upon earth. There is no paradox, however, in the

assertion that, at the time Miller wrote, and with the

facts Miller possessed, the genuine service which it was

his part to render to science implied and required that

he should  controvert the popular theories    eovf iddeenvceel,o--p
ment. To   refuse to believe on insufficient
to point out in what respect the evidence is insufficient, --

this is the most effective preparation that can be made

for the discovery of truth upon any subject. If philoso

phers had been content, twenty-five years ago, to accept

as conclusively established the theories of Lamarck,
Demaillet, and the ' Vestiges,' those researches by which

more light has been thrown upon the history of living

things in our planet than had been cast in ten pre

ceding centuries, might never have been undertaken.

The highest service that can be rendered to science is

the discovery of new truth ; the next highest is the ex

posure of false pretensions to the discovery of new truth.
In pointing out the unsoundness of the development

theories in vogue in his day, Miller was in the same line

of battle with his ablest scientific contemporaries. How

he would have comported himself if he had lived to see
the publication of Mr Darwin's work on the Origin

of Species, to witness its reception throughout the

world of science, to follow the lines of research and

       330 MAN OF SCIENCE.

       speculation to which it pointed the way, we need not in

     quire. This, however, I will venture to say : first, that he

       would have distinctly declared, as, indeed, he did with

      reference to the old theory of development, that Mr Dar

       win's doctrine has no necessary affinity with atheism ;
       secondly, that "he would have subjected the facts and
      reasonings of Mr Darwin and his followers to a scrutiny
       more searching than they have yet received ; and thirdly,

      that, if he had found them incontrovertible, he would,

       without a moment's hesitation, have proclaimed his as
       sent to them. His reverence for God's truth was infi

       nitely deeper than his regard for his own conceptions of
       it. That truth he would accept, howsoever and when
       soever it was revealed, conscious that the wilful misread
       ing of nature is a sin against Him whose ordinance
       nature is. Strange imagination, that the Ineffable One

      is less honoured by reverent caution and hesitation, --

       by child-like fingering among the letters of His name

      and child-like diffidence in spelling it out, --than by

       vociferous dogmatism on the subject ! Hugh Miller
        dared not force his conscience to lie to God by brib
      ing his intellect to lie for God. His writings on
       those high questions which belong to the border-land

        between science and theology have a perennial value,
        not because of the finality of their matter, but be

       cause of the rightness of their manner. With true
        reverence and sterling integrity, he discoursed of the
       relations between physical and moral law in this uni
        verse, and the reciprocal bearings of God's revelation of
       Himself in matter and by matter -- His Works; and

      His revelation of Himself in mind and by mind -- His

        Word.

           It is to be noted that Miller, while contending against

' the inadequate and erroneous theories of development

NO DOGMATIC THEORIST.  331

which presented themselves to his notice, did not pro
pound a cut-and-dry rival theory, or profess to have
formed a scheme of his own upon which to map out and
explain every mystery of organized being. With no fixed
principle except that the Earth is the Lord's and the ful
ness thereof, that the laws of life and of death, of matter

and of mind, are His laws, and that, on the whole, the

procession of existence, moving at times through breadths
of gloom and masses of shadow, tends onwards and up
wards, he recognized all facts, admitted all difficulties,

and preferred to state them honestly and contemplate
them deliberately rather than bind them together with
logical formulas. The fact of the degradation of

races, for example, --of the startling delight which

nature appears occasionally to take in eccentric and

asymmetrical types, --of the production of what, to

human apprehension and sensibility, look mere master
pieces of the horrible and repulsive, ' worm-like creatures,
without eyes, without moveable jaws, without vertebral
joints, without scales, always enveloped in slime,' like

the ' glutinous hag ' of the Moray Frith, --had evi

dently awakened the deepest feelings of wonder in
Hugh Miller. ' An ingenious theorist,' he said, ' not
much disposed to distinguish between the minor and
the master laws of organized being,' could get up
' quite as unexceptionable a theory of degradation as
of development.' But the relation of the ' minor laws,'

to which presumably we owe the glutinous hag, and the
' master laws,' to which we owe the gazelle and the night

ingale, the rose and the wheat-plant, he did not at

tempt to define, contenting himself with the denial
that either are mere processes of physical nature, and
with the assertion that both are parts of His govern
ment who is wonderful in working, and whose ways

332 MAN OF SCIENCE.

are past finding out. Familiar as Miller was with

the tremendous reasonings of Hume's Dialogues on

Natural Religion, he was not one to take refuge in

the amiable platitudes of the Rosa Matilda school, or
to wrap himself from the lightnings in garlands of
flowers. He would not have shrunk from admitting, in

all that width of extension and precision of application

which Mr Darwin and his school have shown to belong

to the law of pain throughout the world of life.
    it,
            by
Survival of the stronger, with extermination of the

weaker          famine and anguish, he would, think, have
                                                                    '
allowed to be the law of physical nature. He would,
                                                                     aI
at the same time, have maintained that                                 gradual pro

gress towards perfection,' though, as Mr Huxley points

out, forms no necessary part of the Darwinian creed,
is
      it
revealed in nature. He would have dwelt with Goethe

on the fact that death itself but subtle contrivance
                is
by                               is
                                             a
    which more life obtained. Above all, he would

have insisted, as neither Hume, Goethe, nor Darwin

have insisted, upon sin as an explanation of misery,

and upon the promise of redemption and immortality

through Christ, as sending stream of celestial radiance
    It

                 a
                                                 a
far up into the hollow of the terrestrial night.
         was heart-rending experience for Miller that the

erect, fearless, friendly attitude which he felt ought to

be that of religion towards scientific truth gave offence

to religious people. He would have been so glad, in

his visit to England,  he could have convicted the
\f

                                 if

                                                                in
Anglo-Catholics, and them alone, of distrust and alarm

with regard to science, and could have left them to

nu*setheir childish Mediaevalism                                    all departments,

                -*icdier sons of the Reformers welcomed

                                                    Divine. His Evangelical

                                                                    rous type which,

            THE OLD EVANGELICAL PARTY.                          333

having complete faith in truth, had no fear that there

might turn out to be heresy in science. He belonged
to the great old Evangelical school, and was perhaps its

last representative to whom the title great can be

accorded. Whatever that school may have become, it

is a fact of history that no religious school of recent

times has been so great a power among men. It can

lay claim to Cowper ; and Cowper is acknowledged to
have been one of the quickeners of English poetry from

formal correctness and frosty elegance into the freshness

and luxuriance of its recent period. It was before its

fervid inspirations that the thin, plausible, infinitely

clever and witty scepticism of the eighteenth centurya by it,
gave way. To directly or indirectly, that missionarya
movement of recent times, which seems destined to exert

a  mighty influence on the history of the world, owed its

origin.  It It  made itself felt in politics in the form of an

intense, indefatigable, sympathetic humanity, and passed,
in the same spirit, into all modern philanthropic enter

prise.   showed its vitality and strength in Scotland           is
                                                                               by
bringing about what David Hume would certainly have

pronounced an impossibility                  in  the nature of things, the

relinquishment,            large body of clergy, of the privi

leges and pay of State-Church. Its express contribu

tions, of high class, to English literature, have not
         a

been numerous. The works of Hugh Miller are, on

the whole, its most important literary performances.

But its indirect influences on English literature have

been remarkable. To                          without question,
of                                                              due that
                                        it,
lofty and earnest spirit which has rendered much of the

doubt of the present century more religious than much

    the faith of the last. All Macaulay's critics have

taken note of those touches of old Hebrew grandeur

which sublime his noblest passages, nor has the observa

334 MAN OF SCIENCE.

tion failed that they came from that Hebrew Bible
which he read in the house of his Evangelical father.
In Mr Ruskin's earliest, which many consider also his
greatest books, -- for their morning softness and depth of
glistening blue may be thought to have more enduring
loveliness than the perpetual sword-gleam of his later

writings, --passage after passage, inferior in eloquence

to none in the English language, suggest the idea of an
Evangelical Bossuet or Jeremy Taylor. And has it been
enough considered that it was from the cottage of a
Scottish Old Light Seceder that Thomas Carlyle went
forth to write those books which, for good or for evil,
have changed the current of English and American,
possibly also of European, literature ?

     Hugh Miller saw with grief inexpressible that the
Evangelical party in England, with its Record news
paper and its Dean Cockburns, was taking the fatally
wrong turn in the matter of science and religion.
In Scotland, during his lifetime, there was not much
cause for alarm. While Fleming, as Professor of Geo
logy in the Free Church College, sent out clergymen

to teach and preach that death and pain existed myr
iads of ages before Adam, that the starry heavens
and the earth are of an antiquity to be measured by
millions of years, that the Noachian deluge was local,
and while the leading religionists of Scotland recog
nized with gratitude and approval the importance of
Miller's own services in the cause of religious truth,
he had no occasion to fear. But the Evangelicals of

England never showed the courage and faithfulness in
this matter of the Evangelicals of Scotland, and the
lamentable exhibitions we have recently had have
painfully demonstrated that Hugh Miller's expostula
tions, printed in his Impressions of England and its

THE INDEPENDENCE OF SCIENCE. ' 335

People, have been of none effect. It is too probable
that if he had lived twenty years longer, he would have

found himself looked on askance by some Evangelical

magnates of his own country. He had never hesitated to

abandon an old position when he found it to be unten

able, and he had not been long in his grave when there

were unmistakeable signs that part of clerical Scotland

was disposed to fall back upon at least one of the lines of

defence which he had given up, to wit, the hypothesis of

a cataclysm or chaos, embracing the whole world,

immediately antecedent to the human period, and

separating the entire succession of geological formations

from the six days' work of Genesis. Instead of this

view he adopted that which assigns an immensely pro
tracted duration to the successive Mosaic days. In his

latest work, the Testimony of the Rocks, he expounded
the Age theory of Mosaic geology with admirable

breadth and lucidity ; and it is generally admitted that

this is the sole hypothesis which can now be maintained

with any show of plausibility by those who hold Chris

tian theologians bound to furnish a scheme of reconcili

ation between geology and Genesis.

     Hugh Miller maintained the entire independence of
science. ' No scientific question,' he says, ' was ever

yet settled dogmatically, or ever will. If the question

be one in the science of numbers, it must be settled

arithmetically ; if in the science of geometry, it must be

...settled mathematically ; if in the science of chemistry,
it must be settled experimentally.  As men have

yielded to astronomy the right of decision in all astro

nomical questions, so must they resign to geology the
settlement of all geological ones.' Again : ' The geolo

gist, as certainly as the theologian, has a province exclu

sively his own ; and were the theologian ever to remem

          336 MAN OF SCIENCE.

           ber that the Scriptures could not possibly have been
           given to us as revelations of scientific truth, seeing that
           a single scientific truth they never yet revealed, and the
           geologist that it must be in vain to seek in science those
           truths which lead to salvation, seeing that in science
           these truths were never yet found, there would be little
          danger even of difference among them, and none of
          collision.' This is from the Testimony of the Rocks.

         So also is the following, which proves that if he had

           once leaned too strongly towards catastrophism, the
           balance was coming right : ' What more natural to
            expect, or rational to hold, than that the Unchange
           able One should have wrought in all time after one
            general type and pattern, or than that we may seek, in
           the hope of finding, meet correspondences and striking
          analogies between His revealed workings during the
          human period, and His previous workings of old during
            the geologic periods ? '

                An erroneous idea, however, would be conveyed of
          the general scope and pleasantness of Hugh Miller's
         writings if they were regarded as constantly, or mainly,
           controversial. The exquisite accuracy, combined with
           imaginative beauty, of their descriptions of natural

            scenes and objects ; the scientific fitness and poetic
           felicity of the illustrations they present of the Divine
           mind acting in matter ; the ethical force of their ex
           hibition of the mutual adaptation of man and his world,
           the lofty conception they present of man as the tiller of
           the Earth-garden, the fellow-worker with God in sub

           duing and beautifying the planet and in raising to the
           height of spiritual and physical perfection the human
          family ; these, and many other excellences which will
          occur to all acquainted with those books, will render

' them precious and fascinating when the particular con-

          THE GEOLOGY OF SCOTLAND.                                             337

troversies on which they touch have assumed new aspects

or have given place to others.

     Having been a lover of nature all his life, Miller

deliberately chose, at the time when his powers were

reaching their maturity, to enroll himself among the
votaries of science. For about thirty years the ac

tivity in which his mind chiefly delighted was that of
scientific research and reflection. Other labour might

be strenuous, but it was hard ; here he obeyed his ruling

impulse, and to obey was to enjoy. Science never

failed him. Year after year, as his frame became un

strung, and his nerves shaken by toil at the editorial

desk, he returned to the mountains, and in long pe

destrian expeditions sought that health which was sure

to come with the pure air, and the bracing exercise, and

the glow of faculties at their congenial work.

What he could have done as a man of science can

never be fully known. Almost all the scientific works he

has left are more or less marred by the controversial

ends he kept in view, or by imperfect unity arising

from publication in form of lectures. The Cruise of

the Betsy, in which he gives an account of his geological

investigations among the Hebrides, has been preferred

by some critics to his most elaborate controversial works.

Had he lived to realize the ambition of his life, to write

a comprehensive book on the geology of Scotland, the

world would have been able to take by sight, what must

now, to some considerable extent, be taken by faith, the

is
                in

                                          ? If,
                                                                           in
measure of his greatness.      after an eight weeks'

ramble, he made so much of the geology of England as

made      the First Impressions, what might we not

have expected from the observation and study of thirty
years in his beloved Scotland Records, no doubt, exist,

and have been published, of the geological tours                               which

vol. li.                   22

338 MAN OF SCIENCE.

he prepared himself for his high undertaking, but these
are no more than disjecta membra, valuable and interest
ing apart, yet offering no hint by which imagination
itself can picture the living whole into which they would
have been moulded by the hand of Miller. No man
ever knew the geology of Scotland as he knew it.
Others may have grappled as vigorously with a particular
problem suggested by it here and there, but who ever
studied it so long and so lovingly as a whole? And
not only would the book have been a masterpiece of
geological literature ; it would have been unique as a
manual of Scottish landscape, doing in prose for Scottish

scenery what Scott has done for it in poetry ; and it

would assuredly have displayed, in soft idealizing gleams
across the rugged features of its general framework, that
proud and tender affection for Scotland, that reverent
acquaintance with all that is noblest in Scottish history
and character, which fitted Miller so admirably to have

become the historian of his country. As I think of

what a work the Geology of Scotland by Hugh Miller

might have been, I cannot but recall those words, more

fanciful, perhaps, than Thackeray commonly permitted
to his masculine genius, in which he referred to an
unfinished picture, containing a few figures dimly
sketched, by his friend Leslie. ' The darkling forest,' he
said, ' would have grown around them, with the stars
glittering from the midsummer sky : the flowers at the
queen's feet, and the boughs and foliage about her.
They were dwelling in the artist's mind, no doubt, and
would have been developed by that patient, faithful,
admirable genius : but the busy brain stopped working,
the skilful hand fell lifeless, the loving, honest heart

ceased to beat. What was she to have been--that fair
Titania -- when perfected by the patient skill of the

  -

               --

WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN.               339

poet? Is there record kept anywhere of fancies con
ceived, beautiful, unborn ? Some day will they assume

form in some yet undeveloped light? They say our

words, once out of our lips, go travelling in omne cevum,
Ifreverberating for ever and ever.
                                    our words, why not
our thoughts ? If the Has Been, why not the Might

Have Been ? Some day our spirits may be permitted

to walk in galleries of fancies more wondrous and beau

tiful than any achieved works which at present we see,

and our minds to behold and delight in masterpieces

which poets' and artists' minds have fathered and con

ceived only.' One has difficulty in realizing that it was

the giant hand of Thackeray which traced these tender

pencillings of fancy. It is no fancy, however, that, in

the future to which Christians look forward, neither will

the energies of the soul be paralyzed, nor the definite

lines of personality be effaced. So long as Hugh Mil

ler's personality retains its mould, he will think with

love of Scotland, and be wafted in memory to her pine-

clad hills and craggy shores ; and if the converse of

friends beyond the bourne has any analogy to that of

friends on earth, he may vary the note of celestial felicity

by dwelling on the wonders and beauties of that great

work which he was not permitted to achieve on earth.

                                                          340

                       CHAPTER III.

                           THE LAST EDINBURGH PERIOD.

THE life of Hugh Miller, so varied and eventful in its
       early period, formed no exception, in the ten years
preceding its close, to that placid uniformity which pro
verbially characterizes the lives of literary men, and
which precludes detailed description.

      During those years he conducted the Witness with
steady and ever-broadening success, speaking his weighty
word on every important question as it arose, and widely
accepted as a guide of opinion. His views on the sub
ject of education were in advance of those of the body of
his contemporaries, especially his ecclesiastical contem
poraries. He maintained them with his usual courage
and frankness, careless of the bitter obloquy to which
they exposed him in some quarters. The state of public
opinion at this moment proves that the conclusions at
which he arrived have become in substance those of the
nation. He advocated the exclusion of denominational-
ism from the machinery of popular education, and the
method by which he proposed to effect this object was
that of intrnsting the power in connection with educa

tion to the body of the people. It is scarce necessary

to remark that the very idea of excluding the Bible

                     HIS SOCIAL POSITION.                   341

from the National Schools would have been abhorrent to

him ; but no limit can be set to the decision with which

he would have forbidden the inculcation of distinctive

denominational tenets by National schoolmasters.

Socially his position was fully established. The

words of Miss .Dunbar, that the day was coming when
his country's greatest would court his acquaintance, had
been literally fulfilled, and there was no circle in Edin

burgh or in London which would not have felt itself

honoured by his presence. In the communications

addressed to him by men of rank or reputation, it was

assumed as a matter of course that his place was among

the intellectual aristocracy of his time, and that he was

one of those whose acquaintance conferred distinction.

Again and again did the Duke of Argyll solicit the
honour of a visit from Miller, resting his hope of a

favourable reply, not on his own aristocratic birth, but

on community of scientific interests and pursuits. The

difficulty was to overcome that feeling on the part of
Miller which we found himself describing as diffidence,

but which ;          perhaps, insufficiently characterizeda

              a is,                                        by
the term             feeling which partook little of self-dis

trust, and still less of haughty coldness, but consisted

principally in shy and sensitive reserve, conscious
           a

ness that his mental instruments could work perfectly

only in their own placid atmosphere. He was totally

devoid of ambition to shine in mixed and fashionable

society. On the whole               should say that the word
'
                      '
                                 a

                           I
shyness most correctly describes the quality in Hugh

Miller which led him inexorably though courteously

to decline invitations like that of the Duke of Argyll.

He was not man to have many intimate friends,

and few indeed of those whom he knew subsequently to

coming to Edinburgh did he take to his heart with that

342 MAN OF SCIENCE.

impassioned ardour of affection which marked his Cro
marty friendships. One of the few, however, respecting
his regard for whom such language would hardly be

out of place, was Mr Maitland Macgill Crichton, of

Rankeillour. The rugged, simple-hearted country gen
tleman, intrepid in thought and word, sincere beyond
the tolerance of guile, impatient of generalship and
suspicious of expediency, made his way at once to Hugh
Miller's heart. There was that difference and that agree
ment between them which are said to go to the making

of the happiest friendships, --Crichton all impulse and

impetuosity, Miller all calmness and reflection, both
intensely devoted to the cause of Scotland and her
Church, both averse to the sly prudences of party
leadership, both too strong to be capable of cunning.

They perfectly understood and perfectly trusted each
other. When Miller determined to leave the town of

Edinburgh and locate himself in the suburbs, his friend
accompanied him in long roamings for weeks together,
the main purpose of house-hunting being doubtless
combined with minute exploration of the environs of a
city which Miller dearly loved. The word used by him

in estimating Mr Macgill Crichton's services to the

Free Church was 'gigantic.' Crichton, for his part,
threw all the vehemence of his nature into his love for

his friend, and insisted, almost with petulance, on his
right to have at least an annual visit from Miller. The
stated time for the trip to Rankeillour was at Christmas.
Sir David Brewster was generally of the party. In this
circle Hugh felt himself as much at home as at Cro
marty. The completeness and tenderness of Crichton's
trust in Miller were evinced by his naming him in his

will, --the sole addition to his own brothers, -- as tutor

and curator to his three youngest children.

CHALMERS.  343

     For seven years of his last residence in Edin
burgh, Chalmers was still in life. The relation be

tween the men was not so much personal friendship

as what I may call comprehensive, unwavering alliance

on all points of sentiment and opinion. Chalmers had
the large and masculine sagacity, -- a thing of the heart
as well as the brain,-- to accept Miller for what he was,
a strong-featured, strong-charactered, original man, whose
services to a cause he loved were sure to be of incalcul

able importance, but who was not to be expected to pull
in party harness, or to tame down his natural port and
action to the step of party drill. Such a man, Chalmers

felt, ought not to be fretted by little criticisms. A

word, now and then, of frank sympathy, was what he
deserved, and such a word Chalmers was always ready
to speak. ' You are getting on bravely with your
education battle,' it might be, or ' Many, many thanks
for your noble article on the West Port ; ' flashes of
radiance, slight but precious, which would kindle a
gleam of proud encouragement in the eye of Miller.
Chalmers frequently looked in upon the family circle in
Archibald Place, and Mrs Miller recollects the ' apostolic
fervour,' softened no doubt with fatherly kindness, with
which he ' put his hand on Harriet's golden head and

blessed her.' A generation has arisen which knew

not Chalmers in the body, and already, when the
defects of his theological erudition, and the lack of

searching and exhaustive power in much of his thinking,

are considered, there begin to be whispered inquiries as
to wherein his greatness consisted. Even in his books,
with their glowing earnestness and massive force, there

is enough, I think, to rank him with the sons of the

mighty ; but it was evidently in himself, in the influence
of his personal weight and worth, in the majestic noble-

342

impassioned a                          lie price of heaven
marty friends
his regard                             wiiefe constrained
out of place,                                      to pay kiffl
Rankeillour.
                                                s boob and

                                           read Lockliart's

tleman, intrej                                                          y his con-
the tolerance
                                            ml intensity,
suspicious of ex]                                                  - ' -
Miller's heart,
                                                                       and joyful
ment between thin
                                                                           it might
of the happiest frie
impetuosity, Miller                am. mM. vienfend bis en-
intensely devoted                                   oi USkt, whose
Church, both averse
                                                                  his own.
leadership, both too I
They perfectly under-                                  die reader a just

other. When Miller                      IInk *m happy to be

Edinburgh and locate li                                 of a lady who

                                taewt 'what d the
                                                                       who even

accompanied him in lorn

the main purpose of li

combined with minute ex

city which Miller dearly lo
in estimating Mr Macgill
Free Church was ' gigantii
threw all the vehemence of li

his friend, and insisted, almi

right to have at least an annus
stated time for the trip to Rank'
Sir David Brewster was generali
circle Hugh felt himself as mm

marty. The completeness and te         1
trust in Miller were evinced by li
will, -- the sole addition to his owi

and curator to his three youngest cli

RECOLLECTIONS BY A LADY.  345

spoken without having something to say would never
luive occurred to him. He had not the light, easy, in

accurate manner of speech one usually meets with,-- every

word was deliberate, and might have been printed.
There was a total want of self-assertion about him, but

  I the same time a dignified simplicity in the way he
nlaced his mind alongside that of the person with

   bom he conversed. There is no doubt he was some-

    tat shy and proud and jealous of his independence,
       some found him inaccessible from this cause ; but

      ippcned somehow to overleap these barriers the first
       I met him, and they were never interposed during
               ler intercourse.

               ii his family came to town, it was with no

           pleasure that I recognized in Mrs Miller a

                   who had been a classfellow of mine. This
                        ntly to her house, and gave me the oppor-
                      ing her husband, and my admiration of

                     him increased every time I met him.

                           no greater or more exciting pleasure

                           with Hugh Miller, lie did not

                                rsed, and raised those with whom
                                 time to his own level. One felt

                                  own trilling remarks made the

                                            his stores of observation and
                                      xl fortune one broughl to his
                                      unknown fact or qu^iMon from

                                                                      ,1)1'

                                                                                    col

                                           hie li-

                                             thi

,

344 MAN OF SCIENCE.

ness of one for whom virtue was ' not the price of heaven
but heaven itself,' that lay the spell which constrained
men like Thomas Carlyle and Hugh Miller to pay him
kingly honours. We may read Chalmers's books and
think him overrated ; but we cannot read Lockhart's
description of him, or observe how profoundly his con
temporaries felt the contagion of his moral intensity,
without recognizing him for a man of great genius.
One of his characteristics was an exquisite and joyful
appreciation of excellence, howevei different it might

be from his own ; and I can well understand his en

thusiastic delight in the compositions of Miller, whose
sense of literary form was much finer than his own.

     In endeavouring to place before the reader a just

Ipicture of Miller's Edinburgh life, am happy to be

able to avail myself of the memoranda of a lady who
knew him intimately during the whole of the period,
and whose delineation will be perceived by all who even
partially shared that privilege to be delicately true.

               PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS BY A LADY.

    I' first met Hugh Miller in the beginning of 1840,

when he came to Edinburgh to edit the Witness. He dined
at our house with some of the gentlemen who had been

Ithe means of setting up that paper. had the good fortune

to sit next to him at dinner, and so had a good deal of
conversation with him. We somehow got on the poets,
and found several of them to be intimate mutual friends.
The delight of that conversation is still fresh in my re
membrance. His appearance then was that of a supe
rior working-man in his Sunday dress. His head was
bent forward as he sat, but when he spoke he looked
one full in the face with his sagacious and thoughtful
eye. There was directness in all he said; to have

             RECOLLECTIONS BY A LADY.               345

spoken without having something to say would never
have occurred to him. He had not the light, easy, in

accurate manner of speech one usually meets with,-- every

word was deliberate, and might have been printed.
There was a total want of self-assertion about him, but

at the same time a dignified simplicity in the way he
placed his mind alongside that of the person with
whom he conversed. There is no doubt he was some

what shy and proud and jealous of his independence,
and some found him inaccessible from this cause ; but

I happened somehow to overleap these barriers the first
Iday met him, and they were never interposed during

our further intercourse.

' When his family came to town, it was with no
Icommon pleasure that
                                recognized in Mrs Miller a

young lady who had been a classfellow of mine. This

led me frequently to her house, and gave me the oppor
tunity of seeing her husband, and my admiration of

and interest in him increased every time I met him.

There could be no greater or more exciting pleasure
than to converse with Hugh Miller. He did not

harangue but conversed, and raised those with whom
he did so for the time to his own level. One felt

amazed to hear one's own trifling remarks made the

means of bringing out his stores of observation and

thought; and if by good fortune one brought to his

notice some   to  whhimoseyet"  unknown    fact or  "quohteatiloonvedfromso
the poets,   to                 terrible  sagacity

often to refer, it was indeed gratifying to see the look of

pleased attention with which he listened. It seemed as

if he could not but be thinking, and that everything

brought grist to his mill, set agoing some new train of

thought, or confirmed some old one. Then, of course,

there were all the exciting subjects of the time, --a time

346 MAN OF SCIENCE.

never to be forgotten by those who lived in
in                                                                                       and
                                                                                    it,
shared the principles and emotions of those engaged

     the struggle which ended in the formation of the

Free Church. If one happened to see him the day

before the publication of the Witness, then one was sure

to see in the next day's article some of the observations

that had fallen from him the day before. Some, not
all, for surely every one who knew Hugh Miller must
have felt, as do, that his mind was deeper, richer, more
far-sighted, than any of his written utterances showed
it

        '

             I
to be.

How one wishes one could recall some of those

pleasant meetings, but

        " The path we came by, thorn and flower,
          Is shadowed by the growing hour,
          Lest life should fail in looking back."

Among the gleams of the past, seen through that
shadowed vista, one of summer evening when, after

dining with the Millers at Sylvan Place, we walked to

Blackford Hill. In the valley behind the hill he and

the other gentlemen of the party tried who could throw
'

         I

               It by is

                           it

                                           a

                                It

                                    I

                                                                                     a

                                                             It
furthest some of the large stones lying about.                                           was

soon seen whose arm had had the advantage of being

strengthened     labour, so greatly did his throw exceed

the others.      think was at that time that, referring
                 from labour with the chisel in the open
to the change    at the desk, he said the last was far
air to labour

harder than the first, and that the change had come too
late to him. " was too late ere was caught," was

his expression.

        One evening the conversation turned on ghosts,

a propos of Mrs Crowe's " Night Side of Nature," which

had just been published.  was said that that lady

had sought out every one who could tell her ghost

         RECOLLECTIONS BY A LADY.                                 347

story. He said he was glad she had not found him

out, as he happened to have a store of such stories.

On being asked to tell us some, he complied most

readily, and told us several. I never heard such
                      I happened to have
stories   so told.                             m" aadse   the re
         and he "    held me with his eye                he told
quest,   an eye not   " glittering," but pale  and sad,--the
them,

Isaddest ever knew. He seemed to see the scenes he

described, and compelled one to see them too. It was

evident he had been nurtured in the belief of these

superstitions, and that in early life they must have had

complete sway over his mind, -- a sway that might be

resumed in hours of weakness. Then, however, he dis

claimed all belief in them ; and in the conversation

which preceded the stories, had made some forcible

remarks on the frequent combination in the same person

of scepticism and credulity, and on the difference be

tween a real faith in revealed truth, and the ready belief

in lying wonders, then beginning to be common.
     ' Whoever has read that chapter in Hugh Miller's

autobiography which relates his religious history will

be aware that the inner life and conflict of the true

follower of Christ would not in him come to the sur

face in conversation. But no one could have inter

course with him without plainly perceiving his deep
Ireligious reverence and faith.
                                 have heard the opinion

expressed, that doubts must have beset him to the end

of his life. The     very contrary was my  i"mpinresesaiornli.er  He
had laid these "     spectres of the mind
                                                                  life,

and they did not rise to haunt him again. He saw the
rising tide of scepticism, and foresaw that it was bring

ing misery to the world and trial to the Church, and to
raise some bulwarks against it was his earnest desire.
His attempts to harmonize Scripture and geology were

 348 MAN OF SCIENCE.

 more for others than himself. All intercourse with him

 gave the assurance of his thorough belief that the book
 of revelation and that of nature were from the same

 hand, and that this would be manifest one day, though
 now the last was but half-read, and the first, perhaps, mis
 read. His delight in tracing the proofs of the creation
 of man's mind in the likeness of his Maker's, as shown
 in the works of both, was evident to every one who had
 looked over his museum under his guidance, long before
 his lectures were published. When he referred to our
 Lord, it was usually as the Adorable Redeemer, an
epithet which may seem somewhat formal in the in
creasing preference for the Saxon element in our lan
guage, but which fitly expressed the deep reverence
with which he ever named Him. He delighted to
observe or hear anything which led to the inference that
those whose genius he admired had been led, sooner or
later, to listen to the voice of that Adorable Redeemer,
and learn of Him. An instance of this may be seen in

Ihis remarks on Shakspeare, when relating his visit to

Stratford-on-Avon in First Impressions of England,

remember discussing with him the various passages in
Shakspeare which allude to religious thought or feel
ing, especially that in Richard the Second, in which the
poor king in prison, speaking of the multitude of
thoughts fighting within him, says,

                                   " The better sort, --

                 As thoughts of things divine,^are intermix'd
                  With scruples, and do set the Word itself
                 Against the Word :

              As thus, -- Come, little ones ; and then again, --
              It is as hard to come, as for a camel

                 To thread the postern of a needle's eye."

I do not, however, remember Hugh Miller's remarks

with sufficient accuracy to set them down.

RECOLLECTIONS BY A LADY.  349

    'In the end of 1848 I happened, when calling on

Mrs Miller in Stuart Street, to hear that her husband

was giving some little lectures on geology to a few lady

friends, and I was most kindly invited to join the party.

We met on Saturday forenoons, and sat round a table

on which he had arranged some specimens to illustrate
what he was going to tell us about. These lectures
were the germs of those he afterwards delivered before
the Philosophical Institution, and which have been pub
lished under the title of the Sketch-book of Popular
Geology. Any one who reads that volume may see how
pleasant as well as instructive they were. But it cannot
convey the interest of being taught by such a teacher,
who thought no question too trivial to be answered, and
explained himself by all manner of illustrations, homely
or otherwise, but always comprehensible and distinct ;

while over everything his imagination threw an endless
charm, and his earnest faith a deeper interest. His

Imanner to women always thought particularly good, --

wholly wanting in flattery but full of gentle deference.
Our meetings frequently ended by our enjoying Mrs
Miller's hospitality and society at luncheon, when we

witnessed the same gentle manner in his own family,

and various little incidents which showed his strong

parental love. As spring came on our lectures took
place in the open air instead of in Mrs Miller's drawing-
room, and we had some charming walks to shores and
quarries in the neighbourhood of Portobello, and to
Salisbury Crags and Arthur Seat, where the Queen's
Drive had been lately opened, and afforded us many
illustrations of what we had learnt from him during the

winter. Never was geology more pleasantly studied.
     ' We spent a few weeks that autumn in the neigh

bourhood of Melrose, and having asked him to visit us

350 MAN OF SCIENCE.

Ion the banks of Tweed, had the following note from

him.

                            " Edinburgh, 2, Stuart Street, 21st August, 1849.

    " Your kind note reached me as I was engaged
on the last article for the Witness which I shall

write for at least several weeks. The completion of
my book * has at length set me at liberty ; on Thurs

Iday leave by the Wick Steamer for the extreme

north ; and on the Saturday, to which your kind invita

Ition refers, shall be sauntering, if the voyage be a

prosperous one, not along the soft wooded banks of the

Tweed, but along the bleak crags that overlord the

Pentland Firth. Your river has all the beauty on its

side, but the broad Pentland with its roaring eddies is

by far the more magnificent river of the two. My book
will not be fairly published until Saturday first ; but on

ISaturday last did myself the pleasure of forwarding
Icopies to all my lady -pupils, though am not sure that
your copy has got further than C -- Street. You will, I

suspect, find the pure geology of it rather dry ; but in

the concluding chapters, more especially in the last taken

in connection with the chapter on the degradation

principle, you will, I think, find some thoughts that will

interest you. A man who merely refutes an error, if it
be an ingenious one and suited to fill the imagination,

does only half his work. The void created ought to be

filled with something as novel and curious as that which
has been taken away ; and in the chapters to which I
refer I attempt embodying a theory compensating for
Ithe development one.
                       had a note yesterday from Mrs

Miller. She was well when it was written, and in

spirits, and just emerging from the bustle of a Free-

Church-Manse marriage."

* Footprints of the Creator.

RECOLLECTIONS BY A LADY.  351

      ' He seemed to feel an increase of kindness to us, his

"lady-pupils," after that pleasant season.
      ' My after-recollections of him at Stuart Street are

fragmentary; --of sitting with him and Mrs Miller at

the fireside late one dark winter afternoon discussing
murderesses, from Lady Macbeth down to Mrs Manning,
whose trial had just taken place, and reading the

observations I had heard from him in the next Witness.
Again, --looking over Johnston's Physical Atlas with

him, and, on my observing that Cromarty was coloured
with the Scandinavian tint, his assuring me with evident
satisfaction that most of his ancestors were of that

descent. Again, after his return from some visit to
the north, his speaking of Nature being an increasing
source of pleasure as we go on in life, unlike most other
things. At the same time he referred to an anecdote of
Thorwaldsen, who said to a friend, that his genius was
decaying, for now he felt satisfied with his works, while

formerly his idea had always gone far beyond what he

could execute. Hugh Miller said he had felt the same,
and felt, for the same reason, that he would never now

write anything better than he had done.
     ' In the summer of 1856 there was an archaeologi

cal collection exhibited in Edinburgh. In the beginning

of August I went there early the last day it was open,

and came upon Hugh Miller looking at the ethnograph
ical department. He told me he had been ill, and was

then on his way home after a week's recreation. I
expressed surprise at this, as I thought I had noticed his

hand in the Witness during the past month. He said

I was right, but that he had written these articles

during the time of the Assembly. After looking with

Ihim for a little at the stone and bronze weapons, went

further to look at some portraits of Mary Stuart, and at

352 MAN OF SCIENCE.

a print to which he directed my attention --the print

which was the subject of conversation when the boy

Walter Scott met Robert Burns. As I returned I found

Hugh Miller standing by Robert Bruce's sword, which

had been placed in an upright position in the centre of

Ithe gallery.  He measured   the             and    th"enth, etulirnneisngrefteorrmineg,
           'recited fromthe " Lord of        Isles
                                       if it,
to it. Lord Elgin had sent the sword, and we were speak

ing of his being of the same family as the King, when

Hugh Miller told the story of the old Scotch lady of the

name, who, on being asked                      she was of King Robert

Bruce's family, answered that the King was of her family.

    On one of the first days of December my sister and
went down to Portobello to call for Mrs Miller. We

met him at the gate of Shrubmount, and he came into

the drawing-room and remained while we were there.

We thought him looking well, and remarked to each

other afterwards that there was an increase of dignified

ease in his manner, as of man assured of his position.
                   a
                              a

                               by
   He showed us stag's horn, found                  the bank of
'                                                   a
                                                      in
                                                                                 a
burn that flows into the Solway, which friend had sent

him. The burn, swollen             the rains in October, had

carried away some of the soil from the bank, and the

horn was seen sticking out from it. Though was not
                                                        it
whole, from what remained                                    it  had
              a                                was evident that

                                       it
belonged to stag of at least sixteen tynes. This con

firmed an opinion he had for some time formed, that

before the British deer had been driven             by  man to the

higher and poorer districts of the country, they had
been larger race. Lord Kinnaird, to whom he had
   a

     it

                A
shown some days before, had mentioned another con

firmatory fact.    friend of his in England, who had

very much enlarged his deer-park, found that his deer

were developing larger horns than usual. We spoke of

RECOLLECTIONS BY A LADY.                                  353

Thackeray's Lectures on the Georges, which he had just
given in Edinburgh. Hugh Miller had not heard them.
Thought Thackeray too like Swift in his estimate of
human nature. Spoke of the admirable imitation of the

style of the writers of Queen Anne's time in Esmond.

A propos of Thackeray's comments on the " First Gentle

man of Europe," he referred to the complete change in

the use of the word "genteel," formerly used by the

well-bred to signify good-breeding--and now only vulgar

or ironical in its use.

' He showed us some newspapers sent to him from

America, with    an attack   "  oDnredhi"mw, hiinch  the  American
fashion, for an  Article on                          had   appeared

in the Witness. He had not written the article (which

was a laudatory one), and said he would not have so ex
I Ipressed himself.
                         said had been sure that article was

not written by him, but that I had been much struck

by one on the immoral doctrines brought forward by
ItAmerican divines on behalf of slavery.
                                                     was written

by him. He said it was most remarkable how these old

doctrines, striking at the root of all morals, were brought

up again in a new dress to serve a new cause. The

conversation then turned on the chances of the continu

ance of the White supremacy in the Southern States. He

thought the chances all in favour of the Whites from the

superiority of race. From all he could learn there was

no man of mark among the Blacks or Half-castes.

Frederick Douglas was their most remarkable man. He

had met him, and thought but little of him. He com

pared the supremacy of the Whites to that of the Eng
lish over the Irish in Cromwell's time and afterwards--

with this difference, that Cromwell's despotic supremacy
was exercised with a good conscience, however sternly,

while the immoral doctrines to which he had referred

354 MAN OF SCIENCE.

showed that this could not be altogether the case with

the    Southern    A"mveerircyaninsf.eriorHteo   thought the religious
parts   of " Dred
                                                " Uncle Tom," --rather

sentimental and sickly. He referred to the opinions of
Mrs Stowe's brother, Dr Beecher, on Sin and Eternal
Punishments. " He would make us out to be ticket-

of-leave men," he said with scorn.

' Ere the new year had come he had passed away

from amongst us in that paroxysm of bodily and mental

illness in which his strong will gave way, and he lost his

self-control.

    I' Edinburgh streets have seemed emptier since could

no longer hope to meet there his rugged stalwart form,

and see his pale abstracted eye brighten with the smile

of kindly recognition.
      ' There is a city which the streams of the River of

Life make glad. May we meet as fellow-citizens there !

                                                *M. W.*

At Cromarty and Linlithgow Miller, as we saw, was

an indefatigable and voluminous correspondent.           In

Edinburgh, penning two or three leading articles per

week and with a book generally on hand, he required

no further vent for his literary productiveness, and wrote

no such letters as those which it formerly had been his

delight to pour forth. He told his friends that they

must consider the Witness a bi-weekly letter from him,

and confined his epistolary performances to notes of

reply to invitations, brief answers to geological querists,
                               facashllieodn--hwe itchorraesvpeornydeldar--ge
and the like. In   this rapid
if correspondence   it can be

proportion of the most eminent scientific men of his time.

Professors Owen, Agassiz, Sedgwick, Sir Charles Lyell,

Sir David Brewster, Mr Mantell occur to me at

A FAITHFUL DOG.                               355

the moment as among those who compared notes with
him as a scientific peer and fellow-worker. But it

is evident that, howdistinguished soever these and others

may be, and apt and seasonable as were Miller's brief

scientific replies, these last were of an occasional na

ture, and, the rather that they touch almost invariably

Ion matters treated of in his printed works, are not
generally suited for publication. The course  have

adopted is to glean from the memorials of those years
such letters and jottings by Miller as illustrate his

manner of life and bring into view the several occur

rences by which it was diversified, adding, as formerly,

such notes or letters from his correspondents as tend to

elucidate the narrative or otherwise interest the reader.

We shall begin with a batch of letters addressed to

Mrs Miller during a tour undertaken by him in the

North of Scotland-- Sutherland, Cromarty, Inverness,
the Caledonian Canal --in the summer of 1843.

1 Port Gower, Sutherlandshire, 8th July, 1843.

' The boat anchored off Aberdeen for about an hour,
Iand went ashore. As I had to restrict myself to
sauntering about the harbour, I saw only tide-waiters,
Isailors, and boatmen.
                        picked up, however, a little

story for Harriet, which you may read to her as from
papa. Just as we had gone out from the pier on our

return, a small white dog came down, whining and paw

ing to be taken on board, but the boatmen rowed on.

The mole runs a long way out, and as we were scudding

alongside of it below, the dog was keeping pace with us

above, and stopping every moment to make the most

pitiful appeals to our compassion. The poor animal

had, it would seem, lost his master, and expected to find

him in the steamboat. At length the mole terminated,

356 MAN OF SCIENCE.

and on its outer sides there was a heavy sea breaking,
but the little dog, after looking doubtfully on the broken

water for a moment, dashed in and swam hard after us.

The poor animal won on the regards of even the surly

boatmen, and after he had made way for about fifty

yards against a strong flowing tide, they rested on their
oars and took him in. He lay cowering in a corner of

the boat, showing that it was evidently not among us

but in the steam vessel he hoped to find his master ;

the moment we reached the vessel's side he climbed up

the ladder, explored every corner from stem to stern

above and below, and not finding him whom he sought,

took leave of us by leaping overboard. As there was a
Istrong shore-going tide in his favour he would, doubt
Inot, safely have made the land.
                                  dare say after reading

my story to Harriet you must translate it for her into
what Swift used to call the " little language." The per

severance and solicitude of the creature served to show

me how dogs who have lost their masters many hun

dred miles from home have contrived to trace them out,

making good their passage across wide seas by working
on the feelings of seamen. The appeals of a devoted-
ness like that of the poor little doggie the rudest natures

cannot withstand.

    I' On landing in Wick made my way to the inn, and

after waiting to take a draught of lemonade, the only

thing my strained stomach could bear at the time, I

opened my bag to get out my hammer and chisels, that

I might spend two hours ere the coming in of the south

mail in geologizing. My walk, pleasant in the main,

though the morning was rather close, ran along the
Wick, a small stream which flows through a flat valley

remarkable chiefly for being rich and green with grass
and corn, and yet totally bare of bushes and trees. In

TRACES OF THE DISRUPTION.          357

the fence of a field formed of upright flags I saw numer

ous scales, occipital-plates, and gill-covers of some of the
better known fish of the Old Red, but nothing worth

bringing away.

    I' On the journey south saw from the top of the

coach several melancholy marks of the Disruption, --

preaching tents on green hill-sides with a few rude

forms around them, and not far distant parish churches

locked up. There is no preaching in the vacated

churches in Caithness ; Moderatism is sitting down

helplessly and attempting nothing. The poor people of

Scotland have been grievously injured, but the extent of

the injury is not yet felt. The coach passed great

numbers going to a Free Church sacrament. As the

hour was comparatively early, it was chiefly elderly men

and women we saw, who, to use their own phrase, were
" stepping on before," the more vigorous walkers not yet
Ihaving taken the road.
                         passed on through Helmsdale
Ito Port Gower, where now am in a very pleasant little

inn. The scenery in the immediate neighbourhood is

not so fine as at Helmsdale, which is a very striking

place in the opening of a deep, grand glen ; but the

situation is more central for geological inquiry, and

Helmsdale lies within reach of an ordinary excursion.

I have been out for a few hours among the rocks, but

they do not seem at all rich in the neighbourhood of the

inn. The cliffs on the shore are of a rude and very

hard breccia, which, save for some two or three belem-
nites that I have detected in
                     by            would not know to be

                             iIt,
oolitic at all. You can have no idea how thick the

population lies on this narrow border of coast. The
bases of the hills are so studded over with miserable

cottages surrounded  miserable patches of corn land,

not larger than ordinary-sized gardens, that for miles

358 MAN OF SCIENCE.

together the appearance is that of one vast straggling

village. Depend on               it,    the Poor Laws be introduced

into Scotland, the extra profits derived to the Duke ofin if

Sutherland from his sheep farms will go but small way
                                                         '
in supporting his paupers. He will find his northern
                                                             aa
i--njufosrtictehattakwinoguldto   itself the form, not of          amere crime,
                                                                very terrible
                                 be nothing,--but of               I

blunder.'

                                                         Sunday, 9th July.

is     have just returned from Helmsdale, where have

   I'been hearing sermon                  the open air with the poor
             a

Highlanders. The sun was very hot, and the portion of

                                          I

                                                               by
my forehead that used to be best sheltered                         my hat

all blotched with red, and will, dare say, be blistered

to-morrow. The congregation was numerous, from six

to eight hundred at least, and all seemed serious and

attentive. It must have been the mere power of asso

ciation, but thought their Gaelic singing, so plaintive
           I
at all times, even more melancholy than usual.
              It                 !                                    rose

                     a                     a
                                                              a

                                                             It
from the green hill-side like wail of suffering and

complaint. Poor people                    There stretched inland in

the background long, deep strath, with river winding

through it.           had once been inhabited for twenty

miles from the sea, but the inhabitants were all removed

to make way for sheep, and                now desert, with no
                                          it

                                               is
                                                             a

other marks of men save the green square patches still

bearing the mark of the plough that lie along the

water-side, and the ruined cottages, some of them not
unscathed by fire, with which these are studded. But
though thus desolate within, the sides of the two hills,

in which terminates at the sea, are so thickly mottled
           it
                                 it

                                                       if
by little dwellings that would seem as the people

who had been forced out through its entire length had

stuck at its mouth. The inmates of these poor dwellings

           THE SUTHERLAND CLEARINGS.                                                                       359

are all adherents of the Free Church. They surrounded

the tent by hundreds, wonderfully clean and decent

considering their extreme poverty, but with a look of

suffering and subdued sadness about them that har

monized but too well with the melancholy tones of their

psalms. There  I                        said, very intense feeling
                     "                       Ia
                          is,say,       ruined and made beggars
                             it         they have taken the gospel
                                    is
among     them.         We were
before,"   they         " and now

from us."        hear that when the Duke last passed

through the place the men stood sulkily looking at him,

or slunk away into their houses, but that some of the

women began to baa like sheep.                                    can get no informa

                 ;

                              is

                                      a
                                        is,
tion at the inns the Duke                    of course, omnipotent in

the county, and there                      general fear of trusting                                                         a

stranger with what might be unfitted to reach his ears,

and might reach them notwithstanding.'

'                                                                                                          Monday evening.
              aa

                                                             !
                                                                                                        '
What very peculiar taste in the ornamental High

land landladies display                 My landlady at Brora last

year was         stately, lady-looking personage, who, as

Dandy Dinmont would say, behaved herself very dis

tinctly. And yet, barbarous to relate, she had,                                                            byway

                                                                                                                     a
of ornament on the chimney-piece of her best room,

child's toy-house, rough with glue, and daubed over
with paint. In my present inn, neat little place, with

   good side-board and mahogany chairs in the sitting-
a
                       a

                                     a
                                                               a
parlour, and with       very genteel bed-room, there are

square bits of common 2\d. per yard room-paper, framed
round with listing of black velvet, that hang on the
                                                                                                                               /-

walls, and supply the place of pictures. My bed-room

has got two of these superb ornaments. One of them

presents five nondescript brown flowers, with brown

leaves on field of buff. The other boasts of but one
          a

360 MAN OF SCIENCE.

flower ; but as it is in green and red it has got its
superior beauty protected by a cover of glass. Is there
nothing akin in Highland gentility to the stately gen
tility of the savage ? The dignified Indian chief, when
determined on being very fine, smears his forehead with
vermilion, and sticks himself round with glass beads.'

                                                                       ' Monday evening.

   I' have been spending the day, from nine o'clock

till five, among the cliffs to the north of Helmsdale.

Rare sport. Fossil wood and corals may be gathered

on the shore by tons, and there are abundance of

bivalves, serpulae, impressions of ammonites, spines of
Iechini, and some fine belemnites.
                                    found a piece of

fossil wood, a cross-section of a tree showing the pith

and the annual rings, which measures rather more than

twenty inches across. It was so weighty that I had to

employ three boys to carry it to Helmsdale, where it

lies to be shipped for Leith by the first vessel. By

being at an expense of a few shillings witha may be

rendered one of the most splendid specimens of the kindit,
                                                    it
anywhere in existence.                                  it
   it                      sawn through the centre, and
                                                                      a
              If
then polished, will show the growths of at least fifty

summers, and the alternating checks of as many winters.

The polishing cannot cost me more than six or eight

shillings, and will form an ornament for your mantel
   it
piece splendid to your heart's content. Some of the
        Ia
corals are of great size.aIsaw one nearly three feet in

diameter, and which, to all appearance, would not have
attained to so great bulk in less than century. At

least, the brain-stone coral of the tropics, which very

nearly resembles, takes full hundred years to attain

size equally great.     could, of course, bring only frag

ments away with me, but even the smallest are pretty,

_

HELMSDALE FOSSILS.  361

and when polished will be exceedingly so. The pattern
is that of a piece of honeycomb, with a many-rayed star
in the centre of each hexagon. Lyell figures it in his

ISection on the Oolite, and remember being struck

with the beauty of the figure. Both the corals and the
fossil wood take the form here of a very rich limestone,
and the people gather them on the shores, and burn
them in kilns for lime, without dreaming that in some
remote age of the world the one has manifested animal,

and the other vegetable, life. On passing along the

Ibeach went up to a kiln beside which several tons of

limestone had been lately accumulated. Fully two-
thirds of the whole was fossil wood, and the half of the

remaining third corals. The people have learned to dig
the trees out of a shaly conglomerate just as in the
centre of the county they once used to dig trees out of
the mosses, but though they saw the coaly bark, the
pith, and the annual rings, it never once came into their

Iheads to suppose it was trees they were digging.

pointed out to one of the owners of the lime-kiln the
true nature of the stones he was employing, and he
seemed much surprised. " That," he said, " was never
known here before." Much depends on the locality of

a marvel. All the world has heard of the fossil- trees of

Craig-Leith. Here fossil trees not less in bulk, and
quite as finely petrified, are so abundant that the High
landers dig them out for lime, and yet no one has heard
anything of them.

    ' I had a Highland boy of thirteen carrying my bag

all day. He soon became as good a practical geologist

as myself, and as expert in finding corals and belemnites.
Boys are much less stupid than men. The Highland
boy learned to know at the first telling that detached
fragments of belemnites were of no value, and that the

                                                            >

362 MAN OF SCIENCE.

pieces were only worth keeping when all together made
up an entire belemnite. I have taught old
                                                                      the
Isame lesson know not how often, yet he persisted in

bringing me the detached fragments notwithstanding.
Lamb's joke had some truth in it after all. Boys in the

main are superior to frivolous members of parliament.

" What church," I asked my boy, " does your father go

to?" "Oh, the church that's put out," he replied;
" none go to the other churches here but the Duke's

people." On coming home I made him happy with a

shilling and a drink of ale.'

                                                                 ' Brora, Tuesday evening.

    ' Here I am after a walk of about ten miles along

the coast. The day was warm, and my path or rather
no-path lay for the greater part of the distance over
loose sand, but exercise and a reinvigorated stomach are

Ialready beginning to tell in my favour ; and so here

am, after an additional spell among the rocks between

dinner and tea-time, a fresh active fellow at your service.
The Brora, a dark mossy stream, runs at the back of

the inn here, between precipitous banks ; it abounds in

fine small trout that were leaping so thick and looking

Iso happy this evening that became quite sentimental

in looking at them, and formed the romantic notion of

I Ieating a few of them with pepper and vinegar just that
   might be happy too. Accordingly at tea got the

'                                      but you won't

          it

                is a
                    a

                                                        is in it,
                                                                  it
idea realized into an act, and found

believe me, good workable idea, notwithstanding its

mixture of romance.

Brora  loose straggling village, with too many

people in for all they have to do, and there are num

bers of miserable-looking cottages between                            and the

hills, whose inmates are too palpably  the same con
dition. One of its peculiar features
                                       the river. In

THE BRORA.  363

passing through the village it has cut for itself a deep
trench, thirty feet deep at least, in a white sandstone
which, though extremely soft, stands the weather, and

thus preserves on both sides a perpendicular frontage.
The appearance in consequence for some distance is
rather that of a canal at the masonry of the locks, than

of a river,--a curious exemplification of how geological

phenomena affect scenery. Where the walls are steep
est, and the water blackest, there is a bridge thrown
over which the public road passes.'

                                                                      ' Wednesday morning.

      ' After taking tea last night, and then filling the

Iopposite page, walked out along the southern bank of

the Brora for about half a mile. The path led through
a sort of rectilinear ravine, evidently artificial ; on reach
ing an extensive hollow the rectilinear ravine became a

rectlinear mound, and I found it terminate at an old pit
Imouth. Those saw last year lie on the opposite side

of the stream. Though about two hundred feet in

depth, it is now filled up with water to within thirty
feet of the opening. The appearance of the hollow in
which it has been opened struck me as remarkable.

IAll around, between me and the sea, saw a sloping

rampart, terminating atop in a long even height, and, in
the bottom, in a level plain laid out in fields and with a
wooded island rising from out of it with the same slope

as the surrounding rampart. I saw at once that it

could not be the result of any glacial action, as the
body of the rampart is not of debris, but, as shown by
the artificial ravine, of white sandstone. On climbing a

height to survey its general appearance, I marked that

the trench-like appearance of the bed of the river, to

which I referred last evening, commenced exactly at the
hollow, --it is a breach in the rampart, -- such a breach

364 MAN OF SCIENCE.

as you may have seen in the side of a mill-pond over-

flooded and broken up by a thunder-shower.  The
mystery lay unveiled ; --the hollow had been at one

period a deep and extensive lake, which the river, by

wearing down the soft white stone of the lower barrier,
Ihad gradually tapped off.
                            could see no one able to

inform me regarding the nature of the soil in the hol

low, or whether freshwater shells or moss were found in

the subsoil. By the character of the shells the age of
the lake might be ascertained, but ancient it must be,

as the bed of the river is now a considerable distance

beneath its level.
      ' There is a pause in the rain, and the sky is clear

Iing, so shall e'en wrap my plaid about me, and set
out for the quarries, and the seat of the glacier. I had

intended visiting Loch Brora, but it is six miles away,

Iand, having no change of dress, am unwilling to put

myself in the way of being too thoroughly drenched.'

                                                                               ' Wednesday evening.

    I' have been at Loch Brora, and at the quarries,
and the seat of the glacier, and I have traced the river

for miles, and filled both my large pockets with fossils,
and all this without catching a single drop of rain. Am

I not a lucky fellow? Loch Brora is a long narrow

sheet of water, that lies up among the hills in the gorge
of a deep rocky valley. The mountains on both sides
rise to a great height, wild and naked above, but with
their bases lined very sweetly with dwarf birch. One
immense hill in the distance, of bold outline and pre
cipitous sides, is the acknowledged monarch of the

scene, --the loch stretches out in front of him for about

four miles, its undulating and winding shores tufted
with birch, and here and there mottled with small green

LOCH BRORA.                                     365

spots that, ere the poor Highlander had been driven
Ifrom home, kept him in oats and bere.
Ilittle bay some of the prettiest water-liliessaw in one

                                                have ever

seen. They looked like so many bathing Venuses sub

mersed to the neck. Some of the green deserted spots

on the shore, with the purple hills rising behind, the

blue loch in front, and the dwarf birch all around, were
Ireally very sweet.
                     doubt not that the thoughts of

them live, set in sorrow, in hearts beyond the Atlantic.

As you look down the loch, the whole opening of the

glen seems a tempestuous sea of miniature hills, from

thirty to forty feet in height ;--the Highlanders call

detached hillocks of this kind Tomhans, and believe

them to be the haunts of fairies. Geologists have learned

from Agassiz to term them moraines. They form the
accumulations of stones and gravel which were ploughed
up before the glacier. Amid a good deal of irregularity
they have an evident bearing in their arrangement to
the mountains around, from which the ice descended.

IIn some places could trace them in chains of half a

mile in length quite parallel to the mountains ; and

about half a mile above Brora three of these chains lie

parallel to one another, like the strings in a triple neck

lace of beads. There lie between them miniature val

leys cultivated by the ejected Highlanders ; and there
are many miserable-looking hovels on their sides.
Imagine a table covered with crumbs, and that you set
yourself to rake them into lines with the edge of your
hand, keeping a sort of rude parallelism to that end of the
table at which you sat, and from which you raked them.
Your little lines of accumulation would be moraines of

crumbs. But there are more than moraines here to

testify of the glacier. Suppose your hand to be moist,
and that it left on the cleared table in the direction in

366 MAN OF SCIENCE.

which you pushed the crumbs before you, a number of
minute streaks corresponding with the minute ridges of

the skin. Such are the marks on what may be termed

the cleared table here. Wherever the rock is laid bare

we see it all furrowed and channeled with grooves and

scratches, in the bearing of the moraines on the hills.

These workings give a very high idea of the antiquity

of the oolite, comparatively modern as the oolite is in

the chronology of the geologist. When the ponderous

ice slid over  it,   was in exactly the same fossil state

                 it

that  it      now. The rock, white sandstone, abounds
          is         a
                               is

                                           ;
in fossils, that are but hollow casts and wherever one

of these casts occurs, the stone              weaker than where

there none. Now, we find that the glacier discoveredis

this weakness, and in many places broke out the hollow

casts that are nearest the surface, leaving within the

fragments that pressed down into them.
               a it
I'    did not take the beaten path to Loch Brora, butit

struck upon        through the moor, and passed on my

way through large peat mass, roughened at present by

the winter fuel of the people of Brora. There are                                                                                                 a

few scattered moraines that rise over its dingy level, and

which must have been there long ere the morass itself

had any existence. And yet in this morass large fir-

trees are found, the remains of one of our ancient forests.

  saw in one pit several huge blocks laid bare -- they
I

               ;

                                    I

                                                                                        a

                                                                                                                                               ;
seemed originally to have been trees of that short-

stemmed, bee-hive-looking class have seen in some

places in the central Highlands. They never assume
that form save when standing far apart in compara

tively open country. Here are degrees of antiquity for

you the moraines are as of yesterday when compared

with the oolite, and the ancient forests as of yesterday

when compared with the moraines.

THE BRORA OOLITE.                                                                367

' I know you are heartily tired, but I must say some

thing about the quarries. Imagine a border of com

paratively flat country stretching between the hills and

the sea, and out of the middle of this border, where at

the broadest, imagine a wood-covered hill rising, quite a

dwarf-looking thing when compared with the mountains

behind, but a genuine hill notwithstanding. It stands

quite independent, a hill set up for itself, and descends

nearly as steeply towards the mountains as towards the

sea. Now, this independent hill is a hill of the oolite, --
English, if I may say so, to its very heart ;--nay, more, it

belongs to a more modern deposit of the oolite than any
other in the country. The flat base on which it rests

belongs to that inferior middle and lower part of the

Oolite known as the Oxford Clay and the Great Oolite,
whereas this hill belongs to that superior middle part of

the system known as the Coral Rag. It is an isolated

specimen of the deposit which, though somewhat too

bulky for most private collections, seeing it measures a
full mile in length by rather more than half a mile in

breadth, is excellently fitted for furnishing specimens
which, were it not there, could not be had nearer than

England. Now, it is in this insulated hill that the

quarries are opened. The stone is of a beautiful white,

and was at one time much run upon. There are houses

in Edinburgh built of it. It was found, however, to
have one great defect, -- though pretty and durable, it is

so exceedingly porous that a house built of it formed

but a kind of sponge that took in every drop that fell on

it during a shower and retained
it

                        It it

                                         is it,

                                   It

                                                                              a
                                   dispensing damp for

weeks thereafter. And so, greatly to the detriment of

Brora, for which at one time promised to make kind

of trade, has fallen into disuse.  abounds in fossils,

curiously preserved as casts.      really wonderful how

3G8 MAN OF SCIENCE.

sand, however fine, could have taken the impressions so

finely. I picked up to-day a cast of a piece of decayed

wood on which not only the yearly rings but even the

longitudinal fibres were visible. It has preserved even

microscopic peculiarities. And as only the white sand

stone remains, the fossils have all the appearance of being

pieces of beautiful sculpture.  One might almost
               thtehedehbirlils--ofthtahtesehequhaardriesbe--forfoer
imagine among                                                         there  are
two opened in                                                         him    the

rubbish of one of our old cathedrals after the rascal

multitude had reformed all the carved work with their

pickaxes and hammers, --only the workmanship is much

finer than was ever yet fashioned for Scottish cathedral.

I found two masons at work in one of the quarries, and

showed them that by some unaccountable means or other

I had learned to hew. Good-night, dearest, -- it is eleven

o'clock.'

                                                                   ' Thursday. Golspie.

      ' Another stage in advance. Taking an early break

fast at Brora I set out along the shore about half-past

seven, and arrived here about ten. There is not a great

deal to be seen by the way, but the walk was pleasant,

Iand when entered on the bounds of the Dunrobin

Policies, very much so. Imagine a selvage of lawn with
the beach on one side, and a continuous line of bank on

the other, --the bank planted and presenting the appear

ance of a tall screen of wood. Behind this screen there

is a bold undulating outline of hills, with the tall hill

crested by the late Duke of Sutherland's monument,
conspicuous in the midst. In the centre of the land
scape rises Dunrobin, a square, white, many-windowed
pile with a round tower at each corner, and a square
detached tower, turreted and battlemented, projecting

from one of the sides. The woods close thick around                          it,

                    GOLSPIE.                369

--so thickly that a road that leads to it from the shore

seems dark as a vaulted passage. There is much of

antique simplicity if not of ducal magnificence in its

whole appearance, and it says something for the taste of

the family that they have not employed their vast

wealth upon it in making it tawdry and fine. A

genuine old castle, that had earls and barons in it five

hundred years ago, is one of the things which money

cannot produce.
      ' The Andersons mention in their Guide Book that

there is a fine waterfall in the neighbourhood of Golspie.

I have just been seeing it ; but the weather of late has

been dry, and so, though the woods and rocks do their
part pretty well, the stream has almost struck work, and

sputters over the face of the precipice much in the sort

Iof sublime style have seen the contents of a washing-

tub assume when emptied over a window. But the dell

in which it falls is not unworthy of being seen ;-- it is
an Eathie on a larger scale, and richer in wood. It has

been hollowed in the Old Red Sandstone ; there are

precipices of diluvium a full hundred feet in height in

the lower part of
          a
                      it,

                                  a

                                         I
                                                      I
                    and the cataract has been formed,

as such cataracts always are, where the stream suddenly

passes from harder to softer rock.  am too old,

think, for getting into ecstasies with scenes of but

ordinary fineness. The Golspie water-fall would do

quite well for young ladies and romantic gentlemen, but

the mature man needs something strong to move him.

wish      had an opportunity of trying the effect of
I
Niagara.
          '

         I
                     I

                                  I

                                                                                                               a

                                                            I
On leaving the waterfall struck up along very

steep path to the Duke of Sutherland's monument. The

day was warm, and the labour considerable.  As

approached the top  saw within some sixty or eighty
       vol. II.
                               24

370 MAN OF SCIENCE.

yards of the building a small cottage, and beside it the

debris of a quarry, out of which the stones for the

erection had been taken. The hill itself is one of those

Old Red Sandstone eminences which in this part of the
Icountry attain to so great a height.
                                       at once inferred

that the cottage was the deserted barracks in which the

workmen engaged in erecting the monument had lived.
                                                                  --
What  was  my  surprise,  however,  to find it  inhabited
                                                                  ;

one might as well expect to find a human family located

Iin a crow's nest on a tree-top. It is elevated know

not how many feet over the level of the sea, far above

the line of cultivation, and with only heath and moss
              I tapped at the door,
around it.                           and sought a    glass of
              matron, a sunburned,    staid-looking  woman
water, --the

of about thirty-five, brought me a drink very civilly.

Her husband, she said, had charge of the planting

below, and of the monument, but though they had

been in the place for only a year, they were both think

ing long to get away. Last winter the snow lay so

thick around them, that for five weeks they could not

descend the hill, and weeks sometimes passed even in

summer without their seeing any one. It was so very

cold a place, too, at all seasons when there blew any
Iwind !
           saw in front of the cottage a minute patch of

garden ground, in which, as if by way of experiment, a

few potatoes had been planted, and that the more

vigorous among them had contrived to throw up three

whole leaves above the soil. According to Cowper,

                      " So farewell envy of the peasant's nest."

   ' The monument of the Duke, as becomes a man who

had four hundred thousand pounds a year, is of colossal

proportions. There is a huge statue of White, and a

huge pedestal of Red, Sandstone. The large dead eyes

look over Sutherland and the sea, and if they do not see

\

       LANDSCAPE OUTLINES.             371

as profoundly into the real interests of the country as

the eyes of the living Duke, they see wonderfully little

considering that they are six inches across. The view

from the base of the monument is very extensive. Sup

pose one half of the whole occupied by an immense acute

angle of sea, --the Moray frith. Imagine, further, a long

sharp tongue of land striking out into the middle of this

angle from the apex, and with a tall tower-like building

at its point. This tongue is the peninsula of Easter

Ross, and the tower-like erection the lighthouse of Tarbet

Ness. At the base of this tongue there is a spindle-
shaped lake, --the bay of Cromarty.
                                       The hills of

Sutherland and Ross make a splendid frame to the land

scape on the north and west, and on the south and east

stretch the light blue hills of Moray, Banff, and Inver
       IRemember am not vain enough to attempt
ness.
Idrawing a picture ; -- am merely scratching as with a

burnt stick a few careless outlines.'

                 ' Saturday morning, Cromarty.

      ' One of our neighbours here, old Mrs Forbes, has

just been furnishing me with a new evidence that I am

getting old myself. My father was but fifty at the time

of his death, and I am now turned of forty. " Oh," she

said, after shaking hands with me, "you are growing
Iyour father's very image."
                             have reached the same

period of life to which he had attained when she knew

him best, and years are bringing out resemblances to

him in my face and figure, which seem to have lain
Ilatent before.
                 had a walk yesterday to the rocks

with my hammer, and succeeded in picking up several

tolerable specimens.'                    ' Saturday evening.

    I' have been holding a Ute-h-Ute   to-night with your

372 MAN OF SCIENCE.

Ipicture in Mrs Fraser's, and calling up old times.

have been just re-reading, too, your letter to Mrs Gray,

the letter which Sir David Brewster could not believe

Iwritten by a woman ; and felt both letter and picture

do my heart good. Think what you may of the matter,

dearest, you have no such admirer as your own husband.

You would laugh at me as fond and foolish did you

know how often I have been thinking of you during the
Ipast week, and how much pleasure have had in writing
Ithis scrawl, just because, however trivial my topic, felt
that I was conversing on it with you. You were beside
Ime, as now, and felt the lover as strong in my heart
Ias did seven years ago. Do you not remember how

many hours we used to sit together, and yet how very

short they always seemed? Shall we not, dearest, renew

these times at our meeting, ere I plunge once more into

the stern turmoil of controversy, and be a man of war ?

We shall have one or two quiet walks together ere we

cross the country to Edinburgh.

    I' The first person I met as landed was poor forlorn

Angus, now grown a great fellow. He had been watch

ing the steamer by which Andrew came, but on finding
Ithat did not accompany him he waxed indignant and
Ihigh, and refused to shake hands with him.
                                                        got a

double shake. He then seized on my carpet-bag with a

it home in                                  He is not
                                            " Miller's
that have
Ishout, and bore                triumph.                quite"
                               not brought
pleased, however,                                       boy
with me. Angus is not a Moderate, --he has gone out,

regularly attending sermons in the factory close. His

head finely illustrates the phrenological doctrine that

size is power. He wears my old broad bonnet, and

finds it not a hair's breadth  too large.'

    I' have been hearing               ' Sunday evening, 7 o'clock.

                               Mr Stewart in the factory

                ANGUS.                                  373

close. The congregation was larger than used to assem

ble in the parish church, and apparently more attentive.

It was striking enough to see the familiar faces in such

a place, ranged, not in the accustomed pews which some

of them have    occupied in   my recollection for       full thirty
years, but all  mixed up                                  and rich
                             in one group, --poor

together. The day was gusty and fitful ; the surround

ing walls of deep red, with their many windows, now glared

upon us in sunshine, now lay deep in shadow, --there

was the occasional rattle of a window in the upper

stories as the gust shook the boards, and the measured

roar of the sea mingled from the beginning till the close

of the service with the tones of the psalmody and the

voice of the speaker. Poor Angus was greatly engaged

in carrying forms and chairs, and in looking, uncouthly

enough, after the comforts of a few favourites, mostly

old women.      Aunt Jenny     tells    me  "  that he   prays every
night in his                 style                      and Miller's
              own peculiar            for      Miller

boy."'

                                                        1 9 o'clock.

' I have been seeing the old chapel of St Regulus

and poor Liza's grave. The little mound is as well

marked as it was four years ago, and it is now wrapped

over with a mound of rich unbroken turf. The little

head-stone bearing your and my name has whitened
somewhat under the influence of the weather, and leans

slightly to one side, but there is no other change. The

sun was hastening to his setting, red and broad, and

throwing a strong bright gleam on the upper foliage
of the surrounding wood, and on the top of the ruin,
while the tombs and graves lay in deep shadow. Poor
Liza ! The little events of her span-long life rose all

Ibefore me, from the time that I first felt that was a
Ifather, till flung myself down in uncontrollable an

374 MAN OF SCIENCE.

guish   on  my    bed,  a father no longer.    The   spring          in
which   we  lost   her  was peculiarly a dark  time                  it
                                                     ; --but

is over; and Liza still lives, though not with us.'

                                       ' Monday, 3 o'clock.

      I' And     have heard from you.  I am glad you

should have fixed on so interesting a locality, but not

at all glad that you should be so little able to avail

yourself of its various points of interest. But you will,

I trust, get stronger, and that by the time I join you

you will be able to accompany me in my walks. You

must take especial care and not over-exert yourself, nor

walk much in the sun. I am pretty sure that by put

ting yourself in what boxers and pedestrians call a
course of training,--extending
                                    --yonuervweraleksxhabuisttinbgy  bit as
you felt your strength increase,                                     your
self,--never urging exertion past the point at which

fatigue is merely an agreeable languor, you could be

brought into condition, and made strong enough to

travel ten miles per day. My mother, never a strong

woman, has travelled at your age thirty miles on a

stretch. Only think of all you could do, could you
Ibut travel thirty miles !
                                shall, however, be well con

tent'       at our meeting, find you able to accomplish
                        I
       if,
                                 a
five. Five would bring us to Loch Lomond together,

and take within our range few of the striking points

of Loch Long.

      And so Harriet and Bill enjoyed their voyage,

and Harriet has become  is          shell and fossil collector.
                           a
Tell her papa trusts she to have great many pretty
                                    a
things to show him when he comes to Arrochar, and
                                          aI
that sheis       to be so good  a   girl as not to cry when
             is
nurse       bathing her. Tell her, also, that send her               a

kiss for mamma, and that send mamma kiss for her,
                        I

HIS HOME.  375

and that the best way of managing the matter will be
for her to receive first the kiss from you, for which you
are my proxy, and then to give you in turn the kiss for
which she is my proxy.

     ' Write me, dearest, as long letters as you can with

Iout tasking yourself, and in turn will devote to you

every leisure hour, my walks, my visitings, and my
dinings out will leave at my disposal. To say that my
chief pleasure, in a ramble devoted to pleasure exclu
sively, arises from my conversations with you, is not
saying too much. My heart is continually turning to
you and the two little persons at Arrochar. My home

is not a locality, -- it is not a dwelling ; it is you and

the little ones.'
                                          ' Cromarty, 18th July, 1843, Tuesday.

     ' Mr Sage was preached out on Sunday last, and by

dint of superhuman exertion among all the lairds a
congregation of thirty were brought together to see that
he was. Cromarty, Rosemarkie, Avoch, all sent their
guests to swell the amount ; and of the thirty, two whole
individuals, a man and his wife, were stated hearers in

the parish church. There could be found no one to
ring the bell and no one to be precentor, though twenty

shillings were offered as remuneration, and a man and
gig had to be sent rattling to Cromarty an hour ere the
service began, to procure both out of McKenzie's con
gregation. The story goes that, with the first tug the
bellman gave, a swarm of angry bees, disturbed by the
swing of the rope, came down about his ears with
wrathful fizz, and that to avoid their stings he had to
 quit his hold and show them a clean pair of heels.
 The Moderates are in a perilous state, when every
untoward incident that occurs is regarded as an omen,

and interpreted to their disadvantage. Their spirit in

376 MAN OF SCIENCE.

this part of the country is bitterness itself. Servants
dismissed, labourers tin-own out of employment, angry

interviews between landlord and tenant, --we hear of little

else in this corner. The poor in Cromarty who go to
         for assistance from the parish are invariably asked

as a first question, " Do you belong to the Free Church?" '

                                                                                  ' Tuesday afternoon.

    I' have been spending a few hours very pleasantly.
IBefore leaving Edinburgh mentioned to you my inten

tion of digging into the floor of the large Pigeons' Cave

to see whether shells or bones might not be found in
II
              a
                  I
                                                 a
                                                             a
                                                                a

                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                            it,
as in some of the caves of England and the continent.

procured, through Andrew, small boat and crew

of young lads, Andrew's contemporaries and companions,

and providing ourselves with tools and candles, we set off.

We went careering along the rocks at two oars' length

from the shore. saw the little rock where you first said

yes to certain interesting question, --the said important

yes bearing reference to log-house in the back-woods.

saw, besides, the two beech-trees where we were so

foolish, you know, as to spend  great many hours to

gether, and so exclusive that the company of any third

person we could not have endured. We landed at the

cave, drew up our little boat, and then commenced dig
ging about twenty feet within the opening. We found

for two feet and half pure guano, -- the same umbery
a
          in
sort of mass you saw  the museumisthe Highland
                                          of

                                                          a
Society, but without the overpowering stench, differ

ence which may possibly arise from the circumstance

that the guano of South America an accumulation of

the dung of predacious birds, whereas the guano here
was an accumulation of the dung of pigeons. We took

home some of with us, and James Ross to try itsis
it

THE PIGEONS CAVE.  377

effect on a drill of turnips. Beneath the guano we
found a loose gravel, which became less loose as we
went down, and then passed into a sort of breccia bound
together by a brown oxide of iron. We found neither
shells nor bones. We then opened another pit about

fifty feet further in,--the guano was wanting, but the

gravel bore the same appearance as in the other open
ing. There are masses of gravel that project, strongly
enough, from the sides of the cave at the height of four
and five feet from the floor. Some of them stick out

like fragments of cornices for fully two feet, bound
together by stalactites. They show that the bottom of

the cave must have at one time stood that high, that the
stalagmitical matter running from the sides bound into
coherent masses the stones and gravel in contact with

them, and that the sea then swept the loose matter away,
leaving the projections to be crusted over still further by

the stony cement. We broke into several of the bulkier
of them and found them composed of water-rolled peb

bles and very distinct fragments of shells. I procured

a specimen in which there are five well-marked bits of
shell rounded on the edges as we find such fragments
on surf-beaten and rocky shores. How strange a re
cord ! We have evidence all around the coast in our

raised beaches that the sea once stood higher on the
land than it does now ; but we see here that there must

have been an alternation of elevations and depressions.
When these shells were rolled in on the floor of the

cave, --a floor standing five feet above its present level,

the sea must have stood high. During the time when
they were consolidating through the agency of the

stalagmitical matter, the sea must have fallen, otherwise

the consolidation could not have taken place. It must

then have again returned and washed out the loose

378 MAN OF SCIENCE.

gravel which the matter had not reached. And then it

again fell. There is another cave among the rocks of

Cromarty that indicates similar changes.

    ' I saw on the walls and roof of the cave appear

ances that used at one time greatly to puzzle me. The

commoner stalactites drop straight down like the stalks

of tobacco pipes, or slant along the walls. Every drop
that forms them obeys the gravitatory law. But here

and there we find a drop-formed stalk in which this law

does not seem to have been obeyed. Some of them

curve up at the ends and form hooks, from one of which
I suspended my
                 watch, and    some    of them   curve round
so as to form                    ends   joining  to the roof.
                loops, --both

How account for the formation of these? Did water

lose its weight in some wonderful age of the world and

set itself to drop upwards ? The solution of the diffi

culty when at length discovered proved simple enough.

There is a small spider that takes refuge in the colder

months in these darker recesses, and forms as it passes

along the sides and roof a multitude of loops with its

hair-like threads. Along these the drop sometimes
runs, -- a drop running continuously along one end

forms a hook, when a drop runs along each end it forms

in course of time a loop, --and such is the mystery. In
the outer part of the cave I saw some curious encrust
ations. A miniature moss bends out to the light, and

the rock side to which it is attached is a roughed plane

of mosses in stone, all turning to the light. The dead

remained fixed in the attitude of the living.'

                                                                                ' Wednesday evening.

    I' have been across the ferry in the little boat I had

yesterday, and after spending several hours in hammer

ing among the strata of that fine section of Old Red

                   A DISCOVERT.               379

Ithat leans against the Hill of Nigg, have succeeded in

making something approaching to a discovery. I have

described in my geological volume one great platform of

death in the Old Red, above which fossil remains are
Ivery unfrequent.
                   discovered to-day in this section

that there are two platforms of death equally abundant

in organisms, the one three hundred and eighteen feet

above the other. Nor does any change seem to have

taken place in species in the long lapse that intervened,

Ias the fossils of the lower and upper platform seem
identical.  disinterred out of both specimens of

Coccosteus, Osteolepis, and Cheir acanthus, that could

not be distinguished with reference to their localities.

This discovery throws a good deal of additional light on

the geology of the district, and solves for me one or two
Iproblems which lay unsolved before.
                                      found besides,

under the northern Sutor, a recent deposit that belongs,

I am inclined to think, to the period when the sea stood

high over the floor of the pigeon cave. It is composed

of an adhesive blue clay, not very unlike some of the

rich blue clays of the Lias, but the remains which
it rather plentifully contains are all recent, --bits of de
cayed wood, among which I could distinguish pieces of
common fir and alder, --the common mussel, and a not
Ivery rare Venus, fir-cones, and hazel-nuts.
                                              was a

good deal interested in this last discovery. We have

on the Cromarty side a considerable quantity of the

Isame blue clay, and until now could never find aught

to determine its age by.'

                                 ' Thursday morning.

I' Nothing like perseverance !   have been out again

at the fish-beds, and have got some capital specimens.

It is truly wonderful how thickly the fish must have

380 MAN OF SCIENCE.

lain in some period of the Old Bed on this bank. The

herrings never lay so thickly on our coasts in the fishing

season. Out of an area across which two average-sized

nets would extend, I have been digging fish for the last
twelve years. I have taken many hundreds away, and

broken up many thousands more, and they seem in

numerable still. Did our recent fish crowd together as

closely, a single net would mesh enough to load a

boat.'

                                                                         ' Thursday evening.

    ' AVhat would I not give for an occasional peep into
Ithe magic mirror of the tale, that might see what you

are doing, and how you are looking, and what Ha-ha and

IBill are about ! But I dare say bear your absence
better without it. It would serve but to suspend the
Iviands over the hungry man.
                                        am counting the days
till I receive your reply to my last. You would have

my letter on Wednesday ; yours will be posted to-day ;

it will be all this evening and all to-morrow on the

Iroad, and shall have it on Saturday. Or suppose a

day is lost through your distance from the Post-office,
it will not arrive in that case till Sunday ; but though

business letters may take their Sabbath-day's rest, and

welcome, my own Lydia's letter cannot be permitted to
Ilie silent so near me.
                           shall have young Andrew to

call for and               tell me of your welfare, and that you
        it,

              I if

                       it
enjoy yourself, shall go to church with heart all the
                                        a
                                                    short
                                                 A
more soft and grateful through its influence.

absence, dearest, serves to show me how very dear you

are to me you grow large as you recede, and you are
tall enough at present to fill my whole heart from top
        ;                               I
                                     ;                                  to
                           past ten, and intend rising
                           it
                                 is

                              if
bottom. Good-bye

early to-morrow morning, well, to make another at

tempt on Shandwick.'

             HIGHLAND MORAINES.                         381

                                                             ' Friday evening, 6 o'clock.; it,

     ' Just returned after a pleasant, though rather fa

Itiguing walk, of twelve miles or so. In going passed

along the elevated path that winds immediately above
Nigg at the base of the hill, just where the cultivated
ground borders on the moor. The day was one of

speckled sunshine, and everything fresh and green after
the recent rain. On one of the lower slopes, where the

hill of Nigg descends towards the east, there is a fine

tomhan roughened at its base with dwarf birch, and

bearing very distinctly atop the marks of a hill-fort.
Some six or eight other tomhans lie around according
to Burns,

               " Hillocks dropt in Nature's careless baste "

according to Agassiz, hillocks not dropped in haste,

but ploughed up with vast deliberation and perse

verance. The tomhans here are all moraines, --the pro

duction of moderately-sized glacier that once occupied
the north-eastern slope of the hill of Nigg. The hill-

fort may not be more than two thousand years old, --
          by a

                      I;
not so much, perhaps two thousand years brings us
beyond the days of Caesar. And yet gives sort of
                                    It

                                         it

                                              in

                                                  aI a
felt antiquity to these moraines to find one of them

occupied     an erection older than history. In my

descent on the shore was struck with what must

have often seen, but never so particularly remarked
before, --the great beauty of the curve
                                         which the lias

strata recline against the coast.   forms such sweep

as Hogarth would have introduced into his dissertation.

Betweeen the harder strata and the land there occurred

beds of softer quality which have yielded to the sea,
          aa
              is

               if

                        by
                                 a
leaving   long hollow, into which the higher strata

descend, as  steps of stairs, and the appearance

presented that of low, long, elliptical amphitheatre,

382 MAN OF SCIENCE.

on which some two or three hundred thousand people
Imight take their seats.
                          found very few specimens, --

a few ammonites and belemnites, and a bit of fossil

wood ; but what I saw will be of use to me should I

set myself to my proposed geological sketches. The

Irecent formation which found under the northern

Sutor throws a good deal of light on all our lias deposits

of the north. In both the lias and    the deposit we find
                                       cones of the pine,
the same classes of remains, --wood,  latter presenting in
and shells, --the bivalves among the
most cases their two valves unseparated. I should have
said that, before leaving the shore, I found the fish-beds

of the Old Red appeared almost in contact with the

lias. I found a Coccosteus last year in this place among

the loose pebbles, and wondered where it could have

come from.

    ' I hear on every side of the oppression of our land

lords. In the parish of Logie there is a large gravel

pit in a fir-wood in which on sacramental occasions the
out-door congregation used to assemble. At other

times it is a famous resort of the gipsies. Their smoke

may be seen rising over the trees six months in the

year, and their rude tents pitched in a corner of the

hollow. Some of the neighbouring farmers and cotters

expressed a wish not very long ago that persons so

dangerous and disreputable should be prevented from
making it a place of resort, but they were told by the

proprietor's doer to be kind to the gipsies, and they

would find them harmless. On the Disruption the

minister of Logie respectfully applied for leave to erect

his preaching-tent in the hollow, in the expectation,
fond man, of being permitted to rank with the gipsies.

But, alas, no ! Tinkers may be patronized as pictur

esque, but the Free Church is dangerous ; and so the

                  HIS FATHERS' PEW.  383

use of the hollow was promptly and somewhat indig

nantly refused.'

                                                                             ' Sunday morning.

' There has been a night of weighty rain ; the streets

have been swept clean, and the kennels show their ac

Icumulations of sand and mud high over their edges.

awoke several times during the night to hear the gush

from the eaves and the furious patter on the panes ; and

I thought of the many poor congregations in Scotland

who would have to worship to-day in the open air.
But the rain is now over, and a host of ragged clouds

are careering over the heavens before a strong easterly
Igale.
        do begrudge the Moderates our snug comfort
Iable churches.   begrudge them my fathers' pew. It

bears date 1741, and has held by the family, through

times of poverty and depression, a sort of memorial of

better days, when we could afford getting a pew in the
front gallery. But yonder it lies, empty within an

empty church, a place for spiders to spin undisturbed,

while all who should be occupying it take their places

on stools and forms in the factory close.

    I' felt, by the way, when listening to Mr Stewart

last Sunday, that our out-door congregations would re

quire a style of preaching for themselves. His discourse

was in his average style, very ingenious, but not very

powerful, and with more of point than breadth. I

thought it would have told better in a moderately-sized

church than in the open air. The cabinet picture re

quires to be placed in a cabinet ; --I felt as if he were

hanging his cabinet picture in a vast gallery. The

times require that the power should be great, but the

finish, perhaps, not very nice. In an hour from this

Ithe post will be in. If disposed to forget how used

to watch his arrival at Linlithgow when expecting a

384 MAN OF SCIENCE.

letter from you, my present state of solicitude would
scarce fail to remind me of it.'

                                                                                    ' 6 o'clock, evening.

    I' have been hearing sermon a second time in the

factory close. Mr Stewart was in his happiest and

most impressive vein, -- clear, interesting, solemn ; I

have rarely, if ever, heard him more effective. My

criticism on his last Sabbath's discourse would in no

respect apply. Never have I heard better out-of-door

discourses. His audience was most attentive, and at

several of the more striking passages visibly impressed.

The day cleared up beautifully, and except for a few

minutes, when a slight shower led to a vast unfurling of

umbrellas, we were quite as comfortable as we could
have been in any building. There has been much rain
of late, and it has been of great use and greatly needed,
but scarce any of it fell during the time of Divine service

on Sabbath. In his prayer Mr Stewart made appro

priate mention of a goodness that could be at once

favourable to exposed congregations and to the con
Icerns of the husbandmen.
                           saw two servants in livery
Iat the tent. They are, have been told, domestics of

Sir Hugh Fraser, a fierce intrusionist, and have been

warned to quit his service at the term, for their adher

ence to the Free Church.'

                                                            ' Monday morning, 7 o'clock.

      ' You have been my inseparable companion, dearest,
since we parted. You were with me last night on the

ridge of the hill, looking at all I looked at and feeling
all I felt. Do you remember the exquisite evening we

passed among the pines on the upper slope of the hill
above the cultivated ground, where the hill looks down

upon the town and bay ? There was a bright red sun

          REMINISCENCES.                                385

set ; --the trees in front of us, where relieved against the

sky of flame, seemed as if drawn in black, while the

trees behind seemed   as if dipped  in blood. It  was   early
in our acquaintance,  --friendship                into  love,
                                     had passed

though we had not yet become aware of the fact ; but

Irarely, suppose, do mere friends manifest the same un

willingness to part that we did that evening. We
lingered on till all that was fine in the sunset had disap

peared, and found the grey of sea and sky, and the

blackness of field and wood, quite as agreeable as the

many-tinted landscape we had so admired a little before.

My own dear Lydia, --it is an advantage to have recol

lections such as these to summon up.'

                                                             'Wednesday morning.

I' had an invitation last evening for tea with Mrs

Allardyce, but having previously accepted Mrs Smith's,
I had to make a compromise by leaving Mrs S. early
Iand calling on Mrs A.
                          spent two hours with her

very agreeably in conversation of an exclusively literary

cast. She showed me a very elegant translation

of a German poem with which she amused her leisure

last winter. The work itself is a great curiosity. The

Princess Elizabeth of England, one of the daughters of

George III., afterwards Landgravine of Hesse Hom-

burg, seems, like her sister Amelia, to have had a con

siderable dash of genius. She amused herself long

before her marriage, in making a series of allegorical

drawings, descriptive of the progress of Genius, with

Imagination and Fancy for his companions. Take one

of the set as a specimen. The scene is a cavern crusted

with stalactites, some of which, as is not uncommon,

present the appearance of animals, some of men, --mere

approximation, of course, but yet traceable.      Genius

vol. ii.              25

386 MAN OF SCIENCE.

with his two companions stands thoughtful in the midst.

Fancy points out the resemblance to the boy, and

Imagination hands him a chisel and mallet, that he may

imitate them in the marble. The scene symbolizes the

origin of sculpture. When the Princess became the

ILandgravine, -- should rather say when she became the

Landgrave's widow, her drawings were published with

a poetical description, the work of a German poetess,

affixed to each ; and what Mrs A. has been engaged

upon is a translation in the Spenserian stanza of the
              IIt seems, as have said, very elegant.'
description.

                  ' Inverness, Wednesday evening, 26th July, 1843.

' I trust to find you quite strong and ruddy, with

the rounded outline of your earlier days, and quite

able to climb such steep slopes as that which leads from

the farther beech-tree to the pathway above. We shall

have gallant walks together, and I shall be your squire

and sweetheart.

    ' I left Cromarty by the steamer about eleven o'clock.

Poor Angus carried my bag and stick to the pier, sturdily

refusing to give them up, though much urged. He then

took his place in the boat, and went out with me to the

vessel's side, where he attracted some notice by the

uncouthness   of his gesticulations  tinhatbi?dd" insgaidmeonfearoefwethlle.
*' What sort  of a strange man is

passengers to me, as the boat was returning shorewards,

sahnoduAtinngguosuts, to"oHduugph,  swinging his   arms like  an ogr"e,  and
                                     boy, Hugh,   good-bye,
                                                              boy ;      " he
                                                              " A poor
Iis the strangest looking                          saw."
                                                   one."      The first
idiot," 1 said, " but a
                                    person ever
                                    very attached

half-hour of our voyage was fine though somewhat

gloomy, and I enjoyed the bay as it receded, --the Hill,

Navity Shore, and the Burn of Eathie. There then

                   IN INVERNESS.  387

came on, somewhat suddenly, a disagreeable rain, ac
companied by a strong head wind, and the latter three-
fourths of the passage were barely endurable in con

sequence

   I' wished Mr Mackenzie to show me the house in

which you were born. But he could show me only the
place it had once occupied. The house itself had dis

appeared and a fashionable hotel rises on its site.

Tristram Shandy made a pilgrimage once to the gate of
a French city to drop a tear over the tomb of two faithful
lovers, but on reaching the gate found no tomb to shed

it over. And here was I, romantically seeking my wife's

birth-place in a spick-span, fresh-coloured building with
bottles of spirits in the lower windows and obsequious

waiters at every door. And now, dearest, good-bye. It
Iis past eleven, and start for the west at five. Ere
going to bed, however, I shall read your letter once

more.'

                                                       ' Steamboat, Thursday evening.

    I' rose this morning before four, and looked out on

the weather in despair. The rain fell thick and fast,

and the whole heavens seemed as if cloaked in grey felt.
In a wonderfully short time, however, the rain lightened,

and such a slice of the newly-risen sun as you might
clip off with a pair of scissors appeared through a
narrow slit in the east, reddening Craig-Phadrig with a
faint flush of vermilion. In an hour after it was a fine

morning, and the steamer set off with the prospect of an

agreeable voyage.
I' Having spared you hitherto,
                                  must inflict upon

you a very few sentences of geology. The features of

the very fine scenery around Inverness wear all a geolo

gical impress. The ridge of the Leys extending from

the east side of the moor of Culloden to the shores of

388 MAN OF SCIENCE.

Loch Ness, is marked atop by its rectilinear character,
as if a ruler had been applied to it in the forming. The
coast of Caithness, as seen from the sea, presents exactly

the same appearance ;-- so also does the ridge which
extends from the hill of Cromarty far into the parish of
Resolis. In each case these ridges are composed of
Old Red of the lower formation, --of sandstone, how

ever, not low but high in this lower formation ; and the
rectilinear peculiarity seems to be one of its character
istics. The ridge fronting that of the Leys, that to
which Craig-Phadrig belongs, is of an entirely different
character ; -- the outline is more than usually waved and

indented. It is composed of the great conglomerate,

and this wavy character seems as characteristic a con

dition of it as the rectilinear outline is of the deposits
that overlie it. Deep under the rectilinear ridge the
fish-beds appear, as shown in the quarry of Inches ; but
to indicate their place with regard to their indented
ridge opposite, one has to draw a line in the clouds.

In the valley between these two ridges, -- a portion

of the great Caledonian valley, there lie a number of
detached hills, of an appearance wholly different from
the hills on either side. Some of them are detached ;

some of them lie in chains, like birds' eggs blown
and threaded. They are composed of sand and gravel,
and preserve a rude parallelism to the loftier hills behind,
just as rebounding waves preserve a parallelism to the
rock or mole from which they have been thrown back.
And these gravel hills are, as you anticipate, moraines.
They belong to a period when Loch Ness, that now
never freezes in even the severest winter, must have

existed as one vast mass of ice wedged into the earth,
and when a huge glacier filled the great glen of Scotland
from the east to the west sea.

                LOCH NESS.                               389

' We had fine sailing through the lower part of Loch

Ness. The hills, half rock, half wood, had their patches

of sunshine that looked all the lovelier and brighter from

the groundwork of shadow, and the previous rain had

given to every ravine its white thread of foam. We

could hear from the deck the dash of a thousand tiny
Icascades.
            marked Aldourie as we passed. Does it

not seem strange that in so thoroughly highland a place,

in a Tory family, and full eighty years ago, when

Jacobitism had still life in such recesses, the author

of the Vindicice Gallicce should have been born?

After leaving Aldourie behind us we neared Urquhart.

The steamboat made what Gait would have termed a

circumbendibus into its beautiful little bay, and passed

as near the picturesque old castle on its western

promontory as safety permitted. Originally it must

have been a place of great strength and importance ; and

as a ruin it is still very fine. Including the outworks,

the space covered very considerably exceeds an acre. It

was taken in the wars of Edward I. by the English, and

rough marching must they have had ere they reached it ;
--according to
                the well-known  "  couplet,  they  must  have
seen General    Wade's roads        before   that  they  were

made," but whether they blessed the General or no

history declareth not.

    I' saw the Fall of Foyers ; but by a narrow enough

chance, and for a very short time. The captain was

unwilling to stop, and urged that very few of the

passengers were inclined to be at the trouble of visiting

it; but we made a muster of nine, all stark fellows,

who undertook to clear the ground to and from in

three-quarters of an hour, and so he consented to lay

IIto. find still rank with the young men, so far as

strength and activity are concerned. Only one of the

390 MAN OF SCIENCE.

Iparty contrived to keep abreast of me, and him ulti

mately distanced. But I cannot expect to rank with

the young men long.    You are acquainted with the

decision of Burns, --

" For ance that five an' forty's speel'd," &c.

The fall was in prime condition ; the sun shone, span
ning the caldron with a very fine rainbow, and the

water, swollen by the late rains, covered in the preci

pice and boiled in the hollow in its best and grandest

style. One of Byron's similes, descriptive of a water
fall, if not indeed rather of that to which the waterfall is

Icompared, came athwart me as looked :--

" Like the tail of the Pale Horse in the Revelation."

I do not know what the botanist might think of the

plants and shrubs so immediately in the neighbourhood
of the cataract that they lie under a perpetual drizzle,

but to my very hasty survey the group seemed different

from what we find either on wholly dry or wholly wet
ground. Marsh plants draw their moisture from below,
and plants of the dry land get only occasional showers,
but here were plants living in never-ceasing rain. There

was, however, neither space nor opportunity for examin
ation, and so hurrying back we got aboard a few min

utes within time.
     ' We made some stay at Fort Augustus in passing

the locks, and I rambled over the village and the Fort

for about three-quarters of an hour. The view from the

ramparts is exceedingly fine. Loch Ness is assuredly
the sublimest ditch in existence. The rectilinear sides,

parallel throughout its whole extent, and the extreme

steepness of the hills that rise out ofit          in so many

places without skirt or margin, give        a it,very peculiar

character. The Fort and its immediate neighbourhood

FORT AUGUSTUS.                                       391

interested me in some degree as the scene of the most

pleasing portion of the most pleasing work of Mrs
Grant of Laggan. Her earlier Letters from the Moun
tains, written when she was a very young lady, and

yet, though young, intellectually at  her best, for   she
afterwards became stiff and pompous,                 Fort
                                      --date from

Augustus. She speaks in them, pleasingly enough, of

her walks, and of the young Moderate chaplain, whose
wife she afterwards became. The Fort itself, though

fast hastening to decay, will make, like all other modern
places of strength, but an indifferent ruin. For the

purposes of the landscape-painter one baronial castle, in

the style of Castle Urquhart, would be worth a dozen of

the most regular fortifications run to decay, Vauban ever

erected ; but when regular fortifications shall have run

to decay, baronial castles shall have gone out of existence

altogether ; and so in the millennium, the ruins that
tell of war and bloodshed will be very ungainly-looking

things. The village beside the Fort consists of a scat

tered group of houses, a few of them exceedingly neat

and genteel, with native ladies in them that look like

the ladies elsewhere, but the greater part neglected-

looking and poor. The village has its church, and

Romance could doubtless be fine upon the clustered

cottages associated with the place of devotion. It seems

an argument for an establishment embodied in stone and

lime. Alas for the fact, however. A mean-looking

man, in shabby black, comes regularly down to every
steamboat as it passes the locks, and stretching out his

fiery nose over the side, looks beseechingly for a dram.

And this mean-looking, red-nosed man is the minister

of the village.
      ' As we passed through the piece of canal which

stretches between Loch Ness and Loch Oich, I saw a

392 MAN OF SCIENCE.

lime-kiln burning on the hill-side and would fain have

examined the stone, -- a primary limestone, certainly,
perhaps a marble, --but had no opportunity. In pass

ing through Loch Oich, the centre of the canal with re
spect to level, for then the descent commences on both

sides, we had a striking though somewhat exaggerated
specimen of the very different climates of the east and

west coasts. On looking through the valley towards the
east we saw in a clear atmosphere a series of horizontal
clouds, rising the one beyond the other, like level beams

in a roof seen in perspective, and the mountains clear

and well-defined, and coloured according to their dis

tances. In looking towards the west we saw hills shorn

of their tops by the descending fogs, a blue haze resting
on the lower grounds, and a turbid and broken sky

overhead. The hills, however, improve mightily in their

vegetation. The heath well-nigh disappears, and fine
rank grass covers their sides instead. But how sadly
they are scarred with ravines, -- the conduit pipes by

which the upper fogs empty themselves in water into
the lakes. This difference between the vegetation of the

opposite coasts becomes very marked at Glengarry, when

for the brown sterility of many of the Loch Ness hills
we have mountains green to their summits, and woods of

luxuriant foliage. The old ruined tower of the chieftain

looks out with imposing effect on the lake from a cluster

of trees. It does sound somewhat ridiculous that the

late Glengarry should have squandered so much money

in imitating the old highland chieftains who had none,

that now neither the lands nor the tower of the ancestors

of whom he was so vain belong to his son.    He was so

proud of his family, that he ruined it.    Ben Nevis ?
I' Isn't it provoking that                 time has he
                            can't see
ITwice have passed him now, and each

                     BEN NEVIS.                                       393

veiled face and head like an eastern beauty. He pre

sents this evening an enormous breadth of dark-blue
base, blue approaching to black, and at the level of
about three thousand feet there is a jagged outline of

cloud that varies its form every moment as the long
                                Hush !--there
vapoury trail sweeps by.      slopes, --the very    is the sun
breaking out on his lower                           appearance

you describe as of such frequent occurrence on the hills

of Loch Lomond and Loch Long. All is dark above

and on the flat grounds below, but rock and corrie on

the hill-side flare out in the light. And now the sunny

                     a

                                  it,
patches have flitted over              and all  is  again blue and

sombre and now single round patch of half an acre's
;

breadth sails slowly across. We shall have to quit the
boat almost immediately -- the great breach in the canal
                           ;

which was formed last winter, and so nearly drowned

the valley of the Loch, has not yet been repaired, and

so the last three miles of our journey towards the sea

must be by coach. For at least two of the three the

canal has dry gravelly hollow.'
'
            a                                   Aboard the Steamer.

              DI
                 II

                                   by

                                                       a
                                                                a'

                                           II a
        Here we are awaiting the arrival of our heavy
luggage. Fort William lies across the loch, cold, blue-

looking town under the base of cold, blue-looking hill.
In half an hour shall be there, and trust shall fare

better this year than did the last, when found for

my friends Mrs -- and her sister, locked door and

shuttered windows.   leave all my      Gpolaonds-byree,gadredairnegst,t--he

Small Isles to be settled     them.

the bell rings, and we are casting off our moorings.'

                              Friday Morning. Fort William.           A
'

                   It is

                                 is
                                          a

                                                                   1

                                               I
       Fort William  exactly the last place                           would
choose to live in.
                              naked, mean-looking town at

              394 MAN OF SICENCE.

              the foot of a steep marshy hill, that allows scarce selvedge

              enough between its base and the sea for the houses to

              stand upon. The highest ground in Great Britain lies

              within a very few miles of         and there are bold hills all
                                    I
                                          I it,
              around, but the forms seem ill-combined, and the general

              result not striking.  was, find, too hasty my con             in
              I
                      is
              clusion regarding the green vegetation of the western hills,

              -- should, at least, not have generalized so promptly.

              The hills fronting me are as dark and barren as any on

              the east coast. As write the haze thickens, and the
                              I

              first drops of the coming shower patter against the

              panes.'

              Our next letter furnishes trait which will not sur
                                               a

                                                 in

                                                                         a
              prise us in Hugh Miller. He has attained position of

              the highest social respectability  the capital of his coun

              try, and his acquaintance are the most eminent men of
              the age. Yet he calls to his side his old friend of the

hewing-shed, plain John Wilson, and sits down with

him at breakfast, John, am quite sure, not finding
                              ?
I in          Hugh any change since those days when they lived
             '                     by if I
together in the Niddry cottage, except that now, as theis
                                                            '
              wealthier man, Hugh can exercise the privilege ofif
              friendship to hint delicately that, John would be thea
                                                                                        ;
better of little money, he has only to say so. In                               a
                       a
this little incident of Miller's intercourse with Johna

Wilson do we not find better proof of faithful, simple,

incorruptible heart than                  he had endowed                                   hospital

or built cathedral                  Here the letter.

                                                 Edinburgh, August, 1843.

                Very many thanks, dearest, for your punctuality.

              always sleep in on Saturday mornings this morning,

however, was awaked                       Bill. Nurse or Mary was
                       I

                          JOHN WILSON.                  395

running up to him, and then running back, a famous

joke to poor Bill ; and he was greeting each exhibition

    with so lusty a shout of laughter that he awoke papa.
    IWhen became collected enough to remember that it
    Iwas Saturday rang the bell, and as coolly as you used
    to order breakfast in similar circumstances, I
                                                        ordered up
    your letter. " Yes, sir," was the reply, and         the letter

    came. And so again, dearest, many, many thanks for

    it,and for your punctuality.

      I'  had my old workfellow, John Wilson, at break

    fast with me. He has been out of employment for

    some time, and has taken to dealing in tea and sugar.

    You will not be displeased with me for offering him the

    use of few pounds for laying in stock        if     he should
          a                                         if
    require them, orisI ifnecessary, to any small amount, the
    use of my name.
                            am much mistaken     John be not

    one of the class whom   it  is       privilege to be permitted
                                    a

    to favour. He thanked me very cordially, but said that

    at present, at least, he stood       in  no need of assistance.

    have some thoughts of getting up descriptive article
in I                                         Ia
    of my residence at Niddry, which might introduceIt
    John, and contrast his blameless life with the dissipation
                                    in
    of the other workmen.                might excite interest, and

    do him good in his present way of life.

      'There an interesting exhibition of ancient armour

      Edinburgh at present, which have just been seeing.
                                         I

    Some of the suits of mail are very ancient and very

    curious. One gigantic suit gives the idea of what sort

    of man the Bruce must have been. Its height does
      a
                    a

                                 if it,
    not exceed six feet two, but the breadth of shoulder,

    strength of limb, and depth of chest, are enormous.

    The warrior who wore an old Teutonic Goth, must

have been full match, his courage was equal to his

    strength, for at least four ordinary men.'

396 MAN OF SCIENCE.

     William Thorn, the writer of the following letter,'
was a man of fine and brilliant genius, his vein of
pathos as true as that of Burns. Born in Inverury, ais,

small town of Aberdeenshire, at the confluence of the

Ury and the Don, he earned a precarious livelihood by
hand-loom weaving, and found consolation in the pierc
ing and tender melody of his songs. His Mitherless
Bairn, the subject of one of Faed's noblest pictures,
must live as long as the language. The following letter,
light as it has touches of an arch, brave, and piquant
humour, which bespeak the child of genius. He sank
mournfully, as the immense majority of his class have

done.

                                                               Inverury, March 4th, 1844.
                            ;
      Accept my very sincere thanks for your lively
                             by
and kind notice of me and mine in your widely-spreadit

Journal. True enough,              isIsignificant way of re
                                             a'
quiting such favours                              isdragging your care and kind

ness into fresh work but, believing that you will as

well as word my prosperity, take leave to hand my

Prospectus, the hope that, should you meet friendly
            a in                                           a
name, you will make my list all that the longer. My            a

book will be little book, which sometimes great

mercy but however lowly its claims in other respects,
      in ;
I  assure you no page shall bear aught to disparage its

patrons or me.              would fain have waited yet little,
                         I                            a
                                                                 is a
and,        finishing what  ; is  pretty well on, have more

nearly come up to that expectation which (perhaps too

partial)    Hfaevroeurintghepsreescsretha--s ctuasutgohmt artowweaavitingmy  appear
ance.    ;                                                                     down,

                     is
fairly sunk before its leviathan rival, the big manu

factory     cheapness, elegance, durability,          all  spring ahead
of the   solitary weaver. My loom, once               my
                                                           ship -- Hope
and Hardship, alternate steersmen -- now seen ducking.
                                  is

              COWPERS COUNTRY.                                                    397

The former of these mates " cuts," the other lends a

hand to heave the lyre overboard, hen-coop ways, that

we may float ashore, never doubting of his company
Ieven
                 think, if my project  p--ro"spBeor,ugohft
shop
there.        with second-hand books                          a    small
stuffed                                                          or ex

changed." Such my El Dorado ! The hope makes me

happy ; even that is something.'

     A few extracts may be taken from the letters sent
to Mrs Miller during the English tour, but as he made
large use of those letters in preparing the First Im

pressions, we must glean sparingly.

                               ' Olney, 9th September, 1845.

' Here 1 am in a quiet old inn kept by a quiet old

man who remembers Squire Cowper and Mrs Unwin ;

Iand in the early part of the day walked the walk

described by the Squire in the Task with an old woman

of 71 for my guide, for whose schooling Mrs Unwin had

paid. She knew the Lady Hesketh, too, and, when a

little thing, used to get coppers from her. A kindly
lady was the Lady Hesketh, -- there are no such ladies
now-a-days, --that
         a                     at Weston Underwood, sup
                                 is,

                                      I

                                                                           by is

                                                         it, I
pose. She used to put coppers into her little silk bag

every time she went out, in order to make the children

whom she met happy. She and Mrs Unwin, too, were

remarkably good to the poor.      walked with the old

woman, much entertained with her gossip, through the
                               limes whose " obsolete prolixity of
stately  "  colonnade  of
shade        the poet  has     celebrated, and which in sober
truth                                                         " alcove," and
from        very notable       "thrinugs,tic onbrtiodgteh,e"
                                                               and then on
         thence to the

through the field with the chasm in the centre of into

which    the  "shYeaerdpleoyf  the fable proposed throwing them
         to
selves,                        Oak." Then returning           another

398 MAN OF SCIENCE.

Iroad,  passed by the " peasant's nest," and after

making the old woman happy with half-a-crown, parted

from her and struck down to the Ouse, a sluggish,

sullen stream fringed with reeds and rushes, that winds

through flat dank meadows, on which a rich country
Ilooks down on either side.
                             saw the broad leaves of

the water-lilies bobbing up and down in the current,

but the lilies themselves were gone. By the way, my

old guide knew not only the squire and the two ladies,

Mrs Unwin and the Lady Hesketh, but also the little

dog Beau, and a pretty little dog he was, with a good

deal of red about him.

' This part of the country lies on the Oolite, and we

find fragments of Oolitic fossils in almost every heap of

rubbish by the wayside. Directly opposite Cowper's

Ihouse in Weston Underwood picked up a fossil pecten

and terebratula, and bethought me of his denunciations

of the geologists, --who, to be sure, in his days were a

sad infidel pack. His Olney house, a tall brick build

ing not very perpendicular in the walls, is now an infant
Ischool.
          entered what had been his parlour, and was

almost stunned by the gabble of infant voices. There

have been alterations made in the interior of the building

to suit its altered circumstances, but the small port-hole

in the partition through which his tame hares used to

come bounding out to their evening play on the carpet
Istill exists
          in                   saw, too, in  the garden an
apple-treeof
wish to be                   --a Ribstone    pippin, if you
              statu quo.
              his planting,
          particular, --and the little lath and plaster

summer-house in which he wrote so many of his poems

and letters. The latter has been preserved with good

taste, which one would wish to see more general, in

exactly its original condition, -- nothing has been changed

except that, like the book in the Revelations, it is now

                    SHAKSPEARE.                                                 399

written within and without with several thousand
Inames.
                 saw among the others a name not particu

larly classical, that of John Tawell the Quaker, who was

hung some time since for poisoning his mistress. The

characters are written in a firm bold hand, and immedi

ately beside them there  is a vignette evidently of after
                         with an unfortunate wight
production, --a gallows
hanging on --
                 it,
                                                      is
                 " With his last gasp his gab doth gape."

Immediately      behind the garden        the snug parsonage-
                 home in succession
house, --the                           of John Newton and
Thomas Scott, --and the parish
                                       church in which they

both preached, fine solid structure with tall hand
                 a       ;

                               in

                                    I
                                                               a
some spire, closes the vista this direction.

      So much for Olney --the greater part of yesterday
I
           '
  spent in Stratford-on-Avon, where saw both the birth

place and grave of " William Shakspear, Gentleman," --

have you ever heard of such             person                  The birth-place,
                                       the beams               of which one can
-- low-browed room, under              a
a                                         is

                                                         ?
                                                              a
barely walk with one's hat on, not half mile removed

from the burial-place. The humbly-born boy was                                  aa

purpose-like fellow, and returned to his native town

gentleman, and to get himself grave among its mag
nates in the chancel of the church. By the way, in
                                       a

                                               I
utter defiance of fine taste and fine art, pronounce the

humble stone bust, his monument, incomparably

superior to all the idealized likenesses of him, whether

done on canvas or on marble, that men of genius

have yet produced. The men of genius make him
                                                          ;

                                                                                           a
wonderfully pretty fellow, with poetry oozing out of
                 feature, --but their
every         "                        Shakspear          wo"ulndeitnheevre, r    have
been              William Shakspear,    Gentleman                               in the

times of Elizabeth and James, when money was of

such value, would he have returned to his native

400 MAN OF SCIENCE.

village a man of five hundred a year. The Shakspear

of the stone bust is the true Shakspear; --the head, a

powerful    mfaosrseheoafdbraisin,aswoburoldad,re--qumiroere  all Chalmers's
                                                               erect and of
hat, --the

much more general capacity ; and the whole counten

ance is that of a shrewd sagacious man, who could, of

course, be poetical when he willed --rather more so

than anybody else, but who mingled wondrous little
        in
                       in

                                                         it,
poetry      his every-day business. The man whom the

stone bust represents could have been Chancellor of the

Exchequer, and opening the budget his speech would

embody many of the figures of Cocker, judiciously

arranged, but not one poetical figure.'

                               Birmingham, Eavenhurst Street, Oct. 5th, 1845.
              is
                    '

                            a
a'There                 still good deal to interest me within

half day's ride of Birmingham                         must revisit at least
                                                      ;I
once more the ancient formation                       the neighbourhood
                                                        in

                                                             It

                                                                      is,
of Dudley, and see, what are rather famous in this

quarter, the Clent-hills,                         group of eminences from
                               is
which Thomson                      in

                                               a
                                   said to have drawn some of the

noblest descriptions                   the Seasons.                        however, no

mere love of sight-seeing that detains me in England.

Have     you ever noticed              o"n        the shore what fishermen
call "  the turn of the tide                       Often, for the greater part
                                       ;;
of an hour,  it                impossible to say whether the sea           I is
                                          if if ?
                  is
                                               it it
rising or falling along the beach. But then all at once

there comes           a        change                 be flood that has com

menced, the little waves come running upwards, bearing

on their tops slight crust of dried sand, and pebble
                      is if a
after pebble disappears                               be ebb, the waters are

drawn off as                   by  suction, and strip after strip of the

S damp strand                 laid bare. Now, for the              last month
       have felt, with       regard to my health, as
                                                              if  the " tide was

        v

          THE LEASOWES.                           401

on the turn ; " I have been rallying slowly but not de
Icisively; and until
                      feel the flood-stream of health
setting fairly in, I hold it would scarce be justice to

you, myself, or the bairns, to return to Archibald Place,

and commence my labours with but the prospect of

sinking under them.

    I' walked yesterday considerably more than ten

miles along very uneven ways, and some six or eight

miles to-day. It would have been interesting could we

have traced together in the Leasowes the marks which

still remain of the artistic skill of Shenstone. I never

yet saw any place in which a few steps so completely

alter a scene ; in the space of half a mile one might fill

a whole portfolio with sketches, all fine and all differing

from each other. There is not in all Shenstone's works

a finer poem than the Leasowes.

    ' It grieves me to hear that there is still something

radically wrong with your constitution. You must lose
no time in getting out to Gifford ; if you have this
bracing weather in Scotland, and if it continue for but

a fortnight, it may do you a world of good. Mrs

Fraser describes the country in her neighbourhood as

fine, the house as comfortable, and the society as good.

I suppose you will take Harriet with you ;--is she still

looking about her as when she first set out on her

travels, and exhausted her mamma's knowledge of the

plants and grasses ?

     ' My present mode of life is not very suggestive of

Itopics for discussing in the Witness, and am afraid

my last two articles will betray the fact. My evenings
                                      I bought a
in London hung heavy on my hands ;                c"heTahpe
two-shilling edition of Eugene Sue's  last work,

Wandering Jew," to while away the time in my lodg

ings, and the perusal suggested an article on the State

VOL. II.              26

                                         MAN OF SCIENCE.

                                402

of Opinion on the Continent. It is no wonder that

Popery, in its contest with mere liberalism, should have

the better. Bad as it
                                          in it                   not so bad as the anta

                                               is

                                               I

                                                               is,
                                                                   it

                                                                  it is

                                                                             by
gonist system of morals which the writings of Eugene

Sue serve both to illustrate and to spread.
      You speak, dearest, of temperament, and the diffi
I it a I '
culty of bearing up against                                                      any mere effort of the

will when                                 adverse to small but not unimportant

everyday duties. know somewhat of that difficulty from

experience                                myself; willing may do much, but will
                                                                                                             in it
not change nature, or convert uphill work into downhill.

But trust we shall both get on, bearing and forbearing,

with solid stratum of affection at bottom.                                                                 have been
                                                                                     by in in
conscious since my late attack of an irritability of
                                                                                        aI
temper, which                             it iIs,hope, not natural to me, and which,                      ;

                                                  it
when better health comes, will, trust, disappear.
                                                                  I                                                 a; II

keep down so that gives no external sign since

entered England has found no expression whatever

but am very sensible of                                  I I it,especially after passing

rather sleepless night. To-day am                                                    very genial
                                                                  I

                                                                         is
humour, the entire secret of which                                                   the excellence

of last night's rest, induced, think,                                                the fatigue of

the previous day.                             mention the thingI                     merely                         cor
roboration of your
                                          remark --we cannot                         be independent
                                                      ;

of the animal part of us.                                         am good boy to-day
                                                                                 Ia
because slept well last night, but was not so good                                                                  a
                                     a

                                       I
boy week since, for my nerves were out of order, and

my sleep had been bad.'

                                                                                                     Dudley, Oct. 16th, 1845.'

                                     Fine weather at last, --clear, bracing, warm, but
    I in '
not too warm, exactly the sort of weather for getting;

well                                 and here am, you see, enjoying it. Had
                                          I
                                                           I                         would have been
such weather come six weeks ago,

well, think, for the last month. When nervousness

THE DUDLEY COALFIELD.  403

mingles with one's other complaints, one is exceedingly

dependent on what sort of a sky chances to be over

head ; it is well to be out-of-doors getting strong and

all that, but when Nature's face is as gloomy as one's

own, as if she too had nerves, the mere sense of duty
lacks strength to drag one out. It cost me no effort,

however, to get out yesterday morning. I took coach
for the Leasowes, where I spent some hours in re-ex

ploring, and then, passing through Hales Owen, walked
on to the Clent Hills, through a picturesque country,

rich in historic associations. Then descending on

Hagley, I walked on to Stourbridge, a considerable

town, and as the evening was darkening, took coach

for Dudley, a ride of a peculiar sort of interest. The

coal-field to which this part of the country owes its

prosperity, and which has made it the workshop of the

Empire in whatever is wrought in iron, is of no great

extent, but of astonishing richness. One of its seams,

known as the Ten-yard coal, is actually thirty feet in

thickness, thrice that of the next best seam in Britain,

and the tract of country over it is studded --as seen last
night, I should rather say, spangled --with furnaces. The
view on both sides, as seen from the coach-top, had, if I

may venture on such a combination, an infernal beauty ;
it seemed, at least, a bit of the scenery described by
Milton. The darkness was sprinkled thick with roar

ing, flickering, comet-like fires, and the heavens above

glowed in the reflected light a blood red.

    I' To-day have spent very agreeably in exploring the

caves and the ruins of the Castle Hill of Dudley, and in

geologizing at the Wrens-nest, a very singular hill rich in

the Silurian fossils and honey-combed to a vast depth
Iby lime workings.
                    spent some time, too, in examining
the Dudley museum, -- a well-arranged collection, con

404 MAN OF SCIENCE.

siderably richer in the more ancient organisms than the
IBritish one.
               saw in it not a few of the originals figured

by Murchison, and found it of use to acquaint myself

with them in their actual forms. But I will be unable,
I find, to add materially to my collection here. It is

Irare to find a well-preserved trilobite, --so rare that the

fossil dealers charge for them from 10s. to 5, and can

not afford to collect specimens at such a price. I had no

little pleasure, however, in hammering among the rocks,

though I found but little ; -- I was in a region which I
Ihad not hitherto explored, and all did find in it was

new to me, --new, at least, as fossils, though Murchison

had brought me acquainted with their forms.
      ' Dudley Castle is a fine specimen of the very

ancient and very extensive Englishcastle, --consisting of

keep, chapel, dungeon, great hall, servants' hall, ladies'

Irooms, &c., &c., with a vast court, in which found a

company of soldiers on parade, and surrounded by a

deep moat. The keep, a picturesque pile of great

strength, bears marks of the iron hand of Cromwell.

It was garrisoned during the civil wars by the Royalists,

and held out until battered down on one of its sides

almost to the ground. Balls of thirty-two pound weight
have been found among the ruins, -- some of the Lord

Protector's arguments, of whom it may be said as

Barbour said of the Bruce, that

" Where he strook wi' even straik
  Nothing mocht against him stand."

The castle, though now thoroughly a ruin, was inhabited
so recently, that the grandmother of Mrs Sherwood (an
authoress of some celebrity) spent some time in it in the

capacity of lady's-maid ; and the grand-daughter gives
some amusing gossip in one of her works of her ancestor's
recollections of its splendour. The English have less of

              THE CASTLE HILL, DUDLEY.                              405

Ifamily pride in their composition than we.                         question

whether a Scotch authoress would choose to introduce

her grandmother to the public as a waiting-maid, even

though her story should be a very good one.

     ' The caverns under the Castle Hill are very extra

ordinary, and the work of excavation is still going on.

It is one of three hills of the Silurian svstem, -- the
Wren's-nest is another, --that rise in the middle of the

coal-field, and the lime which they abundantly furnish

is in great use as a flux for fusing the dry ironstone,

besides for building and agricultural purposes. And so

they have been wrought to their very centres, and perfor

Iated by railways and canals. One of the caverns visited

is a most extraordinary place, a full half-mile in length,

                       I

                                   by
                                                it
                                                  it it,
with a deep sluggish canal winding through and sup

ported with vast columns of rock. Had                    not been

excavated     by    human labour would term sublime, but
                it
the idea that was all picked out barrowfuls militates

against its respectability. Dr Buckland, however, makes

    the subject of really fine description, and lectured
on to the members of the British Association in 1839.
it                  a
    ' it
        This  is    letter somewhat like bit of guide-book
                 a          I                                                 a I;
                                        a
but you must bear with it.                            a
                                     am telling you of what

have come to this part of the country to see, and have had

much pleasure in seeing. Though not yet very strong,

I  have borne       the fatigue of   --mygreyaetsltyerdbaeyttearnd    to-day's
explorations        tolerably well,                                 than my

sight-seeing in London, but the clear sky and pure

bracing air have mightily assisted.          lodge here in
                                     is
Temperance Coffee House, kept by very quiet people,
                                          I
and am on particularly good terms with their youngest

boy, little fellow of eight years, who makes speeches at
   a

Temperance meetings, and divides all society into Tee

totallers and Drunkards. He          beside me at present

   406 MAN OF SCIENCE.

writing a speech, which begins -- " Ladies and Gentle

I Imen, don't mind saying a few words ; have been a

teetotaller eight years." He is a clever big-headed
little fellow, but somewhat spoiled by the notice which
has been taken of him. The circumstance of one's self

having children wonderfully softens the heart towards

the children of others.

   ' There were some four or five points during my
                                                                                               in which I wished
jyaootuurHnwaeegyrlieenygw,si--thoof mnyeet, sh--teeracdtoaaytchhea-tnLodepastaoosw-deawsye,  --at the Clent hills,

                                                                                               drove through the
region of furnaces,---on the Dudley Castle Hill, -- and in

the caverns of the Wren's-nest. But though not strong

myself, you are less strong still, and could not have borne

half the fatigue. By the way, if this reach you ere you
Ihave left the north,
                          would suggest to you coming

south  Lboymtohne do,m--npibausssintghatthrpoluiegsh  from Fort William to
Loch
                                                       Glencoe and the Deer

Forest of Breadalbane. You would see by this means

some of the wildest scenery in the kingdom,--scenery

that ere the establishment of the present conveyance was

scarcely accessible to ladies at all, and to men only at a

considerable expense of money and exertion. It would

be well for you to secure an inside seat, with the stipula

tion that you might if you liked ride outside. Glencoe

is often drenched   by    deluging  rains, and if you took
merely an outside  seat,
                          --by far  the most advantageous
for sight-seeing, -- you might suffer as much as you did
in the storm of Loch Katrine. If you take this route

there are one or two things to which it might be well to

direct your attention. After leaving Fort William the

scenery for the first eight or ten miles is tame, but this
part of the ride would be passed over in the twilight
darkness of the morning. You would then get into a

\

         GLENCOE AND BREADALBANE.  407

very fine tract of mingled hill, island, and mountain, --

the formation here is the mica-schist, and the scene

finely represents its characteristic picturesqueness. You

then enter Glencoe, a porphyritic region, and you at
once find the picturesque giving place to the sublime.
The forms of the hills are different, every summit is a

pyramidal peak, and the vast precipices are barred by

imperfectly-formed columns. At the top of the glen you

enter a granitic region ; there are vast barren plains,

and the hills are rounded, not peaked.
      ' Where the porphyry ends and the granite begins

you see a hill of each, set up in close juxtaposition as if

for specimens. You then enter on a dreary gneiss

district ; the hills are vast, but truncated --mere lower

stories of hills ; the valleys, too, are on a large scale, but

not picturesque. You then a second time enter a mica-

schist district, and all is picturesqueness and beauty.

IAnd then you arrive at Loch Lomond, and all is known
ground.  know not better illustrations anywhere of

the dependence of scenery on geologic formation than

are to be found in the line from Fort William to Dum

barton, so interesting on many other accounts, and wish

you would take it.

    II' have not yet said anything of London, and yet

passed my week there --nearly a week, at least-- most

Iagreeably. The greater part of two days devoted to
the Museum, but I did not derive such advantage from
Ithe study of its fossils as had expected. They are

Inumerous, but in most cases the arrangement is not
good.    had some conversation on the subject with the

curator of this department, and found he had enough of

geology to discover that I, maugre my "leather clothes,"

had more. By the way, in the shelves devoted to fossil

Ifish saw a very considerable number of specimens of

408 MAN OF SCIENCE.

my own gathering, many of them still bearing young
IAndrew's handwriting.  think they must be those I

sent to a young Englishman, in exchange for fossils
Iof the English Oolite and Lias.  think I remem
Iber being hurried when sent them, and getting An

drew to name them for me. Over one of the speci
Imens, in a conspicuous corner,
                                 saw printed large,
I" Miller's Winged Fish." I may mention, but
                                                    am

afraid you will not care very much for the information,

that the large fragments of icthyolites found in Russia,

which, from the description of Murchison, I concluded
Ito be identical with those have got from Thurso, are

altogether different from them ; so both my specimens
and the Russian ones are alike unique.

    ' The time which I could not devote to the Museum,
-- for it is open only on alternate days, -- I spent in
general sight-seeing. I contrived to get to the Golden
Gallery of St Paul's, from which I saw London in the

form of a whole county covered with brick and smoke.

Its greatness, however, though it contains many fine
things, is merely the result of aggregation ; by adding
brick to brick and beam to beam London has been

made great. If we pit cities against each other, as the

English pit their boxers, weight for weight, Edinburgh,

for its weight and inches, is by much the greater city of

the two.

   I' By the way, you said nothing in your last of poor

Harriet. Tell her that have put a kiss in the heart

Iof this round O. which she must try to bring out

of it. This is a fine country for nuts, and must get

some for her Halloween, brought to Archibald Place.

I did not get to the Liverpool Meeting. . . . From the

tone of the dissenting papers here regarding  iIt,  have

lost all hope of its producing aught except bad speeches.

A SNOW STORM.  409

Voluntaryism has eaten the very pith out of Dissent ;
like a goodly tree eaten by white ants, it will yield to
the first shock of the tempest.'

      The scene now changes again to the North of

Scotland.

                                                                     ' Cromarty, Dec. 15th, 1846.

      ' The snow in these northern regions lies very deep,
the mail-gig for the last three days has come in at

midnight, and at Inverness on Saturday last four-and-
twenty hours passed during which no post, South or

North, entered the town. I had a short walk at noon

to-day with Mr Stewart ; we attempted going up as far

as Newton in the expectation of finding a beaten track
along what is usually so well frequented a road, but in

some places we found the snow-wreaths lying across
from side to side level with the fences, and so, after
some wading, were glad to turn back. Bill, like Yorick's
starling, "can't get out," but he requires to be well
watched, and, despite of his Granny's painful tending,
has already made several desperate bolts out into the
snow. His history since the storm came on has been
wholly barren of incident. He builds houses with
boards, and asks when there will be another Martinmas

market ? But he merely shares in the general stagna

tion ; --the snow-blanket seems to deaden the very
surface of society here ; and so I cannot give you one

item of Cromarty news.

    ' In all likelihood I will pass both my Christmas

and New-Year here. My sleeping-closet is by no
means so cold and comfortless a place as you seem to
think it. The snow, by drifting against the window,

has caulked up the chinks, and I get quite snug every

night among the blankets. Would that our poor High
landers at this dreary season of cold and starvation

410 MAN OF SCIENCE.

were but half as snug ! By the way, how comes it that
it is for the Irish the Edinburgh ladies are exerting
themselves ? The Irish are, to be sure, human creatures,

but they are human creatures of a considerably lower
order than the Scotch Highlanders, who are at least

suffering as much ; and they have surely not such a
claim on the Scotch. They will be better cared for,

too. They are buying guns, and will be by-aud-by
shooting magistrates and clergymen by the score; and
Parliament will in consequence do a great deal for
them. But the poor Highlanders will shoot no one, not

even a site-refusing laird or a brutal factor, and so they

will be left to perish unregarded in their hovels. I see

more and more every day of the philosophy of Cobbett's

advice to the chopsticks of Kent, " If you wish to have

your wrongs redressed, go out and burn ricks ; govern

ment will yield nothing to justice, but a great deal to

fear!"'

                                                     ' Thurso, 25th August, 1849.

I' have been greatly more fortunate in my voyage

than you were in yours. You, a good sailor, were sick ;
Iand I, a very bad one, had not a qualm.
                                          see, how

ever, that I am not the very worst of sailors. We had

several sea-sick ladies on board, and one or two sick

gentlemen, with a considerable batch of pale ones. We

were at the quay-head of Wick exactly twenty-four

hours after leaving that of Granton.
' Miss T-- was regretting the absurdities of
                                                         ,
Iwhich are, see, very widely blown. Absurdity sticks to
some people by a kind of fate. I saw Dr McCrie imme

diately before leaving Edinburgh ; he had just returned

from the South country and had brought with him an

exceedingly droll account of          's marriage. Tall

Mr dropped as if from the clouds upon the

                      MR W 'S MARRIAGE.                 411

quiet of a Southland Free-Church Manse, accompanied

by a muffled lady --as broad as she was long, and con
siderably advanced in life. To the broad lady Mr

         was, it would seem, to be married; and the

broad lady had a friend with her, --a grand person, --

captain, major, or colonel, with huge whiskers and an

air. The friend had never seen a Presbyterian marriage ;

and when the preliminary prayer was over he thought

all was   done, and   began to speak       in a joking vein very
loud.                  is honourable,"     said the minister, be
          " Marriage                                    " Yes

ginning the proper business of the transaction.

I' is,it my boy," said the military man, clapping him on

                   a
the shoulder. The young people looked unutterable

things, and the minister was so much put out, that he

was in danger of sticking the whole concern.

          found sad accident which had just happened at

Wick the general subject of conversation on my arrival.

The Sheriff-substitute, young Edinburgh gentleman,
                       a
                                        a
has been drowned in boating on long narrow lake, the

Loch of Watton, which skirts for three miles the Thurso

road. He was courting,          said, daughter of Sir
                        it
                            is
                                    by

                                            aa
John Sinclair, and was sailing up the loch      in      small
                                                     a

skiff to meet her, accompanied                  single boatman,

when           sudden squall caught the sail, and the skiff
a
first capsized and then went down, and boatman anda

sheriff were both drowned.      saw men engaged as
                       a
                         in
                              a

                             I

                                                                                                     1
passed the loch to-day in dragging for the body of the

boatman, -- that of the sheriff was found the day

before. They perished       quiet inland scene hardly

gunshot distant from grassy shore rising into green

fields.'

      Our two next letters, the first from Sir Roderick
Murchison, the second from Lord Ellesmere, referring,

412 MAN OF SCIENCE.

the one to the First Impressions, the other to the Foot
prints of the Creator, require no introduction.

                        ' AthensBum Club, London, April 19th, 1847.

' My dear Sir,

' Many thanks for the acceptable present of
Iyour First Impressions of England.
                                     hope they may

not be the last, and that during your next visit you will

endeavour to find your Ross-shire contemporary, who is

Ilocated in Belgrave Square. Now, however, am on

the wing for a year's Continental touring, and this time

it is the Mediterranean, Sicilian, and Spanish type
Iwhich allures me.
                    shall, however, be back for the
IOxford Meeting of the British Association, where

shall give up the chair to my successor, and shall

doubtless have to undergo the annual persecution of the

able but bigoted Times.

    ' I feel deeply indebted to you, on public as well as

private grounds, for your vigorous defence of the noble
cause of science, and for the enlightened manner in

which you entwine it with Christianity. Such reason

ing ought to put to shame the efforts of those who

would put down science as antagonistic to religion.

    I' am also much flattered by your passing allu

Isions to my Silurian labours. On two points, however,
  have to offer critical remarks. The first of these is

purely personal, and may be considered as a little

symptom of Silurian (not Scotch) pride.
     ' In your excellent work you speak of Buckland

haranguing the philosophers of the British Association in

                    I
                        I

                                           is,

                                           I
the Dudley Caves. Now, the fact  that in virtue of

my labours on that ground, was named generalissimo

of the expedition, and executed my duties, assure

you, like an autocrat. When all the barges, laden with

LETTER FROM SIR R. MURCHISON.                    413

geologists,  had entered the caverns,  w"hicohf  were previously
filled with  " Ladies and Gentlemen              the neighbour

hood, perched all around the lighted vaults, I com

manded silence, and gave them a regular half-hour's

harangue on the structure of the Wren's-nest and the

surrounding tract. This address has been graphically

alluded to by Schonbein, the chemist (now so famous

for his gun-cotton), in a lively German work, descriptive

of his visit to England, and he specially adverts to my

military air and voice, the relics of the old peninsular
Isoldier.
             have not the slightest jealousy towards my

dear and good friend Buckland, and if the den had

Ibeen tenanted by hyaenas should have ceded my place

to him ; but being in the very heart of my Silurian, I

was necessarily the commandant. He, it is true, got

Itogether some portion of the party, and after my

harangue he amused that detachment, whilst led the
chief forces to the top of the Wren's-nest, and descanted

on the exterior face of the surrounding country. The

press got hold of his name, and forgot mine, so my

Ioperations had no recording poet. I give you the hint

in case of a second edition, of which doubt not.

    ' And now to a more material point. I am at this

moment very sensitive on everything Silurian, as my

old ally Sedgwick, after waiting 12 years        e. since
                             it,
                                             is

                                                            (i.

                                                          aI
first proposed the Silurian classification), has made

great onslaught on old Caractacus from the recesses of
Cambria. In other words, he now wishes to substitute

Cambrian for Lower Silurian. This impossible, and
                             for the plainest reason,--
no geologist will assent to

that, as the fossils now known all over the world as

Lower Silurian are identical with those subsequently

found in Cambria, so all fairness and equity speak for

the conservation of the original name.  I        doubt not that

414 MAN OF SCIENCE.

you also will be of this opinion when you have thrown

Iyour eye over my last publication in the May number

of the Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society.
will send you a copy of this Memoir as well as of my last
words on Sweden, and also on the Silurian rocks in

Cornwall, if you will tell me to what London bookseller

I Imay address them ;* and beg to call your special

attention to my conclusions on the paper on the Silurian

Rocks of Sweden. Pray read them first, and then my

reply to Sedgwick's new proposal. I have letters from

Russia, Scandinavia, Germany, France, and America,

all declaratory of firm adhesion to the Silurian faith.
      ' Alas ! for one of my generalizations founded on

negative evidence (of a very extensive kind, however) on
which you built. The Lower Silurian is no longer to

fbe viewed as an invertebrate period ; for the Onchus

(species not yet decided) has been fixed in Llandeilo
Flags, and in the Lower Silurian Rocks of Bala. In one

Irespect am comforted by the discovery, for the form is

so very like that of the Onchus Murchisoni of the

Ludlow Rocks, that it is clear the Silurian system is

one great Natural History series, as proved indeed by
all its other organic remains. Professor E. Forbes and

every palaeontologist is of this opinion, although the

system is divided into upper and lower groups. It

must be stated that ichthyolites are most rare, and very
peculiar in these protozoic rocks.

I' P.S.  should like you to have seen the Cornish

ichthyolites, which are unlike anything known in the

    * ' I will send them to your London publisher in Paternoster Row

whose name is on your title-page.'

   f This so-called discovery misled both Sir Roderick and Hugh

Miller for the time. It led to the subsequent intention of cancelling

one of the chapters in ' Footprints of the Creator.'

LETTER FROM LORD ELLESMERE.               415

Devonian or Old Red, and which occupy a " quasi "
Upper Silurian place. {Fide my Memoirs.)

    ' I shall be in Bohemia all July clearing out a grand

Silurian Basin.'

FROM LORD ELLESMERE.

                                  ' Worsley, Manchester, November 27th, 1849.

    I' have on two grounds to apologize for the liberty
I take in addressing this letter to the author of
Footprints of the Creator. In the first place, I have

not the privilege of your acquaintance. In the second,

I am one of a numerous class of readers justly stigma

tized as " dilettanti," who are reduced to take upon

trust statements of scientific facts, and whose opinion

upon questions of inference from such facts is of no
Ivalue or authority to others.  believe, however, I am

scarcely wrong in supposing that though your work is

addressed to readers of the highest class, its aim and

intention is not confined to such, and that a large

portion of it at least is intended for the use, instruction,
Ifand protection of persons like myself.
                                          so, in labour

ing for the benefit of such persons to neutralize the

emanations of a poisonous book, you have, as seems to

me, done that which demands the gratitude of the

Christian world, and performed with signal felicity and

success the office of a sanitary commissioner of science.

I cannot speak of myself as one whom your work has
rescued from positive danger. I read the Vestiges with

disbelief and detestation, but it has been a deep satis

faction to me to find such impressions justified and

Ibuttressed by arguments which could not supply, and

to feel assured that my own incredulity and aversion

are not based merely on my own ignorance and inca

416 MAN OF SCIENCE.

parity. The extensive diffusion of the work in question
forbids its being treated with silence and contempt, but
it is a positive and great misfortune, when the task of

answering such works is taken up by zealous but in
competent men. This happened to a great extent in
the memorable instance of Gibbon's History, and he

gained an easy and pernicious victory over several
inferior scholars and feeble reasoners who hurried into

the fray. It is true, as you have remarked, that both

in England and Scotland the Church is adorned by men
competent to deal with the scientific questions at issue,
but he must be a bad churchman, whether in England

or Scotland, who is not thankful for the appearance in
Ithe field of such a lay auxiliary as yourself.
                                                 have no

right further to occupy your time with my own ac

knowledgments for pleasure and instruction received.

    ' P.S. A fortnight since, after finishing your volume,

I left it in the hands of an old and valued friend, who,

now in his 83rd year, at the close of a life of public

service and activity, is much addicted to such studies as

prepare him for another. He had read with pleasure a

well-meant but somewhat superficial work of Dr Wise

I Iman's, and thought was supplying him with some
thing better. The following is an extract I have just
received from him :--" I wish I were knowing in geo
logy, but unknowing as I am, it is not often I meet
Iwith books so intensely interesting as
                                         have found

Hugh Miller. It is a pleasure reading him, and scarcely

a less pleasure to think and reflect upon what he has

written. His work has caused me to reflect more than
Ialmost any work
                  have ever read. It warms one's

heart to find such a true believer. It astonishes me

how a man of his antecedents can have taught himself

               BIRTH OF HIS SON HUGH.                                 417

to write so beautifully, and to be so clear in all his ex

pressions, and how he can have been so extensive a

Ireader. He amazes me throughout, and am not sur

Iprised that Murchison and Agassiz should esteem and
consider him so highly as they evidently do.      long to

fly

                                           !
                                            '

                                            is

                                                                  if
off to the north to see and hear him talk, and he

talks as well as  h"e  writes,  what must be the  charm                of
living with him

     This note to his mother-in-law, on occasion of the

birth of his son Hugh, worth printing on account of
the autobiographic touch respecting his own birth, and
the characteristically mournful reflection which follows.

'              Stuart Street, Edinburgh, o'clock, Thursday afternoon.
        '                           4

           2,                             a
The doctor has just been with us, and he well
                                                  a is
pleased with the appearance of both mother and child.      a

Baby,    in    his introduction into the world, had sore

struggle for life, and in pugilists' phrase, but with

deeper meaning than theirs, was for about five minutes                 ;
" deaf to time." Accidents can scarce be hereditary

but my mother has told me that, when making my

debut,         refused to breathe for        still longer period.
        I
                 I
Were all the future known to the little entrants such

refusals would, dare say, be more common than they

are, and more doggedly persisted in.'

Miller was particularly gratified            by  the terms             by a by in

which the gift of the Footprints was acknowledged

Professor Owen, and quotes, in the following letter to

lady, the passage in which the work was mentioned

that eminent philosopher.

Unpopular as supposed my little book was to
'
          a

                  I
prove, the first thousand has gone off bravely, and am
                                                  I

passing        second through the press. Some of the

vou ii.                         27

418 MAN OF SCIENCE.

letters regarding it are of a very gratifying character.

One, in especial, from the first comparative anatomist in

the world (Richard Owen) is singularly warm-hearted
and cheering ; and as you will not set it down to the

score of vulgar vanity, I must just give you an extract,
partly in order to show you, as one of my pupils, that I

was not mistaken in supposing that the least popular

portions of    my   book would be   aettxaacchtlymotshtosinetetoreswt.hich"  a
certain class   of  students would
                                                                             I

have just received and, setting all other things aside,
Idevoured your Asterolepis of Stromness !
                                                  find it not

so hard and indigestible as it may prove to the Ves-
Itigesians !
               have been instructed and delighted by it.
I have also derived a heartfelt encouragement from it.
It is almost the first contemporary work in which I have

found some favourite ideas of my own weighed out and
pronounced upon. This cheers one up after the de

spondency that will, in spite of reason, creep over one

through the blank silence in which one's favourite works

are received by those in whose especial behoof they have

been cogitated and printed. I allude to the host of

estimable anatomists, anthropotomists, and zoologists

that we live and move amongst in our scientific coteries

of London." This, you will agree with me, is worth

whole volumes of ignorant criticism ; a newspaper re

viewer,   very favourable in    ;  t"heit  main,    speaks  of my
          tedious introduction             was,   however,  not for
" rather

newspaper reviewers but for men such as Professor

Owen that that introduction was written ; and the Pro

fessor, you see, does not deem it tedious.'

In the autumn of 1850 the annual meeting of the

British Association for the advancement of science was

held in Edinburgh. In the beginning of June the fol

lowing note from Sir Roderick Murchison reached Miller.

SECRETARY TO THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION. 419

'16, Belgrave Square, 31st May, 1850.

     ' At a meeting of the Council of the British Associ

Iation held yesterday was named President of section

C (or Geology and Geography), with yourself and James
Nicol as secretaries for our special science, and with A.
Keith Johnston for geography.

    ' As I moved that you be placed in this office, and

as my motion passed unanimously (and indeed with ac

clamation in a full meeting, Professor Kelland from
Edinburgh being present), I trust you will not allow
Ianything to prevent your accepting it.
                                         honestly con

fess that no honour could be more gratifying to me than

to occupy the geological chair in my native country, and

if I know that the author of the Old Red Sandstone will
Ibe one of the secretaries, shall be still more proud, for
I consider that we come from the same nook of land,

the Black Isle and Cromarty being inseparable.'
     He replied as follows :

' Accept my best thanks for the great and unex

pected honour you have done me in proposing me as

one of the secretaries for the Geological Section of the

British Association at its coming meeting. I am afraid

my qualifications for the office are not of the highest
kind, my newspaper, too, will engage much of my time,

and my health for the last few years has not been very

I Istrong; but feel that could scarce decline the ap

pointment without, at least, appearing to fail in respect
to the Council of the Association and in gratitude to

you. I shall, therefore, do my best to fulfil its duties,

trusting that the good nature of the Association may

excuse my shortcomings, and the activity and business
habits of my coadjutor, Professor Nicol, more than com

Ipensate for them. I have, think, some curious things

to set before the English geologists illustrative of the

420 MAX OF SCIENCE.

first ages of ganoidal existence, --fossils either without

duplicate, or in a better state of keeping than else

where, --which may serve to show them that at least

one of the pages of the geological record (that which

you were the first to open) is more fully and clearly

written in the rocks of our native country than in per

haps those of any other. My set of the remains of the

;Asterolepis    in particular, very curious and, believe,
                                               II
        is,            do not know that           it Ican say
           in

               I
unique and though

much regarding them in addition to what                 have

already said      my little work Tlie Footprints, may

be something to verify and illustrate by fossils so rare

and little known what in the work had to illustrate
I' by
           a
                              a
                                         a is

                                 I
                                       aI
but set of greatly reduced woodcuts.

had the pleasure of hearing, few days ago, from

Professor Agassiz. He  doing me the honour of

editing, at the request of book publisher, an American

edition of my Footprints, and am at present engaged
in making him set of casts from some of my less

fragile specimens of Asterolepis, on which he may pos
sibly found some of his notes. At least two of the

fossils, that of the interior and exterior surface of the

cranial buckler of this huge ganoid, come out with

beautiful effect  the plaster, and
                  a in                         thought you
                        a

                                   a
                                          is

                                     I
                                       iIf
would attach any interest to them, would have much

pleasure in sending you pair. The interior surface,

when viewed in slant light, quite sculpturesque in

appearance. From curious combination of plates, an
angel robed and winged seems to stand in the centre,

and the effect    at once singular, and, to at least the
                is

                                          ;

                                               I
geological eye, beautiful -- so much so that      propose

getting pair of them framed.'
a

Hugh Miller was tenderly affectionate parent, and
                   a

never, until the last year of his life, when the serenity

A

RHYME AND REASON.                                     421

of his temper was shaken by reiterated and agonizing
attacks of inflammation of the lungs, did he display the
least severity to any of his children. One or two speci
mens may be given of the letters which, when absent

on his geological tours, he used to address to them.

TO HIS DAUGHTER HARRIET.

                                                          ' Cromarty, 20th September, 1850.

    ' You tell me you were " considering whether I

wrote anything in the Album at the John o' Groats'

Inn, and, if I did, what I wrote." Well, I did write in
Iit ; without adding my name, however ; and what did

write was, though not poetry, a kind of verse. In one

respect, papa resembles a great many other grown-up
people ; he occasionally writes bad verses ; but then, un

like many of the others, he knows the verses to be bad,

and does not make roundabout speeches in order to

create an opportunity of repeating them in company.

In all verse-writing a sort of marriage should take
place, -- a marriage between the lady Rhyme and the
gentleman Reason ; but in many verses the parties do

not come together at all, and in many more the union is

far from being a happy one. It is only those Heaven-

made marriages that are happy, in which Genius enacts

the part of the priest. That in which I took a part in

the Inn at Huna was at best only a kind of humdrum

fisher-wedding ;-- the bridegroom, though not quite a
fool, was decidedly commonplace, and the bride, if not

afright, was at least plain.

" John o' Groats is a shapeless mound,

John o' Groat is dust ;

To shapeless  mound  dwanedllinwgo,rmmyustgr;o--und,
    Man, and  man's

Rottenness waits on the pomp of kings,

On the sword of the warrior canker and rust

422 MAN OF SCIENCE.

" John o' Groat lives still,
        Lives in another sphere ;

   Evil his fare if his life was ill ;
      Happy, if righteous his course when here.

Traveller, ponder on these things,
       And depart in God's fear."

' It is possible that the curious creature which Miss

Allardyce found in the salt-water pool may be the

Amphioxus or lancelet, --the lowest of all the fishes.

There is a figure of this creature in a book on Natural

History by Agassiz and Goold, which you will find, I

think, on one of the tables in my store-room. Like

many of our own species, but in a more literal sense, it

wants brains.

    I' When across the ferry two days ago, explored

that sandy spit or point which runs into the sea, and is
known to the Cromarty fishers as " Majock's (i.e. Mar-

jorie's) Point." It seems to owe its formation to the

tides which run out and into the bay of Nigg, acted

upon by the high winds from the west, which are so

frequent in this part of the country ; and as it forms in

lagoons or salt-water lakes, it is a good place for mark

ing how the vegetation of the land encroaches on that of

the sea, and for determining what the plants are that
Ibear to be covered by every tide.
                                       found a salt-wort
to be the most abundant and the
                                  most encroaching, --

some of the plants were thriving outside the castings of

the sand worm.

    I' have seen most of our friends here, and found
them, as usual, very kind; but I have fenced off all
Ithe invitations could, as I prefer my mother's potatoes

and fish, with full liberty to go about with my hammer

at all hours, to much better dinners, and the necessity

of being punctual to an hour, and then sitting up quite

proper in my chair for some four or five hours at a

                    ASSYNT.             423

time. I must apologize to you for this letter, which is

not at all so amusing as it might be ; but the day is

rainy and dull, and I am dull too.'

TO HIS SON WILLIAM.*

                                                 ' Cromarty, August 24th, 1851.

' On the morning of Saturday I rose at five o'clock,

and set out on foot (from Assynt) on my way to the
Low Country, with the purpose of examining the marble

Iquarries of Ledbey ere the mail-gig, with which was

to travel, should come up. The morning was lovely
beyond description. While all was in deep shade in

the valleys, the tops of the tall mountains gleamed like

fire to the rising sun ; and Loch Assynt, that seemed as

black and as polished as a jet brooch, had here and
Ithere its patches of reflected flame.
                                        passed one other

very pretty loch, not of great extent, but speckled with

green islands waving with birch and hazel, and abound

ing in fish, that as I went by were dimpling it with a

thousand rings, and leaping for a few inches into the

air. I here met an English manufacturer in kilt and

hose, surrounded by half-a-dozen Highland gillies all
Itightly breeched.
                    found the marble, white and grey,

rising amid the heath and long grass, like old snow on a

mountain-top in midsummer, and detached several speci

mens. But I was fairly beaten off from examining the
deposit as thoroughly as I could have wished, by armies

of midges, that rose in clouds about my face every time

I bent down to strike a blow, and made it feel as if it

had been bathed in boiling water. There is perhaps no
place in the world in which these little creatures are
more troublesome than in the western parts of Suther

land. I travelled on by the gig to Lairg, which I

              * Now Lieutenant in the 37th Grenadiers in India.

                                                                                 ,-

424 MAN OF SCIENCE.

reached about two o'clock, and took in one meal break

fast and dinner. When I was a boy a few years older
Ithan you used to spend some of my holidays in the

neighbourhood of this place ; and being desirous to

Irevisit the localities with which was so well acquainted
of old, I determined on passing a day or two in the
Lairg Inn. But I was told by the landlord that his

house was quite full, and that he could not accommodate
Ime. " I have
      a             plaid   of  my own    ;  could you not give
me the use ofa      sofa ?  "     asked.     The landlord looked

at me, and then beckoned me into a corner. " Mr M.,
you are a man of sense," he said. " All my bed-rooms

have been engaged for months by sporting gentlemen

from the South, and my public room is occupied chiefly

Iby their servants. The engaged rooms cannot give

you ; and the servants are no company for you. Even
Ithe very bed
                    can give you is in a double-bedded
Iroom, occupied in part by Lord Grosvenor's valet.

state to you the real case, while you are yet in time to
Iride away by the mail to Golspie."
                                             thanked the

landlord, who is really a very decent man, and deter

mined that, as I have prosecuted my researches during

the last thirty years under great difficulties, the difficulty

of the servants in general, and of the valet in particular,

should not turn me back now. And so I took my

share of the double-bedded room. Papa thinks that his

status, such as itit it
          is

               a
                             is,

                                 a is

                                                                    ;

                                                 by

                                       I by

                                                                                a is
                                                                                                      a
                            that of the man of science, and

that  so dependent on what he achieves for himself,

that could not be improved                sleeping in the same

bed with lord, nor yet depressed             going to bed in

the same room with lord's valet.             had calculated on
attending church at Lairg --the Free Church only

few hundred yards from the inn, and though   rapid

river lies between, the late Mrs Mackay of Rockfield

               LETTERS TO HIS SON.                                                 425

in
                         is

                                           a

                                                                                                             ;

                                                                              in
                                                                               it,
had given money to make a suspension-bridge over

just order that the people on the Lairg side might

get easily to church. But on this Sabbath there was no

preaching, the minister being from home and though

the men of the district officiated, their addresses were

all in Gaelic. The father and grandfather of Mrs

Mackay's husband were, in succession, ministers                                    this

parish, and there              an interesting monument in the

churchyard to their memory, and to that of two of the

sons of the    son, the one    in  captain in the army, who
" fell," says  the epitaph, "       the moment of victory at

the muzzle of the enemies' cannon, at the memorable

tbhaettlMe aohfraAttsasasye,"  fought between General  Wellesley and
                               the other commander      in the navy,
         it
             is                                        the shipwreck

                      ;

                                              a
                                                   in
of whom        said that " his narratives of

of the Juno, and of his exertions the Red Sea, where,

under God, he saved part of the 8Gth Regt., will com

memorate his talents, fortitude, and humanity." Now,
regarding the narrative of the shipwreck of the Juno,

something curious can be told, in which you may take

an interest when you grow older. There                                             very
                               it

                                  a
                                                    a

                                                                               is
                                                                               a
famous description of shipwreck in Byron's poems,

into which there are introduced many circumstances

new to poetry. And was in tins narrative that Byron

found almost all of them. Indeed, his description may

be in great part regarded as but metrical rendering of

Commander Mackay's narrative.'

                               TO THE SAME.

                                   Assynt, August 20th, 1852.
                                   '

                                           iIs,
                                                           I
'     Harriet, you, and Bessie are the public for which

     ;
write while poor little Hugh, who                      suspect, not

intelligent enough to feel any interest in papa's adven

tures, must be regarded as that ignorant, but not un-

                                                                                                                V

426 MAN OF SCIENCE.

cared-for portion of the community which education has
Inot
                broke off late on   Saturday night in
the                                 morning rose clear
yet reached.
little inn of Huna ; --the Sabbath
and beautiful ; -- I never saw the Orkney Islands look so

near from the main land; their little fields, at the

distance of many miles, gleamed yellow in the sun ; and
the tall Old Red Sandstone cliffs of Hoy, cliffs nearly a

thousand feet in height, were sharply relieved against the

sky, and bore a blood-hued flush of deep red ; while the

Pentland Frith, roughened by a light breeze, was in
Itensely blue.
                walked on after breakfast to the Free

Church, and heard from Mr Macgregor two solid, doc

trinal discourses. The congregation, however, was very
Ithin ; but ought not to judge of
                            in                       am told, by
                                             it,

                                        I

                                                                it
                                                                         is
present appearances, as many of the men connected

with are at the herring-fishery.    Still, however,
it

        a
only half congregation at best, the other half congre

gation of the parish being   the Established Church.

Papa and his friends could not help being Free Church

men, as you will learn when you get older we could
                            ;

                                              a
                                                 a

                                                                       ;
                                                                                     ;
not avoid the Disruption but papa does sometimes

regret that the Disruption should in so many parishes

have, as were, made two bites of cherry that                                            ; it is,
       it

broken up into two congregations     moiety of people

that would have made one good one, but no more.

After sermon, and after dinner, walked on in the cool
                            a

                              I
                                      I

                                                 is
of the evening towards Wick, which reached about
nine o'clock. The little inn at Huna far, far from

any butcher's shop and so poor hen had to die every
                ;

day papa was there, in order that papa should dine.

           an album kept at       as told Harriet two
There  is                    it,

                                  I

years ago, in which all visitors write their names, and
whatever else may come into their heads and so
contains, as you may think, great deal of nonsense
                             a

                                                                   ;

' PAPA'S RHYMES.'                                     427

with here and there a witty thought, and here and there
a just sentiment. Papa wrote some not very good
rhymes in it about two years ago, and some not very

good rhymes on the present occasion ; though in the

space between the two visits he wrote only solid prose.
But those who pass evenings in the inn at Huna have
usually not much to do; and so many of them, in
imitation of those who have rhymed in the album

before them, set themselves to break the Queen's Eng

lish into very clumsy lines, with not much sense in

them, that chime at their terminations. The following

formed papa's last effort.

" Right curious volume ! two long years have pass'd

Since.I glanced o'er thy chequer'd pages last ;

And leaves then blank in thee are fill'd, rare book,

E'en in a way on which 'tis sad to look ;

So scant the wit, the wisdom seldom seen,

IWhile dreary wastes of folly spread between.

Yes, sad, full sad, for, curious book, see

Too true a picture of my life in thee ;

Folly in both prevails, in both how few

The points t' instruct the heart, or glad the view ;

In both the past admits of no recall,

E'en as the thing was done we stand or fall ;

The ill express*d we cannot well suppress,

Nor can we make the by-past nonsense less.

Yet must I hold, poor curious book ! that thine

Is e'en by much a harder  fate   than   mine ;
For thee no new editions  wait,          Mind
                                 -- no

Shall add the wisdom that it does not find ;

Raise into worth the grovelling and the low,

And mental force and moral weight bestow.

E'en faulty as thou art, thou still must be :--
A nobler dest'ny waits, I trust, on me ;

The Great Corrector shall revise my past,

And in a fairer mould its lines re-cast ;

For folly, wisdom ; strength for weakness lend,

And all my blots erase, and all my faults amend."

' So much for papa's rhymes. There are some

people who rhyme not much better than papa who
believe themselves to be poets ; but that is a mistake,

428 MAN OF SCIENCE.

and it usually does those who entertain it some harm.

They rhyme, and rhyme, and rhyme, and deem them

selves neglected because the world does not buy and

praise their rhymes. But for rhymes such as theirs and

papa's the world has no use whatever ; the article bears

no money value in the market ; though to devote twenty

'

     I

                  is

                                      I

                                                                                it,
minutes or so, in two years, to the manufacture of

as papa does, productive of no manner of harm.

   But must pursue my narrative.           took the mail-

coach from Wick very early on Monday morning, and

travelled on, for the greater part of the way, under the

cloud of night to Helmsdale, where passed day.
              a

                it

                       ;

                                 a

                                   I

                                                      a

                                        I

                                                                     a

                                              IA
                                                                                   a

                                                                               it
On the morning of Wednesday walked on along the

shore from Brora to Golspie, and saw at place called

Strathstever    cave high up in sandstone rock, to

which there ascended flight of steps.         high wall

fenced round the bottom of the steps, but contrived

to climb over   and, ascending to the cave, found

to be in part the work of nature, but also indebted to
art. The space within was about the size of rather
                                                  a
large room, and there was range of seats cut in the   in
                ;
                           it a      was told that

                                 it

                              I
live rock that ran all around it.                                                                   the

days of the late Duchess           used to be the scene of

many good pic-nics and as occurs in sequestered
                                           a

corner of the old coast line, with wild shrubs hanging

from the rocks all around, and with           green level
              is
                         a

                                 a
                                              in

                                                 it

                                                                                                   ;

                                                             it

                                                                          a is a

                                                            it, I I
strip of land and the wide sea in front, one could,

dare say, take one's dinner    in  very sentimentally.
passed Dunrobin Castle on      my  way --
                                           an immense

pile, on which  there has been expended money enough
to purchase                                                                                          --
the part papa   large estate.   But though part of
                remembered                                                                          and
                               of old, --be very ancient,

though the additions be the newest style, the general

effect that of very large fine upstart modern build

V

                    ASSYNT.                                            429

ing.     The new has swallowed up and overborne the
old.
         I had to rise at a little after four o'clock next

morning, to take the mail-gig from Lairg to Assynt,

and reached the former place at breakfast-time, passing
through a fine valley, that which opens into the sea, at
the Little Ferry, for about sixteen or eighteen miles.

Along the flat bottom of this valley the sea must once

have flowed, and the precipices    along its sides are very
                                   still retained the forms
steep and abrupt, as if they
                                   the bottom is occupied
given them by the waves ; but

by rich corn-fields ; and cottages and trees appear where

once canoes may have been.

    'At Lairg I used to be well-acquainted, but it was
long, long ago ; and the people whom I knew were all away
or dead. On my way to Assynt I saw a gentleman in a

kilt, and, before the gig came up to him, set him down

from his dress as an Englishman. And an Englishman

he was, who had come out to the road to get his letters.
                                   -- save
As    a  general rule Scotchmen             --pipdeorns,'t  who   are  paid
for       and soldiers, who can't  help                     wear  the  kilt.
      it,                                 it
            is                                  it
                 a  great marble district, and was to examine
Assynt

the marble deposits with the rocks that lie over and

under them that papa has paid the present visit. He
                                   it
thinks he will be able to render       it   probable that the

thick, stratified beds to which the marbles belong

represent those flagstones of Caithness which abound in

fossil fishes, and that the quartz-rock above and red
sandstone below were once the Old Red Sandstone of

the great conglomerate, and the deposits that overlie the

fish-beds. But you will be able to understand all

this few years hence, should you live and attend to
      a
                                     a is

                                                                                                                                                          ,
your lessons. Assynt remarkable for its fine springs.
They burst out of the limestone beds in volume enough
some of them, to turn mill. Their water, too, from its

430 MAN OF SCIENCE.

great purity and clearness, forms a contrast to that of
the Highlands generally, which is usually tinged with

peat. One of those (the largest spring papa ever saw)

is really a fine object. It comes bursting up out of the
earth, -- a little river, very clear, and in summer very
cool, --though in winter it feels warm, and during hard
frosts smokes as if it had been heated over a fire ;

and rank grass and rushes spring up along its edges.

In the neighbourhood of Edinburgh it would be of

I Igreat value, and would more than supply all the city.

The day on which date my letter (Friday, the 20th)

have spent very agreeably in tracing out the relations of

the rocks here to each other ; and I now think I under

stand the structure of Assynt, and have succeeded in
reading appearances which some of the elder geologists
misunderstand. But you would not much care to hear
about these. There is not an inhabited dwelling-house
in sight ; and the two shattered houses, and the wasted
brown hills, and the solitary country, where for hours
together not a human being may be seen, gives one the
idea of a world whose inhabitants have become extinct.

The old castle was the stronghold of the McLeods of
Assynt, and is famous as the place in which Montrose
was confined previous to his being sent off to Edinburgh
to be hanged. He was apprehended and delivered up

by one of the McLeods, --a transaction base in itself,

and which must have done the family no good when the
Restoration came on, for the lands of Assynt then

passed into another family, named Mackenzie. It was
the Mackenzies who built the comparatively modern

house ; but, selling the property to the old Earls of
Sutherland, the Mackenzies of Ross-shire were so angry
at them, that they came and burnt their house, and
houghed all their cattle. Those old times must have

                M

LETTER FROM DUKE OF ARGYLL.                        431

Ibeen very rough and uncomfortable ; and, dare say, it

is better to be living now.'

        FROM THE DUKE OF ARGYLL.

I' May  ' Inverary, October lGth, 1852.

        ask you whether you have examined in

detail the brecciated strata on the shore near Helmsdale

--on both sides ; and if so, whether you have formed

any opinion as to the position they occupy relatively to
the Brora Oolites, and the more Liassic-looking strata

along the shore-line from Dunrobin upwards ?

' That breccia appears to me to include no fragments

which are clearly referable to the Brora strata, although

it contains many which belong to the beds immediately
behind and below --on the line towards Dunrobin. Very
many, also, belong to the Caithness Flagstones --a por
tion of the Old Red of which, I think, there is no vestige
Iremaining in situ now in Sutherland.
                                       found in the

breccia a fragment containing a ganoid scale, apparently
that of the Dipterus like those at Banniskirk.

      ' The paste which cements this breccia seems to be
a calcareous mass of pounded shells, belemnites, &c. :

and this part of the breccia seems to me more referable

to a break-up of the Brora strata than any of the in

cluded fragments.
      ' The remarkable continuity and uniformity of dip

in the shore strata from Dunrobin to the Ord, and their

total unconformability with the Brora beds, which

generally terminate in the cliffy banks of the old sea

beach -- some distance from the present one--and are

much more horizontal, suggested to me that the latter is

a subsequent and superior formation, and that the

Helmsdale breccia represents the close of a period

embracing the Lias and some of the lower Oolites.

432 MAN OF SCIENCE.

   'I did not observe any of the lignites and fossil

woods in situ in the breccia; but as all the other

Ipebbles of the beach seem to be derived from that

breccia, conclude that they also do. But it strikes me
that both the woods and the corals must have been

Ialready fossilized when they were pasted up in the

breccia. One or two specimens of the latter found
firmly embedded amongst the other fragments.'

           HUGH MILLER'S REPLY.

I I regret that had not the good fortune of meeting
IeytdooiaguyhhrtainvGoerrthastcaoeetmn neyteheoiaigsfrhsbmaouyuthurfamhivnoendoibndeagetesnvHerreienyglmatshresdeadisanholgaenb,, tiahtanesodfrfoosccprokeustnlhddewinwhgliiacsshhta
form its framework tested by an eye so discerning as
that of your Grace. The locality, though of much geo
logical interest, is one that opens its stores but slowly.
I Ivisited it several seasons in succession ere felt satisfied
I Ithat                                 a desire to
really understood it ; and still feel     and have
                           I
go back upon my conclusions respecting
                                        is
them put to the question.                     seems so
           conglomerate which at first sight            <decidedly
     'The  consists of numerous beds which
puzzling,                                     by
                                                    it,
alternate
                                                                         of
           with beds of argillaceous* strata, Liassic m their

character, but unequivocally, as your Grace suggests,
the age of the Lower Oolite. The shale finely and
regularly laminated, and blackened      carboniferous

mdaelatpetotrensraitteiandngdonabbeaodnusnudniondfgisticunornbfgoelsdosmilssee,raamtebu,ostttochmoam,ve-pwobsheeederneaassllmowothslyet
lsouozkee*edstTioohnveerwotofhredMrsicniCeanMrtrifiuilcltehrec'rshsapmoteaf rnstuh,secriBspurtibtsistihtut'Maeruesneaaurgmce.lolauwcseh'ooubhsua't,sasoknmalioHtnh>ee
compatible with the argument

            THE HELMSDALE STRATA.                       433

exclusively of Old Red Sandstone materials bound to

gether by an Oolite cement, seem to represent periods
of great disturbance, during which the broken ruins of

some neighbouring coast composed mainly of the Caith

ness Flagstones were spread to the depth of several feet,

and for great distances, over the previously quiet bottom.

And then another period of tranquillity took place, and

finely laminated shales were deposited over the rough

breccia until another paroxysm of violence overspread

them also with a breccia as rough as the underlying

one. And     thus during a very   --pqroutireatcteadnd  period the
process of  alternate formations                          disturbed
by turns--went on in what is now the Helmsdale Oolitic

basin; the entire basin from Port Gower to the Ord

consisting of successive beds of conglomerate and shale.

Should your Grace revisit the locality, it might be well

to walk out along the shore to the north-east of Helms
dale for about three quarters of a mile, till you reach a

little cottage standing on a point. The shore below

consists of a very rough conglomerate bed --the upper
most in the basin, --and you will have no difficulty in

convincing yourself, as you retrace the way backwards

through the space laid bare by the ebb, that that bed

overlies a bed of shale rich in characteristic fossils of

the deposit --such as Terebratula, Avicula, Serpula,

Belemnites, &c., and which overlies in turn another con

glomerate bed, that overlies yet another shale bed.
And thus in regular succession till you reach the river
will you find bed succeeding bed -- the remains and

evidence of many periods of tranquillity and of many

alternating paroxysms of violence ; and that some of

the paroxysms must have been strangely violent indeed,               '

you will find proof in the great size of some of the blocks

which the conglomerate contains. Within five minutes'

VOL. II.    2S

      434 MAN OF SCIENCE.

      walk from Helmsdale, immediately below a bulwark that

      protects the road, there is a block of pale grey Old Red
      Flagstone enclosed in the shelly paste whose upper
      surface measures twenty-seven feet in length by twenty
      in breadth. The same alternations of shale and con

      glomerate may be seen in passing eastwards from the
      little cottage towards Navidale, where a few of the same

      beds are laid bare in the descending order as are un

      covered in the Helmsdale direction, but the shore here

      is much roughened by detached blocks, and the section

      not so good. They may be seen, also, in the face of that

      portion of the old coast-line under which the road runs
      for rather more than a mile between Helmsdale and
      Port Gower-- the shale beds usually presenting a hol

      lowed and weakened appearance, while the conglomerate

      stands out in bold and very rough cliffs, in some places

      overlying, in others underlying, the shale beds.

          ' I am rather inclined to hold that the fragments in

      the Helmsdale breccia, which your Grace regards as

      Oolitic and of a quality similar to that of the Oolite

      strata near Dunrobin, must be in reality Old Red, as I

      have found in many of the exposed masses fossils -- such

      as Fucoids, jaws of Diplopterus, scales of Asterolepis,

      &c., but never a single Oolitic organism, the Oolitic

      organisms being restricted to the shelly paste which
      Iconnects them together.
                                am further of opinion that

      the conglomerate does not represent one great break-up

      Iof the system after its formation, but, as have already

      intimated, as many paroxysms of violence during the

      deposition as it consists of alternating beds.

      ' On passing towards the south-west after quitting

      Port Gower we again come upon the same beds of shale

      and conglomerate as appear at the little cottage to the
      east, and then, rising in the scale towards the middle of

< -v

THE HELMSDALE STRATA.         435

the south basin, we find beds of a later age than any of
Ithose in the Helmsdale one.
                              have been unable to trace

them continuously, as the shore is much covered towards

the centre and south-western side of this passage by

sand and shale. The north-eastern side of the Brora

Ibasin is equally obscured, and so cannot regard myself

as acquainted with the deposits in succession from

Helmsdale to Brora. I think, however, there is evidence

that in the Helmsdale basin we have the base of the

system, --that there is evidence that, in the south

basin we have the same base overlaid to a considerable

thickness by higher and newer deposits, overlaid by
deposits still higher and newer till we ultimately reach,
in the bed of white stone of which the additions to

Dunrobin Castle have been built, the uppermost deposit
of the Oolite on the east coast of Scotland. But though

the upper bed occupies a curiously insulated position, --
the effect apparently of extensive denudation, --it lies, so

far as I can judge, conformably to the other rocks of the

basin. Sir Roderick Murchison, with whose elaborate

and valuable paper on the Sutherland Oolite your Grace
must be familiar, holds that some of the Navidale

conglomerates were formed by the upheaval of the

granite of the Ord in a period posterior to the formation
of all the Oolites, but it must be a very local conglom

erate that has been so formed,-- and not the conglom

erate of Old Red Sandstone materials that alternates

with the shale beds.

    ' I have detected fossil wood in the conglomerate,
though not so frequently as coral. Three years ago I

saw a piece of wood projecting from a conglomerate

cliff immediately above the harbour at Navidale, and it

may be there still. Fossil trees were at one time very
abundant in the shale beds on both sides of the little

  436 MAN OF SCIENCE.

  cottage, but almost all the exposed ones were dug out

 Iabout ten or twelve years ago, and burned into lime.
     saw, however, this season, the stump of a very large
  tree projecting from the wasted surface of a shale bed
  that, in the year 1842, had of itself furnished a whole
  kiln-full. As to the question of the period of the petri

 faction of these woods, it must, I fear, be deemed a hard

  one. They were, however, evidently petrified in the
  tranquilly deposited shale ; and if so, why not in both the
  underlying and overlying conglomerates, whose cement
  ing paste is so much more calcareous ? But this
  special question, like not a few of the others raised, will
  be found to hinge on the pressing one, Do the con
  glomerates in reality alternate with the tranquilly de

 posited, fossil-bearing shales ? I trust that, should

  your Grace revisit Helmsdale, you will find materials
  for its solution in the section exposed between that
  place and the little cottage.'

        During the year 1853 a large proportion of the
  chapters of Hugh Miller's autobiographical work appeared

  in the Witness. In the beginning of 1854 the book
  was published under the now well-known title, My
  Schools and Schoolmasters. Its success was immediate
  and decisive. Literary men were glad to meet Miller in

  a field from which controversy of every kind was ex
  cluded, and to mark the skill with which he wielded the
  instruments of pure literary art. Their disposition was
  to pronounce it his most valuable work. Readers will
  with interest peruse the two following letters on the

  subject.

                         FROM MR ROBERT CHAMBERS.

                                                            ' 1, Doune Terrace, March 1, 1854.

     I' cannot think of confining my thanks for your

\

LETTER FROM MR R. CHAMBERS.        437

Ivolume to the few hurried words had an opportunity
Iof saying last week. Not that am excitedly grateful

for the kind reference you have made to myself, but

because I have read your first 350 pages with a heart

full of sympathy for your early hardships and efforts,

and an intense admiration of the observant and intelli
gent mind which I see working in that village boy on
Ithe shore of the Cromarty Frith.
                                   cannot refrain from

congratulating you on the publication of this book,

Iwhich consider as yet your best, and the one that will

prove most enduringly useful, interesting, and popular --

simply because yourself have been the best phenomenon
Iyou have ever had to describe.
                                   cannot refrain from

congratulating you on the triumphs you have achieved

over the great difficulties of your early position, which

Inow appear to me far beyond anything had previously
Iimagined. And believe me, am most cordially sin
Icere when offer you my best wishes for the remainder

of a career, the early part of which has been so credit

able to you. Be assured that Scotland has few dearer
living names at present than Hugh Miller, and must

henceforth feel the deepest interest and concern in

everything you do.

     ' Your autobiography has set me a thinking of my

own youthful days, which were like yours in point of

hardship and humiliation, though different in many im

portant circumstances. My being of the same age with

you, to exactly a quarter of a year, brings the idea of a

certain parity more forcibly upon me. The differences

are as curious to me as the resemblances. Notwith

Istanding your wonderful success as a writer, think

my literary tendency must have been a deeper and

more absorbing peculiarity than yours, seeing that I

took to Latin and to books both keenly and exclusively,

438 MAN OF SCIENCE.

while you broke down in your classical course, and had

Ifully as great a passion for rough sport and enterprise

as for reading --that being, again, a passion of which
never had one particle. This has, however, resulted in

Imaking you, what never was inclined to be, a close

observer of external nature -- an immense advantage in

Iyour case. Still I think could present against your

hardy field observations by frith and fell, and cave and

cliff, some striking analogies in the finding out and

devouring of books, making my way, for instance, through

a whole chestful of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, which

I found in a lumber garret ! I must also say, that an

unfortunate tenderness of feet, scarcely yet got over,

had much to do in making me mainly a fireside student.

As to domestic connections and conditions, mine being

of the middle classes were superior to yours for the

first twelve years. After that, my father being unfortun

ate in business, we were reduced to poverty, and came

down to even humbler things than you experienced. I

passed through some years of the direst hardship, not

the least evil being a state of feeling quite unnatural in

youth, a stern and burning defiance of a social world in

which we were harshly and coldly treated by former

friends, differing only in external respects from our

selves. In your life there is one crisis where I think

your experiences must have been somewhat like mine ;

it is the brief period at Inverness. Some of your ex

pressions there bring all my own early feelings again to

life. A disparity between the internal consciousness of

powers and accomplishments and the external ostens

ible aspect led in me to the very same wrong methods

of setting myself forward as in you. There, of course,
I Imeet you in warm sympathy.
                               have sometimes

\thought  of describing my bitter, painful youth to the

             LETTER FROM MR CARLYLE.          439

world, as something in which it might read a lesson ;
                                              I screen it
but the retrospect is still too distressing.

from the mental eye. The one grand fact it has im

pressed is the very small amount of brotherly assist

ance there is for the unfortunate in this world. I

remember hearing the widow of Mr              tell how

she had never been asked by any relation of either

herself or her husband to accept of a five-pound
note, though many of them were very well off. The

rule is to leave these stricken deer to weep them
                          I have the same experience
selves away unsuccoured.
Ito relate. Till Iproved that could help myself no

friend came to me. Uncles, cousins, &c., in good
           in life -- some of them stoops of
positions                                     kirks, by-the-
           one offered, or seemed inclined     to give, the
by -- not

smallest assistance. The consequent defying, self-rely
Iing spirit in which, at sixteen, set out as a bookseller
with only my own small collection of books as a stock --
Inot worth more than two pounds,  believe --led to my

being quickly independent of all aid ; but it has not

Ibeen all a gain, for am now sensible that my spirit of

self-reliance too often manifested itself in an unsocial, un-

amiable light, while my recollections of "honest poverty"

may have made me too eager to attain and secure

Iworldly prosperity. Had possessed uncles such as yours
I might have been much the better of it through life.

      ' Pray accept with lenity these hurried and imper

fect remarks, into which I have been led by a sort of

sympathetic spirit, almost against my own sense of

propriety.'

             FROM MR CARLYLE.

                 ' 5, Chcyne Row, Chelsea, London, 9th March, 1854.

I' am surely much your debtor for that fine Book

440 MAN OF SCIENCE.

Iyou sent me last week, which was welcome in two

ways, the extrinsic first, and now the intrinsic ; for

have now read it to the end (not a common thing at all
in such cases), and found it right pleasant company for

Ithe evenings I stole in behalf of it ! Truly am very

glad to condense the bright but indistinct rumour label

led to me by your Name, for years past, into the ruddy-

visaged, strong-boned, glowing Figure of a Man which

I have got,-- and bid good speed to, with all my heart !

' You have, as you undertook to do, painted many

things to us ; scenes of life, scenes of Nature, which
Irarely come upon the canvas ;--and
                                           will add, such

Draughtsmen, too, are extremely uncommon, in that and

in other walks of painting. There is a right genial fire

in the Book, everywhere nobly tempered down into

peaceful radical heat, which is very beautiful to see.

Luminous, memorable     ; all  wholesome,  Mstorounngt,ainfrses"h  and
breezy, like the " Old  Red    Sandstone                           in a
Isunny summer day :--it is really a long while since

have read a Book worthy of so much recognition from

me, or likely to be so interesting to sound-hearted men
Iof every degree.
                   might have my objections and ex
Iceptions here and there (not to the matter, think, how
ever, if sometimes to the form) ; but this is really the

summary of my judgment on the business. And so,

Ionce more, return you many thanks, as for a Gift that

was very kind, and has been very pleasant to me.'

     In the spring of 1854 Miller lectured in Exeter Hall,
London, to the Young Men's Christian Association.
The following notes of his visit to the metropolis occur

in a letter to Mrs Miller of February 9th : --

    I' was safely delivered of my Address between the

hours of eight and ten on Tuesday evening (skilfully

          HIS LONDON LECTURE.  441

assisted by Mr Allon), and am now as well as could be
expected. Mr Allon is a clergyman, but an Independ

ent one.

   'I had a noble audience of, as the Morning Adver

tiser says, five thousand persons, and I carried them

with me throughout. During the earlier stages of the

IAddress they were attentive, which hardly expected,

as my preliminary matter was somewhat scientific and

dry, and throughout the concluding part rapturous in

their applause. On the whole, a more successful address

was never delivered in the great Hall. Allon's pronunci

ation was beautiful, and showed me better than a

hundred lessons the faults of my own. He read, too,
with great vigour, and gave to my style the proper

classical effect.

    ' I dined on the Tuesday at Dr James Hamilton's,
and met several members of his Session, --among the rest

our old friend, James Robertson, who was making kind
Iinquiries after you.
                       began to-day with a wild-goose

chase after Mr Searles Wood, the geological concholo-

gist ; but, after driving to Kentish Town, found only a

Ivacant house, and that he had removed to Egham.

have, however, had my shells determined for me by a

still higher authority, whom I fortunately encountered at

the British Museum, -- Deshayes, the greatest concholo-

gist in the world. I find I would soon get very tired of

London.'

In June of the same year he was again in Cromarty,

and we may glean a jotting or two from his letters.
The town was now sinking into decay, and the light of

the past touched the prospect for his eye with melan

choly hues.

                                                            ' Cromarty, 18th June, 1854.

      ' Cromarty is fast becoming a second " Deserted

442 MAN OF SCIENCE.

Village," and seems chiefly remarkable, at present, for its
fallen houses and its vacant streets. The laird was call

ing upon me, and we had a long conversation together.

He purposes having some memorial over his mother's

grave in the old chapel, and I gave him a rude sketch of

the remains of the old Gothic inclosure around the spot,

as this existed thirty years ago. Two buttresses oc

cupied each corner of a rectangular erection which stood

on a broad sloping base, and showed, a little higher

up, a portion of a massive moulding. He kindly invited

me to dine at Cromarty House, but the invitation I of
I Icourse declined. Till get stronger must take care

and avoid dinners, save very quiet ones with my mother.

     ' Among the other things changed for the worse in

Cromarty is the old captain's house.  seems to

have dealt by it as he usually does by other good texts.

The shrubs and trees on the green in front are all cut

down, the hillock in the centre levelled, and a stiff, bare

stone wall built in front. The place, in short, just looks

the thing which it has become, -- a commonplace

Moderate manse. But the change is merely repre

sentative of what is taking place, under the name of im

provement, in the district generally. The fine old

woods and picturesque hedges are away, and bare corn-

land with raw dry-stone fences occupy their place.

    I'The bairns will, trust, have good collections of

Portobello shells ere my return, and will be able to stand
Ian examination on their names.
                                 had a brief walk two

days ago along the shore, to the west of the factory, and

found the group of shells strewed along the beach
essentially different from the Frith of Forth one.
Astarte sulcata was the prevailing shell, Lucina borealis

was also very common, and I found in tolerable abund

ance Nuclea nucleus and some specimens of Saxicava

V

             REMINISCENCES.                      443

Iborealis.   must remember to bring to the children a

few shells which, though common here, are rare at

Portobello.
' I have just returned from a walk along the hill
Iside.
        have been in the old chapel and seen poor
IEliza's little tomb-stone, half buried in long grass ;
have looked out on the sea from the " Broad Bank," and

down upon the Dripping Cave and the Lover's Leap ;

and in looking back on more than twenty years when we

used to meet, evening after evening, among the trees,
I felt how surely life is passing.  It is now more

than fifteen years since we buried Eliza. The hill is

changed, like all else about Cromarty, and our haunt,

right over the Doocot Cave, with its scattered beech-trees

and its thick screen of tall firs, is now a bare, heathy
slope, without shrub or tree. The view, however, from
the corner part of the hill down upon the town and bay

is still fine as ever,-- the forest trees, which are still

spared, are in fresh leaf, though Ben Wyvis continues
to retain his patches of snow, and the winding outline of
the Frith is so much beyond the reach of improvement

that it cannot be spoiled.'

    It probably tended to deepen the pensiveness of his

mood at this time that he found one of his dearest and

oldest friends battling stiffly with the res angusta domi.

How, thought Miller, can I contrive to assist him ? He

well knew that a friendship of forty years did not give
him, in dealing with a proud spirit, the right to offer a
pecuniary gift. He would try, he wrote Mrs Miller,
whether a loan might not be accepted. Mrs Miller,

hastily reading his letter, mistook his meaning, and
thought, while cordially sympathizing, that the loan had

been applied for. He wrote as follows in reply.

444 MAN OF SCIENCE.

'Cromarty, 15th July, St Swithin's day (mingled sunshine
    and shadow, with showers in the distance), 1854.

    I I I' fear

said regarding
              must have     sadly  misled you by what
                           lend        a score of pounds or
              " trying to
so." From your remark I infer that you think that he
Iwished to borrow. No such thing. I have, since wrote

you, offered him the use of the sum proposed, and he

has point-blank refused receiving it. Trusting to be

able to work himself out of his present difficulties, he

believes that the spur of necessity might come to be

Ivery considerably blunted were his creditor, and so he

chooses rather for the present to be indebted to others.

We must not give things wrong names. There is not

only honesty but high honour in such a determination ;

--nay, Christian principle of a considerably more genuine

kind than that which leads so many vain Christians of

the common type to come under unnecessary obligation

to their neighbours.  Possessed of the necessaries of

life, they become beggars for the sake of its gentilities ;

--beggars for the sake of unexceptionable bonnets, and

supernumerary frills, and the ability of playing Italian

music on the piano ; and fashionable saints charitably
                                         by enabling them in
minister to   their fashionable wants
pure charity   to enjoy " the vanities  of life." Depend on't

there is an abyss of humbug in this direction.'

Some years previously to the period at which we

have now arrived, he received a letter from certain

students of Marischal College and University, Aberdeen,

asking him to permit himself to be nominated as can

didate for the Lord Rectorship. Here is his reply.

    ' I am deeply sensible of the great honour you do me

in entertaining the purpose you intimate of proposing me

as a candidate for the Lord Rectorship of Marischal

College and University. In present circumstances, how

           CHAIR OF NATURAL HISTORY.  445

Iever, the honour is one which  beg respectfully to
Idecline.
           am, perhaps, not quite without apology for

having done but little for literature and science com

Ipared with what had once hoped, and still wish to do ;

I I-- but am conscious that what have yet accomplished
Iis but little, -- and you will, trust, attribute to the right

feeling my determination of accepting no place to which

my claim on the score of merit might with justice be

challenged. The last ten years of my life have been

exceedingly busy ones, nor were the harassing occupa

tions in which they were spent of a nature very favour

able to acquirement of the more solid or thought of the

Iprofounder kind. In that period, however, was en

abled to give to the public two little works,--one de

scriptive of the second period of vertebrate existence on

our planet, and one an examination of those evidences

which connect the first beginnings of life in the remote

past with the fiat of a Creator, -- that have been favour

ably received by men of science on both sides of the

Atlantic. And should there be some ten or twelve

Iyears of active life, or a greater time still, before me,
Imay, trust, succeed in doing for the geology of Scot

land what may render me at least more worthy than now

of an honour in connection with some of our Scottish

Universities such as that which, in your too partial

kindness, you at present propose. Trusting that you

will sustain my reasons for declining your very gratifying

proposal both as valid themselves and as proffered in

Igood faith, am, gentlemen, &c.'

     In 1853 the chair of Natural History in the Uni
versity of Edinburgh fell vacant. It was the place

which, of all others, Hugh Miller would have been

gratified to fill. The crisis of the Church controversy

had long been past, and the position of the Free Church

                                                                r

446 MAN OF SCIENCE.

was thoroughly established. He felt that he had

earned a right to comparative repose, and that mind

and body required it. A large proportion of his

countrymen agreed with Lord Dalhousie in his Lord

ship's brief and emphatic opinion on the subject of the
       --'  I
chair          have  written  to  Lord  Aberdeen  as  strongly
       :

as I can in favour of Hugh Miller's claims, and I shall

consider that the best man amongst us for this chair is

passed over should he not be chosen.' With all respect

to the memory of the eminent naturalist who received

the appointment, we may be permitted to hold that, in a

Scottish University, no man could have so deeply stirred
the enthusiasm of geological students as the author of

the Old lied Sandstone. Professor Edward Forbes, how

ever, had the advantage of being thirteen years the

younger man, and this advantage may have turned the
scale. The disappointment was deeply felt by Miller.

    In 1855 Lord Breadalbane offered him, through Dr

Guthrie, the office of Distributor of Stamps and Col

lector of the Property Tax for Perthshire. Income

' about 800 per annum --may be more,' the holder

being required to disburse from 200 to 300 yearly in

office expenses. ' It is not an onerous duty,' wrote his
Lordship ; ' residence at Perth will be necessary, but

occasional absence is permitted, and five or six weeks'

holidays during the year. All I should ask of Mr Mil

ler would be to come and see me at Taymouth as often
as possible, for I am very anxious to know him, and to
cultivate his acquaintance.' Dr Guthrie handed Lord

Breadalbane's note to Miller, and, after considerable
hesitation, he replied to it in these terms :--
\ I' It is with heartfelt gratitude that
                                                  tender your

Lordship my sincere thanks for the kindness you have

shown me in proposing to recommend me to an office so

V

DR M' COSH'S RECOLLECTIONS.                  447

important and respectable as that of Distributor of

Stamps for Perthshire. My utter lack of any claim,

Ipersonal or political, on your Lordship, makes me,

trust, all the more sensible of such a spontaneous exer
Ition of goodness on my behalf.
                                 find, however, that,

partly from a too facile disposition, and partly from that

rigidity of mind and habit which, making itself felt in

most cases after the period of middle life has been

passed, usually renders men turned of fifty unfit to take

Iup a new profession to any good effect, would be but

ill-qualified for the efficient performance of the duties of
Ian office of such responsibility and care.  would, I

have too much reason to fear, break down under the

difficulties and responsibilities of a course of exertion

which might seem to many even less laborious and ex

Iciting than the one in which am at present engaged,

and thus fail to do justice to your Lordship's kind
recommendation. And so, with a sense of your good

Iness which will, trust, remain with me through life, I

respectfully and gratefully decline availing myself of

that offer of exerting your influence on my behalf which

you have so generously made me through my kind
friend, Dr Guthrie.'

     At this point it will be convenient to take in those
recollections of Hugh Miller for which my acknow
ledgments are due to Dr McCosh.

                       DR M'COSIl's RECOLLECTIONS.

    I' have been requested to write out some recollec

tions of my old friend, and I have a melancholy pleasure

in complying.
     ' The name of Hugh Miller first became known to

rvme, as it did to Scotchmen generally, by his Letter from

448 MAN OF SCIENCE.

One of the Scotch People to Lord Brougham. Multi
tudes rejoiced when they heard soon after that the

friends of Non-Intrusion and Spiritual Independence

had made arrangements for his conducting a newspaper

in Edinburgh. They felt that from that day the cause

received an accession of strength. We were particularly

pleased to find that from the first, and to the end, he
maintained an attitude of independence, not only of poli

ticians, but of Church leaders. The movement had

hitherto assumed too much of an ecclesiastical aspect.
No doubt it had in it all along the popular element of

Non-Intrusion ; but the Spiritual Independence side

was the one mainly dwelt on in Church courts ; the

Scottish people did not always understand what was

meant by overtures to the General Assembly about inde

pendence of the civil courts ; and not a few entertained

the suspicion that the ministers were seeking for power

to themselves which would set them above the law of

the land, in the settlement of ministers. Certain it is

that the cry of the clergy did not always carry with it

the popular sympathy ; and there were times and places

in which public meetings called to support it were put

down by mob-opposition. It was most important that

at that crisis the grand old cause of Scotland should

have one of the people to support  and shout of joy
a
                                       a
                                                             it,
                                                                                a

                                                                                              a by
burst out all over Scotland when Hugh Miller came

forth as the champion of popular rights. The newspaper

was published twice week, and Wednesdays and Satur

days, the publishing days, were looked forward to

many, because they brought the Witness. The paper

was read not so much for its news, nor even its reports

of Church courts, as for its leading articles. Many

retired country minister living, perhaps, in the midst of

body of farmers, who had no appreciation of the

              DR M'COSITS RECOLLECTIONS.              449

questions at issue, had his spirit aroused as by a trumpet

clang by the powerful appeal made to him, and he

paused in the midst of writing his sermon on the

Saturday to read the leading article. The day labourer
or weaver could not afford to take the paper, but he

was grateful when some one, minister or elder, lent it

to him. The literary men in our Universities had, as a

whole, a deep suspicion of the movement, and did not

like to be thought readers of the stone-mason's paper,

a

                                                                            a it,
but were glad when they could get furtive glances at

and were obliged to acknowledge its literary superiority.

From very early date Hugh Miller's name became

household one in the best families of Scotland. The

common people never called him Mr Miller -- they

would no more have done this than they would have

called Robert Burns by the name of Mr Burns they
                                                  I
                                                                                                 ;
                                                                           if
identified themselves with him and identified him with

              calling him Hugh Miller. They felt as
ifthemselves

              a

           I by

                                  in
he still carried his chisel and his hammer, and as

he were now forming and fashioning, by firm and manly

stroke, nobler edifice than ever his mason's tools had

constructed.  was circumstances to know the feel

ing of Scotland at the time, and am convinced that

the old national cause which was defeated in 1843, but

which gained the victory in its defeat--as, with rever

ence be spoken, the cause of Christ did when He was

crucified --was indebted, among the great mass of the
I'

       it
people, to Hugh Miller as much as to any other man.

read his paper from the first, but shy as have
                                                  if

                                                    I
                                                         of I

                                                                I
ever been to court the great men whom admired,

was not personally acquainted with him till 1850. That

year published my first work, The Method          Divine
I
         I                               had made up my mind to meet failure

                                        ;
Government.

as well as success and believe that               the work had
                                           I

VOl. II.                                      29

   450 MAN OF SCIENCE.

   met only with popular neglect I would have clung to it

   the more resolutely, as the father will dote the more

   lovingly on that daughter in whom the silly beaux see

   no merits. I had fortified myself against both praise

   and blame ; but there were two men in Edinburgh

   Iabout whose good opinion felt somewhat sensitive :

   these were Sir William Hamilton and Hugh Miller. I

   asked my publishers to send a copy of my work to each.

   Meanwhile the public scarcely knew what to make of

   my big, and, as some deemed, pretentious book. The

   Athenceum noticed me contemptuously, evidently with
   out reading me--it praised some of my works after
   Iwards, when
                 had earned a reputation.  My very

   friends shook their heads, and were expecting a failure.
   Now it was at this time, when readers were hesitating

   which side to take, that the two Edinburgh giants spoke

   out, and spoke out courageously ; not uttering am

   biguous oracles, which would make them right whatever

   the way in which the public might ultimately decide. I

   was not known at the time beyond a limited district in

   the north of Forfarshire, and the south of Kincardine

   Ishire ; believe neither of the eminent men referred to

   had ever heard of me before ; and this led them to ex

   aggerate my merits. I feel in this distant land a deep

   gratitude to the many kind Scottish friends who helped

   Ito bring my book into notice ; but feel most to the

   great Scottish metaphysician ; and with him, and above
   him, to the man who spoke first, to Hugh Miller.

       I' I felt now as if ought to seek the acquaintanceship

   of Hugh Miller. This was brought about by our mutual
   friend, the Rev. Dr Guthrie, who invited him to meet

   me at dinner. And this may be the fittest place for

X  describing his outward appearance as it first came under
   my notice. In dress he neither affected a slovenly care

   V

DR IPCOSLVS RECOLLECTIONS.                                451

lessness nor a prim gentility. It was very much the

dress worn on Sundays by the better class of tradesmen

and upland farmers. It must be confessed that at first

sight he had somewhat of a shaggy appearance, relieved,

however, by a look of high independence and an air of

indomitable energy and perseverance. He was a man

of the highest type throughout ; but if he had a counter

part in any of the lower animals it was in the noblest of

the dog tribe, such as Landseer loves to paint, as in his

Dignity as contrasted with Impudence. Yet he was

withal wonderfully shy, and unwilling to seem to be

seeking the favour of any man. A little incident may

Ishow what mean. Dr Guthrie and I had been walking

together on the day on which he had asked him to meet

me at dinner ; and when we were at some distance we
                                     " Let us run," says
saw him approaching     the  door.                        Dr
                       goes  to my  house and finds me
Guthrie ; " for if he                                     not
Iin he will set off;" and we did run to catch him.

remember another circumstance illustrating the same

point. I was talking to him of the litterateurs of Edin

burgh, great and small. He did not seem to have much

intimacy with them. We talked of Lord Jeffrey, of
                                        " He ex
whom he spoke kindly and respectfully.
pressed," he said, " a wish to make my acquaintance
Iwhen came to Edinburgh ; but as he did not call on
Ime did not see my way to call on him, and we have
Inot had much intercourse."
                                    happened to be in his

house one forenoon when he was expecting a call from

Sir Roderick Murchison in the afternoon. He was too

proud a man to make any boastings about it ; but it was

evident that he was highly gratified by the proffered

visit ; and he had his splendid museum in the highest

possible order to show it to the distinguished geologist.

He had a heart to cherish a sense of favours when be

452 MAN OF SCIENCE.

stowed without any condescension, or endeavour to in

terfere with his independence, but certainly with no
stomach to seek Favours even from those who would

have been most willing to grant them.

   I' We met at dinner on the day have referred to.

Beside Dr Guthrie, Mr Miller, and myself there were

only one or two others present. Dr Guthrie restrained

his usual flow of mingled manly sense, humour, and

Ipathos to allow his friend to speak freely ; and he had
soon to go out to a congregational meeting. So  had

the great man to myself for the evening, and he under
Ino restraint.
                have observed that in large promis

cuous companies he was apt to feel awkward and re

strained, and to retire into himself, and sit silent. But

when there were only a few persons present, and these
of congenial tastes, his conversation was of the most

brilliant description. You saw the thoughts labouring
in his brain as distinctly as you see the machinery in a
clock when the clock work is in a glass case. That
evening we talked of subjects that were familiar to him,

Iand which was at that time studying, such as the

typical forms which Professor Owen was detecting in

the vertebrate skeleton, and the possibility of reconciling

them with the doctrine of final cause and the mutual

adaptation of parts. He was not sure about some points,
and my delight was to set his mind a working. He
afterwards brought out his matured views in a very
brilliant article which he wrote, reviewing a paper of
mine in the North British Review. But that night his

thoughts came out tumbling with a freshness, an origin

ality, and a power, which somewhat disappeared when he

came to write them out in elegant English.
      ' From that date he expected me to go out to Porto-

bello or Musselburgh and see him when I went to

v JS

DR M'COSHS RECOLLECTIONS.                                                                                                453

IEdinburgh, which commonly did once or twice a year.
I took care not to intrude upon him the night before the
Ibi-weekly issue of his paper ; but always found him

welcoming me on the Wednesday or Saturday night

when the hard work of composition was off his mind.
On these occasions he showed me his museum with the

feeling of a boy showing his toys to his companion.
We sometimes, but not often, talked of Church matters ;

but it was evident that having to write and speak so

much about them he rather kept off them with me--

except, indeed, that he was ever ready to speak of the

great religious cause of the freedom of the Church, as

imbedded deep in the hearts, even as it was in the

history, of Scotchmen, and certain in the end to

triumph. Sometimes we talked of geology and religion

and the difficult problems which they started. At times

I introduced a topic new to him, as on one occasion

Comte's Classification of the Sciences and the Positive

Philosophy, not so well-known then as now. It was ex

tremely interesting to watch his mind grasping the new

ideas, apprehending but not yet fully comprehending

them. In next paper he had an article on the subject,

but it is evident that his mind had not yet settled down

into clearness, and the written composition had not the

full expanse of the conversation. Had he lived he would

certainly have grappled with the Positive Philosophy as

he did with the Vestiges of Creation.
      1 Having great confidence in his singleness of purpose

I Iand his far-sighted wisdom, consulted him when

was about to be called to the Chair of Logic and

Metaphysics in Belfast, stating to him my difficulty

Ifdcalebecoaiurdteadnlgdyivuinnaegquhuiivgpohcaml yheaadpvvaeiscnteo-.braels"towwoeradkm. agnifH,t", e--saygesvaevhnee,  me a
                                                                                                                         " has

                                                                                                                         if it

454 MAN OF SCIENCE.

should be that of a mason or mechanic, he should
exercise it to the glory of God." " You have," he was
pleased to add, " such a gift ; go and use
                                                                    and God
                                                  II
                                                               it I

                                                                                           of

                                                                                                       it,

                                                                                     I
will open spheres of usefulness to you."

       'The last conversation had with him was in the

early autumn of the year before his decease. He was

completing his last work, The Testimony                             the Rocks,

and we went over the topics discussed in it.                                                                                      was

struck then, as ever was, with his powerful memory and

his special acquaintance with the English literature of
last century -- suspect
                                                  was the literature most

accessible to him in his younger years. He could quote

verbatim long passages from the poets of that epoch,

illustrating points casting up in the conversation. As

we took the usual walk through his museum he freely

allowed that the apparent breaks between the various

geological epochs and animals were being fast filled up

by new geological discoveries, and showed me some

                                                  a                  was evident to me that
                                                                 athorough grappling with

                                                              It
examples as we went along.
he was setting himself to

these facts, and to consideration of their relation to

the great truths of natural and revealed religion. Often

do some of us wish that he had been spared to take his

place in the more formidable conflicts of these times.

       In common with not few others, looked on Hugh
\                                                 ;
                                               '
                                      in                  ;a

                                                                               ;
                                                                                    ;

                                                                   I

                                                                                                                  :
                                                                                                                               ;
Miller as the greatest Scotchman left after Thomas

Chalmers fell. These two men differed in many points,

but they were essentially kindred spirits they were

alike  their high aims in their lofty genius in the

moving power of their writings in their partiality for

the study of the works of God in their deep reverence

for the word of God in their desire to unite science

and religion, and attachment to the principles of the

Church of Scotland. What Chalmers did for the older

DR WCOSJTS RECOLLECTIONS.                       455

sister, astronomy, Miller has done for the younger,

geology, in wedding her to religion. Both lived for the

purpose of elevating their countrymen and their race ;
and in order to effect this end both laboured to promote

the Church's independence and the freedom of its

members. Each had his own field of influence ; each

had a class of minds on whom he exercised a burning

and enduring power for good. Most appropriately, now

that their day's work is done, do they sleep side by side

in the same grave-yard.                         com

   I I' am tempted to compare Miller, and when

pare him, to contrast him with another eminent Scotch

man, Robert Burns. Both were sprung from the nobler

order of the Scottish peasantry ; neither was originally

educated as a scholar ; both rose to the highest eminence

in the midst of difficulties which led the one as well as

the other seriously to propose emigrating to America ;

both had a deep love for Scotland and her common
people ; both will go down through all coming ages as
household words, and as representatives of the intelligence
of the sons of toil in their native land ; and both were

characterized by a noble modesty and a manly inde

pendence of nature, -- " Owre blate to seek, owre proud

to snobl." But with the resemblances there were differ
ences. In respect of native genius they rank in my
view equally high ; but the complexion and bent of
that genius differed in the two individuals. No one

would compare any poetry published by Hugh Miller
with the poetry of Robert Burns ; though there are

passages of very high poetic power in all the prose
works of Miller. Let us only look at that bold sketch

of a proposed Epic towards the close of the sixth
Lecture of his Testimony of the Rocks, in which he
represents Lucifer, son of the morning, cast down on the

456 MAN OF SCIENCE.

Pre- Adamite earth, while yet a half-extinguished volcano :
then, as ages roll on, moving amidst tangled foliage and

ravenous creatures, horrid with trenchant tooth and

barbed sting, and enveloped in armour of plate and

scale, marking all the while and wondering at the pro

gressive work of God, as animal follows plant, and man

succeeds animal, and seeking to frustrate it by diabolical
wiles, which, however, only fulfil the eternal counsels of

Heaven, and issue in the crowning work, the descent

and death and ascension of the Incarnate Son of God.

Greater as a poet, Robert Burns cannot be placed as a

thinker, or a man of science, or a writer of prose, on the
level of Hugh Miller. Dugald Stewart expressed his

surprise to find Burns form so correct an idea of the then
prevailing theory in Edinburgh which referred all

beauty to the association of ideas, a theory which
seems to have gained the momentary assent of Burns in

spite of his own better sense and truer feeling :-- " That

the martial clangour," he says, " of a trumpet had some

thing in it vastly more grand, heroic, and sublime, than

the twingle-twangle of a Jew's-harp ; that the delicate
flexure of a rose-twig, when the half-blown flower is

heavy with the tears of dawn, was infinitely more

beautiful and elegant than the upright stalk of the

burdock, and that from something innate and inde
Ipendent of all association of ideas, --these
                                               had set

down as irrefragable orthodox truths, until perusing

your book shook my faith." No one who had conversed
with Hugh Miller would have expressed surprise that

he was capable of understanding such truths. He must
have been in the clouds himself, who, in talking with

him, did not confess that Hugh Miller could soar as

high as he, and keep well-balanced pinions all the while.

He had no difficulty in understanding the Association

                                                            ill

DR H'COSITS RECOLLECTIONS.                             457

Theory, and many other theories of Hume and Brown

as well ; and in brushing away them and some other

meagre or misty explanations by a few brief but cogent

facts and arguments. In his works he has combined,

as no working man ever did before, lofty speculation

with rigid science, and irradiated the whole with the

corruscations of poetry. Nor is it to be omitted that

there is a far more important point of difference between

the Ayrshire ploughman and the Cromarty mason.

Both were men of naturally strong passions ; but where

the one yielded to the temptations that assailed him,

" And thoughtless follies laid him low,
                    And stained his name,"

Ithe other resisted with all his might. As conversed

with Hugh Miller, or after parting with him, with his
Iwords of

felt, and
spaoidwetroos--tillburtingnointg    in my ears,   often have
                                  in his hearing
                                                  -- " What an

amount of mischief would that mighty man have done

had he, say on his being tempted by his brother masons

at Niddry, given way where he stood firm ; had he, like

Burns, joined the foes of evangelical religion, instead of

becoming its defender ; 6t had he, when at one time

tempted to scepticism, abandoned the religion of the

Bible, with ' its grand central doctrine of the true hu
manity and true Divinity of the adorable Saviour ' (to

use Miller's language), and gone after some plausible
Iform of nature-worship or man-worship."
                                                  feel as if

his country and his Church had not, when he was yet

alive, been sufficiently grateful to God for raising such

a man to guide aright so large a portion of the thinking

mind of Scotland at a most critical era in its history.
     ' Every man in Scotland had heard of Hugh Miller.

Noble Lords were in the way of pointing their sentences
and securing a plaudit by an allusion to him. The artizan

458 MAN OF SCIENCE.

and peasant felt that he was one of themselves, and one

who (unlike some others sprung from their ranks) never
felt ashamed of them, or his connection with them. The

infidels knew him well, for many a hard blow had he

dealt them ; and they were obliged to respect while they

feared him. The religious community recognized him

as in certain departments the ablest, as he was the most

disinterested, defender of the faith. Scientific men re

cognized in him one who could cope with them in their

own department, who knew the facts as well as they,

and could reason them out with greater power. Literary

men acknowledged in him a brother who could mould

a sentence or turn a period with the best of them. The

ablest and boldest man in the country would have felt

his knees shaking at the thought of engaging in a con

troversy with the stone-mason. Even those who had

no learning relished him ; and some have earnestly

wished to be better scholars that they might under

stand him ; and some have made themselves scholars

by spelling their way through his writings. Thinkers

in no way inclined to agree with him in his ecclesi

astical or political opinions, took the Witness because

they liked to have thoughts awakened within them ;

and even those who were not particularly disposed to

think read his writings for the sake of their pictorial

power and noble sentiment. One of the most distin
Iguished assemblies
                     ever looked on met in the City

Hall of Glasgow in September, 1855, to hear the open

ing Address of the President, the Duke of Argyll, to

the British Association for the Promotion of Science.

There were present a very large number of the savans

of the age, and mingling with them a number of others

quite sufficient to make the audience a singularly pro

miscuous one, --shrewd merchants who traded with the

\s,

            DR M'COSH'S RECOLLECTIONS.           459

ends of the earth, and other not less excellent merchants

who were not particularly shrewd, and who were con

versant with little other literature than the Glasgoiv

Herald, and along  with them   btuhteiorthweivrses--aqnuditedaausghutseerfsu,l
some of them blue  stockings,
members of the family --who knew cookery vastly better

than geology. In addressing the assembly, the noble Duke

gave us a panoramic view of a number of the most dis

tinguished scientific men of the day, and an epitome of

their discoveries. Many of them were cheered as their

names passed in brief review ; but there were two whose

names called forth the loudest and most repeated shouts.
The one of these was a prince in rank, even as he is

a prince in science. Prince Lucien Bonaparte, the

cousin of the then ally of England in the Russian war,

received a cheer worthy of Glasgow. There was just

one other who was acclaimed by so loud a burst ; and

some of us observed with interest that in his case the

cheer came from every heart, and from a greater depth

in the heart : that cheer was in honour of one --we need

not name him, but when his name was pronounced it

moved the   vast assembly simultaneously   like  an electric
            one of Nature's nobles, made  noble  not by the
shock --of

hand of man, but by the evident mark of God upon him.
     ' But Fame was not the idol before which this great

man bowed. The love of reputation was but an under

current in his soul. He lived to do a work, but it was for
Ithe glory of God and the good of mankind.
                                                 watched

him with interest, as many did, in the meetings of the

IGeological Section of the British Association ; and ob

served that he sat, and stood, and spoke, and moved

with the most perfect simplicity. There was no bravado

on the one hand nor mock humility on the other ; there

was no courting of popularity, no tricks to draw atten

460 MAN OF SCIENCE.

tion ; no looking round to see if men and women were

gazing at him. He received the advances of distin

guished individuals with deference, and was gratified

by them ; but there was no fawning or flattery on his

part, and he received in precisely the same manner (as

some of us can testify) the most obscure of his old friends,

and assumed towards them no airs of superiority or of

patronage. Whatever might be the situation in which

he was placed, one felt in regard to him that the fiddlers

struck up   the right tune, when after his   health   was
drunk at a  parting dinner at Cromarty they  played,
                                                      "A
Iman's a man for a' that." But I would not be exhibiting

his full character if did not add, that, bending before

no man, he ever bowed in lowliest reverence before his

God ; that seeking no patron, climbing by no dirty arts,
and determined to be dependent on no man, he ever felt
and acknowledged his dependence on a Higher Power.

' Princeton, New Jersey, U. S., Jan. 1870.'

                                                                                                                                    <

\

          461

          CHAPTER IV.

          CLOSING SCENES.

THE last time I saw Hugh Miller in his own house
      he mentioned to me that his capacity for work was not

what it once had been. He used, he said, to write an article

at a sitting ; he now liked to do it in two, relieving

himself by a walk in the interval. This was in the sum

mer of 1855, and the weakness which even then was

stealing  over him continued, month by month, to in
crease.
          The mason's disease --the presence of particles
of stone in the lungs -- augmented the torturing irritation

of repeated inflammatory attacks in this most sensitive

organ. The tendency to brood -- to live in a world of

thought, and meditation, and phantasy, apart from that

of living men -- which he had manifested from child

hood, grew upon him as his physical energies decayed.

That imaginative timidity, also, which had made a man

who, if confronted by a lion, would have looked it down,

arm himself with pistols against the assassin who might

lurk in the recesses of a wooded glen, or haunt a lonely

road at midnight, fed itself on the accounts of garotte

robberies, house-breakings, outrages by ticket-of-leave

men, of which, in the autumn of 1856, the newspapers

had more perhaps than the dismal average. Hugh

462 MAN OF SCIENCE.

Miller sympathized with Mr Carlyle in his views as to
the necessity of subjecting to a rigorous discipline our
professional criminals, and the folly of leaving men
whom repeated conviction has proved to be incorrigible
to prey upon the community. He wrote upon the sub

Aject in the Witness, and it was much in his mind.

slight circumstance was sufficient to give the matter a
personal turn, and to convince him that he was himself
exposed to danger. In a corner of the grounds at Shrub
Mount, Portobello, where he now resided, a building

had been reared under his direction for the accommoda

tion of his beloved specimens, and he was impressed
with the idea that it might be broken into and robbed

by the prowling miscreants who were never absent
from his imagination. One evening his eldest boy,
having been in the garden after dark, returned with the

news that he had seen a lantern moving among the trees,

and had heard whispered voices. Miller went out to

survey the ground ; and though nothing appeared to be
amiss, the attention of the household was awakened,

and night after night the children and the servants had
tales to tell of mysterious sounds having been heard and

strange sights having been seen. All this influenced

his imagination, and pistol and sword were ever in

readiness to repel attack.

     At this time Mrs Miller and her husband occupied
different sleeping apartments. A severe illness had
almost deprived Mrs Miller of the use of her limbs, and
it was not without great pain that she could go up
stairs. It was therefore necess ary for her to have her
bed-room on the ground floor. For him, on the other
hand, the air of an upper apartment was considered best,
and he slept in a small room adjoining his study, on
the second floor. Every morning and evening, during

HIS ALARMS.  463

one of his illnesses, Mrs Miller ascended to his room,
 ' at the cost of an hour's severe pain,' to minister to his
wants. At other times, when his strength permitted,
 and her limbs were powerless, he would carry her in his
arms to her sofa, ' in the kindest and tenderest manner.'

      One night Mrs Miller was startled by her husband
bursting into her room at midnight, with fire-arms, she
thinks, in his hand, and asking in a loud voice whether
she had heard unusual noises in the house. She answered

composedly that she had heard nothing. He went into

his eldest daughter's room, and made the same inquiry.
Soothed apparently by the result, he retired to his own

room.

      An incident occurred at this time, which had

the effect of partly setting his mind at rest. Lord
and Lady Kinnaird resided during the winter of 1856
in a villa by the sea-side at Portobello, and a cordial
intimacy had sprung up between them and Mr and
Mrs Miller. Lord Kinnaird, hearing of Miller's appre
hensions for his collection, presented him with a man
trap which some sagacious inventor had recently offered
to the public. The combination of gentlest philan
thropy with chronic dread of burglars appears to have
struck this ingenious person as not infrequent, and the
man-trap which he devised had the engaging property of
holding the robber fast without hurting him. Lord
Kinnaird and Mr Miller set up this trap at the porch of
the Museum, and the fears of the latter were consider

ably allayed.
      There were other matters, however, besides this

imaginative excitement on the subject of robbery, which,
as the months of autumn were succeeded by those of
winter, occasioned deep anxiety to Mrs Miller. The

time was approaching when the Testimony of the Rocks

464 MAN OF SCIENCE.

itwas to see the light, and her husband was working at

with indomitable resolution. His activity had always
been high-strung, but there was now a feverish in
tensity in his application which amazed and saddened
Mrs Miller. He had been on the whole a calm and

regular worker, had loved the morning air and devoted
the hours of night to slumber ; he now moved rest

lessly about during the day, as if unable to concentrate
his thoughts, and only as the darkness fell aroused his

intellectual energies and compelled them to their task.
Night after night, in spite of entreaties, he commenced
his toil when the rest of the family retired to rest.
Through the long silent hours his tired and throbbing
brain was forced by his iron will to forge link after link
in the argument he was drawing out. Sometimes, when
Mrs Miller awoke in the morning, she heard, as she
thought, the servants beginning their work, but found
that it was her husband leaving his. The slightest
noise distressed him. That his nerves were in a state
of disorder Mrs Miller could not doubt, but the dread

which tormented her was that of apoplexy. Of insanity
she never thought until the appearance of other symp
toms, but the vision of Hugh Miller struck down by

apoplexy and carried into the house constantly haunted

her. At night, before bidding him farewell, she would
linger, on one pretence or another, trying to find an op
portunity to remonstrate against his vigils, but she saw that
he was nervously irritable, and she often feared to speak,

lest the evil she wished to abate might be aggravated.
      Although any one who was constantly and closely

with him could not but remark the change which had
taken place, his manner with friends who saw him in

occasional interviews remained unaltered. Perhaps a
deeper tone of earnestness mingled in the genial flow

         PRAYER OF JOHN KNOX.  465

of conversation with which he entertained every visitor,

and the reverence and godly fear which lay at the very

roots of his being became more than usually conspicuous.

On Thursday, the 18th of December, a friend who had
a long conversation with him, ' never enjoyed an inter

view more, or remembered him in a more genial mood.'
On the Saturday following, another friend from Edin

burgh found him in the same state. True to a

habit which had characterized him from his youth,
of leading the conversation to some book or topic which

was occupying his mind, he repeated with deep feel
ing a prayer of John Knox's, which, he said, ' it had

been his frequent custom to repeat privately during

the days of the Disruption.' There was no name

which represented more for Hugh Miller than that
of John Knox. The Scotland of Knox and the Puri

tans was the Scotland which he loved ; the Church of
Knox was the Church for which he had toiled when

his strength was in its meridian and when his dawn

ing fame first thrilled him with rapture ; the faith of
Knox was the faith to which, after Hume and Voltaire

and Lamarck had done their worst, he still anchored his

soul. This is the prayer which was passing through the

mind of Hugh Miller on that Saturday :--' O Lord

God Almighty and Father most merciful, there is none

like Thee in heaven nor in earth, which workest all

things for the glory of Thy name and the comfort of

Thine elect. Thou didst once make man ruler over all

Thy creatures, and placed him in the garden of all

pleasures ; but how soon, alas ! did he in Thy felicity

forget Thy goodness ? Thy people Israel, also, in their

wealth did evermore run astray, abusing Thy manifold

mercies ; like as all flesh continually rageth when it

hath gotten liberty and external prosperity. But such

vol. n.  30

 466 MAN OF SCIENCE.

 is Thy wisdom adjoined to Thy mercies, dear Father,
 that Thou seekest all means possible to bring Thy
 children to the sure sense and lively feeling of Thy
 fatherly favour. And, therefore, when prosperity will
not serve, then sendest Thou adversity, graciously cor
recting all Thy children whom Thou receivest into Thy
household. Wherefore we, wretched and miserable

sinners, render unto Thee most humble and hearty

thanks that it hath pleased Thee to call us home to Thy
fold by fatherly correction at this present, whereas in

our prosperity and liberty we did neglect Thy graces
offered unto us. For the which negligence, and many
other grievous sins whereof we now accuse ourselves
before Thee, Thou mightest most justly have given us up
to reprobate minds and induration of our hearts, as
Thou hast done others. But such is Thy goodness, O
Lord, that Thou seemest to forget all our offences, and
hast called us of Thy good pleasure from all idolatries
into this city most Christianly reformed, to profess Thy
name, and to suffer some cross amongst Thy people for
Thy truth and Gospel's sake ; and so to be Thy wit
nesses with Thy prophets and apostles, yea, with Thy
dearly beloved Son Jesus Christ our Head, to whom
Thou dost begin here to fashion us like, that in His
glory we may also be like Him when He shall appear.
O Lord God, what are we upon whom Thou shouldst
show this great mercy ? O most loving Lord, forgive
us our unthankfulness and all our sins, for Jesus Christ's

sake. O heavenly Father, increase Thy Holy Spirit in
us, to teach our hearts to cry Abba, dear Father ; to
assure us of our eternal election in Christ; to reveal

Thy will more and more towards us ; to confirm us so
in Thy truth that we may live and die therein ; and
that, by the power of the same Spirit, we may boldly

HIS LAST SUNDAY.  467

give an account of our faith to all men with humbleness
and meekness, that whereas they backbite and slander

us as evil-doers, they may be ashamed and once stop
their mouths seeing our good conversation in Christ

Jesus, for whose sake we beseech Thee, O Lord God, to

guide, govern, and prosper this our enterprise in as
sembling our brethren to praise Thy Holy name. And
not only to be here present with us Thy children ac

cording to Thy promise, but also mercifully to assist
Thy like persecuted people, our brethren, gathered in
all other places, that they and we, consenting together
in one spirit and truth, may (all worldly respects set
apart) seek Thy only honour and glory in all their and
our assemblies. So be it ! '

     Next day Mr and Mrs Miller went to church in the

forenoon, and, on the way home, he remarked that the
wind was cold, and that he did not feel well, and asked

whether she would remain at home with him in the

afternoon. She consented, adding that she was very
tired, and that one of her limbs pained her. Mrs
Miller usually went to church in a basket phaeton,
but did not use it that day, and her husband observed

affectionately that he wished he could carry her. In a

lane opening on the main road, a few yards from the
gate of Shrub Mount, there was a poor woman who,
some days previously, had met with an accident, and

Mrs Miller now said that she would go and inquire for
her, remaining not more than a few minutes. An ex
pression of pain crossed his face, as if he disliked the

momentary separation.
      The time of the afternoon service, the rest of the

household being in church, was passed by Hugh Miller
and his wife in solemn, thoughtful converse. The reader
knows what she was to him. She had been his friend.

468 MAN OF SCIENCE.

respected for her intellect, honoured for her character,

before he loved her ; and when he did love her, it was

with the intense and passionate devotion of a strong
man, who never loved woman but one. Had he never

loved her, he might never have laid down the mallet
and the chisel, or quitted Cromarty. They had known
fair and foul weather in their wedded life, but on the

whole it has been a fitting sequel to those old days
                                      '
when  his  ' gentle  blue                would ' melt  with  be
                           eyes

nevolence and a chastened tenderness,' looking into

hers, while the green leaves softened the sunlight

above, and the summer wave threw its shattering crystal

at their feet. His trust and pride in her had never

changed, and she held to the last the throne of his

affections, supreme and apart from any other human

being. On this Sunday afternoon he was in his most

tender and confidential, which was always also his re

ligious, mood. No secular matters were spoken of, but

in what he said on spiritual things Mrs Miller observed,

what she had recently noticed in his prayers at family
worship, ' an increasing earnestness, a child-like hu

mility, a more entire reliance upon the merits of the
Saviour to blot out all sin, a more awful sense of

God's immediate presence.' His affection was so ardent

that Mrs Miller regarded it with something of sur

prise. He suddenly seized her hand, and kissed it with
a manner she had never seen before. ' There was

in it a great deal more than affection, -- an air of court

liness, so to speak, indescribable.' In pondering on
this action, Mrs Miller has asked whether it could pos

sibly have had the meaning of a farewell. Comparing it

with the strange and painful expression which flitted

across his countenance as they came from church, she is

persuaded that he was haunted by the dread of some

HE CONSULTS DR BALFOUR.                469

prostrating stroke, and that there were sensations in his

brain which gave him the idea that it might be near.
He was certainly haunted by some great terror; but
it was not the fear of apoplexy, it was the fear of an

overmastering paroxysm of insanity. He spent the

evening quietly, reading a little book on a religious
subject, and writing a brief notice of it for the paper.

      On Monday morning Mrs Miller made her way up

stairs before breakfast, and met him on the top of the
stairs. He said that he had passed a bad, restless

night. At breakfast, which only Mrs Miller and his

eldest daughter partook with him, his conversation was

animated and copious. He ate nothing, however, merely
swallowing a cup of tea, and his mind was evidently
occupied with his sensations in the night. He spoke of

sleep-walking, and told an anecdote of a student who

had left his room, clambered on the roof, entered an

adjoining house, divested himself, night after night, of

his shirt, and hidden the garments, to the number of

half-a-dozen, in a cask of feathers. Breakfast over,

he recurred to the subject which had never been

from his thoughts. ' It was a strange night,' he said ;
I I' there was something didn't like.
                                       shall just throw

on my plaid, and step out to see Dr Balfour.' Dr Bal

four lived in Portobello, and was in customary attend

ance upon Mr Miller and his family. The proposal of

her husband astonished Mrs Miller. During his whole

life he had shown the utmost reluctance to take medical

advice, and this was the first time she had ever known

him speak of going voluntarily in quest of a doctor.

She cordially approved of his determination, and, at
about ten o'clock, he presented himself to Dr Balfour.

     Of the consultation which followed Dr Balfour has
given a full report. ' On my asking,' says the Doctor,

470 MAN OF SCIENCE.

' what was the matter with him, he replied, " My brain

is giving way. I cannot put two thoughts together to
day : I have had a dreadful night of it : I cannot face
Ianother such : was impressed with the idea that my

Imuseum was attacked by robbers, and that had got

up, put on my clothes, and gone out with a loaded pistol

Ito shoot them. Immediately after that became un
Iconscious. How long that continued cannot say ; but
Iwhen I awoke in the morning was trembling all over,
Iand quite confused in my brain. On rising felt as if

a stiletto was suddenly, and as quickly as an electric

shock, passed through my brain from front to back, and

I Ileft a burning sensation on the top of the brain, just

below the bone. So thoroughly convinced was that

Imust have been out through the night, that examined

my trousers, to see if they were wet or covered with
Imud, but could find none.
                            was somewhat similarly
Iaffected through the night twice last week, and ex
Iamined my trousers in the morning, to see if had been

out. Still, the terrible sensations were not nearly so

bad as they were last night. Towards the end of last

week, while passing through the Exchange in Edinburgh,

I Iwas seized with such a giddiness that staggered,
I Iand would, think, have fallen, had not gone into an
Ientry, where
               leaned against the wall, and became
quite unconscious for some seconds." ' Dr Balfour in

formed him that he had been overworking his brain, and

agreed to call at Shrub Mount on the following day to

make a fuller examination.

     Mr Miller had no sooner left the house to seek Dr

Balfour, than Mrs Miller, turning to her daughter, said :
I I--' There is something unusual the matter with your
papa.  cannot be satisfied without more advice.

am quite certain he would make some difficulty about

          PROFESSOR MILLER CONSULTED.                                 471

Iit; therefore you and will go up by the 12 o'clock

coach, and make an appointment with Professor Miller
to come down here.' When Mr Miller returned, he

mentioned that he had a funeral to attend at two o'clock,

and would go to Edinburgh by the 12 o'clock coach.
She told him that she and Miss Miller, having some

thing to do in town, were to go at the same time. He
inquired particularly what was their errand, and Mrs
Miller, ' acting under a stern and inexorable necessity,'
put him off with the statement that they wished to see

a picture then being exhibited in Prince's Street. The

                        '
                                                         ;

                                                           it,
                                                                  in
picture was there, they wished to see              and they

actually did so on this occasion but the principal

object of their trip to town remained unseen                          the

background.      Professor Miller, 'with his usual quick

decisive kindness,' said, I'll be down to-morrow at three

o'clock.' Mrs Miller arranged that Dr Balfour should

come at the same hour.

   When she returned home, she found her husband

already there, resting on the sofa             in  the dining-room.

He told her what he had been doing since they parted,

dwelling especially on the precautions which he was

using to avoid taking cold. In return, he wanted to

know exactly what his wife and daughter had been

about in town.   We saw the picture, as we intended.'
                 ?
                 Was that really your chief business'
'  Nothing else                                    if
                                 a
                                                               '
                                   it                                       ?'
Mrs Miller saw that suspicion of the true state of

affairs had crossed his mind. She feared his serious

displeasure, and thought possible that, not treated

with frankness, he might keep out of the way and defeat
her main aim. With hesitation, therefore, and placing
her hand on his forehead, Don't,' she said, be dis
          I

                                         is '
pleased.     went likewise to Professor Miller to ask him

to come and see you. He to come at three to-morrow.

472 MAN OF SCIENCE.

You won't object --you won't throw any obstacle in the
way -- if it were only to relieve my mind ? ' He made

no answer, and remained silent for a considerable time.

At the moment he was, Mrs Miller thinks, displeased ;

but the shadow soon passed from his face, and during

the evening he was in his gentlest, kindest mood.

     Next morning Mrs Miller again met him at the top
of the stairs before breakfast, and was relieved to find

that he had passed a better night. Immediately after

breakfast he began to correct the last proofs of the

Testimony of the Rocks. About midday he became

restless, and she feared that he might make some move

ment which would prevent the consultation. The day

was bitterly cold, with drizzling rain. She made pre

tences to be near him, watchful lest he should slip away

unnoticed. At last he proclaimed his intention of going

Iup to town to anticipate Professor Miller's visit. '

cannot bear/ he said, ' taking him down in this way.

You know his generosity, and he has so much to do-- '

' Well, believe me,' replied Mrs Miller, ' there's not

much he has to do he would put in competition with

coming to see you when you need it. Just look at the
day. You know that if you go out, you will bring on

Ianother inflammatory attack in your chest, and then

shall have done more harm than good. Do stay now,

and let things go on, if you never do again.' ' Well,'

he answered, ' I will.' Mrs Miller was passing his

chair at the moment, and putting her hand into the

shaggy hair which he used to wear on the top of his
head, she gave it a slight tug, ' half a caress, half a play

ful rebuke for his contumacy,' while she thanked him
for complying. ' Don't,' he said mildly, ' it hurts me.'

The medical gentlemen arrived and the interview
             ' We examined his chest,' -- such is Pro-
\commenced.

PROFESSOR MILLERS REPORT.              473

fessor Miller's report, -- ' and found that unusually well ;

but soon we discovered that it was head-symptoms that

made him uneasy. He acknowledged having been
night after night up till very late in the morning,

hard   and continuously   at his new   book,
 with  much satisfaction   he said, "   have
Iw" owrhkiicnhg,"

finished this day." He was sensible that his head had

suffered in consequence, as evidenced in two ways :

first, occasionally he felt as if a very fine poniard had

been suddenly passed through and through his brain.

The pain was intense, and momentarily followed by

confusion and giddiness, and the sense of being very
drunk, unable to stand or walk. He thought that a

period of unconsciousness must have followed this, --a

kind of swoon, but he had never fallen. Second, what

annoyed him most, however, was a kind of nightmare,

which for some nights past had rendered sleep most

miserable. It was no dream, he said : he saw no

distinct vision, and could remember nothing of what

had passed accurately. It was a sense of vague and yet

intense horror, with a conviction of being abroad in the

night wind, and dragged through places as if by some

Iinvisible power. " Last night," he said, " I felt as if

had been ridden by a witch for fifty miles, and rose far

Imore wearied in mind and body than when lay down."

So strong was his conviction of having been out, that he

had difficulty in persuading himself to the contrary, by
carefully examining his clothes in the morning to see if

they were not wet or dirty ; and he looked inquiringly

and anxiously to his wife, asking if she was sure he had

not been out last night, and walking in this disturbed
trance or dream. His pulse was quiet, but tongue foul.

The head was not hot, but he could not say he was free
Ifrom pain. But
                 need not enter into professional

474 MAN OF SCIENCE.

details. Suffice it to say, that we came to the conclusion
that he was suffering from an overworked mind, dis

ordering his digestive organs, enervating his whole
frame, and threatening serious head affection. We told
him this, and enjoined absolute discontinuance of work,

--bed at eleven, light supper (he had all his life made

that a principal meal), thinning the hair of the head, a
warm sponging-bath at bed-time, &c. To all our com
mands he readily promised obedience. For fully an
hour we talked together on these and other subjects, and

I left him with no apprehension of impending evil, and

little doubting but that a short time of rest and regimen
would restore him to his wonted vigour.'

     It may occur to many to ask how it could happen

that medical men so circumspect, so vigilant, so able as

Professor Miller and Dr Balfour, having become ac

quainted with these symptoms of insanity, did not sug

gest that precautions should be taken, to the extent at
least of removing fire-arms from the person and presence
of their patient. Miller's fear of robbery had returned

in all its force. A revolver lay nightly within his reach.
A broad-bladed dagger was ready to his hand. At his
bed-head lay a naked sword. Why were not these

taken away? The reply is that, though paroxysms of
madness had already visited Miller, he had revealed no
trace of suicidal mania, and the circumstances under

which his mental disorder had originated were not such
as to suggest alarm. His brain had been overworked ;
but the labour which had shaken his nerves and sapped
his strength, had been congenial to him ; and his con
versation was that of one who looked with hope and
with interest to the future. His intellect, besides, apart
from the maniacal belief which at moments oppressed

     that he was made the sport of demons the night,
it,\
                                                                           in

FLITTING PAROXYSMS.  475

was strong and clear. That powerful action of the

mind may take place even when it is under the spell of

overmastering mania is demonstrated by the fact that
Cowper wrote in a single day, while suffering ' the most

appalling mental depression,' the Castaway, a poem
which, in the masculine brevity of its narrative, and the
concentration of its tragic power, is altogether masterly.
Listening to the conversation of Hugh Miller, which,
even while he described the agonies that tortured him,
attested the vigour of his faculties, the medical gentle
men never thought it possible that intensity of mental
horror might suddenly paralyze his will, and deprive

reason of control over his actions. It is so easy to be

wise after the event ! so difficult to forecast the steps of
destiny ! The riddle of the Sphynx, once we know its

solution, looks childishly simple ; and yet it took an
(Edipus to read it.

      Professor Miller and Dr Balfour having left Shrub
Mount, it was now time for dinner. The servant entered
the dining-room to spread the table, and found Mr
Miller alone. The expression which once or twice

already had been observed on his features was again
there. His face was so distorted with pain, that she
shrank back appalled. He lay down upon the sofa,

and pressed his head, as if in agony, upon the cushion.
      The paroxysm flitted by, and when Mrs Miller

returned to the dining-room he was in apparent health.
She naturally shared the hopeful anticipations which
Professor Miller had expressed, and her mind would
dwell with comfort on the regimen and rest which were

now, by medical authority, to be brought to bear upon his
case. After dinner the conversation turned upon poetry.
Miss Miller, ' then just blooming into womanhood, be

tween sixteen and seventeen years of age,' was At the

476 MAN OF SCIENCE.

time attending classes, and among other tasks, had

to produce verses upon given themes. She consulted
her father upon her performances, and he would take
the opportunity of delivering a chatty little lecture upon
poetry, taking down from the shelf the works of some
well-known author, to serve for the illustration of his re

marks. This evening the subject of lecture was Cowper,
one of his supreme favourites. He ranked the bard of

Olney, both in poetry and in prose, among the great
masters of the English language. The verses on Yardley
Oak he would often refer to, as evincing the wonderful
power with which Cowper could bend the roughest words
to suit his purposes of delineation and of melody. The
lines are perhaps the fittest which a critic could select
to illustrate the genius of Cowper. They have that
brief, decisive force by which, at his best, he recalls
the mighty touch of Dry den, with a vivid, eye-to-eye

truth to nature which reminds us that Cowper, if the

poetical child of Dryden, was the poetical sire of Words

worth.

   ' Thou wast a bauble once ; a cup and ball,
    Which babes might play with ; and the thievish jay,
    Seeking her food, with ease might have purloined

    The auburn nut that held thee, swallowing down
    Thy yet close-folded latitude of boughs,
    And all thine embryo vastness, at a gulp.
    But fate thy growth decreed ; autumnal rains

     Beneath thy parent-tree mellowed the soil

    Designed thy cradle ; and a skipping deer,
    With pointed hoof dibbling the glebe, prepared
    The soft receptacle, in which, secure,
    Thy rudiments should sleep the winter through.'

The vein of reflection, too, obscured by no mysticism

yet touching on deep things, which runs through the
piece, would please Miller.

   OWfhtirleeesthhiups--thfrirosutgah   all the stages thou hast  pushed
                                       seedling, hid in grass ;

V

                            TUESDAY EVENING.            477

Then twig ; then sapling ; and, as century rolled
Slow after century, a giant bulk
Of girth enormous, with moss-cushioned root

Upheaved above the soil, and sides embossed

With prominent wens globose -- till at the last
The rottenness, which Time is charged to inflict

On other mighty ones, found also thee.
    What exhibitions various hath the world

Witnessed, of mutability in all
That we account most durable below !
Change is the diet on which all subsist,

Created changeable, and change at last

Destroys them. Skies uncertain now the heat
Transmitting cloudless, and the solar beam
Now quenching in a boundless sea of clouds ;

Calm and alternate storm, moisture and drought,

Invigorate by turns the springs of life
In all that live, plant, animal, and man,
And in conclusion mar them. Nature's threads,

Fine passing thought, even in her coarsest works,
Delight in agitation, yet sustain
The force that agitates, not unimpaired ;
But worn by frequent impulse, to the cause
Of their best tone their dissolution owe.'

Mrs Miller's little Christmas volume, Cats and Dogs,

which has since been highly popular, was then passing

through the press. Mr Miller took a lively interest in

and gave warmly favourable opinion of its qualities.
is it,
He now asked the children they knew Cowper's lines
                         '  if
To a Retired Cat, and, on their answering in the nega
                    by a             it
                                                 is
tive, read them with sprightly appreciation. The cat,   it, it

may be remembered, finding an open drawer, lined with

the softest linen, concludes that  has been prepared

expressly for her accommodation, falls fast asleep in

immured                     the chambermaid, and in danger of

being starved.

That night, by chance, the poet watching,

Heard an inexplicable scratching;

His noble heart went pit-a-pat,               ;?     "
And to himself he said--" What's that

He drew the curtain at his side,

And forth he peep'd, but nothing spied

478 MAN OF SCIENCE.

           Yet, by his ear directed, guessed     it,
                                                          it
           Something imprisoned in the chest,                            a
           And, doubtful what, with prudent care,
                                                                                                  :
           Eesolved it should continue there.

           At length, a voice which well he knew,
           A long and melancholy mew,
           Saluting his poetic ears,

           Consoled him and dispelled his fears ;
           He left his bed, he trod the floor,
           He 'gan in haste the drawers explore,
           The lowest first, and without stop
           The rest in order to the top.
           For 'tis a truth well known to most,
           That whatsoever thing is lost,
           We seek ere come to light,
           In every cranny but the right.
           Forth skipped the cat, not now replete
           As erst with airy self-conceit,
           Nor, in her own fond apprehension,
           A theme for all the world's attention,
           But modest, sober, cured of all
           Her notions hyperbolical,
           And wishing, for a place of rest,

           Anything rather than chest.

           Then stepped the poet into bed
           With this reflection in his head
           Beware of too sublime a sense

           Of your own worth and consequence.
           The man who dreams himself so great,
           And his importance of such weight,
           That all around in all that's done
           Must move and act for him alone,
           "Will learn in school of tribulation
           The folly of his expectation.'

The father reading and remarking--the children

with happy faces and                             merry trills of laughter clustered
                                                 mother tranquillized and hopeful
round his knee --the
after her terrible anxieties of the preceding days --such

the spectacle which, on this Tuesday evening, two days
is
                 a'

                in

                                                                  '
before Christmas, 1856, we behold in the home of Hugh
Miller. Mrs Miller was making tea, when she heard

his voice  tones of anguish reading The Castaway.

Here are few of the verses.

           THE CASTAWAY.                                   479

' Obscurest night involved the sky,
     The Atlantic billows rolled,

 When such a destined wretch as I,

      Washed headlong from on board,
 Of friends, of hope, of all bereft,

 His floating home for ever left.

' Not long beneath the whelming brine,

     Expert to swim, he lay ;
 Nor soon he felt his strength decline,

      Or courage die away ;
  But waged with death a lasting strife,
 Supported by despair of life.

' He long survives who lives an hour
In ocean, self-upheld :

And so long he, with unspent power,

His destiny repelled ;

And ever,  haes lpth, eormcinriuetdes--f"leAwd, ieu  !  "
Entreated

1 At length, his transient respite past,
     His comrades, who before

 Had heard his voice in every blast,

      Could catch the sound no more.
 For then, by toil subdued, he drank
 The stifling wave, and then he sank.

' No poet wept him : but the page
     Of narrative sincere,

 That tells his name, his worth, his age,
     Is wet with Anson's tear ;

 And tears by bards or heroes shed
 Alike immortalize the dead.

' I therefore purpose not, or dream,

      Descanting on his fate,
 To give the melancholy theme

    A more enduring date :
 But misery still delights to trace
 Its semblance in another's case.

'No voice divine the storm allayed,
     No light propitious shone,

 When, snatched from all effectual aid,

     We perished, each alone :

 But I beneath a rougher sea,

 And whelmed in deeper gulfs than he.'

480 MAN OF SCIENCE.

      Mrs Miller, however, was not alarmed. She felt
that her husband, in capacity of critic and reader, was
merely bringing out by sudden and skilful contrast the
range of Cowper's power, now archly droll, now sternly
tragical. He turned, last of all, to the Lines to Mar//,
and, at certain of the verses, she could perceive half-
stolen glances at her over the page.

                  ' Thy silver locks, once auburn bright,
                   Are still more lovely in my sight
                   Than golden beams of orient light,

                                                      My Mary !

             ' For could I view nor them nor thee,
              What sight worth seeing could I see ?

                   The sun would rise in vain for me,
                                                      My Mary !

                 ' Partakers of thy sad decline,
                   Thy hands their little force resign ;
                      But, gently pressed, press gently mine,
                                                      My Mary !

                 1 Such feebleness of limb thou prov'st,
                   That now, at every step thou mov'st
                   Upheld by two, yet still thou lov'st,
                                                      My Mary !

                 ' And still to love, though pressed with ill,
                   In wintry age to feel no chill,
                   With me is to be lovely still,
                                                      My Mary ! '

      Early in the evening, as might have been expected
after that agitating day, Mrs Miller began to feel
weary. She went to the kitchen and gave particular
orders about his bath ; then, returning to the sitting-
room, she remarked to him that she was ' very, very
tired ' and would be forced to leave him sooner than

usual. ' Now,' he said, ' that I am forbidden ale or
Iporter, don't you think that in future might have a

cup of coffee before going to bed ? ' With some hesita
tion she assented, and promised that the coffee should

 V

        TUESDAY NIGHT.                                481

oe brought him. The good-night kiss followed, and she
retired to slumbers which were probably the deeper on
account of the excitement and fatigue, the anxieties
and consolations, of the preceding day. Miller went
up-stairs to his study. At the appointed hour he took
the bath, but, alas ! his intense repugnance to physic
prevailed over him, and the dose of prescribed medicine
was left untouched. From his study he went into his
sleeping-room and lay down upon his bed.

     At what hour can never be ascertained, but either

in the dead of night or in the grey dawn of morning, he
arose from the bed and half dressed himself. Then the

trance of paroxysmal horror again came over him, and
the maniacal persuasion which had for days been
haunting him drove him mad. He rushed to the table,
and, on a folio sheet of paper, on the centre of the page,

traced the following lines :

' Dearest Lydia,
        I'My brain burns.
                                must have walked; and
Ia fearful dream rises upon me.
                                        cannot bear the

horrible thought. God and Father of the Lord Jesus

Christ, have mercy upon me. Dearest Lydia, dear

children, farewell. My brain burns as the recollection

grows.  My dear, dear wife, farewell.

                                       ' Hugh Miller.'

The iron resolution and courage of the man appeared

even in the maniac. He wore a thick woven seaman's                ^

jacket over his chest. This he raised on the left above
the heart, and, applying the muzzle of his revolver, fired.
The ball perforated the left lung, grazed the heart, cut
through the pulmonary artery at its root, and lodged in

the rib on the right side.  The pistol  slipped from    his

                                                               T
\vol,. II.
hand into the bath which stood close by, and he fell

                            31

482 MAN OF SCIENCE.

dead instantaneously. The body was       found lying on
                                         been made, the
the floor, the feet upon the study rug.

     A post-mortem examination having
following report was the result :--

                                                     1 Edinburgh, December 26, 1856.

      ' We hereby certify on soul and conscience, that we

have this day examined the body of Mr Hugh Miller, at

Shrub Mount, Portobello.

      ' The cause of death we found to be a pistol-shot

through the left side of the chest ; and this, we are satis

fied, was inflicted by his own hand.
      ' From the diseased appearances found in the brain,

taken in connection with the history of the case, we have
no doubt that the act was suicidal under the impulse of

insanity.  'JAMES MILLER,
           'A. H. BALFOUR,
           'W. T. GA1RDNER,
           'A. M. EDWARDS.'

     It is a melancholy satisfaction to reflect that, in no
case of suicide which ever took place, can the evidence of
insanity have been more express or conclusive. Had
no trace of disease been found in the brain--had no
word written by Hugh Miller at the last attested mad
ness --the overwork to which he had subjected himself,

the excitement to which he had been a prey, would
have afforded adequate grounds for believing him insane.
But the actual mania which was gaining the mastery
over him had been defined by himself some days before

his death ; and this mania, namely, that he was driven
by witches or demons in the darkness, is specified be
yond possibility of mistake or doubt, in the thrilling

Iwords, ' must have walked.' That even when he was

              HIS EXPRESSION IN DEATH.                                483

the victim of mania, the tenderness of his nature sur

vived, that he could still discriminate the supremacy

of his affection for the wife of his youth, that the cry

of his heart, when reason was eclipsed in madness and

the shadow of death fell on the reeling brain, rose clear

to God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, will

be dwelt on with sad interest by those whom Hugh

Miller taught to love him with inexpressible love.
     ' The body,' writes Dr Hanna, who was one of the

first to seeit         was lifted and laid upon the bed.
            it,

                   a'
We saw there few hours afterwards. The head lay

back, side-ways on the pillow. There was the massive

brow, the firm-set, manly features, we had so often

looked upon admiringly, just as we had lately seen

them, --no touch nor trace upon them of disease, --

nothing but that overspread pallor of death to distin
guish them from what they had been. But the expres
sion of that countenance in death will live in our

memory for ever. Death by gun-shot wounds                             said
                             it,
                                                           is
to leave no trace of suffering behind; and never was

there face of the dead freer from all shadow of pain,
it a
                itor grief, or conflict, than that of our dear departed

friend. And as we bent over  and remembered the

troubled look          sometimes had in life, and thought

what must have been the sublimely-terrific expression

that wore at the moment when the fatal deed was

done, we could not help thinking that lay there to
                                 in
                                       it

                                                    a

                                                                   ;
tell us, in that expression of unruffled majestic repose

that sat upon every feature, what we so assuredly

believe, that the spirit had passed through terrible

tornado, in which reason had been broken down but

that had made the great passage  safety, and stood
it

looking back to us, in humble, grateful triumph, from

the other side.'

484 MAN OF SCIENCE.

     The excitement occasioned by the event throughout
Scotland was tremendous, and no such funeral had taken
place in Edinburgh since that of Chalmers. He was laid
in the Grange cemetery, near the spot where Chalmers

rests.

     From a large number of letters received by Mrs
Miller on the occasion of her husband's death, the three

which follow are selected for publication.

          'Tavistock House, London, Thursday, April 16th, 1857.

' Dear Madam,

          ' Allow me to assure you that I have received

the last work of your late much-lamented husband with

feelings of mournful respect for his memory and of
                              It touches me very
heartfelt sympathy with you.

sensibly to know, from the inscription appended to the

volume, that he wished it to be given to me. Believe

me, it will fill no neglected place on my book-shelves,

but will always be precious to me, in remembrance of a

delightful writer, an accomplished follower of science,

and an upright and good man.

    ' I hope I may, dear Madam, without obtrusion on

your great bereavement, venture to offer you my thanks

Iand condolences, and to add that, before was brought

into this personal association with your late husband's
Ifinal labour,
                was one of the many thousands whose

thoughts  had been much with you.
                        ' Yours faithfully and obliged,

                                        ' Charles Dickens.'

Mrs Hron Miller.

                                                               ' Chelsea, April 15th, 1857.

     ' My dear Madam,

           I' Last night received a Gift of your sending,

which is at once very precious and very mournful to me.

           LETTER FROM MR CARLYLE.                                                        485

       ' There is for ever connected with the very title of

                   !
                                       ;

                                         it,

                                       I

                                                          it

                                                                       is
                                                                                  aa
this Book the fact that, in writing              the cordage of

strong heart cracked in pieces that the ink of

     brave man's life-blood The Book itself, already see,

in is  full of grave, manly talent, clearness, eloquence,

     faithful conviction, inquiry, knowledge and will teach
                                                 ;

     me and others much readingin        it      but that                          is is  already

                        a                     :

     an extrinsic fact, which will give  ita     double significance

     to us all. For myself, voice of friendly recognition

     from such man, coming to me thus out of the still
           a

                              in
                                 it

                                                                         ;
     kingdoms, has something       of religion and strange

     and solemn in these profane, empty times.

       I' In common with everybody,              mourned over the
                   ;

                               I

                                                                                :
     late tragic catastrophe the world's great loss, especially

     your irreparable and ever-lamentable one but as for

     him, confess there was always present, after the first

     shock, the thought that at least he was out of bondage,

     into freedom and rest.   perceived that, for such
                   is                                                                     a

                        !

                           I
     man there was no rest appointed except in the countries

     where he now

       '  Dear Madam, what can we say                                       The ways of

                                                 it is ?
                                                       is
     God are high and dark, and yet there mercy hidden
                                                                                   that " His
       them. Surely, we know anything,
                   if
                                                 will not insult your
                                I
     goodness endureth for ever."

     grief by pretending to lighten it. You and your little

     ones, yes, you have cause, as few have had, to mourn
       '

               I

                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                       ;
     but you have also such assuagements as not many have.
            With respectful sympathy, with many true thanks

     and regards, remain,

                                         Sincerely yours,

                                               'T. Carlyle.'

486 MAN OF SCIENCE.

                               ' Denmark Hill, April 9th, 1857.

' My dear Madam,

           I' received yesterday evening the book which
I owe to the kindness of your late husband, and which
I receive as from his hand ; with mingled feelings, not
Ialtogether to be set down in a letter, even if could

tell you them without giving some new power of hurt,

if that be possible, to your own sorrow. But there are

Ione or two things which want to say to you. Hu
Imanly speaking, cannot imagine a greater grief than

yours, or one which a stranger should more reverently

or more hopelessly leave unspoken of, attempting no

Iword of consolation ; and yet can fancy that there is

one point in which you may not yet have enough
regarded it. To all of us, who knew your late hus

band's genius at all, --to you, above all, who knew it
best, -- it seems to me that the bitterest cruelty of the

trial must lie in the sense of his work being so unac

complished, of all that he might have done, had he

lived ; and of the littleness of the thing that brought

about his illness and death. It seems so hard that a

little overwork, a few more commas to be put into a

page of type, a paragraph to be shortened or added, in

the last moment, should make the difference between

life and death. Perhaps your friends have dwelt too

much -- if they have attempted to help you at all--on

ordinary beaten topics of religious consolation, not, it

seems to me, applying to the worst part of this sorrow,

and they may not have dwelt enough on what does

fully bearin                     namely, the   general law  of   Pro
vidence                  it,   strange work."    We rarely       how
             upon           "                               see
            God's

small the things are which bring about what He has

appointed, nor do we see, generally, the strange loss,
which takes place continually, of the powers He gives.

               LETTER FROM MR RUSKIN.                                                                    487

If you could see this, you would not feel that He had

set you up as a mark, and spared no arrows. That

       ;

                                                 if

                                                                            is

                                                                              it,

                                                                                                   ; is
which has befallen you, though you do not think

yet the common lot of man. The earth         full of lost

powers no human soul perishes, but, you could only

read its true history, you would find that not the

thousandth part of its possible work had been done

that even when the result seemed greatest the man

either was or ought to have been conscious of irre

parable failure and shortcoming that,        the plurality
                                             in ;
                                                            in

                                                                  if

                                                                                 by
of cases, the whole end and use of life had been more or

less lost, and,  many cases, in the crudest way,
                 in
accident or adversity. And                   like manner,                                                you
                              a
could only see the origin of all diseases, you would see

that what we called natural disease, and received as

an inevitable dispensation, did              (I

                                                in

                                                                        a

                                                                                                      ;
                                             reality depend on

some pettiest of petty chances               speak humanly) on

the man's having untied his neckerchief near window,

when he should not on his having stopped at the
               in
                                     ;
street-corner    an east wind to talk to friend for half
                                             is
                                                    a

                                                                       it
it, aminute on his having worried himself uselessly about
       ;

                 bill nothing                so trivial, but
an overcharge    in

                      a

                                          ;

     may be the Appointed Death-Angel to the man. And

     when once you feel this fully (my own work has taught

     me this more than most men's, for no wreck so fre
                                                                                           is

     quent, no waste so wild, as the wreck and waste of the

     minds of men devoted to the arts), when once you feel

       and understand that this waste, which seems so won

               is
                                      by
                                         is

                                                                                          ;

                                                                   in
                                                                              aa
     derful to us, intended                  the Deity to be part of

his dealing with men (just as the rivers are poured out

to run into their swallowing Death-sea, only lip here

and there tasting them), and that this law of chance,

which seems so trivial to us, as entirely                                                  His hand

as the lightning and the plague-spot then, while to

488 MAN OF SCIENCE.

all of us who are still counting the hours, the truth is a

solemn one ; to those who mourn for their dead, it

ought not to be a distressing one. It is only to our

narrow human view that anything is lost or wasted.

God gave the mind to do a certain work, and withdrew
it when that work was done ; we, poor innocents, may

fancy that something else should have been done ; so

assuredly, in all cases, it should ; but in no special and

separate instance can we say, --here is a destiny pe

culiarly broken,   here a   wtoorkhispecguoloiadrlyseruvnafnutlsf,ille"dW. ellI
read that God     will say

done," but not, "Enough done." It is only He who
judges of and appoints that " enough."

    I' Pardon me if pain you by dwelling on this, but I

know that many persons do not feel this generalness in

human shortcoming ; we are all too apt to think every

thing has been right if a man lives to be old, and

everything lost if he dies young.

    I' have not been able to look much at the book

yet, but it seems a noble bequest to us.
      ' Believe me, my dear Madam, always respectfully

and faithfully yours,       ' J. RUSKIN.'

    I was personally acquainted with Hugh Miller only
in the few last years of his life. I knew that my rela

tives in the Highlands were on terms of intimate friend

ship with him, and that I could be introduced to him
whenever I chose ; but I had a vague feeling that I

could know him most advantageously by thoroughly

studying one or more of his books. I used to attend

the lectures delivered in connection with the Edin

burgh Philosophical Institution, and it was on its

platform that I first had full view and hearing of

A UTHOITS RECOLLECTIONS.                     489

Hugh Miller. The spell of his personality fell upon me
at once. The large shaggy head, the massive bust, the
modest grandeur of demeanour, the unmistakable im
press of power on calm lip and in steadfast eye, the look
of originality and rugged strength about the whole man,
arrested and enchained me. There breathed around him,

also, a certain indefinable influence of gentleness and

noble affection. You felt that he was honest and good.

IThe mood of admiring indifference with which had re

garded him gave place to ardent interest, rlis language,

clear, idiomatic, melodious, derived zest from his pro

Ivincial accent, and shall never forget the moment

when he concluded a classically picturesque and beauti

ful passage, descriptive of an ancient Scottish forest,

with the words, ' the exe hed been buzzy in its gleds,'
Ii. e. the axe had been busy in its glades.
                                             now lost no

time in becoming personally acquainted with Hugh

Miller. IMy welcome was cordial ; soon felt myself at

home in his society and household ; and would look in

not unfrequently of an evening, taking part in his

favourite meal, supper, and engaging with him in free

and varied conversation.
IOne of the first things
                          noted in the domestic
Icircle to which had been introduced was the harmoni

ous and seemly relation subsisting between husband
and wife. There was no trace of intellectual dictator

ship on his part ; he carefully considered and highly
valued every remark of Mrs Miller's. On her side

there was reverence for his mental power, without
the slightest sacrifice of independent judgment, and
with an obvious and lively delight in argumentative con
versation. At times, in the friendliest tone, she would

hint to him that some part of his dress might be improved,

and pleasant little banterings -- ' netted sunbeams ' on

490 MAN OF SCIENCE.

the   surface  ohfapthpeinestsrseabme,nsehatohw, i--ngwtohuelddeopcthcurofutphoen  flow
of   conjugal                                                                       the
Isubject.
               remember, for instance, that his hat was

once pronounced exceptionable, and that, by way of

providing himself with an ally against Mrs Miller on the

point, he had trained his son Hugh, just beginning to

toddle and to lisp, to say,

               ' Papa has got a very bad hat,
                And many a word he hears about that.'

The impression formed in my mind was that Mr and
Mrs Miller were on exactly those terms on which it was

desirable and beautiful that a man eminent in the in

tellectual world and his wife should be.

    By Hugh Miller's manner to myself I was fascin

ated, and not a little surprised. He talked little and

heard much. It seemed to please him to observe the

lights cast on subjects by a younger mind ; the line of
my culture, also, was somewhat different from his own,

Ifor then cared comparatively little for science, and was

in a perpetual glow of enthusiasm about Shelley, Keats,
Tennyson, Carlyle, and Ruskin ; and my opinions, quietly
allowed to gush forth in the artless gabble of youth,
may have interested him as natural curiosities. Happily

I have forgotten my own remarks, unhappily also most

of his. He never spoke on the impulse of the moment,
though he never hesitated. The opinion had been con
sidered long before, and put into its place in his
memory ; and it was brought out with a calm pre
cision which suggested that he had ceased to discuss
the subject. His gentleness, his willingness to listen,
his intellectual tolerance and fine kind sympathy, took

captive my heart. This man, I felt, whatever else he

may or may not be, is a born gentleman. The idea
got hold of my mind, and in a sketch of Hugh Miller

          AUTHORS RECOLLECTIONS.                               491

Icontributed to an Edinburgh magazine at the time,

dwelt on it at some length. The passage, slightly ab

breviated, may as well be printed here. It conveys, in

spite of juvenility of expression, a more vivid notion of

what then struck me in his deportment than any words

I could now use.

      "Perhaps the highest compliment, all things con

sidered, which we can pay to Hugh Miller is this, --

that he is in the best sense a gentleman, that he is

truly and strictly polite. True politeness is one of the

rarest things ; it may be met with in the hut of the

Arab, in the courtyard of the Turk, in the cottage of the
Irishman ; and it is excessively scarce in ball-rooms. It

is independent of accent and of form ; it is one of the

constant and universal noble attributes of man, wherever

and howsoever developed. We venture to define it thus :

Politeness is natural, genial, manly deference, with

delicacy in dealing with the feelings of others, and

without hypocrisy, sycophancy, or obtrusion. This de
finition excludes a great many people. We cannot agree

that Johnson was polite ; that         is,  if  politeness;a to be

distinguished from nobleness, courage, and even kindness  '

of heart  ;           word, from everything but itself. BurnsI is

            ; in

                   a
was polite, when jewelled duchesses were charmed with

his ways Arnold was polite, when                poor woman

declared that he treated her like lady Chalmers was
                                       a
polite, when every old woman             in     Morningside was

elated and delighted with his courteous salute. But

Johnson, who shut civil man's mouth with Sir, per
ceive you are vile Whig,' who ate like an Esquimaux,
          a
                   a

who deferred so far to his friends that they dared to

differ with him only                   round-robin, was not polite.
          is

                   It

                           is in

                                    a
Politeness the last touch, the finishing perfection, of              a

noble character.                     the gold on the spire, the sui

492 MAN OF SCIENCE. .

light on the corn-field, the smile on the lip of the

noble knight lowering his sword-point to his ladye-love.

It results only from the truest balance and harmony of
soul. We assert Hugh Miller to possess it. A duke in

speaking to him would know he was speaking to a man
as independent as himself ; a boy, in expressing to him
an opinion, would feel unabashed and easy, from his
genial and unostentatious deference. He has been ac
cused of egotism. Let it be fairly admitted that he knows
his name is Hugh Miller, and that he has a colossal head,

and that he once was a mason ; his foible is probably
that which caused Napoleon, in a company of kings, to

Icommence an anecdote with " When was a lieutenant

in the regiment of La Fere." But we cannot think it

more than a very slight foible ; a manly self-conscious
ness somewhat in excess. Years in the quarry have not
dimmed in Hugh Miller that finishing gleam of genial
light which plays over the framework of character, and
is politeness. Not only did he require honest manli
ness for this ; gentleness was also necessary. He had

both, and has retained them ; and therefore merits

fairly  " The grand old name of gentleman." '

    It was impossible to be long in Miller's company

without perceiving the ardour of his devotion to science.
He considered literature inferior to science as a gym
nastic of the mind. For the facile culture of the age he

had great contempt, and ranked both religion and labour

as stimulating, training agencies for mind and character,

higher than what is commonly called education. 'As

for the dream,' he says in one of his books, ' that there

is to be some extraordinary elevation of the general
platform of the race achieved by means of education, it

    simply the hallucination of the age, -- the world's

                AUTHOR'S RECOLLECTIONS.               493

present alchemical expedient for converting farthings

into guineas, sheerly by dint of scouring.' All that

he had won had been won by stern effort, and he had
no faith in royal roads to any kind of attainment.

      Supremely devoted to science, he naturally regarded
men eminent in science as standing higher thanjnen

eminent in literature. I recollect that once when the

claims of Scotland to honour in the world of intellect
Iwere on the carpet,
                                remarked that, at all events,

the first man of mind for the time being was a Scotch
man. ' Who is that, Mr Bayne ? ' he asked. My
                                                                 '
reply was prompt and            decisive,  ' Thomas   Carlyle  !

' Ah,  no    '  he  said  with  great  deliberation,  ' Carlyle is

           !

Inot the greatest living man.' 'AVho, then?' inquired.

He would not name any one, but repeated ' Ah, no !
Mr Bayne, Carlyle is not the greatest.' From some

thing in his manner at the moment the impression was

conveyed to me that he would not have been surprised

to hear himself named as the greatest of living Scotch
Imen.
           gathered, also, from some of his remarks which
I cannot precisely recall, that, if forced to say who was,

in his opinion, the most remarkable man of the day, he

would have sought him among the servants of science

rather than among the cultivators of literature. He

recognized Carlyle's great powers, however, and sym
pathized with many of the views of Rhadamanthus as
to the superficiality and sentimentalism of the time. He

more than half approved of Carlyle's stern views as to the
treatment of criminals, and would have liked to see our

grim disciplinarian try his hand upon a few drafts from
the ' devil's regiments of the line.'

     Once or twice Mr Gilfillan was mentioned. Miller

had a friendly feeling towards him and expressed
admiration of his brilliancy, but thought it overdone.

491 MAN OF SCIENCE.

Mr G.'s style, he said, had an amount of ornament dis-
proportioned to his thought. It suggested to him a

lady's dress so stiffened with jewellery that it could stand

without anybody in it. We once spoke of Professor
Aytoun's satire on Mr Giltillan. Miller had not seen
                                                                                 is
and was interested           by    my account of the production.
                                                                                       I it,
mentioned that the satirized critic, Apollodorus, repre:

sented as writing to eminent men, and commenting thus

upon the manner of their reply           ?:

                  What have they answered   I   Marry, only this,
      ''
                  Who, in the name of Zernebock, are you                     ?'
        AA
He laughed heartily. There were, added, far harder
things in the poem. Apollodorus, for example, was in

troduced soliloquizing --

                  Why do men call me presumptuous cur,
                      vapouring blockhead, and a turgid fool,

                      common nuisance and charlatan
                                     a
                                           'a

                                                      is

                                                                  ?
                                                                          '
This sharply displeased him. That too severe,' he

said. He became silent, showed no disposition to

continue the conversation, and seemed to brood in

dignantly on the cruelty of the words.                                       am not sure
                                                It a
that  would have been safe at that moment for Mr
      it                                            I

               '                                          in a
Aytoun to have come into the presence of Hugh
                                                                      a
Miller. There was,' says Professor Masson, in his

masterly sketch of his friend,                  tremendous element of
                                     It
ferocity in Hugh Miller.                    '
                                             a
                                        amounted to disposition

to kill. He was grave, gentle, kindly, fatherly, church-
      a

                 ;

                          a
going man, who would not have hurt fly, would have

lifted child tenderly out of harm's way                                      the street,

and would have risked his life to save even dumb

creature's but woe betide the enemy that came athwart

him when his blood was up In this there was more of
                                     !

the Scandinavian than of the Celt.              appeared even                    in

his newspaper-articles. At various times he got into

         AUTHORS RECOLLECTIONS.        495

Ipersonal controversies, and know no instance in which

he did not leave his adversary not only slain, but bat

tered, bruised, and beaten out of shape. It seemed to
be a principle with him --the only principle on which
he could fight -- that a battle must always be ct Vout-

rance, that there could be no victory short of the utter
extermination of the opposed organism. Hence, in the

course of his editorial career, not a few immense, un

seemly exaggerations of the polemical spirit, --much

sledge-hammering where a tap or two would have suf

ficed. A duel of opinions was apt to become with him

a duel of reputations and of persons.'

    This is strongly put. I have not found in Hugh

Miller anything amounting to a disposition to kill.
But he possessed a huge capacity of wrath, and that

love of adventure, of danger, of battle, which distin

guishes his nation. It has often occurred to me that

he had in him the making of a great general. His eye

would have embraced in a moment the points of a

position, and his spirit would have risen into clearness
and stern joy in proportion as difficulty and peril in
creased. He would have inspired his men with abso
lute faith in him, as a rock to stand, as an avalanche to

charge.
IIt was frequently late at night when
                                       took leave,

and he would insist on giving me convoy from Stuart

Street, near Portobello, where he lived at the time, to

the outskirts of Edinburgh. We used to part at the
Calton Hill. On one occasion he pulled out a pistol,

and remarked that he was prepared if any one should

Iattack us. Having no thought of danger, was much

surprised. By way of explanation, he gave me an

account of his adventure when walking by night be

tween Wolverton and Newport Pagnell, as detailed in

496 MAN OF SCIENCE.

the First Impressions. The district was at the time in

fested with ruffians and blackguards, who had come to

see a prize-fight between Caunt and Bendigo for the
championship of England. ' About half-way on,' says
Miller, ' where the road runs between tall hedges, two

fellows started out towards me, one from each side of
the way. " Is this the road," asked one, " to Newport
                                       here," I replied, without
Pagnell?"   "Quite a   st"radnogne'rt
slackening                             belong to the kingdom,
            my pace ;
even." "No?" said the same fellow, increasing his

speed as if to overtake me; "to what kingdom, then?"
I" Scotland,"
               said, turning suddenly round, somewhat

afraid of being taken behind by a bludgeon. The two

fellows sheered off in double-quick time, the one who
                                    muttering, " More like
                                    saw no more of them.    an
I IIhad already

Irishman,
            thadindkres; s"edandme

had luckily a brace of loaded pistols about me, and had

at the moment a trigger under each fore-finger.' He

first carried pistols when conveying the Bank's money

between Cromarty and Tain. Soon after coming to

Edinburgh, he commenced a series of investigations in

the Lothian coal-field, which brought him into lonely

places where he believed that suspicious characters

might lurk. He took with him his fire-arms, therefore,

and I should suppose that, in subsequent years, he was

seldom abroad in the night without them.

In conversation, as in his books, he was sensitively
Iorthodox.
            once spoke with enthusiastic admiration

of that famed vision of Jean Paul's, in which the author,

with a view to symbolizing the horror of atheism, in

troduces Jesus Christ looking up into a blank universe,

one vast hollow eye-socket, emptied of its eye, and
wailing for His Father. Miller would see in the piece
nothing beyond the poetical expression of a lofty Uni

            A UTHORS RECOLLECTIONS.        497

tarianism, and maintained that Jean Paul intended to

deny the Divinity of Christ. His Unitarianism might

be more spiritual than that common in England, but

IUnitarianism it was. Mrs Miller and took the op

posite view, arguing that it was legitimate in the

imaginative dreamer to introduce Christ as the re

presentative of created being, and to illustrate the
ghastliness of atheism by letting us see Him, a home

less orphan, filling with moans the black hollow of

the universal night ; but Miller held to his point.
     We did not speak often of the Church contro

versy or the Disruption ; but once, in his most earnest

mood, he expressed that opinion as to the Jehu-like
Idriving of the Evangelical leaders which
                                           formerly
            It was easy to perceive that he trans
mentioned.

ferred to the Edinburgh Radicals that dislike with

which he had regarded those of Cromarty. He was

a steadfast Whig, but his sympathies were more with

Conservatism than Radicalism. One of his profoundest
Ienthusiasms was for the poetry of Burns,

heard him declaim one of Burns's grandest
                                     and have

                                     passages, --
that about Scotland in the Vision, --with great fervour

and deep rhythmic intonation. His memory seemed
to be full of English poetry, and, at sauntering times, in

waiting for omnibuses or the like, he would pour out

stanza after stanza with astonishing profusion. The last

Iconversation ever had with him was at Shrub Mount

in 1855, when we walked about the garden in earnest

talk. There was a great noise at the time about the

antiquity of the human race, and the question whether

mankind have proceeded from one local centre, or from
more than one. He agreed with me in considering the

question of man's antiquity of slight importance com

pared with that of the unity of the race ; and cordially

vol. ii.    32

498 MAN OF SCIENCE.

assented to the proposition that the relationship of
men to Christ is a matter of infinitely more consequence
than their relationship to Adam.

    I had not much intercourse with Hugh Miller, but,
Isuch as it was, treasure the recollection of it with

reverent affection. Here was a man to inspire infinite
trust, a sterling, incorruptible man, with whom one
would like to stand shoulder to shoulder in the eddies
of a stubborn fray. Incapable of malignity, his sympa
thetic sensibility vibrating in fine response to every
touch of right sentiment, his intellectual interest playing
over the whole field of human life and every province of
nature, he had only to be known in order to be loved.
He was very gentle, very kind, but you felt that, in the
calm background of his mind, like a lion slumbering
by a rock, slumbering but not asleep, lay a grand sense

of moral rectitude, which, if wrong was threatened or

baseness done, could spring forth in crashing ire.

    I can now see that my impressions of him, not in

correct so far as they went, were essentially first impres

Isions. With this biography have been fitfully engaged

for ten years, often interrupted in the work, and forced
to go again and again over the same ground. The
delay may have been in some respects inconvenient, but
it has had the advantage of making me live all these
years in constant converse with Hugh Miller. Nothing,

I believe, of considerable importance, which he did,

said, thought, or felt, has escaped me, although, of
course, it was only a portion of those materials which

Icould be used in this book. The better have known,
Ithe more deeply have revered, the more entirely have
I loved him. A man of priceless worth ; fine gold,

purified sevenfold ; delicate splendour of honour, sens
itive and proud ; perfect sincerity and faithfulness in

HIS GENIUS.                       499

heart and mind. He never failed a friend. His comrade

of the hewing-shed sits down at his table when he has

become one of the most distinguished men of his time ;

another friend is discovered to be at hand-grips with

fortune, and he applies himself, with cunning delicacy,

to solve the problem of inducing him to accept assist

ance. This was the manner and habit of the man.

    Of his power of brain, --of his genius and originality,
--his books, viewed in connection with the circum

stances of his career, are the living witnesses. To their

testimony must be added the fact of the great influence

he exerted upon his contemporaries, the personal

weight, the intellectual mass and magnitude, he was

felt to possess. Professor Masson, commenting on the

curious notion of a Fleet Street oracle, that he was

devoid of genius, has declared his conviction that, ' if

the word was applicable to the description of any mind,

it was to the description of Hugh Miller's.' If we

estimate the amount of obstruction which lay between

the mason lad of Gairloch and Niddry, and the Hugh

Miller of Edinburgh, whom Murchison, Lyell, Agassiz

hailed as a brother, we shall admit that the opinion is
Inot, prima facte, unreasonable.
                                  take liberty to add

that, if genius means an indefinable something, con

ferred by nature, inimitable, incommunicable, never

given twice in exactly the same form and colour, --a

power of enchantment which all men feel, but no man

can quite describe, --then the critic who denies genius

to Hugh Miller does not understand his craft. He

owed, without question, much to culture. Twenty

years of study and practice, assiduous reading, careful

self-correction, were required to perfect his prose style

and to give him the complete command of it which

he ultimately obtained. But all this only brought

500 MAN OF SCIENCE.

into clearness and use the gift born with him, a gift

traceable in his earliest letters, a gift of tempered

mental strength, of brightly keen perception and broad

imaginative vision, a rare gift of expression, in subtly-

modulated sentence, and exquisitely-felicitous image,

and solemn harmony of sense and sound, and tenderly-

brilliant colour lighting up the whole. Mr Robert

Chambers proved himself to have the true critical eye

when he referred, at a very early period of their inter

course, to the singular interest attaching to all he wrote.

The omniscient little critics who deny him genius may

imitate that if they can ; it secured Miller a large and

intelligent audience throughout the civilized world, an

audience whose ear he caught so soon as his power was

revealed, and which, thirty years after the publication

of the Old Red Sandstone, continues to extend.

    ISo far as can penetrate the charm of his composi

tion, it lies mainly in the fine continuity of                  the
                                                            it
absence of all jerking, jolting movement, in the callida         it,

junctura not of word to word merely, but of sentence to             in in
sentence, thought to thought, illustration to illustration.
An author's peculiar excellence, we have rightly dis                                     ;
                                        a
criminated  it,  will give us hint as to where we should
                                          in a
look for his besetting fault, and                 in if  reading Miller long

at one time, we may find                his billowy regularity and

smoothness of movement sense of monotony. Yet on

the whole there  is                     marvellous enchantment  his
                      a

books the breath of the hills in them, the freshness
;                                       is

of the west wind and the sea. Shall we not now venture
tboefdoreecidues----tthheatqueswtiaosn
          is ?                          was left open when    last came
                    it                  advantageous for him  to break

                              is
away from school, and betake himself to the caves and

the wood    Nature the only safe nurse of genius

education indispensable, but even the education must

HIS EDUCATION.  501

be suggested by nature, and come at her prompting.
Shakspeare was an educated man ; he had a large know
ledge of the books of his time ; but all generations

would have been poorer if his brain had been drugged

in boyhood with the trite erudition of Universities.
Books came to Miller at the right moment ; when he

had already so filled his mind with Nature's imagery
that they could do no more than genially assist him to
use it. To read him is like taking a walk with him ;

we are never far from the crags and the waters, the
dewy branch and the purple heather. Compare this
with the prim urban elegance of Jeffrey, or the hard
vehemence, like rainless thunder, or the full gallop of

cavalry, of the style of Sir William Hamilton, and you
will begin to realize how much Hugh Miller owed to the
circumstance that his Alma Mater was his mother earth.
As a naturalist, also, and as a geologist, his power came

essentially from the same source. The hours on the

ebb shore with Uncle Sandy, the tracing of the subtle
ties of life among the minute denizens of the crystal

pools, the watching of the race of the waves when the
tide turned, first slowly, tentatively, listlessly, each
timorous wavelet with its lifted handful of dusty sand,

then in hurrying clamorous advance of leaping foam

and marshalled surge along the reaches of the shore, --

the long years of toil in the quarry, and of wandering
among the hills, to mark the fellowship of the rocks,

and learn the joints and curvature of the bones of the

world,--these gave him his intuitive sympathy with

Nature's ways, his geological eye to discern how the
Architect had put together this and that bit of the
planet. ' The thing was done so,' he could say, ' and
 not in the way you mention ; you can fold up your

 theoretical demonstration when you please.'

502 MAN OF SCIENCE.

May we not call his life, first and last, beautiful,

august, heroic ? From his father, whose very image he

in his later years became, he derived the ground-work of

his character, and for the education of conscience he was

primarily indebted, though he little knew it at the time,
to his Uncle James. In early manhood he was encom

passed with hardship, with coarseness, with manifold
temptation. His soul took no taint. He rose superior to

every form of vulgarity, the vulgar ambition of wealth,

the vulgar ambition of notoriety, the vulgar baseness of
sensuality and licence. He aspired to fame, but it was

to fame which should be the ratification of his own

Isevere judgment. ' have myself,' he said, ' for my

critic ; ' and while the decision of this sternest censor

was even moderately favourable, no sneers could de
press, no applause elate him. His course, thencefor

ward, was a steadfast pursuit of truth and of knowledge,

an unwearied dedication of himself to all that he believed

to be true, and honest, and lovely, and of good report.
In the meridian of his years, he threw himself into the

noblest religious movement of his time, impelling and

directing  it,     movement which he largely contributed
to carry to    aa  triumphant issue. As his science had

begun in converse with nature, so he carried on the

study day    by    day and year  by  year, traversing thou

sands of miles for express purposes of observation, and

at all moments, at home or in the field, he was awake with

keenest vigilance to the powers of nature at work around

him. Modern in all his habits of study, he did not,               in

tracing the surface light of science, forget that Divine

mystery which nature shadows forth. God in the uni

verse was for him reality as forceful and present as
\
                                             a                    inspired with the
                                                              it
for those Hebrew psalmists whom

ublimest strains in existence. The autumn blast raised

CONCLUSION.  503

his mind to One that walketh on the wings of the wind :

at His look the earth trembled in the throes of earth
quake, and at His touch the volcano smoked.

    IHugh Miller stands alone, so far as am aware, among

self-educated men of recent times, first, in the thorough
ness of his education, the technically disciplined and
ordered thinking to which he attained, secondly, in the
absence from his books and letters of all extravagance,
histrionism, paradox, of all trace of that furious, teeth-
gnashing humour which has been so much in vogue in
our century. Great instincts of order and of common
sense, inherited from his father, allied him to what was

stable in the institutions of his country. Religion,

integrity, continence, moderation, obedience, --all those

virtues against which the waves of modern anarchism

beat wild, --saw him fighting behind their bulwark.

They are shallow critics who recognize genius only, as
Uriel recognized Satan, by the violence of its gestures
and the devilishness of its scowl ; in healthful times

men of genius have neither affected a perverse singularity, nor taken as their dialect an everlasting
snarl. That Hugh Miller was a man of genius would
never have been called in question had his works not
been so free from the distempers of genius.

THE END.

