Michael Faraday. By J. H. Gladstone.

Gladstone, J. H. (John Hall), 1827-1902.
New York, Harper and Brothers, 1872.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc2.ark:/13960/t7qn60w73

                                          Public Domain
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address.
MP-NRLF
    THE LIBRARY
            OF

 THE UNIVERSITY
 OF CALIFORNIA

           PRESENTED BY
PROF. CHARLES A. KOFOID AND

  MRS. PRUDENCE W. KOFOID
MICHAEL FARADAY,

      J. H. GLADSTONE, PH.D., F.R.S.

                 NEW YORK:

   HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS,

                         FRANKLIN SQUARE.
         PREFACE.

   SHORTLY after the death of Michael Fara-
day, Professor Anguste de la Rive, and others
of his friends, gave to the world their impres-
sions of his life, his character, and his work ;
Professor Tyndall drew his portrait as a man
of science ; and after a while Dr. Bence Jones
published his biography in two octavo volumes,
with copious extracts from his journals and

correspondence. In a review of this " Life

Iand Letters" happened to mention my thought

of giving to the public some day my own rem-
iniscences of the great philosopher ; several
friends urged me to do so, not in the pages of
a magazine, but in the form of a little book
designed for those of his fellow-countrymen
who venerate his noble character without be-

Iing able to follow his scientific researches.
VI PREFACE.

accepted the task. Professor Tyndall and Dr.
Bence Jones, with Messrs. Longman, the pub-
lishers, kindly permitted me to make free use

Iof their materials ; but am indebted to the

Corporation of the Trinity House, and to many
friends, for a good deal of additional informa-

Ition ; and in compiling my book, have pre-

ferred, where practicable, to illustrate the char-
acter of Faraday by documents or incidents
hitherto unpublished, or contained in those
sketches of the philosopher which are less gen-
erally known.

  IIt is due to myself to say that had pretty

well sketched out the second part of this book

Ibefore read M. Dumas's " Eloge Historique."

The close similarity of my analysis of Professor
Faraday's character with that of the illustrious
French chemist may perhaps be accepted as
an additional warrant for the correctness of

our independent estimates.
           CONTENTS.

SKCT.                             PAGE

  I. THE STORY or HIS LIFE            9
                                    82
 II. STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER       123
III. FRUITS OF HIS EXPERIENCE     159
IV. His METHOD OF WORKING         185

 V. THE VALUE OF HIS DISCOVERIES

SUPPLEMENTARY PORTRAITS           211

APPENDIX: LIST OF HONORARY FELLOWSHIPS, ETC.. 217

INDEX....                         . 221
  MICHAEL FARADAY.

                       SECTION I.

                   THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.

   AT the beginning of this century, in the neigh-
borhod of Manchester Square, London, there was
an inquisitive boy running about, playing at
marbles, and minding his baby-sister. He lived
in Jacob's Well Mews, close by, and was learn-
ing the three R's at a common day-school. Few
passers-by would have noticed him, and none
certainly would have imagined that this boy, as

he grew up, was to achieve the truest success in
life, and to die honored by the great, the wise,

and the good. Yet so it was ; and to tell the
utory of his life, to trace the sources of this suc-
cess, and to depict some of the noble results of
his work, are the objects of this biographical

sketch.

  It was not at Jacob's Well Mews, but in New-

irigton Butts, that the boy had been born, on
September 22, 1791, and his parents, James and
Margaret Faraday, had given this, their third
10 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

child, the unusual name of Michael. The father

was a journeyman blacksmith, and, in spite of

poverty and feeble health, he strove to bring up

his children in habits of industry and the love

of God.

Of course young Michael must soon do some-

thing for his living. There happened to be a

bookseller's shop in Blandford Street, a few doors

from the entrance to the Mews, kept by a Mr.

Riebau, an intelligent man, who is said to have

had a leaning to astrology ; and there he went

as errand-boy when thirteen years old. Many a

weary walk he had, carrying round newspapers

to his master's customers ; but he did his work

faithfully ; and so, after a twelvemonth, the book-

seller was willing to take him as an apprentice,

and that without a premium.

Now a boy in a bookseller's shop can look at

the inside as well as the outside of the books he

handles, and young Faraday took advantage of

hWceisat'stptos"'ssCitoi"onnIvm,eprasrnaodtvieofemndsenoontn  such intellectual food as

                                                              of the Mind," Mrs. Mar-
                                                              Chemistry," and the ar-
ticle on " Electricity" in the Encyclopaedia Bri-

tannica,) besides such lighter dishes as Miss Bur-

hneeyw'sas"Ebvinedliinnag;"Lynoonrs'csan"                      we doubt that  when
                                                              Experiments on  Elec-
tricity," and Boyle's " Notes about the Produci-

bleness of Chymicall Principles," he looked be-
THE STORY OP HIS LIFE.  11

yond the covers.* And his thirst for knowledge
did not stop with reading : he must see whether

Mrs. Marcet's statements were correct, and so, to

quote his own words,"! made such simple ex-

periments in chemistry as could be defrayed in
their expense by a few pence per week, and also

constructed an electrical machine, first with a

glass phial, and afterward with a real cylinder,
as well as other electrical apparatus of a cor-
responding kind."

   One day, walking somewhere in the neighbor-
hood of Fleet Street, he saw in a shop-window a
bill announcing that lectures on natural philoso-
phy were delivered by Mr. Tatum, at 53 Dorset
Street, at eight in the evening ; price of admis-
sion one shilling. He wanted to hear these lec-
tures. His master's permission was obtained,
but where was the money to come from ? The

needful shillings were given him by his elder

brother Robert, who earned them as a black-

   * These books, with others bound by Faraday, are pre-
served in a special cabinet at the Koyal Institution, together
with more valuable documents the laboratory notes of Davy
and those of Faraday, his notes of Tatum' s and Davy's lec-
tures, copies of his published papers with annotations and

indices, notes for lectures and Friday evening discourses, ac-

count-books and various memoranda, together with letters

from Wollaston, Young, Herschel, Whewell, Mitscherlich,
and many others of his fellow-workers in science. These
were the gift of his widow, in accordance with his own desire.
12 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

smith ; and so Michael Faraday made his first
acquaintance with scientific lectures. And not
with lectures only, for Tatum's house was fre-

quented by other earnest students, and lifelong
friendships were formed. Among these students

was Benjamin Abbott, a young Quaker, who had
received a good education, and had then a situa-

tion in a City house as confidential clerk. With

him Faraday chatted on philosophy or any thing
else, and happily for us he chatted on paper, in
letters of that fullness and length which the
penny post and the telegraph have well-nigh
driven out of existence ; and happily for us, too,
Abbott kept those letters, and Dr. Bence Jones

has published them. They are wonderful letters
for a poor bookseller's apprentice ; they bear the
stamp of an innate gentleman and philosopher.

   Long afterward, when Benjamin Abbott was
an old man, he used to tell how Faraday made
his first experiments in the kitchen of his house,
and delivered his first lecture from the end of
that kitchen table. The electrical machine made

by him in those early days came into the posses-
sion of Sir James South, and now forms one of
the treasures of the Royal Institution.

   As the eager student drank in the lectures of
Tatum, he took notes, and he afterward wrote

them out carefully in a clear hand, numbering
and describing the different experiments that he
THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.  13

saw performed, and making wonderfully neat
drawings of the apparatus, in good perspective.
These notes he bound in four volumes, adding

to each a copious index, and prefixing to the
first this dedication to his master :

                   " To ME, G. RIEBAU.

  I" SIR, When first evinced a predilection for

the sciences, but more particularly for that one

Idenominated electricity, you kindly interested

yourself in the progress made in the knowl-
edge of facts relating to the different theories in

existence, readily permitting me to examine those
books in your possession that were in any way

related to the subjects then occupying my atten-

tion. To you, therefore, is to be attributed the

Irise and existence of that small portion of knowl-

edge relating to the sciences which possess,

and accordingly to you are due my acknowl-

Iedgments.

   " Unused to the arts of flattery, can only ex-
press my obligations in a plain but sincere way.

IPermit me, therefore, sir, to return thanks in this

manner for the many favors have received at
your hands and by your means, and believe me

your grateful and obedient servant,
                                             " M. FARADAY."

Now there happened to be lodging at Mr. Rie-
14 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

ban's a notable foreigner of the name of Masque-
rier. He was a distinguished artist, who had

painted Napoleon's portrait, and had passed
through the stirring events of the first French
Revolution, not without serious personal danger,
and was now finding a refuge and a home in
London. He was struck with the intelligence
of the apprentice, whose duty it was to do vari-
ous offices for him ; and he lent the young man
his books, and taught him how to make the draw-
ings in perspective which have already been al-

luded to.

   But the lectures in Dorset Street were not the

only ones that Michael Faraday attended; and
as the Royal Institution is the central scene of
all his subsequent history, we must pay a mental
visit to that building. Turning from the busy
stream of Piccadilly into the quiet of Albemarle
Street, we see, in a line with the other houses,
a large Grecian fa9ade with fourteen lofty pilas-
ters. Between these are folding doors, which

are pushed open from time to time by grave-
looking gentlemen, many of them white-headed ;
but often of an afternoon, and always on Friday
evening during the season, the quiet street is
thronged with carriages and pedestrians, ladies
and gentlemen, who flock through these folding
doors. Entering with them, we find ourselves
in a vestibule, with a large stone staircase in
THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.  15

front, and rooms opening on the right and left.
The walls of these rooms are lined with myriads
of books, and the tables are covered with scien-
tific and other periodicals of the day, and there
are cabinets of philosophical apparatus and a

small museum. Going up the broad staircase

and turning to the right, we pass through an

anteroom to the lecture theatre. There stands

the large table, horseshoe-shaped, with the neces-
sary appliances for experiments, and behind it a
furnace and arrangements for black-board and

diagrams ; while round the table as a centre
range semicircular seats, rising tier above tier,

and surmounted by a semicircular gallery, the
whole capable of seating 700 persons. On the

basement is a new chemical laboratory, fitted up

with modern appliances, and beyond it the old
laboratory, with its furnaces and sand-bath, its

working tables and well-stored shelves, flanked

by cellars that look like dark lumber-rooms. A

narrow private staircase leads up to the suite of
apartments in which resides the Director of the
house. Such is the Royal Institution of Great
Britain, incorporated by Royal Charter in the
year 1800, "for the diffusing knowledge and fa-
cilitating the general introduction of useful me-

chanical inventions and improvements, and for
teaching, by courses of philosophical lectures and

experiments, the application of science to the
1(5 MICHAEL FARADAY.

common purposes of life" with the motto, "II-

lustrans commoda vitse." Fifty or sixty years

ago the building was essentially what it is now,

except the fa9ade and entrance, and that the la-
boratory, which was considered a model of per-

fection, was even darker than at present, and in

the place of the modern chemical room there

was a small theatre. The side room, too, was

fitted up for actual work, though even at mid-

day it had to be artificially lighted ; and beyond

this there was, and still
   a                          place called the

                    is,

                           a
Froggery, from certain old tradition of frogs

having been kept there. The first intention of

the founders to exhibit useful inventions had not

been found very practicable, but the place was

already famous with the memories of Rumford

and Young and at that time the genius of Sir
;

Humphry Davy was entrancing the intellectual

world with brilliant discoveries, and drawing

fashionable audiences to Albemarle Street to

listen to his eloquent expositions.

Among the customers of the bookseller in

Blandford Street was Mr. Dance, who, being
   a                                        a

member of the Royal Institution, took young

Faraday to hear the last four public lectures of

Davy. The eager student sat in the gallery,

just over the clock, and took copious notes of

the professor's explanations of radiant matter,

chlorine, simple inflammables, and metals, while
THE STOEY OF HIS LIFE.  17

he watched the experiments that were perform-
ed. Afterward he wrote the lectures fairly out

in a quarto volume, that is still preserved first

the theoretical portions, then the experiments

with drawings, and finally an index. "The de-
sire to be engaged in scientific occupation, even
though of the lowest kind, induced me," he says,
" while an apprentice, to write, in my ignorance
of the world and simplicity of my mind, to Sir
Joseph Banks, then President of the Royal So-

ciety. Naturally enough, 'No answer' was the

reply left with the porter."
   On the 7th of 'October his apprenticeship ex-

pired, and on the next day he became a journey-
man bookbinder under a disagreeable master,
who, like his friend the artist, was a French Emi-
gre. No wonder he sighed still more for con-

genial occupation.

   Toward the end of that same October Sir

Humphry Davy was working on a new liquid
which was violently explosive, now known as
chloride of nitrogen, and he met with an accident

that seriously injured his eye, and produced an

attack of inflammation. Of course, for a while

he could not write, and, probably through the
introduction of M. Masquerier,* the young book-
seller was employed as his amanuensis. This,

   * This seems probable from some remarks of Faraday to

Lady Burdett Coutts.

                                 B
18 MICHAEL FARADAY.

however, Faraday himself tells us lasted only
"some days;" and in writing years afterward
to Dr. Paris, he says, u My desire to escape from

Itrade, which thought vicious and selfish, and
Ito enter into the service of Science, which im-

agined made its pursuers amiable and liberal,
induced me at last to take the bold and simple
step of writing to Sir H. Davy, expressing my

wishes, and a hope that% if an opportunity came

I Iin his way, he would favor my views ; at the

same time sent the notes had taken of his lec-
tures." Davy, it seems, called with the letter
on one of his friends at that time honorary in-

Ispector of the models and apparatus and said,

"Pepys, what am to do ? Here is a letter from
a young man named Faraday ; he has been at-
tending my lectures, and wants me to give him

Iemployment at the Royal Institution what can
  do ?" " Do ?" replied Pepys ; " put him to wash

bottles : if he is good for any thing, he will do
it directly ; if he refuses, he is good for nothing."

"No, no," replied Davy, "we must try him with

something better than that."
   So Davy wrote a kind reply, and had an inter-

view with the young man upon the subject, in
which, however, he advised him to stick to his
business, telling him that u Science was a harsh
mistress, and, in a pecuniary point of view, but
poorly rewarding those who devoted themselves
THE STOEY OF HIS LIFE.  19

to her service." He promised him the work of
the Institution, and his own besides.

   But shortly afterward the laboratory assistant
was discharged for misconduct, and so it happen-
ed that one night the inhabitants of quiet Wey-

inouth Street were startled by the unusual ap-
parition of a grand carriage with a footman,

which drew up before the house where Faraday
lived, when the servant left a note from Sir

Humphry Davy. The next morning there was

an interview, which resulted in the young aspi-
rant for scientific work being engaged to help the

famous philosopher. His engagement dates from
March 1, 1813, and he was to get 255. per week,
and a room in the house. The duties had been
previously laid down by the managers : " To at-

tend and assist the lecturers and professors in
preparing for -and during lectures. Where any
instruments or apparatus may be required, to at-
tend to their careful removal from the model-

room and laboratory to the lecture-room, and to
clean and replace them after being used, report-
ing to the managers such accidents as shall re-
quire repair, a constant diary being kept by him
for that purpose. That in one day in each week

he be employed in keeping clean the models in
the repository, and that all the instruments in
the glass cases be cleaned and dusted at least
once within a month."
20 MICHAEL FAEADAY.                                 it
                                                                    it it,
   The young assistant did not confine himself to
the mere discharge of these somewhat menial
duties. He put in order the mineralogical col-
lection ; and from the first we find him occupy-

ing a higher position than the minute quoted
above would indicate.

   In the course of a few days he was extracting

sugar from beet-root ; but all his laboratory pro-
ceedings were not so pleasant or so innocent as
that, for he had to make one of the worst smell-
ing of all chemical compounds, bisulphide of car-
bon ; and as Davy continued to work on the ex-
plosive chloride of nitrogen, his assistant's career
stood some chance of being suddenly cut short
at its commencement. Indeed, it seems that be-

fore the middle of April he had run the gauntlet
of four separate explosions. Knowing that the

liquid would go off on the slightest provocation,
the experimenters wore masks of glass, but this

did not save them from injury. In one case

Faraday was holding a small tube containing a
few grains of it between his finger and thumb,
and brought a piece of warm cement near

when he was suddenly stunned, and on returning
to consciousness found himself standing with his
hand in the same position, but torn by the shat-
tered tube, and the glass of his mask even cut by
the projected fragments. Nor was easy to say
when the compound could be relied on, for
          THE STOEY OF HIS LIFE.                           21

seemed very capricious ; for instance, one day it
rose quietly in vapor in a tube exhausted by the

air-pump, but the next day, when subjected to
the same treatment, it exploded with a fearful

noise, and Sir Humphry was cut about the chin,

and was struck with violence on the forehead.

This seems to have put an end to the experi-

ments.

Nevertheless, in spite of disagreeables and

dangers, the embryo philosopher worked on with

a joyful heart, beguiling himself occasionally with

a song, and in the evening playing tunes on his

flute.

The change in Michael Faraday's employment

naturally made him more earnest still in the pur-

suit  of  ktnhoew"leCdgitey.    He was admitted as a mem-
ber   of                      Philosophical Society," a fra-

ternity of thirty or forty men in the middle or

lower ranks of life, who met every Wednesday

evening for mutual instruction; and here is a

contemporary picture of him at one of its de-

bates :

   " But hark ! A voice arises near the chair !

       Its liquid sounds glide smoothly through the air ;
      The listening muse with rapture bends to view
      The place of speaking, and the speaker too.
      Neat was the youth in dress, in person plain ;
      His eye read thus, Philosopher in grain;

     Of understanding clear, reflection deep ;

      Expert to apprehend, and strong to keep.
 22 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

       His watchful mind no subject can elude,
       Nor specious arts of sophists e'er delude ;
       His powers, unshackled, range from pole to pole :
       His mind from error free, from guilt his soul.
       Warmth in his heart, good humor in his face,

      A friend to mirth, but foe to vile grimace ;
     A temper candid, manners unassuming,

        Always correct, yet always unpresuming.
        Such was the youth, the chief of all the band ;
        His name well known, Sir Humphry's right hand.
       With manly ease toward the chair he bends,
       With Watts's Logic at his finger-ends. "

    Another way in which he strove to educate

Ihimself is thus described in his own words :

" During this spring Magrath and established
the mutual improvement plan, and met at my
rooms up in the attics of the Royal Institution,

or at Wood Street at his warehouse. It consist-

ed, perhaps, of half a dozen persons, chiefly from
the City Philosophical Society, who met of an

. evening to read together, and to criticise, cor-
 rect, and improve each other's pronunciation and

construction of language. The discipline was
very sturdy, the remarks very plain and open,
 and the results most valuable. This continued

 for several years."
    Seven months after his appointment there be-

 gan a new passage in Faraday's life, which gave
 a fresh impulse to his mental activity, and large-
 ly extended his knowledge of men and things.
       TUB STORY OF HIS LIFE.         23

Sir Humphry Davy, wishing to travel on the

Continent, and having received a special pass

from the Emperor Napoleon, offered to take him

as his amanuensis: he accepted the proposal,

and for a year and a half they wandered about

France, Italy, and Switzerland, and then they re-

turned rapidly by the Tyrol, Germany, and Hol-

land.

From letters written when abroad we can

Icatch some of the impressions made on his mind
by these novel scenes.   " have not   forgot," he
writes to Abbott, " and  never shall  forget, the

ideas that were forced on my mind in the first

days. To me, who had lived all my days of re-

membrance in London, a city surrounded by a
flat green country, a hill was a mountain, and a

Istone a rock ; for though had abstract ideas of

Ithe things, and could say rock and mountain,

and would talk of them, yet had no perfect

ideas. Conceive then the astonishment, the pleas-

ure, and the information which entered my mind

in the varied county of Devonshire, where the

Ifoundations of the earth were first exposed to

my view, and where first saw granite, lime-

stone, etc., in those places and in those forms

where the ever-working and all-wonderful hand
of nature had placed them. Mr. Ben., it is im-
possible you can conceive my feelings, and it is

as impossible for me to describe them. The sea
24 MICHAEL FARADAY.

then presented a new source of information and
interest; and on approaching the shore of France,
with what eagerness, and how often, were my
eyes directed to the south ! When arrived there,

I thought myself in an uncivilized country ; for
Inever before nor since have seen such wretched

beings as at Morlaix." His impression of the
people was not improved by the fact of their

having arrested the travelers on landing, and
having detained them for five days, until they
had sent to Paris for verification of their papers.

   Again, to her toward whom his heart was
wont to turn from distant lands with no small

Ilonging : " have said nothing as yet to you,

dear mother, about our past journey, which has

been as pleasant and agreeable (a few things ex-

cepted, in reality nothing) as it was possible to
be. Sir H. Davy's high name at Paris gave us
free admission into all parts of the French do-
minions, and our passports were granted with
the utmost readiness. We first went to Paris,

and stopped there two months ; afterward we
passed, in a southerly direction, through France
to Montpellier, on the borders of the Mediterra-
nean. From thence we went to Nice, stopping

a day or two at Aix on our way; and from
Nice we crossed the Alps to Turin, in Piedmont.
From Turin we proceeded to Genoa, which place

we left afterward in an open boat, and proceed-
THE STOKY OF HIS LIFE.  25

ed by sea toward Lerici. This place we reached
after a very disagreeable passage, and not with-
out apprehensions of being overset by the way.
As there was nothing there very enticing, we

continued our route to Florence, and, after a

stay of three weeks or a month, left that fine
city, and in four days arrived here at Rome.
Being now in the midst of things curious and
interesting, something arises every day which
calls for attention and observations. The relics
of ancient Roman magnificence, the grandeur of
the churches, and their richness also the differ-

ence of habits and customs, each in turn engages
the mind, and keeps it continually employed.
Florence, too, was not destitute of its attractions

for me, and in the Academy del Cimento and
the museum attached to it is contained an in-

exhaustible fund of entertainment and improve-

ment; indeed, during the whole journey, new and

instructive things have been continually present-

Ied to me. Tell B. have crossed the Alps and
Ithe Apennines ; have been at the Jardin des

Plantes ; at the museum arranged by Buffon; at
the Louvre, among the chefs d'ceuvre of sculp-
ture and the masterpieces of painting ; at the

Luxembourg Palace, among Rubens's works ;

Ithat have seen a GLOWWORM ! ! ! water-spouts,

torpedo, the museum at the Academy del Ci-
mento, as well as St. Peter's, and some of the an-
26 MICHAEL FARADAY.

tiquities here, and a vast variety of things far

too numerous to enumerate."

   But he kept a lengthy journal, and as we turn
over the pages for the best part of it is print-
ed by Bence Jones we meet vivid sketches of

the provokingly slow custom-house officers, the
postilion in jack-boots, and the thin pigs of Mor-
laix pictures of Paris, too, when every French-
man was to him an unintelligible enemy ; when
the Apollo Belvidere, the Venus de Medici, and
the Dying Gladiator were at the Louvre, and
when the First Napoleon visited the Senate in
full state. " He was sitting in one corner of his

carriage, covered and almost hidden from sight

by an enormous robe of ermine, and his face
overshadowed by a tremendous plume of feath-
ers that descended from a velvet hat." We

watch Sir Humphry as Ampere and others
bring to him the first specimens of iodine, and
he makes experiments with his traveling appa-

ratus on the dark lustrous crystals and their
violet vapor; we seem, too, to be present with

the great English chemist and his scholar as
they burn diamonds at Florence by means of
the Grand-Duke's gigantic lens, and prove that
the invisible result is carbonic acid ; or as they
study the springs of inflammable gas at Pietra
Mala, and the molten minerals of Vesuvius. The
whole, too, is interspersed with bits of fun, and
THE STOEY OF HIS LIFE.  2V

this culminates at the Roman Carnival, where
he evidently thoroughly enjoyed the follies of
the Corso, the pelting with sugar-plums, and the
masked balls, to the last of which he went in a
nightgown and nightcap, with a lady who knew
all his acquaintances ; and between the two they

puzzled their friends mightily.
   This year and a half may be considered as the

time of Faraday's education; it was the period
of his life that best corresponds with the colle-
giate course ^of other men who have attained
high distinction in the world of thought. But

his University was Europe ; his professors the
master whom he served, and those illustrious

men to whom the renown of Davy introduced

the travelers. It made him personally known,

also, to foreign savants, at a time when there was
little intercourse between Great Britain and the

Continent ; and thus he was associated with the
French Academy of Sciences while still young,
his works found a welcome all over Europe, and

some of the best representatives of foreign sci-

ence became his most intimate friends.

   In May, 1815, his engagement at the Royal In-
stitution was renewed, with a somewhat higher

position and increased salary, which was again

raised in the following year to 100 per annum.
The handwriting in the Laboratory Note-book

changes in September, 1815, from the large run-
28 MICHAEL FARADAY.

ning letters of Brande to the small, neat charac-

ters of  Faraday, his   first entry having  reference
to an    analysis of "                      and then
                        Dutch turf ash,"

soon occur investigations into the nature of sub-

stances bearing what must have been to him the

mysterious names of Paligenetic tincture, and

Baphe euge?ies chruson. It is to be hoped that

the constituents of this golden dye agreed to-

gether better than the Greek words of its name.

We can imagine the young philosopher tak-

ing a deeper interest in the researches on flame

which his master was then carrying out, and in

the gradual perfection of the safety-lamp that

was to bid defiance to the explosive gases of the

mine ; this at least is certain, that Davy, in the

preface to his celebrated paper on the subject,
expresses himself " indebted to Mr. Michael Far-

aday for much able assistance," and that the

youthful investigator carefully preserved the

manuscript given him to copy.

Part of his duty, in fact, was to copy such pa-

pers ; and as Sir Humphry had a habit of de-

stroying them, he begged leave to keep the orig-

inals, and in that way collected two large vol-

umes of precious manuscripts.

But there came a change. Hitherto he had

been absorbing ; now he was to emit. The
knowledge which had been a source of delight

to himself must now overflow as a blessing to
THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.  29

others, and this in two ways. His first lecture

was given at the City Philosophical Society on
January 17, 1816, and in the same year his first

paper was published in the Quarterly Journal of

Science. The lecture was on the general prop-
erties of matter ; the paper was an analysis of
some native caustic lime from Tuscany. Nei-

ther was important in itself, but each resembled

those little streams which travelers are taken to
look at because they are the sources of mighty
rivers, for Faraday became the prince of experi-
mental lecturers, and his long series of published

researches have won for him the highest niche

in the temple of science.
   When he began to investigate for himself, it

could not have been easy to separate his own

work from that which he was expected to do for
his master. Hence no small danger of misunder-
standings and jealousies ; and some of these ugly
attendants on rising fame did actually throw

their black shadows over the intercourse between

the older and the younger man of genius. In

these earlier years, however, all appears to have

been bright ; and the following letter, written

from Rome in October, 1818, will give a good
idea of the assistant's miscellaneous duties, and
of the pleasant feelings of Davy toward him.
It may be added that in another letter he is re-

quested to send some dozens of "flies with pale
30 MICHAEL FARADAY.

bodies" to Florence, for Sir Humphry loved fly-
fishing as well as philosophy.

                " To MR. FARADAY.

I" received the note you were so good as to

address to me at Venice ; and by a letter from

IMr. Hatchett find that you have found the par-
Iallax of Mr. West's Sirius, and that, as expect-

ed, he is mistaken.

   " when you write to me, you will give the
3
per    cents, and long annuities,it      will be enough.
  I If,"
       will thank you to put the        ;inclosed letters

into the post, except those for Messrs. Morland

and Messrs. Drummond, which perhaps you will

be good enough to deliver.

   "Mr. Hatchett's letter contained praises of you

which were very gratifying to me and pray be-

lieve me there no one more interested in youris

success and welfare than your sincere well-wish-

er and friend,                             H. DAVY.

"ROME."

  It must not be supposed, however, that he hada

any astronomical duties, for the parallax he had
found was not that of the Dog-star, but of re-

puted new metal, Sirium, which was resolved in

Faraday's hands into iron, nickel, and sulphur.
But the impostor was not to be put down so easi-
ly, for he turned up again under the alias of Yes-
THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.  31

tium ; but again he was unable to escape the vig-a
ilant eye of the young detective, for one knowna

substance after another was removed from      is
                                                                      it,
and then, says Faraday, " my Vestium entirely
is
disappeared."
 I
   His occupations during this period were mul-
tifarious enough. We must picture him to our-it
selves as young-looking man of about thirty
years of age, well made, and neat in his dress, his
cheerfulness of disposition often breaking out in

    short, crispy laugh, but thoughtful enough
when something important to be done. He

has to prepare the apparatus for Brande's lec-

tures, and when the hour has arrived he stands

on the right of the professor, and helps him to
produce the strange transformations of the chem-
ical art. And conjurors, indeed, the two appear
in the eyes of the youth on the left, who waits

upon them, then the l< laboratory assistant," now
the well - known author, Mr. William Bollaert,
from whom have learned many details of this

period. When not engaged with the lectures,

Faraday manufacturing rare chemicals, or per-

forming commercial analyses, or giving scientific
evidence on trials. One of these was a famous

one, arising from the Imperial Insurance Com-
pany resisting the claim of Severn and King,

sugar-bakers; and in appeared all the chem-
ists of the day, like knights in the lists, on op-
32 MICHAEL FARADAY.

posite sides, ready to break a lance with each

other.

  All his spare time Faraday was occupied with

original work. Chlorine had a fascination for

him, though the yellow choking gas would get

out into the room, and he investigated its com-

binations with carbon, squeezed it into a liquid,
and applied it successfully as a disinfectant when
fatal fever broke out in the Millbank Peniten-
tiary. Iodine too, another of Davy's elements,
was made to join itself to carbon and hydrogen ;
and naphthaline was tormented with strong min-
eral acids. Long, too, he tried to harden steel
and prevent its rusting by alloying it with small
quantities of platinum and the rarer metals ; the
boy blew the bellows till the crucibles melted,
but a few ordinary razors seem to have been the
best results. Far more successful was he in re-
peating and extending some experiments of Am-
pere on the mutual action of magnets and elec-
tric currents ; and when, after months of work
and many ingenious contrivances, the wire be-

gan to move round the magnet, and the magnet
round the wire, he himself danced about the re-

volving metals, his face beaming with joy a joy
not unmixed with thankful pride as he exclaim-
ed, "There they go ! there they go ! we have suc-
ceeded at last." After this discovery he thought
himself entitled to a treat, and proposed to his
THE STOKY OF HIS LIFE.  33

attendant a visit to the theatre. " Which shall
it be ?" " Oh, let it be Astley's, to see the horses."
So to Astley's they went ; but at the pit entrance

there was a crush ; a big fellow pressed roughly

upon the lad, and Faraday, who could stand no

injustice, ordered him to behave himself, and
showed fight in defense of his young companion.

   The rising philosopher indulged, too, in other

recreations. He had a wonderful velocipede, a
progenitor of the modern bicycle, which often
took him of an early morning to Hampstead Hill.

There was also his flute ; and a small party for
the practice of vocal music once a week at a
friend's house. He sang bass correctly, both as

to time and tune.

   And though the City Philosophical Society
was no more, the ardent group of students of na-

ture who used to meet^here were not wholly
dispersed. They seem to have carried on their

system of mutual improvement, and to have read
the current scientific journals at Mr.Nicol's house

till he married, and then alternately at those of
Mr. R. H. Solly, Mr. Ainger, and Mr. Hennel, of
Apothecaries' Hall, who came to a tragical end
through an explosion of fulminating silver. Sev-
eral of them, including Mr. Cornelius Yarley,join-
ed the Society of Arts, which at that time had
committees of various sciences, and was very

democratic in its management ; and, finding that
                                   C
34 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

by pulling together they had    "  great influence,
they constituted themselves a      caucus," adopt-

ing the American word, and   meeting in private.
Magrath was looked upon     as a " chair-maker,"

and Faraday in subsequent years held the office
of Chairman of the Committee of Chemistry, and
occasionally he presided at the large meetings of

the society.

   During this time (1823) the Athenaeum Club
was started not in the present Grecian palace

in Pall Mall, but in a private house in Waterloo
Place. Its members were the aristocracy of

science, literature, and art, and they made Fara-
day their honorary secretary; but after a year

he transferred the office to his friend Magrath,

who held it for a long period.

Among the various sects into which Christen-

dom is divided, few are less known than the San-

demanians. About a century and a half ago,

when there was little light in the Presbyterian
Church of Scotland, a pious minister of the name

of John Glas began to preach that the Church
should be governed only by the teaching of

Christ and his apostles, that its connection with

the state was an error, and that we ought to be-

lieve and to practice no more and no less than

what we find from the New Testament that the

primitive Church believed and practiced. These

principles, which sound very familiar in these
          THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.                   35

days, procured for their asserter much obloquy

and a deposition by the Church courts, in conse-

quence of which several separate congregations

were formed in diiferent parts of Great Britain,

especially by Robert Sandeman, the son-in-law
of Mr. Glas, and from him they received their
common appellation. In early days they taught
a simpler view of faith than was generally held
at that time ; it was with them a simple assent
of the understanding, but produced by the Spirit
of God, and its virtue depended not on any thing

mystical in the operation itself, but on the gran-
deur and beauty of the things believed. Now,

however, there is little to distinguish them in
doctrine from other adherents of the Puritan

theology, though they certainly concede a great-
er deference to their elders, and attach more im-

portance to the Lord's Supper than is usual

among the Puritan churches. Their form of
worship, too, resembles that of the Presby ten
ans ; but they hold that each congregation
should have a plurality of elders, pastors, or

"bifsihrsotpsd,aywhoof  are  unpaid men ; that on  every
                        the  week" they are bound  to as-

semble,   no" tbroenalkyinfgor  prayers and preaching, but
also for                        of bread," and putting to-

gether their weekly offerings ; that the love-

feast and kiss of charity should continue to be

practiced; that "blood and things strangled"
36 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

are still forbidden as food ; and that a disciple
of Christ should not charge interest on loans, or
lay up wealth for the unknown future, but rath-
er consider all he possesses as at the service of

his poorer brethren, and be ready to perform to

them such offices of kindness as in the early
Church were expressed by washing one anoth-

er's feet.

   But what gives the remarkable character to
the adherents of this sect is their perfect isola-
tion from all Christian fellowship outside their
own community, and from all external religious

influence. They have never made missionary
efforts to win men from the world, and have long
ceased to draw to themselves members from oth-

er churches ; so they have rarely the advantage
of fresh blood, or fresh views of the meaning of

Scripture. They constantly intermarry, and are
expected to "bear one another's burdens;" so
the Church has assumed the additional charac-
ter of a large intertwined family and of a mutual
benefit society. This rigid separation from the
world, extending now through three or four gen-
erations, has produced a remarkable elevation of
moral tone and refinement of manner ; and it is

said that no one unacquainted with the inner
circle can conceive of the brotherly affection that
reigns there, or the extent to which hospitality
and material help is given without any ostenta-
THE STOKY OF HIS LIFE.  37

tion, and received without any loss of self-re-
spect. The body is rendered still more seclusive
by demanding not merely unity of spirit among
its* members, but unanimity of opinion in every
Church transaction. In order to secure this,

any dissentient who persists in his opinion after
repeated argument is rejected : the same is also

the consequence of neglect of Church duties, as
well as of any grave moral offense ; and in such

a community excommunication is a serious social

ban, and though a penitent may be received back

once, he can never return a second time.

  It was in the midst of this little community

that Faraday received his earliest religious im-

pressions, and among them he found his ecclesi-

astical home till the day of his entrance into the

Church above.

   Among the elders of the Sandemanian Church
in London was Mr. Barnard, a silversmith of Pat-
ernoster Row. The young philosopher became
a visitor at his house, and though he had pre-
viously written,

      "What is't that comes in false, deceitful guise,

         Making dull fools of those that 'fore were wise ?

                                                              'Tis Love,"

he altered his opinion in the presence of the citi-
zen's third daughter, Sarah, and wrote to her
what was certainly not the letter of a fool :

  I"You know me as well or better than do
38 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

myself. You know my former prejudices and

my present thoughts you know my weaknesses,
my vanity, my whole mind ; you have convert-
ed me from one erroneous way, let me hope you

will attempt to correct what others are wrong.

.... IAgain and again attempt to say what I

Ifeel, but can not. Let me, however, claim not

to be the selfish being that wishes to bend your

Iaffections for his own sake only. In whatever

way can best minister to your happiness, either
by assiduity or by absence, it shall be done. Do

not injure me by withdrawing your friendship,
or punish me by aiming to be more than a friend

Iby making me less ; and if you can not grant me

more, leave me what possess but hear me."
   The lady hesitated, and went to Margate.

There he followed her, and they proceeded to-
gether to Dover and Shakspeare's Cliff, and he
returned to London full of happiness and hope.
He loved her with all the ardor of his nature,
and in due course, on June 12, 1821, they were
married. The bridegroom desired that there
should be no bustle or noise at the wedding, and
that the day should not be specially distinguish-
ed ; but he calls it himself" an event which more

than any other contributed to his happiness and

healthful state of mind." As years rolled on

the affection between husband and wife became

only deeper and deeper ; his bearing toward her
THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.                           39

I

     is it,

                                        !
                                                            :

                        I

                                                                                                            !

                                                       is

                                           I
proved and his letters frequently testify to it.
it
Doubtless at any time between their marriage;
and his final illness he might have written to her
aas he did from Birmingham, at the time of the
        a
British Association "After all, there no pleas-
                                              aure like the tranquil pleasures of home, and here

   even here the moment leave the table,

wish were with you IN QUIET. Oh what hap-
piness ours My runs into the world in this

way only serve to make me esteem that happi-

ness the more."

   He took his briclo home to Albemarle Street,

and there they spent their wedded life but un-

til Mr. Barnard's death was their custom to
go every Saturday to the house of the worthy

silversmith, and spend Sunday with him, return-
ing home usually in the evening of that day.
His own father died while he was at Riebau's,but

his mother, grand-looking woman, lived long

afterward, supported by her son, whom she occa-
sionally visited at the Institution, and of whose
growing reputation she was not little proud.

   With mind calmed and strengthened by this

beautiful domestic life, he continued with great-
er and greater enthusiasm to ask questions of

Nature, and to interpret her replies to his fellow-

men. Just before his marriage he had been ap-
pointed at the Royal Institution superintendent
of the house and laboratory, and in February,
40 ,  MICHAEL FARADAY.

1825, after a change in the management of the
Institution, he was placed as director in a posi-
tion of greater responsibility and influence. One
of his first acts in this capacity was to invite the

members to a scientific evening in the laborato-

ry; this took place three or four times in 1825,

and in the following years these gatherings were
held every week from Feb. 3 to June 9; and

though the labor devolved very much upon Far-

aday, other philosophers sometimes brought for-
ward discoveries or useful inventions. Thus

commenced those Friday evening meetings

which have done so much to popularize the high

achievements of science. Faraday's note-books
are still preserved, containing the minutes of

the committee-meetings every Thursday after-
noon, the Duke of Somerset chairman, and he
secretary; also the record of the Friday even-

ings themselves, who lectured, and on what sub-

ject, and what was exhibited in the library, till

June, 1840, when other arrangements were prob-
ably made.

   The year 1827 was otherwise fruitful in lec-

tures : in the spring, a course of twelve on chem-
ical manipulation at the London Institution; aft-
er Easter, his first course at Albemarle Street,

six lectures on chemical philosophy (he had help-
ed Professor Brande in 1824);* and at Christ-

   * Sir Roderick Murchison used to tell how he was attend-
            THE STOKY OF HIS LIFE.                            41

mas, his desire to convey knowledge, and his

love to children, found expression in a course of

six lectures to the boys and girls home for their

holidays.   These were a great           success ; indeed,
he himself                               what they ought
            says they " were just

to have been, both in matter and manner but
it would not answer to give an extended course

in the same spirit." He continued these juve-

nile lectures during nineteen years. The notes
for courses of lectures were written in school

copy-books, and sometimes he appends a gen-

eral remark about the course, not always so fa-

v"oTrhaebleeigashtthleecotuneregsivoenn   above. Thus    he   writes,
                                         the operations       the la-
                                                          of

boratory, April, 1828, were not to my mind." Of

the course of twelve in the spring of 1827, he

says he "found matter enough in the notes for

at least seventeen."

   Up to 1833 Faraday was bringing the forces
of nature in subjection to man on a salary of

only 100 per annum, with house, coals, and can-
dles, as the funds of the Institution would not

at that time afford more ; but among the sedate
habitues of the place was a tall, jovial gentle-

ing Brande's lectures, when one day, the professor being ab-
sent, his assistant took his place, and lectured with so much
ease that he won the complete approval of the audience.
This, he said, was Faraday's first lecture at the Royal Insti-

tution.
42 MICHAEL PAEADAY.

man, who lounged to the lectures in his old-fash-
ioned blue coat and brass buttons, gray smalls,
and white stockings, who was a munificent friend

in need. This was John Fuller, a member of
Parliament. He founded a Professorship of
Chemistry, with an endowment that brings in
nearly 100 a year, and gave the first appoint-
ment to Faraday for life. When the Institution

became richer, his income was increased; and

when, on account of the infirmities of age, he

could no longer investigate, lecture, or keep ac-
counts, the managers insisted on his still retain-
ing in name his official connection with the place,
with his salary and his residence there. Nor,
indeed, could they well have acted otherwise ;

for, though the Royal Institution afforded in the
first instance a congenial soil for the budding
powers of Faraday, his growth soon became its
strength, and eventually the blooming of his ge-
nius, and the fruit it bore, were the ornament
and glory of the Institution.

  It will be asked, Was this 100 or 200 per

annum the sole income of Faraday ? No ; in

early days he did commercial analyses and oth-
er professional work, which paid far better than

pure science. In 1830 his gains from this source

amounted to 1000, and in 1831 to considerably

more ; they might easily have been increased,
but at that time he made one of his most re-
THE STOKY OF HIS LIFE.  43

markable discoveries the evolution of electric-

ity from magnetism* and there seemed to lie
open before him the solution of the problem how
to make one force exhibit at will the phenomena
of magnetism, or of common or voltaic electric-
ity. And then he had to face another problem

   his own mental force might be turned either
to the acquisition of a fortune, or to the follow-
ing up of those great discoveries ; it would not

do both : which should he relinquish ? The
choice was deliberately made : Nature revealed
to him mjore and more of her secrets, but his

professional gains sank in 1832 to 155 9s., and

during no subsequent year did they amount even
to that.

   Still his work was not entirely confined to his
favorite studies. In a letter to Lord Auckland,

Ilong afterward, he says : " have given up, for

the last ten years or more, all professional occu-
pation, and voluntarily resigned a large income,

Ithat might pursue in some degree my own ob-
Ijects of research. But in doing this have al-

ways, as a good subject, held myself ready to

assist the government if still in my power not
for pay ; for, except in one instance (and then

only for the sake of the person joined with me),

   * The laboratory note-book shows that at this very time
he was making a long series of commercial analyses of salt-
petre for Mr. Brande.
44 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

I Irefused to take it. have had the honor and

pleasure of applications, and that very recently,
from the Admiralty, the Ordnance, the Home Of-

Ifice, the Woods and Forests, and other depart-

ments, all of which have replied to, and will
reply to as long as strength is left me." He had
declined the Professorship of Chemistry at the
London University now University College;
but in 1829 he accepted a lectureship at the
Royal Academy, Woolwich, and held it for about
twenty years. In 1836 he became scientific ad-
viser to the Trinity House, and his letter to the
Deputy Master also shows his feelings in refer-

Ience to such employment : " You have left the

title and the sum in pencil. These look at
mainly as regards the character of the appoint-
ment ; you will believe me to be sincere in this

when you remember my indifference to your
proposition as a matter of interest, though not

as a matter of kindness. In consequence of the

Igood will and confidence of all around me, can
Iat any moment convert my time into money, but

  do not require more of the latter than is suf-
ficient for necessary purposes. The sum, there-

fore, of 200 is quite enough in itself, but not if

it is to be the indicator of the character of the

Iappointment ; but think you do not view it so,
Iand that you and understand each other in

that respect, and your letter confirms me in that
THE STOEY OP HIS LIFE.                               45

Iopinion. The position which presume you

would wish me to hold is analogous to that of a

standing counsel." For nearly thirty years Far-

aday continued to report on all scientific sugges-

tions and inventions connected with light-houses

or buoys, not for personal gain or renown, but

for the public   g"osotda.ndinHgiscopuonssiteilo."n  was never
above that of a
                                                     In his own
words, " I do not know the exact relation of the

Board of Trade and the Trinity House to each

Iother ; am simply an adviser upon philosophi-

cal questions, and am put into action only when

called upon."

   In regard to the lectureship at  Woolwich,        Mr.
Abel, his successor, writes thus :   " Faraday
                                                      ap-

pears to have enjoyed his weekly trips to Wool-

wich, which he continued for so many years, as

a source of relaxation. He was in the habit of

going to Woolwich in the afternoon or evening

preceding his lecture at the Military Academy,

then preparing at once for his experiments, and

afterward generally taking a country ramble.

The lecture was delivered early the following

morning. No man was so respected, admired,

and beloved as a teacher at the Military Acad-

emy in former days as Faraday. Many are the

little incidents which have been communicated

to ine by his pupils illustrative of his charms as

a lecturer, and of his kindly feelings for the youths
46 MICHAEL FARADAY.

to whom he endeavored to impart a taste for, if

not a knowledge of, science. But for some not

ill-meant, though scarcely judicious proposal to

dictate modifications in his course of instruction,

Faraday would probably have continued for some

Iyears longer to lecture at Woolwich. In May,

1852, soon after had been appointed his success-

or, Faraday wrote to me requesting the return

of some tubes of condensed gases which he left at

'Ithe Academy. This letter ends thus: hope

you feel yourself happy and comfortable in your

Iarrangements at the Academy, and have cause

to be pleased with the change. was ever very

kindly received there, and that portion of regret

which one must ever feel in concluding a long

engagement would be in some degree lessened

with me by hearing that you had reason to be

satisfied with your duties  and their  a"cceptance.
Ever very truly yours, M.   FAKADAY.'

For year after year the life of Faraday afford-

ed no adventure and little variety, only an ever-

growing skill in his favorite pursuits, higher and

higher success, and ever-widening fame. But,

simple as were his mind and his habits, no one

picture can present him as the complete man ;

we must try to make sketches from various points
of view, and leave it to the reader's imagination

to combine them.

Let us watch him on an ordinary day. After
      THE STOKY OF HIS LIFE.                                    47

eight hours' sleep, he rises in time to breakfast
at eight o'clock, goes round the Institution to
see that all is in order, and descends into the la-

boratory, puts on a large white apron full of holes,
and is busy among his pieces of apparatus. The
faithful Anderson, an old soldier, who always did
exactly what he was told, and nothing more,* is
waiting upon him ; and as thought flashes after

thought through his eager perhaps impatient
brain, he twists his wires into new shapes, and re-

arranges his magnets and batteries. Then some

conclusion is arrived at which lights up his face
with a gleam of satisfaction, but the next minute
a doubt comes across that expressive brow may
the results not be due to something else yet im-

perfectly conceived? and a new experiment

must be devised to answer that. In the mean
time one of his little nieces has been left in his

charge. She sits as quiet as a mouse, with her

   *  oTfhMerf.oBlleownjianmg inanAecbdbootett:ha"s  been sent  me on the author-
ity                                                  Sergeant   Anderson was en-

gaged to attend to the furnaces in Mr. Faraday's researches

on optical glass in 1828, and was chosen simply because of

the habits of strict obedience his military training had given

him. His duty was to keep the furnaces always at the same

heat, and the water in the ash-pit always at the same level.

In the evening he was released, but one night Faraday forgot

to tell Anderson he could go home, and early next morning

he found his faithful servant still stoking the glowing furnace,
as he had been doing all night long. "
48 MICHAEL FARADAY.

needle-work ; but now and then he gives her a
nod, or a kind word, and throwing a little piece
of potassium on to a basin of water for her amuse-

ment, he shows her the metal bursting into pur-
ple flame, floating about in fiery eddies, and the
crack of the fused globule of potash at the end.
Presently there is handed to him the card of

some foreign savant, who makes his pilgrimage
to the famous Institution and its presiding ge-
nius; he puts down his last result on a slate,
comes up stairs, and, disregarding the interrup-
tion, chats with his visitor with all cordiality and

openness. Then to work again till dinner-time,
at half past two. In the afternoon he retires to

his study with its plain furniture and the India-
rubber tree in the window, and writes a letter full
of affection to some friend, after which he goes
off to the council meeting of one of the learned
bodies. Then back again to the laboratory; but
as evening approaches he goes up stairs to his
wife and niece, and then there is a game at bag-
atelle or acting charades ; and afterward he will

read aloud from Shakspeare or Macaulay till it

is time for supper and the simple family worship,
which now is not liable to the interruptions that
generally prevent it in the morning. And so the

day closes.

  Or, if it be a fine summer evening, he takes a

stroll with his wife and the little girl to the Zoo-
   THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.                      49

logical Gardens, and looks at all the new arrivals,
but especially the monkeys, laughing at their

tricks till the tears run down his cheeks.
   But should it be a Friday evening, Faraday's

place is in the library and theatre of the Institu-
tion, to see that all is right and ready, to say an

encouraging word.to the lecturer, and to welcome
his friends as they arrive ; then taking his seat

on the front bench near the right hand of the

speaker, he listens with an animated countenance

to his story,* sometimes bending forward, and

scarcely capable of keeping his fingers off the

apparatus not at all able if any thing seems to

baweaprglmeoainssaghnatwkerhoonougfrt,;"hewahnhedann"dt,Ghweooitddhis-c"noTiughrhsaten"kistoyoovutheorf,soear

around him, and up stairs with his wife and some

particularly congenial friends to supper. On the
dining-table is abundance of good fare and good
wine, and around it flows a pleasant stream of

lively and intellectual conversation.
   But suppose it is his own night to lecture.

The subject has been carefully considered, an
outline of his discourse has been written on a

"  * One evening, when the Rev. A. J. D'Orsey  was lecturing
                                               mentioned as
   On the Study of the English Language," he

asocnosminmgounlarv, ualgs a"risHme  that   of using "don't" in the third per-
                                     don't  pay his debts. " Faraday exclaim-

ed aloud, "That's very wrong."

                                            D
50 MICHAEL FARADAY.

sheet of foolscap, with all the experiments mark-

ed and numbered, and during the morning ev-

ery thing has been arranged on the table in such

order that his memory is assisted by it ; the au-

dience- now pours in, and soon occupies all the

seats, so that late comers must be content with

sitting on the stairs, or standing in the gang-
ways or at the back of the gallery. Faraday

enters, and, placing himself in the centre of the

horseshoe table, perfect master of himself, his ap-

paratus, and his audience, commences a discourse

which few that are present will  :  ever   forget.  Here
is a picture by Lady Pollock                was an   irre-
                                     " It

sistible eloquence, which compelled attention and

insisted upon sympathy. Itf waked the young

from their visions, and the old from their dreams.

There was a gleaming in his eyes which no paint-

er could copy, and which no poet could describe.

Their radiance seemed to send a strange light
into the very heart of his congregation ; and
when he spoke, it was felt that the stir of his

voice and the fervor of his- words could belong
only to the owner of those kindling eyes. His

thought was rapid, and made itself a way in new

phrases if it found none ready made as the

mountaineer cuts steps in the most hazardous as-

cent with his own axe. His enthusiasm some-

times carried him to the point of ecstasy when he
expatiated on the beauties of Nature, and when
THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.  51

he lifted the veil from her deep mysteries. His

body then took motion from his mind ; his hair

streamed out from his head ; his hands were full
of nervous action ; his light, lithe body seemed
to quiver with its eager life. His audience took
fire with him, and every face was flushed. What-

ever might be the after-thought or the after-pur-
suit, each hearer for the time shared his zeal and

his delight."*
   Is it possible that he can be happier when lec-

turing to the juveniles ? The front rows are fill-
ed with the young people; behind them are
ranged older friends and many of his brother
philosophers ; and there is old Sir James South,
who is quite deaf, poor man, but has come, as he
says, because he likes to see the happy faces of
the children. How perfect is the attention !

Faraday, with a beaming countenance, begins
with something about a candle or a kettle that
most boys and girls know, then rises to what
they had never thought of before, but which now
is* as clear as possible to their understandings.
And with what delight does he watch the per-
formances of Nature in his experiments ! One

could fancy that he had never seen the experi-

ments before, and that he was about to clap his

hands with boyish glee at the unexpected result !

Then, with serious face, the lecturer makes some

               * The St. Paul's Magazine, June, 1870.
52 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

incidental remark that goes far beyond natural
philosophy, and is a lesson for life.

   Some will remember one of these occasions
which forms the subject of a painting by Mr.
Blaikley. Within the circle of the table stands
the lecturer, and waiting behind is the trusty

Anderson, while the chair is occupied by the
Prince Consort, and beside him are the young
Prince of Wales and his brother, the present
Duke of Edinburg ; while the Rev. John Barlow
and Dr.Bence Jones sit on the left of the princes,

Sir James South stands against the door, and
Murchison, De la Rue, Mrs. Faraday, and others

may be recognized among the eager audience.

   Let us now suppose that it is a Sunday on
which we are watching this prince among the
aristocracy of intellect, and we will assume it to
be during one of the periods of his eldership,

namely, between 1840 and 1844, or after 1860.
The first period came to a close through his sep-
aration both from his office and from the Church

itself. The reason of this is said to have been

that one Sunday he was absent from the love-

feast, and, on inquiry being made, it appeared
not only that he had been the guest of the queen,
but that he was ready to justify his own conduct

in obeying her commands. He, however, con-
tinued to worship among his friends, and was,

after a while, restored to the rights of member-
THE STOKY OP HIS LIFE.  53

ship, and eventually to the office of elder. In

the morning he and his family group find their
way down to the plain little meeting-house in
Paul's Alley, Red-cross Street, since pulled down
to make way for the Metropolitan Railway. The
day's proceedings commence with a prayer-meet-

ing, during which the worshipers gradually drop

in and go to their accustomed seats, Faraday tak-

ing his place on the platform devoted to the el-

.ders : then the more public service begins ; one
of a metrical but not rhyming version of the
Psalms is sung to a quaint old tune, the Lord's

Prayer and another psalm follow; he rises, and
reads in a slow, reverent manner the words of
one of the evangelists, with a most profound and
intelligent appreciation of their meaning ; or he

offers an extempore prayer, expressing perfect

trust and submission to God's will, with deep

humility and confession of sin. It may be his

turn to preach. On two sides of a card he has
previously sketched out his sermon with the il-

lustrative texts, but the congregation does not

see the card, only a little Bible in his hand, the
pages of which he turns quickly over, as, fresh
from an honest heart, there flows a discourse full
of devout thought, clothed largely in the lan-
guage of Scripture. After a loud simultaneous
"Amen" has closed the service, the Church mem-

bers withdraw to their common meal, the feast
54 MICHAEL FARADAY.

of charity ; and in the afternoon there is another
service, ending by invariable custom with the
Lord's Supper. The family group do not reach

home till half past 5 ; then there is a quiet even-
ing, part of which is spent by Faraday at his

desk, and they retire to rest at an early hour.

   Again on Wednesday evening he is among the
little flock. The service is somewhat freer, for
not the officers of the Church only, but the ordi-
nary members, are encouraged to express what-
ever thoughts occur to them, so as to edify one

another. At these times, Faraday, especially

when he was not an elder, very often had some
word of exhortation, and the warmth of his tem-
perament would make itself felt, for he was
known in the small community as an experi-
mental rather than a doctrinal preacher.

   The notes of his more formal discourses which

I have had the opportunity of seeing indicate,

as might be expected from the tenets of his
Church, a large acquaintance with the words of
Scripture, but no knowledge of modern exege-
sis. They appear to have impressed different
hearers in different ways. One who heard him

frequently, and was strongly attached to him,
says that his sermons were too parenthetical
and rapid in their delivery, with little variety or
ahtetarardcthivimeneoscsca; sbiountaallnyo, twherirtessc,ie"ntTifhiceyfrisetnrudc,kwmhoe
THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.  55

as resembling a mosaic work of texts. At first

you could hardly understand their juxtaposition

and relationship ; but as the well-chosen pieces

were filled in, by degrees their congruity and fit-

ness became developed, and at last an amazing

sense of the power and beauty of the whole fill-
ed one's thoughts at the close of the discourse."

   Among the latest of his sermons was one that

he preached at Dundee about four years before
his death. He began by telling his audience that
his memory was failing, and he feared he could
not quote Scripture with perfect accuracy ; and

then, as said one of the elders present, "his face
shone like the face of an angel" as he poured
forth the words of loving exhortation.

   When a mind is stretched in the same direc-

tion week-day and Sunday, the tension is apt to

become too great. With Faraday the first symp-
tom was loss of memory. Then his devoted wife
had to hurry him off to the country for rest of

brain. Once he had to give up work almost en-
tirely for a twelvemonth. During this time he

traveled in Switzerland, and extracts from his
diary are given by Bence Jones. His niece, Miss

IReid, gives us her recollections of a month spent

at Walmer: "How rejoiced to be allowed to
go there with him ! We went on the outside of

the coach, in his favorite seat behind the driver.

When we reached Shooter's Hill, he was full of
56 MICHAEL FARADAY.

fun about FalstafF and the men in buckram, and
not a sight nor a sound of interest escaped his

quick eye and ear. At Walmer we had a cot-

tage in a field, and my uncle was delighted be-
cause a window looked directly into a black-
bird's nest built in a cherry-tree. He would go

Imany times in a day to watch the parent birds

feeding their young. remember, too, how much
he was interested in the young lambs, after they
were sheared at our door, vainly trying to find
their own mothers. The ewes, not knowing

Itheir shorn lambs, did not make the customary

signal. In those days was eager to see the sun
rise, and my uncle desired me always to call him

Iwhen was awake. So, as soon as the glow
Ibrightened over Pegwell Bay, stole down stairs

and tapped at his door, and he would rise, and a
great treat it was to watch the glorious sight

Iwith him. How delightful, too, to be his com-

panion at sunset ! Once remember well how
we watched the fading light from a hill clothed
with wild flowers, and how, as twilight stole on,
the sounds of bells from Upper Deal broke upon

our ears, and how he watched till all was gray.

At such times he would be well pleased if we

could repeat a few lines descriptive of his feel-
ings." And then she tells us about their exam-
ining the flowers in the fields by the aid of "Gal-
pin's Botany," and how with a candle he showed
THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.  57

her a spectre on the white mist outside the win-
dow ; of reading lessons that ended in laughter,
and of sea-anemones and hermit crabs, with the

merriment caused by their odd movements as

they dragged about the unwieldy shells they ten-

Ianted. " But of all things used to like to hear
Ihim read ' Childe Harold ;' and never shall for-

get the way in which he read the description of
the storm on Lake Leman. He took great pleas-
ure in Byron, and Coleridge's 'Hymn to Mont
Blanc' delighted him. When any thing touched
his feelings as he read and it happened not un-
frequently he would show it not only in his
voice, but by tears in his eyes also."

  A few days at Brighton refreshed him for his

work. He was in the habit of running down

there before his juvenile lectures at Christmas,

and at Easter he frequently sought the same sea-

breezes.

   But it was not always that Faraday could run
away from London when the mental tension be-

came excessive. A shorter relaxation was pro-

cured by his taking up a novel such as "Ivan-
hoe," or "Jane Eyre," or "Monte Christo." He
liked the stirring ones best, "a story with a
thread to it." Or he would go with his wife to
see Kean act, or hear Jenny Lind sing, or per-
haps to witness the performance of some "Wiz-
ard of the North."

   Now and then he would pay a visit to some
58 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

scene of early days. One of his near relatives

tells me : "It is said that Mr. Faraday once went

to the shop where his father had formerly been

employed as a blacksmith, and asked to be al-

lowed to look over the place. When he got to
a part of the premises at which there was an

opening into the lower workshop, he stopped and

'I Isaid, very nearly lost my life there once.

was playing in the upper room at pitching half-

Ipence into a pint pot close by this hole, and hav-

ing succeeded at a certain distance, stepped

back to try my fortune further off, forgetting the

Iaperture, and down fell ; and if it had not been

Ithat my father was working over an anvil fixed

just below, should have fallen on broken
                                             it,
                                                it
my back, and probably killed myself. As was,

my father's back just saved mine.'"

Business, as well as pleasure, sometimes took

him away from home. He often joined the Brit-

ish Association, returning usually on Saturday,

that he might be among his own people on the

Lord's Day. During the meeting he would gen-

erally accept the hospitality of some friend and
                                F

                                   I
                                           I

                                                                        is

                                                                                    ;

                                                                                   :'
was one of these occasions that gave rise to
it
            P
th"e  folio wing  jeu d> esprit:    British  tongue  true

      'That will  change to in the

(Quoth Professor Phillips), though the instances are few
An entry in my journal then ventured thus to parody,

I'    this day dined with Fillips, where hobbed and nob-

      bed with Pharaday.'                            T. T.

      "OXFORD, June 27, 1860."
THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.  59

   At the Liverpool meeting in 1837 he was pres-

ident of the Chemical Section, and on two other

occasions he was selected to deliver the evening

lecture, but, though repeatedly pressed to under-

take the presidency of the whole body, he could

not be prevailed upon to accept the office.

  My first' personal intercourse with him, of any

Iextent, was at the Ipswich meeting in 1851.

watched him with all the interest of an admiring

disciple, and there is deeply engraven on my

memory the vivacity of his conversation, the ea-
gerness with which he entered into some mathe-
rnatico-chemical speculations of Dumas, and the

playfulness with which, when we were dining
together, he cut boomerangs out of card, and
shot them across the table at his friends.

   Professional engagements also took him not
unfrequently into the country. Some of these
will be described in the later sections, that treat
of his mode of working and its valuable results.

   To comprehend a man's life it is necessary to
know not merely what he does, but also what he
purposely leaves undone. There is a limit to the
work that can be got out of a human body or a

human brain, and he is a wise man who wastes
no energy on pursuits for which he is not fitted ;
and he is still wiser who, from among the things

that he can do well, chooses and resolutely fol-

lows the best.
60 MICHAEL FARADAY.

Faraday took no part in any of the political

or social movements of his time. To politics,

indeed, he seems to have been really indifferent.

It was during the intensely interesting period

of 1814-15 that he was on the Continent with

Davy, but he alludes to the taking of Paris by

the allied troops simply because of its bearing on
the movements of the travelers, and on March 7,

"I1815, he made this remarkable entry in his jour-

nal : heard for news that Bonaparte was again

at liberty. Being no politician,! did not trouble

myself much about though suppose willa
                         a               a
have strong influence on the affairs of Europe."it,a
In later days he seems to have awaked to suffi-it
a                          I
         a
cient interest to read the debates, and to showa

Conservative tendency; he became special

constable in  1848, and was disposed generally
to support "  the powers that be," though that

involved some perplexity at change of govern-

ment.                    man of his benevo-

  It more singular that
is

lent spirit should never have taken prominent
                                      a

part in any philanthropic movement. During
the latter half of his life, he, as rule, avoided

serving on committees even for scientific objects,

and was reluctant to hold office in the learned

societies with which he was connected.   I      be-

lieve, however, that this arose, not from want of
interest, but from conviction that he was ill
THE STOEY OF HIS LIFE.  61

suited by natural temperament for joining in dis-

cussions on subjects that roused the passions of

men, or for calmly weighing the different causes
of action, and deciding which was the most ju-

dicious. It is remarkable how little even of his

scientific work was done in conjunction with

others. Neither did he spend time in rural oc-

cupations, or in literary or artistic pursuits.

Beasts, and birds, and flowers he looked at, but

it was for recreation, not for study. Music he

was fond of, and occasionally he visited the Ope-

ra, but he did not allow sweet sounds to charm

him away from his work. He stuck closely to

his fireside, his laboratory, his lecture-table, and

his Church. He lived where he worked, so that

he had only to go down stairs to put to the test

of experiment any fresh thought that flitted

across his brain. He almost invariably declined

dinner-parties, except at Lady Davy's, and at Mr.

and Mrs. Masquerier's at Brighton, toward whom

he felt under an obligation on account of former
Ifkindnesses.
               he went to a soiree he usually

staid but a short time, and even when away

from home he generally refused private hospi-

tality. Thus he was able to give almost undi-

vided attention to the chief pursuit of his life.
   His residence in so accessible a part of London

did, however, expose him to the constant inva-

sion of callers, and his own good nature often
62 MICHAEL FARADAY.

rendered fruitless the efforts that were consider-
ately made to restrict these within reasonable

limits. Of course he suffered from the curious

and the inconsiderate of the human species; and
then there were those pertinacious bores, the
dabblers in science. " One morning a young
man called on him, and with an air of great im-
portance confided to him the result of some orig-
inal researches (so he deemed them) in electrical

philosophy. 'And pray,' asked the professor,

taking down a volume of Rees's Cyclopaedia, ' did
you consult this or any elementary work to learn
whether your discovery had been anticipated ?'
The young man replied in the negative. ' Then
why do you come to waste my time about well-
known facts, that were published forty years

I Iago ?' ' Sir,' said the visitor, ' thought had

better bring the matter to head-quarters imme-

diately.' 'All very well for you, but not so well

for head-quarters,' replied the professor, sharply,
and set him down to read the article."

   "A grave, elderly gentleman once waited upon
him to submit to his notice ' a new law of phys-
ics.' The visitor requested that a jug of water

and a tumbler might be brought, and then pro-

ducing a cork, ' You will be pleased to observe,'

said he, ' how persistently this cork clings to the

side of the glass when the vessel is half filled.'
' Just so,' replied the professor. ' But now,' re-
             THE STOEY OF HIS LIFE.        63

sumed this great discoverer, ' mark what happens

Iwhen fill the tumbler to the brim. There ! you

see the cork flies to the centre positively re-

pelled by the sides !' * Precisely so,' replied the

amused electrician, with the air of a man who

felt perfectly at home with the phenomenon, and

indeed regarded it quite as an old friend. The
visitor was evidently disconcerted. ' Pray how

Ilong have you known this ?' he ventured to ask

Faraday. ' Oh, ever since was a boy,' was the

rejoinder. Crestfallen his discovery demolish-

ed in a moment the poor gentleman was retir-

ing with many apologies, when the professor,

sincerely concerned at his disappointment, com-

forted him by suggesting that possibly he might

some day alight upon something really new."*

But there were other visitors who were right
welcome to a portion of his time. One day it

might be a young man, whom a few kind words

and a little attention on the part of the great

philosopher would send forward on the journey

of life with new energy and hopes. Another
day it might be some intellectual chieftain, who

could meet the prince of experimenters on equal
terms. But these are hardly to be regarded as

interruptions rather as part of his chosen work.

IHere is one instance in the words of Mr. Rob-
ert Mallet.  "          was, in the years that fol-
                 .. ..

* British Quarterly Review, April, 1 868.
64 MICHAEL FARADAY.

Ilowed, never in London without paying him a

visit, and on one of those times ventured to

ask him (if not too much engaged) to let me see
where he and Davy had worked together. With

the most simple graciousness he brought me

through the whole of the Royal Institution, Al-

bemarle Street. Brande's furnaces, Davy's bat-

tery, the place in the laboratory where he told

me he had first observed the liquefaction of

chlorine, are all vividly before me but nothing

so clear or vivid as our conversation over a spec-
imen of green (crown) glass, partially devitrified
in floating opaque white spheres of radiating

crystals : he touched luminously on the obscure

relation of the vitreous and crystalloid states,

and on the probable nature of the nuclei of the

Iwhite spheres. My next visit to Faraday that
  recollect was not long after my paper ' On the

Dynamics of Earthquakes' had appeared in the
Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy. He

almost at once referred to it in terms of praise

that seemed to me so far beyond my due, that

I Ieven now recall the very humble way felt,

Ias the thought of Faraday's own transcendent
merits rushed across my mind.  ventured to

Iask him, had the paper engaged his attention

sufficiently that might ask him did he con-

sider my explanation of the before supposed

vorticose shock sufficient? To my amazement
THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.              65

Ihe at once recited nearly wordfor word the par-

agraph in which took some pains to put my
views into a demonstrative shape, and ended

with, ' It is as plain and certain as a proposition

of Euclid !' And yet the subject was one pretty
wide away from his own objects of study."

  Often, too, if some interesting fact was exhib-

ited to him, he would send to his brother sa-

vants some such note as this :

                  " ROYAL INSTITUTION, 4th May, 1852.

"MY DEAR WHEATSTONE, Dr. Dubois-Ray-

mond will be making his experiments here next

IThursday, the 6th, from and after 1 1 o'clock.
wish to let you know, that you may, if you like,

join the select few.

"Ever truly yours,    M. FARADAY."

  It was, indeed, his wont to share with others

the delight to a new discovery. Thus Sir Hen-
ry Holland tells me that he used frequently to
run-to his house in Brook Street with some piece
of scientific news. One of these visits was after

reading Bunsen and Kirchhoff's paper on Spec-
trum Analysis ; and he did not stop short with
merely telling the tale of the special rays of
light shot forth by each metallic vapor, as the

following letter will show. It is addressed to

the present Baroness Burdett Coutts.

                               E
66 MICHAEL FARADAY.

                      "ROYAL INSTITUTION, Friday, 17th May.

   "DEAR Miss COTJTTS, To-morrow at 4 o'clock,

Iimmediately after Max Miiller's lecture, shall

show Sir Henry Holland an apparatus which has

arrived from Munich to manifest the phenomena

of light which have recently been made known

to us by Bunsen and Kirchhoff. Mr. Barlow will

Ifbe here, and he suggests that you would like to
know of the occasion.  you are inclined to

see how philosophers work and live, and so are

Iinclined to climb our narrow stairs (for must

show the experiments in my room), we shall be

most happy to see you. The experiments will

not be beautiful except to the intelligent.

   "Ever your faithful servant, M. FARADAY."

   Sometimes, too, the exhibition of a scientific

fact would take him away from home. Thus,
when her majesty and the Prince Consort once
paid a private visit to the Polytechnic, Mr. Pep-
per arranged a surprise for the royal party by
getting Faraday in a quiet room to explain the
Ruhmkorff's coil the latest development of his
own inductive currents. This he did with his

usual vivacity and enthusiasm, and the inter-
view is said to have gratified the philosopher as

well as the queen.
   He could not, however, escape the inroads

made upon his time by correspondence. People
            THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.                                      67

would write and ask him questions. Once a sol-

itary prisoner wrote to tell him, " It indeed,
is

                I
                                       a
                         I
                                                          a
                                                            is is,
in studying the great discoveries which science

indebted to you for that render my captivity

less  sad,  and make time flow with rapidity"
and   then  he proceeds to ask, " What
                                                                  the most

simple combination to give to voltaic battery

in order to produce spark capable of setting

fire to powder under water or under ground?

Up to the present have only seen employed to

that purpose piles of thirty or forty pairs con-

structed on Dr. Wollaston's principles. They

are very large and inconvenient for field service.

Could not the same effect be produced by two

spiral pairs only and if so, what can be their
            ?
smallest dimension?" And who was the pris-?

oner who thus speculated on the applications of

science to war It was no other than Prince

Louis Napoleon, then immured in the fortress of

Ham, and now the ex-Emperor of the French.

At another time he wrote asking for his advice

in the manufacture of an alloy which should be

about as soft as lead, but not so fusible                               ques-
            ;

                                                            a
                                                                     a
tion which also had evident bearing upon the

art of war and offering, at the same time, to

pay the cost of any experiments that might be

necessary.

   Often, too, the correspondents of Faraday

thought that they were doing him kindness.
68 MICHAEL FARADAY.

He says somewhere : " The number of sugges-
tions, hints for discovery, and propositions of va-
rious kinds, offered to me very freely, and with
perfect good will and simplicity on the part of
the proposers, for my exclusive investigation and
final honor, is remarkably great, and it is no less
remarkable that but for one exception that of

I IMr. Jenkin they have all been worthless. . . .
  have, think, universally found that the man
whose mind was by nature or self-education fit-
ted to make good and worthy suggestions, was
also the man both able and willing to work them

out."

   Both the askers of questions and the givers
of advice expected answers and the answers
came. Most of Faraday's letters, indeed, are of

a purely business character : sometimes they are
very laconic, as the note in which he announced
to Dr. Paris one of his principal discoveries :

"DEAR SIR, The oil you noticed yesterday

turns out to be liquid chlorine.

"Yours faithfully,                M. FARADAY."

   But in other letters, as may be expected, there
is found the enthusiasm of his ardent nature or
the glow of his genial spirit. An instance or

two may suffice.
      THE STOKY OF HIS LIFE.             69

                  "ROYAL INSTITUTION, 24th March, 1843.

" DEAR SIR, I have received and at once look-

ed at your paper. Many thanks for so good a

contribution to the beloved science. What glo-

rious steps electricity has taken in the days with-

in our reViemb ranee, and what hopes are held
out for the future ! The great difficulty is to re-

Imove the mists which dim the dawn of a subject,

and can not but consider your paper as doing

very much that way for a most important part

of natural knowledge.

  I" am, my dear sir, most truly yours,
                     "M. FARADAY.
"J. P. JOULE, ESQ."

" MY  DEAR   " ROYAL INSTITUTION, 15th Oct., 1853.
            Miss MOORE, The summer is go-
Iing away, and never (but for one day) had any
hopes of profiting by your kind offer of the roof

of your house in Clarges Street. What a feeble

Isummer it has been as regards sunlight ! have

made a good many preliminary experiments at

Ihome, but they do not encourage me in the di-

rection toward which was looking. All is

Imisty and dull, both the physical and the mental

prospect. But have ever found that the ex-

perimental philosopher has great need of pa-

tience, that he may not be downcast by inter-

posing obstacles, and perseverance, that he may

either overcome them, or open out a new path to
70 MICHAEL FARADAY.

Ithe bourn he desires to reach. So perhaps next

summer may think of your house-top again.
Many thanks for your kind letter and all your
kindnesses usward. My wife had your note yes-

Iterday, and enjoyed the violets, which for a
Itime appropriated.

  I" With kindest remembrances and thoughts to

all with yon and her at Hastings, am, my dear
friend, very faithfully yours, M. FARADAY."

   The following is written to Mr. Frank Barnard,
then an Art student in Paris :

                I"EOYAL INSTITUTION, 9th Nov., 1852.

   " MY DEAR NEPHEW, Though am not a let-

Iter-writer, and shall not profess to send you any

news, yet intend to waste your time with one
sheet of paper, first to thank you for your letter

to me, and then to thank you for what I hear of

your letters to others. You were very kind to

Itake the trouble of executing my commissions

when know your heart was bent upon the en-
trance to your studies. Your account of M.

IArago was most interesting to me, though

should have been glad if in the matter of health

you could have made it better. He has a won-
derful mind and spirit. And so you are hard at
work, and somewhat embarrassed by your posi-
tion ; but no man can do just as he likes, and in
THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.  7l

many things he has to give way, and may do so

honorably, provided he preserve his self-respect.
Never, my dear Frank, lose that, whatever may

be the alternative. Let no one tempt you to it ;
for nothing can be expedient that is not right ;
and though some of your companions may tease
you at first, they will respect you for your con-

sistency in the end ; and if they pretend not to

Ido so, it is of no consequence. However, trust

the hardest part of your probation is over, for

the earliest is usually the hardest ; and that you

know how to take nil things quietly. Happily

Ifor you, there is nothing in your pursuit which

need embarrass you in Paris. think you never
cared for home politics, so that those of another

country are not likely to occupy your attention,
and a stranger can be but a very poor judge of

a new people and their requisites.

  I" I think all your family are pretty well, but

know you will hear all the news from your ap-

I Ipointed correspondent Jane, and, as said, am
Iunable to chronicle any thing. Still, am al-

Iways very glad to hear how you are going on,

and have a sight of all that may see of the cor-

respondence.

   "Ever, my dear Frank, your affectionate uncle,
                                        "M. FARADAY."

His scientific researches were very numerous.
72 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

The Royal Society Catalogue gives under the

name of Faraday a list of 158 papers, published

in various scientific magazines or learned Trans-

actions. Many of these communications are

doubtless short, but a short philosophical paper

often represents a large amount of brain-work ;
a score of them are the substance of his Friday

evening discourses; while others are lengthy

treatises, the records of long and careful investi-

goaf htiiosn"s;Exapnedrimtheenltiaslt  includes the   thirty series
                                       Researches in  Electricity."

These extended over a period of twenty-seven

y"ePahrislo, saonpdhicwaelreTraafntsearwctaiordns,"reparinndtedforfmromthrtehee

goodly volumes, with 3430 numbered paragraphs

one of the most marvelous monuments of in-

tellectual work, one of the rarest treasure-houses

of newly-discovered knowledge, with which the

world has ever been enriched. Faraday never

published but one  book in the common                 accepta-

tion of the term   it was on " Chemical               Manipu-

lation ;" but there appeared another large vol-

ume of reprinted papers; and three of his courses

of lectures were also published as separate small

books, though not by himself. It is very tempt-

ing to linger among these 158 papers; but this

is not intended as a scientific biography, and

those who wish to make themselves better ac-

quainted with his work will find an admirable
THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.  73

summary of it in Professor Tyndall's "Faraday

as a Man of Science." In Sections IV. and V.,

Ihowever, have endeavored to give an idea of

his manner of working, and of the practical ben-
efits that have flowed to mankind from some of

his discoveries.

   As these papers appeared his fame grew wider
and wider. When a comparatively young man
he was naturally desirous of appending the mys-
tic letters " F.R.S." to his name, and he was bal-

loted into the Royal Society in January, 1824,
not without strong opposition from his master,
Sir Humphry Davy, then president. He paid
the fees, and never sought another distinction
of the kind. But they were showered down
upon him. The Philosophical Society of Cam-

bridge had already acknowledged his merits, and

the learned academies of Paris and Florence had

enrolled him among their corresponding mem-

bers. Heidelberg and St. Petersburg, Philadel-
phia and Boston, Copenhagen, Berlin, and Pa-
lermo, quickly followed ; and as the fame of his

researches spread, very many other learned so-
cieties in Europe and America, as well as at

home, brought to him the tribute of their hono-
rary membership.* He thrice received the de-
gree of Doctor, Oxford making him a D.C.L.,
Prague a Ph.D., and Cambridge an LL.D., be-

                                 * See Appendix.
74 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

sides which he was instituted a Chevalier of the
Prussian Order of Merit, a Commander of the
Legion of Honor, and a Knight Commander of
the Order of St.Maurice and St.Lazarus. Among
the medals which he received were each of those
at the disposal of the Royal Society indeed, the
Copley medal was given him twice and the
Grande Medaille d'Honneur at the time of the
French Exhibition. Altogether it appears he
was decorated with ninety-five titles and marks
of merit,* including the blue ribbon of science,
for in 1844 he was chosen one of the eight for-
eign associates of the French Academy.

   Though he had never passed through a uni-
versity career, he was made a member of the
Senate of the University of London, which he re-
garded as one of his chief honors ; and he showed
his appreciation of the importance of the office
by a diligent attendance to its duties.

   As the recognized prince of investigators, it
is no wonder that, on the resignation of Lord
Wrottesley, an attempt was made to induce him

to become President of the Royal Society. A

deputation waited on him and urged the unani-
mous wish of the council and of scientific men.

Faraday begged for time to consider. Tyndall

   * No wonder the celebrated electrician, P. Eiess, of Berlin,
once addressed a long letter to him as ' ' Professor Michael
Faraday, Member of all Academies of Science, London."
THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.               75

gives us an insight into the reasons that led
him to decline. He tells us : " On the following

Imorning went up to his room, and said, on en-
tering, that I had come to him with some anxi-
Iety of mind. He demanded its cause, and re-
sponded, ' Lest you should have decided against

the wishes of the deputation that waited on you
'Iyesterday.' 'You would not urge me to under-
take this responsibility,' he said.  not only
Iurge you,' was my reply, ' but consider it your

bounden duty to accept it.' He spoke of the la-

bor that it would involve ; urged that it was

not in his nature to take things easy ; and that,

if he became president, he would surely have to

Istir many new questions, and agitate for some

changes. said that in such cases he would find

himself supported by the youth and strength of

the Royal Society. This, however, did not seem

to satisfy him. Mrs. Faraday came into the

room, and he appealed to her. Her decision was

IIadverse, and deprecated her decision. *Tyn-

dall,' he said at length, ' must remain plain Mi-

chael Faraday to the last ; and let me now tell

Iyou, that if accepted the honor which the Roy-
Ial Society desires to confer upon me, would

not answer for the integrity of my intellect for
a single year.' "

In 1835 Sir Robert Peel desired to confer pen-

sions as honorable distinctions on Faraday and
76 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

some other eminent men. Lord Melbourne, who

succeeded him as prime minister, in making the
offer at a private interview, gave utterance to
some hasty expressions that appeared to the

man of science to reflect on the honor of his pro-
fession, and led to his declining the money. The

king, William IV., was struck with the unusual

nature of the proceeding, and kept repeating the
story of Faraday's refusal ; and about a month
afterward, the premier, dining with Dr. (now Sir
Henry) Holland, begged him to convey a letter

to the professor, and to press on him the accept-

ance of the pension. The .letter was couched in
such honorable and conciliatory terms that Far-

aday's personal objection could no longer apply,
and he expressed his willingness to receive this

mark of national approval. A version of the

matter that found its way into the public prints

caused fresh annoyance, and nearly produced a

final refusal, but, through the kind offices of

friends who had interested themselves through-

out in the matter, a friendly feeling was again
arrived at, and the pension of 300 a year was

granted and accepted.

   In 1858 the queen offered him a house at

Hampton Court. It was a pretty little place,

situated in the well-known green in front of the
palace ; and in that quiet retreat Faraday spent
a large portion of his remaining years.
            THE STOEY OP HIS LIFE.  77

In October, 1861, he wrote a letter to the man-

agers of the Royal Institution, resigning part of

"Ihis duties, in which he reviewed his connection
with them.  entered the Royal Institution

in March, 1813, nearly forty-nine years ago, and,

Iwith exception of a comparatively short period,

during which was abroad on the Continent

Iwith Sir H. Davy, have been with you ever since.

During that time have been most happy in

your kindness, and in the fostering care which

Ithe Royal Institution has bestowed upon me.

Thank God, first, for all his gifts. have next

to thank you and your predecessors for the un-

swerving encouragement and support which you

Ihave given me during that period. My life has

been a happy one, and all desired. During its

Iprogress have tried to make a fitting return
for it to the Royal Institution, and through it to

science. But the progress of years (now amount-

ing in number to threescore and ten) having
brought forth first the period of development,

and then that of maturity, have ultimately pro-

duced for me that of gentle decay. This has

taken place in such a manner as to make the

evening of life a blessing ; for, while increasing
physical weakness occurs, a full share of health

free from pain is granted with it ; and while
memory and certain other faculties of the mind

diminish, my good spirits and cheerfulness do

not diminish with them."
78 MICHAEL FARADAY.

   When he could no longer discharge effectual-
ly his duties at the Trinity House, the Corpora-
tion quietly made their arrangements for trans-
ferring them, and, with the concurrence of the
Board of Trade, determined that his salary of

  200 per annum should continue as long as he

lived. Sir Frederick Arrow called upon him at
Albemarle Street, and explained how the matter
stood, but he found it hard to persuade the pro-

fessor that there was no injustice in his contin-

uing to receive the money ; then, taking hold of
Sir Frederick by one hand and Dr. Tyndall by
the other, Faraday, with swimming eyes, passed

over his office to his successor.

   Gradually, but surely, the end approached.
The loss of memory was followed by other symp-
toms of declining power. The fastenings of his
earthly tabernacle were removed one by one,
and he looked forward to " the house not made

with hands, eternal in the heavens." This was

no new anticipation. Calling on the friend who
had long directed with him the affairs of the In-

Istitution, but who was then half paralyzed, he

had said, " Barlow, you and are waiting ; that
is what we have to do now; and we must try
to do it patiently." He had written to his niece,

IMrs. Deacon : " can not think that death has to

the Christian any thing in it that should make
it a rare, or other than a constant thought ; out
THE STORY OF HIS LIFE.  79

of the view of death comes the view of the life
beyond the grave, as out of the view of sin (that
true and real view which the Holy Spirit alone

can give to a man) comes the glorious hope

My worldly faculties are slipping away day by
day. Happy is it for all of us that the true good
lies not in them. As they ebb, may they leave
us as little children trusting in the Father of

Mercies, and accepting his unspeakable gift."

And

Ihim,
when the dark    CsohmadteowdewPaasriscr:ee"pinbgowovbeer-
he wrote to the

fore him who is the Lord of all, and hope to be

kept waiting patiently for his time and mode of
releasing me according to his divine Word, and

the great and precious promises whereby his peo-

ple are made partakers of the divine nature."
His niece, Miss Jane Barnard, who tended him

with most devoted care, thus wrote from Hamp-
ton Court on the 27th of June: "The kind feel-

ings shown on every side toward my dear uncle,
and the ready offers of help, are most soothing.

I am thankful to say that we are going on very

quietly ; he keeps his bed and sleeps much, and
we think that the paralysis gains on him, but

between whiles he speaks most pleasant words,

showing his comfort and trust in the finished
work of our Lord. The other day he repeated
some verses of the 46th Psalm, and yesterday a

great part of the 23d. We can only trust that
80 MICHAEL FARADAY.

it may be given us to say truly, * Thy will be

done ;' indeed, the belief that all things work to-

gether for good to them that believe is an an-
chor of hope sure and steadfast to the soul. We

are surrounded by most kind and affectionate
friends, and it is indeed touching to see what

warm feelings my dear uncle has raised on all

sides."

   When his faculties were fading fast, he would
sit long at the western window, watching the glo-

ries of the sunset ; and one day, when his wife

drew his attention to a beautiful rainbow that

then spanned the sky, he looked beyond the fall-

isnegrveshdo, w" eHre  and the many-colored arch, and ob-
                        hath set his testimony in the heav-

ens." On August 25,1867, quietly, almost im-

perceptibly, came the release. There was a phi-

losopher less on earth, and a saint more in heaven.

   The funeral, at his own request, was of the sim-
plest character. His remains were conveyed to

Highgate Cemetery by his relations, and de-

posited in the grave, according to the practice

of his Church, in perfect silence. Few of his sci-

entific friends were in London that bright sum-

mer-time, but Professor Graham and one or two

others came out from the shrubbery, and, joining

the group of family mourners, took their last look

at the coffin.

But when this sun had set below our earthly
         THE STOEY OF HIS LIFE.                                    81

horizon, there seemed to spring up in the minds

of men a great desire to catch some of the rays

of the   faAdin"gFabrriagdhatnyeMssemanodriarel"flewcat sthseomon  to pos-
terity.                                                            talked

of, and the work is now in the sculptor's hands ;

the Chemical Society has founded a "Faraday

Lheasctubreeesnhipca;l"ledon"e   of  the new   streets in Paris
                                Rue   Faraday  ;" biographical

sketches have appeared in many of the British

and Continental journals ; successive books have

told the story of his life and work ; and in a thou-
sand hearts there is embalmed the memory of

this Christian gentleman and philosopher.

                          F
82 MICHAEL FARADAY.

                      SECTION II.

r'

                   STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.

   IN the previous section we have traced the
leading events of a life which was quietly and
uniformly successful. We have watched the pas-

sage of the errand-boy into the philosopher, and

we have seen how at first he begged for the

meanest place in a scientific workshop, and at

last declined the highest honor which British sci-

ence was capable of granting. His success did

not lie in the amassing of money he deliberate-

ly turned aside from the path of proffered wealth ;

nor did  it lie in the attainment       of social  position
                                     4
and titles he did not care for the weight of
these. But if success consists in a life full of

agreeable occupation, with the knowledge that

its labors are adding to the happiness and wealth

of the world, leading on to an old age full of hon-
or, and the prospect of a blissful immortality,
then the highest success crowned the life of Far-

aday.

  How did he obtain it? Not by inheritance,

and not by the force of circumstances. The
wealth or the reputation of fathers is often an in-
STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.  83

valuable starting-point for sons ; a liberal educa-
tion and the contact of superior minds in early

youth is often a mighty help to the young as-
pirant: the favor of powerful friends will often

place on a vantage ground the struggler in the
battle of life. But Faraday had none of these.
Accidental circumstances sometimes push a man
forward, or give him a special advantage over
his fellows; but Faraday had to make his cir-

cumstances, and to seize the small favors that

fortune sometimes threw in his way. The secret
of his success lay in the qualities of his mind.

  It is only fair, however, to remark that he

started with no disadvantages. There was no

stain in the family history: he had no dead
weight to carry, of a disgraced name, or of bad

health, or deficient faculties, or hereditary ten-

dencies to vice. It must be acknowledged, too,

that he was endowed with a naturally clear un-
derstanding and an unusual power of looking
below the surface of things.

   The first element of success that we meet

with in his biography is the faithfulness with
which he did his work. This led the bookseller

to take his poor errand-boy as an apprentice ;
and this enabled his father to write, when he was

18: "Michael is bookbinder and stationer, and
is very active at learning his business. He has
been most part of four years of his time out of
84- MICHAEL FARADAY.

seven. He has a very good master and mistress,
and likes his place well. He had a hard time
for some while at first going ; but, as the old

saying goes, he has rather got the head above
water, as there is two other boys under him."
This faithful industry marked also his relations
with Davy and Brande, and the whole of his sub-

sequent life, and at last, when he found that he

could no longer discharge his duties, it made him

repeatedly press his resignation on the managers

of the Royal Institution, and beg to be relieved
of his eldership in the Church.

   His love of study, and hunger after knowl-
edge, led him to the particular career which he
pursued, and that power of imagination, which
reveals itself in his early letters, grew and grew,
till it gave him such a familiarity with the un-
seen forces of nature as has never been vouch-

safed to any other mortal.

   As a source of success there stands out also

his enthusiasm. A new fact seemed to charge

him with an energy that gleamed from his eyes

and quivered through his limbs, and, as by in-

duction, charged for the time those in his pres-
ence with the same vigor of interest. Plucker,

of Bonn, was showing him one day in the labor-
atory at Albemarle Street his experiments on
the action of a magnet on the electric discharge
in vacuum tubes. Faraday danced round them;
STUDY OF HIS CHAEACTEE.  85

and as he saw the moving arches of light, he
cried, " Oh ! to live always in it !" Mr. James
Hey wood once met him in the thick of a tremen-
dous storm at Eastbourne, rubbing his hands

with delight because he had been fortunate
enough to see the lightning strike the church

tower.
   This enthusiasm led him to throw all his heart

into his work. Nor was the energy spasmodic,

or wasted on unworthy objects ; for, in the words
of Bence Jones, his was " a lifelong strife to seek

and say that which he thought was true, and to
do that which he thought was kind."

   Indeed, his perseverance in a noble strife was

another of the grand elements in his success.
His tenacity of purpose showed itself equally in

little and in great things. Arranging some ap-
paratus one day with a philosophical instrument
maker, he let fall on the floor a small piece of

"pgliiactskissi:tnhouetp.wmoar"dtheNetshveeevretrrmoaulinbidnle,e".f"fseacitd"uaWhlisealclt,otebmmuptp,atnMsiountro-,

Iray, don't like to be beaten by something that
I have once tried to do."

   The same principle is apparent in that long
series of electrical researches, where for a quar-
ter of a century he marched steadily along that
path of discovery into which he had been lured
by the genius of Davy. And so, whatever
86 MICHAEL FARADAY.

course was set before him, he ran with patience

toward the goal, not diverted by the thousand

objects of interest which he passed by, nor stop-

ping to pick up the golden apples that were

flung before his feet.

This tremendous faculty of work was relieved

by a wonderful playfulness. This rarely ap-

pears in his writings, but was very frequent in

his social intercourse. It was a simple-hearted

joyousness, the effervescence of a spirit at peace

with God and man. It not seldom, however, as-

sumed the form of good-natured banter or a prac-

Itical joke. Indications of this playfulness have

already been given, and have tried to put upon

paper some instances that occur to my own rec-

ollection, but the fun depended so much upon

his manner that it loses its aroma when sepa-

rated from himself.
I IHowever, will try one story.
                                 was spend-

ing a night at a hotel at Ramsgate when on

light-house business. Early in the morning there
Icame a knock at the bedroom door, but, as hap-
Ipened to be performing my ablutions, cried
I"Who's there?" "Guess."
                          went over the

names of my brother commissioners, but heard
only " No, no," till, not thinking of any other

Ifriend likely to hunt me up in that place, left
Ioff guessing ; and on opening the door, saw

Faraday enjoying with a laugh my inability to

recognize his voice through a deal board.
STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.  87

  A student of the late Professor Darnell teHs

me that he remembers Faraday often coming
into the lecture-room at King's College just

when the professor had finished and was explain-

ing matters more fully to any of his pupils who

chose to come down to the table. On the day

the subject discoursed on and illustrated had
been sulphureted hydrogen, and a little of the
gas had escaped into the room, as it perversely
will do. When Faraday entered he put on a
look of astonishment, as though he hed never

smelt such a thing before, and in a comical man-
ner said, " Ah ! a savory lecture, Daniell !" On
another occasion there was a little ammonia left

in a jar over mercury. He pressed Daniell to
tell him what it was, and when the professor

had put his head down to see more clearly, he
whiffed some of the pungent gas into his face.

   Occasionally this humor was turned to good

account, as when, on Friday evening before the
lecture, he told the audience that he had been

requested by the managers to mention two cases
of infringement of rule. The first related to the

red cord which marks off the members' seats.

I"The second case take to be a hypothetical

one, namely, that of a gentleman wearing his hat
in the drawing-room." This produced a laugh,
which the professor joined in, bowed, and retired.

   This faithful discharge of duty, this almost
88 MICHAEL FARADAY.

intuitive insight into natural phenomena, and
this persevering enthusiasm in the pursuit of

truth, might alone have secured a great position

in the scientific world, but they alone could nev-

er have won- for him that large inheritance of re-

spect and love. His contemporaries might have

gazed upon him with an interest and admiration

akin to that with which he watched a thunder-

storm; but who feels his affections drawn out

toward a mere intellectual Jupiter; we must

look deeper into his character to understand this.

There is a law well recognized in the science of

light and heat, that a body can absorb only the

same sort of rays which it is capable of emit-
ting. Just so is it in the moral world. The re-

spect and love of his generation were given to
Faraday because his own nature was full of love

and respect for others.

Each of these qualities his respect for and

love to others, or, more generally, his reverence

and kindliness deserves careful examination.

Throughout his life, Michael Faraday appeared

as though standing in a reverential attitude to-

ward Nature, Man, and God.

Toward Nature, for he regarded the universe

as a vast congeries of facts which would not

to human theories.       Speaking of his own
                         a very lively, imagi-
life, he says : " was
Ibend

early
native person, and could believe in the ' Arabian
STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.  89

Nights' as easily as in the ' Encyclopaedia ;' but

Ifacts were important to me, and saved me.

could trust a fact, and always cross-examined an
assertion." He was, indeed, a true disciple of
that philosophy which says, " Man, who is the
servant and interpreter of Nature, can act and

understand no farther than he has, either in oper-

ation or in contemplation, observed of the meth-
od and order of Nature."* And verily Nature

admitted her servant into her secret chambers,

and showed him marvels to interpret to his fel-

low-men more wonderful and beautiful than the
phantasmagoria of Eastern romance.

   His reverence toward Man showed itself in the

respect he uniformly paid to others and to him-

self. Thoroughly genuine and simple-hearted
himself, he was wont to credit his fellow -men

with high motives and good reasons. This was
rather uncomfortable when one was conscious of

Ino such merit, and at least have felt ashamed

in his presence of the poor commonplace grounds
of my words and actions.. To be in his company
was in fact a moral tonic. As he had learned
the difficult art of honoring all men, he was not

likely to run after those whom the world count-

ed great. "We must get Garibaldi to come

some Friday evening," said a member of the In-
stitution during the visit of the Italian hero to

                * Bacon's "Novum Organum,"
i.,

     1.
90 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

London. " Well, if Garibaldi thinks he can learn

any thing from us, we shall be happy to see

him," was Faraday's reply. This nobility of re-

gard not only preserved him from envying the

success of other explorers in the same field,'but

led him heartily to rejoice with them in their

discoveries.

Dumas gives us a picture of Foucault showing

Faraday some of his admirable experiments, and

of the two men looking at one another with eyes
moistened, but full of bright expression, as they

stood hand in hand, silently thankful the one

for the pleasure he had experienced, the other

for the honor that had been done him. He also

tells how, on another occasion, he breakfasted at

Albemarle Street, and during the meal Mr. Far-

aday made some eulogistic remarks upon Davy,

which were coldly received by his guest. Aft-

er breakfast he was taken down stairs to the

anteroom of the lecture theatre, when Faraday,

walking   up to the  portrait of  his old  master, ex-
claimed,  " Wasn't   he a great   man !"   then turn-

ing round to the window next the entrance door,

he added, " It was there that he spoke to me for

the first time." The Frenchman bowed. They

descended the stairs again to the laboratory.

Faraday pulled out an old note-book, and, turn-

ing over its pages, showed where Davy had en-

tered the means by which the first globule of
           STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.  91

potassium  dweasscrpiprtoiodnu,cewd,ithantdhehawd odrdras w"nCaapliitnael
round the

experiment." The French chemist owned him-
self vanquished, and tells the tale in honor of

him who remembered the greatness and forgot

the littlenesses of his teacher.

   And the respect he showed to others he re-

quired to be shown to himself. It is difficult to

imagine any one taking liberties with him, and

it was only in early life that there were small-

minded creatures who would treat him, not ac-

cording to what he was, but according to the po-
sition from which he had risen. His servants

and work-people were always attentive to the

smallest expression of his wish. Still, he did not

I"go through life with his elbows out." He once

wrote to Matteucci : " see that that moves you

Iwhich would move me most, viz., the imputation

of a want of good faith ; and cordially sympa-

thize with any one who is so charged unjustly.

Such cases have seemed to me almost the only

Iones for which it is worth while entering into

controversy. have felt myself not unfrequent-

ly misunderstood, often misrepresented, some-
times passed by, as in the cases of specific in-

ductive capacity, magneto-electric currents, defi-

nite electrolytic action, etc., etc. ; but it is only

in the cases where moral turpitude has been im-

Iplied that have felt called upon to enter on the
92 MICHAEL FARADAY.

subject in reply." Yet, where he felt that his

honor was impugned, none could be more sensi-
tive or more resolute.

   This desire to clear himself, combined with his
delicate regard for the feelings of others, struck

me forcibly in the following incident. At Mr.

Barlow's one Friday evening after the discourse,
two or three other chemists and myself were
commenting unfavorably on a public act of Far-

Iaday, when suddenly he appeared beside us.

did not hesitate to tell him my opinion. He
gave me a short answer, and joined others of

the company. A few days afterward he found

me in the laboratory preparing for a lecture, and,

without referring directly to what I had said, he

gave me a full history of the transaction in such
a way as to show that he could not have acted
otherwise, and at the same time to render any
apology on my part unnecessary.

   Intimately connected with his respect for Man
as well as reverence for truth was the flash of

his indignation against any injustice, and his hot
anger against any whom he discovered to be pre-
tenders. When, for instance, he had convinced
himself that the reputed facts of table-turning
and spiritualism were false, his severe denuncia-
tion of the whole thing followed as a matter of

course.

   Thus, too, a story is told of his once taking
STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.  93

the side of the injured in a street quarrel by the
pump in Savile Row. One evening also at my
house, a young man who has since acquired a

scientific renown was showing specimens of some

new compounds he had made. A well-known

chemist objected that, after all, they were mere
products of the laboratory ; but Faraday came
to the help of the young experimenter, and con-

tended that they were chemical substances wor-

thy of attention, just as much as though they

occurred in nature.

   His reverence for God was shown not merely

by that homage which every religious man must
pay to his Creator and Redeemer, but by the en-
folding of the words of Scripture and similar ex-
pressions in such a robe of sacredness that 'he
rarely allowed them to pass his lips or flow from
his pen unless he was convinced of the full sym-
pathy of the person with whom he was holding

intercourse.

   This characteristic reverence was united to

an equally characteristic kindliness. This word
does not exactly express the quality intended;
but unselfishness is negative, goodness is too
general, love is commonly used with special
applications ; kindness, friendship, geniality, and
benevolence are only single aspects of the qual-
ity. Let the reader add these terms all together,
and the resultant will be about what is meant.*

              * Bence Jones has used the Greek a
  94 MICHAEL FARADAY.

    Faraday's love to children was one way in

  which this kindliness was shown. Having no
  children of his own, he surrounded himself usu-

  ally with his nieces : we have already had a

  glimpse of him heartily entering into their play,

  and we are told how a word or two from uncle

  would clear away all the trouble from a difficult

  lesson, that a long sum in arithmetic became a

  delight when he undertook to explain
               a                              and
                                a
  that when the little girl was naughty and rebel-
                                         it,
  lious, he could gently win her round, telling her

  how he used to feel himself when he was young,

  and advising her to submit to the reproof she
  was fighting against. Nor were his own rela-

  tives the only sharers of this kindness. One

  friend cherishes among his earliest recollections

  that of Faraday making for him fly-cage and

aa  paper purse, which had real bright half-crown

  in it. When the present Mr. Baden Powell was

    little fellow of thirteen, he used to give short

  lectures on chemistry in his father's house, and

  the philosopher of Albemarle Street liked to join

the family audience, and would listen and ap-

plaud the experiments heartily. When one day

my wife and called on him with our children,
    a

            I
he set them playing at hide-and-seek in the lec-

ture theatre, and afterward amused them up

stairs with tuning-forks and resounding glasses.

At soiree at Mr. Justice Grove's, he wanted to
STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.  95

see the younger children of the family ; so the
eldest daughter brought down the little ones in
their night-gowns to the foot of the stairs, and
Faraday expressed his gratification with " Ah !

that's the best thing you have done to-night."
And when his faculties had nearly faded, it is re-
membered how the stroking of his hand by Mr.
Vincent's little daughter quickened him again

to bright and loving interest.

  It would be easy to multiply illustrations of

this kindliness in various relations of life.
   Here is one of his own telling, where certainly

the effect produced was not owing to any knowl-
edge of how princely an intellect underlay the

loving spirit. It is from a journal of his tour in

Wales:

  I" Tuesday, July 2Qth. After dinner set off on

a ramble to Melincourt, a waterfall on the north

Iside of the valley, and about six miles from our

inn. Here got a little damsel for my guide
who could not speak a word of English. We,
however, talked together all the way to the fall,

Ithough neither knew what the other said. was

delighted with her burst of pleasure as, on turn-

Iing a corner, she first showed me the waterfall.

While was admiring the scene, my little Welsh

damsel was busy running about, even under the

stream, gathering strawberries. On returning

I Ifrom the fall, gave her a shilling that might
96 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

Ienjoy her pleasure : she courtesied, and per-

ceived her delight. She again ran before me

back to the village, but wished to step aside

every now and then to pull strawberries. Every

bramble she carefully moved out of the way,

and ventured her bare feet to try stony paths,
Ithat she might find the safest for mine.
                                            ob-

served her as she ran before me, when she met a

village companion, open her hand to show her

prize, but without any stoppage, word, or other

Imotion. When we returned to the village bade

her good-night, and she bade me farewell, both

Iby her actions, and, have no doubt, her lan-

guage too."

   In a letter which Mr. Abel, the Director of the

Chemical Department of the War Establishment,

has sent me, occur the following remarks :

"Early in 1849 1 was appointed, partly through

the kind recommendation of Faraday, to instruct

the senior cadets and a class of artillery officers

in the Arsenal in practical chemistry. On the

Ioccasion of my first attendance at Woolwich,

when, having just reached manhood, was about

Ito deliver my first lecture as a recognized teach-

er, was naturally nervous, and was therefore

dismayed when, on entering the class-room, 1

perceived Faraday, who, having come to Wool-

wich, as usual, to prepare for his next morn-

ing's lecture at the Military Academy, had been
STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.  97

prompted by his kindly feelings to lend me the
support of his presence upon my first appearance

among his old pupils. In a moment Faraday

put me completely at my ease; he greeted me

Iheartily, saying, 'Well, Abel, have come to see
Iwhether can assist you ;' and, suiting action to

word, he bustled about, persisting in helping me

in the arrangement of my lecture-table, and at
the close of my demonstration he followed me

from pupil to pupil, aiding each in his first at-

tempt at manipulation, and evidently enjoying
most heartily the self-imposed duty of assistant

to his young protege"

   Another scientific friend, Mr. W. F. Barrett,
writes: "My first interview with Mr. Faraday

Iten years ago left an impression upon me can
Inever forget. Young student as then was,

thinking chiefly of present work and little of
future prospects, and till then unknown to Mr.

'IFaraday, judge of my feelings when, taking my

hand in both of his, he said, congratulate you
upon choosing to be a philosopher : it is an ardu-
ous life, but a noble and a glorious one. Work

hard, and work carefully, and you will have suc-
cess.' The sweet yet serious way he said this
made the earnestness of work become a very viv-

Iid reality, and led me to doubt whether had

not dared to undertake too lofty a pursuit. Aft-

er this Mr. Faraday never forgot to remember
                                 G
98 MICHAEL FAB ADAY.

me in a number of thoughtful and delicate ways.

He would ask me up stairs to his room to

Idescribe or show him the results of any little

investigation might have made: taking the
greatest interest in it all, his pleasure would
seem to equal and thus heighten mine, and then
he would add words of kind suggestion and en-

couragement. In the same kindly spirit he has

invited me to his house at Hampton Court, or
would ask me to join him at supper after the
Friday evening's lecture. His kindness is fur-
ther shown by his giving me a volume of his
researches on Chemistry and Physics, writing
therein, 'From his friend, Michael Faraday.'
Those who live alone in London, unknown and

uncared for by any around them, can best appre-
ciate these marks of attention which Mr. Faraday

invariably showed, and not only to myself, but
equally to my fellow-assistant in the chemical

laboratory."
   The following instance among many that

might be quoted will illustrate his readiness to
take trouble on behalf of others. When Dr.
Noad was writing his " Manual of Electricity,"
a doubt crossed his mind as to whether Sir Snow
Harris's unit jar gave a true measure of the quan-
tity of electricity thrown into a Leyden jar: he
asked Faraday, and his doubt was confirmed.
Shortly afterward he received a letter beginning

thus :
STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.                99

   " MY DEAR SIR, While looking over my pa-

Ipers on induction, was reminded of our talk
Iabout Harris's unit jar, and recollected that had

given you a result just the reverse of my old con-

I Iclusions, and, as believe, of the truth. think

the jar is a true measure, so long as the circum-

stances of position, etc., are not altered; for its

discharge and the quantity of electricity thus

passed on depends on the constant relation of the

balls connected with the inner and outer surface

coating to each other, and is independent of their

Ijoint relation to the machine, battery, etc

Perhaps have not made my view clear, but next

time we meet remind me of the matter.
" Ever truly yours,
                     M. FARADAY."

And just a week afterward Dr. Noad received a

second letter, surmounted by a neat drawing,

and describing at great length experiments that
the professor had since made in order to place

the matter beyond doubt.

   And it was not merely for friends and brother
savants that he would take trouble. Old vol-
umes of the Mechanics' Magazine bear testimony
to the way in which he was asked questions by
people in all parts of the kingdom, and that he
was accustomed to give painstaking answers to

suc"hDloettteorso.thers as you would wish them to do
100 MICHAEL FARADAY.

Ito you," was a precept often on his lips. But

have heard that he was sometimes charged with

transgressing it himself, inasmuch as he took an

amount of trouble for other people which he

would have been very distressed if they had

taken for him.

His charities were very numerous not to beg-

gars ; for them he had the Mendicity Society's
tickets but to those whose need he knew. The

porter of the Royal Institution has shown me,

among his treasured memorials, a large number

of forms for post-office orders for sums varying

from 5s. to 5, which Faraday was in the habit

of sending in that way to different recipients of

his thoughtful bounty. Two or three instances

have come to my knowledge of his having given

more considerable sums of money say 20 to

persons who he thought would be benefited by
them. In some
                   i"nsntoatnceexspetchteinggifatgwaians,"  called a
loan, but he lent                                            and en-

tered into the spirit of the injunction, "When

thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what

thy right hand doeth."

                   was    in  fact stated in one            of his
                                                             shall
                      "  As   a case of distress,
   This
                    :
Iletters
principle
to a friend

Ibe very happy to help you as far as my means

allow me in such cases ; but then never let my

name go to such acts, and very rarely even the

initials of my name." His contributions to the
STUDY OF HIS CHAKACTEB.  101

general funds of his Church were kept equally

secret.

   From all these circumstances, therefore, it is

impossible to gauge the amount of his charitable
gifts ; but when it is remembered that for many
years his income from different sources must have

been 1000 or 1200, that he and Mrs. Faraday
lived in a simple manner comfortably, it is true,

but not luxuriously and that his whole income
was disposed of in some way, there can be little
doubt that his gifts amounted to several hun-

dred pounds per annum.

   But it was not in monetary gifts alone that his
kindness to the distressed was shown. Time was

spent as freely as money, and an engrossing sci-
entific research would not be allowed to stand

in the way of his succoring the sorrowful. Many
persons have told me of his self-denying deeds on
behalf of those who were ill, and of his encour-
aging words. He had, indeed, a heart ever ready
to sympathize. Thus, meeting once in the neigh-
borhood of Hampton Court an old friend who
had retired there invalided and was being drawn
about in a Bath chair, he is said to have burst

into tears.

  IWhen eight years ago my wife and my only

son were taken away together, and lay ill of

the same fatal disease, he called at my house,
and, in spite of remonstrances, found his way into
102 MICHAEL FARADAY.

Ithe infected chamber. He would have taken me

by the hand if had allowed him ; and then he

sat a while by my bedside, consoling me with

his sympathy and cheering me with the Chris-

tian hope.

  It is no wonder that this kindliness took the

hearts of men captive ; and this quality was, like
mercy, "twice blessed ; it blesseth him that gives,

and him that takes." The feeling awakened in

the minds of others by this kindliness was in-

deed a source of the purest pleasure to himself;

trifling proofs of interest or love could easily

move his thankfulness; and he richly enjoyed

the appreciation of his scientific labors. This

would often break forth in words. Thus, in the

middle of a letter to A. De la Rive, principally

 scientific   matters, he writes
             remember one hot
" Do you
Ion                               :.    can not tell

                                  day,
Ihow many years ago, when was hot and thirsty

in Geneva, and you took me to your house in the

town and gave me a glass of water and raspberry

vinegar ? That glass of drink is refreshing to me

still."
   Again: " Tyndall, the sweetest reward of my
work is the sympathy and good will which it

has caused to flow in upon me from all quarters

of the world."

But to estimate rightly this amiability of char-

acter, it must be distinctly remembered that it
STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.  103

was not that superabundance of good nature
which renders some men incapable of holding
their own, or rebuking what they know to be
wrong. In proof of this, his letters to the spir-
itualists might be quoted; but the following
have not hitherto seen the light. They are ad-

dressed to two different parties whose inventions

came officially before him.

   " You write ' private' on the outside of your
official communication, and ' confidential' within.

I will take care to respect these instructions as
Ifar as falls within my duty ; but can have

nothing private or confidential as regards the

I ITrinity House, which is my chief. Whatever

opinion send to them must accompany with
the papers you send me. If, therefore, you wish

any thing held back from them, send me another

I Iofficial answer, and will return you the one

have, marked ' confidential.' Our correspond-
ence is indeed likely to become a little irregular,

because your papers have not come to me
through the Trinity House. You will feel that

I Ican not communicate any opinion may form
Ito you: am bound to the Trinity House, to
I Iwhom must communicate in confidence.

have no objection to your knowing my conclu-

sions ; but the Trinity House is the fit judge of
the use it may make of them, or the degree of

confidence they may think they deserve, or the
104 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

parties to whom they may choose to communi-
cate them."

   By a foot-note it appears that the private and

confidential communication was returned to the
writer, by desire, four days afterward.

I" SIK,  have received your note and read

your pamphlet. There is nothing in either which

Imakes it at all desirable to me to see your appa-

ratus, for have not time to spare to look at a

matter two or three times over. In referring to

    I, suppose you refer also to his application
Ito the Trinity House. In that case shall hear
Ifrom him through the Trinity House. He has,
however, certain inquiries (which  have no

Idoubt have gone to him long ago through the

Trinity House) to answer before shall think it
Inecessary to take any further steps in the mat-

ter. With these, however, suppose you have

nothing to do.

   " Are you aware that many years ago our In-

stitution was lighted up for months, if not for

years together, by oil gas (or, as you call ole-
a
                 a?

           I
                        I

                                                                  9

                                                            it,
fiant gas), compressed into cylinders to the ex-
tent of thirty atmospheres, and brought to us

from distance  have no idea that the patent

referred to at the bottom of page could stand

for an hour in court of law. think, too, you

are wrong in misaaplying the word olefiant. It
STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.                     105

already belongs to a particular gas, and can not,
without confusion, be used as you use it.

  " I am, sir, your obedient servant,

                                     "M. FARADAY."

  "SiR, Thanks for your letter. At the close

of it you ask me privately and confidingly for the

encouragement my opinion might give you if

Ithis power gas-light is fit for light-houses. am

Iunable to assent to your request, as my position

at the Trinity House requires that should be

able to take up any subject, applications, or doc-
uments they may bring before me in a perfectly
unbiased condition of mind.

  I" am, sir, yours very truly, M. FARADAY."

The kindliness which shed its genial radiance

on every object around glowed most warmly on

the domestic hearth. Little expressions in his

it,
writings often reveal as when we read in his

Swiss journal about Interlachen "Cloutnail ma-
                            :

                                   I
                                                  is
                                                        aa
king goes on here rather considerably, and

neat and pretty operation to observe.  love

smith's shop, and any thing relating to smith-

ery. My father was smith."
a
When he was sitting to Noble for his bust,
      :                                a

                                             it
happened one day that the sculptor, in giving

the finishing touches to the marble, made clat-

tering with his chisels noticing that his sitter
106 MICHAEL FARADAY.

appeared distrait, he said that he feared the jing.

lawindaagsyw,oefpaturhtyet.intgo"oNlhsois,hamhdaynaddnenaoor nyMedrh.ishNiomsbh,loeau,n"lddseatrih,da"Ftbahuret-
the noise reminded me of my father's anvil, and

took me back to my boyhood."

   This  deep affection peeps  out constantly     in his
letters  to different members                    bound
                               of his family, "
up together," as he wrote to his sister-in-law, " in

the one hope, and in faith and love which is in
Jesus Christ." But it was toward his wife that

his love glowed most intensely. Yet how can

we properly speak of this sacred relationship, es-
pecially as the mourning widow is still among

us ? It may suffice to catch the glimpse that is

reflected in the following extract from a letter

he wrote to Mrs. Andrew Crosse on the death

of her husband :                 " July 12, 1855.
                        sympathize with you
I". . . . Believe that
Imost deeply, for enjoy in my life-partner those

things which you speak of as making you feel

your loss so heavily.

  "It is the kindly domestic affections, the wor-

thiness, the mutual aid in sorrow, the mutual joy

in happiness that has existed, which makes the

rupture of such a tie as yours so heavy to bear ;
and yet you would not wish it otherwise, for the

remembrance of those things brings solace with
STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.                                        107

Ithe grief. speak, thinking what my own trouble
I I Ifwoortulydoubeinifthelosotnlmy ywpaayritnnewr h; icahndI
                 try                                         to com-
               think                                            could

be comforted.  M. FARADAY."

   There was, as Tyndall has observed, a mixture
of chivalry with this affection. In his book of

diplomas he made the following remarkable en-

try:

                             I"25th January, 1847.

   "Among these records and events, here in-
sert the date of one which, as a source of honor
and happiness, far exceeds all the rest. We
were married on June 12, 1821.

                                        "M. FARADAY."

   On the character of Faraday, these two quali-
ties of reverence and kindliness have appeared

to me singularly influential. Among the ways

in which they manifested themselves was that

beautiful combination of firmness and gentleness

which has been frequently remarked : intimate-

ly associated with them also were his simplicity

and truthfulness. These points must have made
themselves evident already, but they deserve

further illustration.

   In his early days, " one Sabbath morning, his

swift and sober steps were carrying him along
the Holborn pavement toward his meeting-house,
it,108 MICHAEL FAEApAY.

         awhen some small missile struck him smartly on

                                                                                   ;the hat. He would have thought it an accident
and passed on, when a second and a third rap
caused him to turn and look just in time to per-
ceive a face hastily withdrawn from a window
in the upper story of a closed linen-draper's es-
tablishment. Roused by the affront, he marched
up to the door and rapped. The servant, open-
ing said there was no one at home but Far-

aday declared he knew better, and desired to be
shown up stairs. Opposition still being made,
he pushed on, made his . way up through the

house, opened the door of an upper room, dis-
covering party of young drapers' assistants,
who at once professed they knew nothing of the
motive of this sudden visit. But the hunter

had now run his game to earth: he taxed them
sharply with their annoyance of wayfarers on
the Sabbath, and said that unless an apology
were made at once, they should hear from their
employer of something much to their disadvan-

tage. An apology was made forthwith."*
   Long, long after this event, Dr. and Mrs. Fara-

day, with Dr. Tyndall, were returning one even-
ing from Mr. Gassiot's, on Clapham Common
dense fog came on, and they did not know where
they were. The two gentlemen got out of their

     For this anecdote, and some others in inverted commas,

  am indebted to Mr. Frank Barnard.
I
      *
                                                                                                                                                      :
                                                                                                   a
STUDY OP HIS CHARACTEE.                        109

vehicle, and walked to a house and knocked. A

man appeared, first at a window and afterward
at the door, very angry indeed at the disturb-
ance, and demanding to know their business.

Faraday, in his calm, irresistible manner, ex-
plained the situation and their object in knock-
ing. The man instantly changed his tone, looked
foolish, and muttered something about being in

a fright lest his house of business was on fire.
   As to simplicity of character : when, in the

Icourse of writing this book, have spoken to his

acquaintances about Faraday, the most frequent
comment has been in such words as, " Oh ! he

Iwas a beautiful character, and so simple-mind-

ed." have tried to ascertain the cause of this

Isimple-mindedness, and believe it was the con-

sciousness that he was meaning to do right him-
self, and the belief that others whom he ad-

dressed meant to do right too, and so he could
just let them see every thing that was passing
through his mind. And while he knew no rea-
son for concealment, there was no trace of self-

conceit about him, nor any pretense at being

what he was not. To illustrate this quality is
not so easy; the indications of like his humor,

were generally too delicate to be transferred to

paper but perhaps the following letter will do
as well as any thing else, for there are few phi-

losophers who could have written so naturally
;

                                          it,
110 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

about the pleasures of a pantomime and then

about his highest hopes :

"  "KOYAL INSTITUTION, LONDON, W.,  1st Jan., 1857.
                                    are very kind
   MY DEAR Miss COUTTS, You

to think of our pleasure and send us entrance to

your box for to-morrow night. We     thank            you
                                      for             still
very sincerely, and I mean to enjoy
   is a
                    a

                                                 it,

                                       ;I
have sympathy with children, and all their

thoughts and pleasure. Permit me to wish you

very sincerely happy year; and also to Mrs.

Brown. With some of us our greatest happi-

ness will be content mingled with patience but

there much happiness in that and the expect-

ed end. Ever your obliged servant,

                                    "M. FAKADAY."*

   As to truthfulness he was not only truthful
in the common acceptation of the word, but he
did not allow, either in himself or others, hasty

conclusions, random assertions, or slippery logic.

"At such times he had way of repeating the

suspicious statement very slowly and distinctly,

     In another letter that Lady Burdett Coutts has kindly
sent me, Faraday says "We had your box once before,

remember, for a pantomime, which always interesting to
me because of the immense concenti-ation of means which

requires." In a third he makes admiring comments on

Fechter.
*

                                                                :
                                                               :

                                           a
                                                         is

                                                  it I
STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.  HI

with an air of wondering scrutiny as if it had

astonished him. His irony was then irresistible,
and always produced a modification of the ob-

jectionable phrase."

   "An acquaintance rather given to inflict te-

dious narratives on his friends was descanting to

Faraday on the iniquity of some coachman who

had set him down the previous night in the mid-
dle of a dark and miry road c in fact,' said the

Iirksome drawler, ' in a perfect morass ; and there

  was, as you may imagine, half the night, plun-
ging and struggling to get out of this dreadful
morass.' ' More ass you !' rapped out the philos-
opher at the top of his scale of laughter." This
was a rare instance, for it was only when much
provoked that he would perpetrate a pun, or de-
part from the kind courtesy of his habitual talk.

   That he was quite ready to give up a state-
ment or view when it was proved by others to

be incorrect, is shown by the Preface to the vol-

tRuameliedRs,es"ienhaerwchaheliwcsh.a"ysar"ewIenrnetgpirbvinainctgekdatodhvisfiicres",tE"xppsraeinyrcsimipMleeinss-,s
to the true right and wrong of questions, never

allowing deviations from the simple straight-
forward path of duty to be justified by custom

or precedent ; and he judged himself strictly by

the same rule which he laid down for others."

   These beauties of character were not marred
112 MICHAEL FARADAY.

by serious defects or opposing faults. " He could

not be too closely approached. There were no

shabby places or ugly corners in his mind." Yet
he was very far from being one of those passion-

less men who resemble a cold statue rather than

throbbing flesh and blood. He was no "model
of all the virtues," dreadfully uninteresting, and
discouraging to those who feel such calm per-
fection out of their reach. His inner life was a
battle, with its wounds as well as its victory.
Proud by nature, and quick-tempered, he must
have found the curb often necessary ; but, not-
withstanding the rapidity of his actions and

thoughts, he knew how to keep a tight rein on

Ithat fiery spirit.
     have listened attentively to every remark in
disparagement of Faraday's character, but the

only serious ones have appeared to me to arise
from a misunderstanding of the man a misun-

derstanding the more easy because his standard

of right and wrong often differed from the no-
tions current around him. Still, it may be true

that his extreme sensitiveness led him some-

times to do scant justice to those who he imag-
ined were treading too closely in his own foot-
steps ; as, for instance, when Nobili brought out

some beautiful experiments on magnetism, just
after the short notice of his own discoveries in

1831 which Faraday had sent to M. Hachette,
STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.  113

and which was communicated to the Academie

des Sciences. It is true also that, with his great

caution and his repugnance to moral evil, he was
more disposed to turn away in disgust from an

erring companion than to endeavor to reclaim

him. It has also been imputed to him as a fault

that he founded no school, and took no young

man by the hand as Davy had taken him. That
this was rather his misfortune than his fault

would appear from words he once wrote to Miss

IMoore : " have often endeavored to discover a

genius, but have not been very successful, though
many cases seemed promising at first." The

world would doubtless have been the gainer if

he had stamped his own image on the minds of
a group of disciples ; but a man can not do ev-
ery thing ; and had Faraday been more of a
teacher, he would perhaps have been less of an

investigator.

  It has been previously remarked that Faraday

took little part in social movements, and went
little into society, but it must not be supposed

that he was by any means unsocial. It seems

probable that his freedom in this matter was
somewhat hampered by the principles in which

he had been brought up : it is certain that he
was restrained by the desire to give all the time
and energy he could to scientific research. Yet

IIpleasant stories are told of his occasional ap-
114 MICHAEL FARADAY.

pearances at social gatherings. Thus he liked
to attend the Royal Academy dinners, and in
earlier days he enjoyed the artistic and musical
conversaziones at Hullmandel's, where Stanfield

Turner and Landseer met Garcia and Malibran ;

and sometimes he joined this pleasant company
at supper and charades, at others in their excur-
sions up the river in an eight-oared cutter. Cap-
tain Close has described to me how, when the

French Light-house authorities put up the screw-
pile light on the sands near Calais, they invited
the Trinity House officers and Faraday to in-

spect it. A dinner was arranged for them after

the inspection, and M. Reynaud proposed the

health of the Stranger celebre. A young engi-

neer took exception to Faraday being called a
stranger since he had been at St. Cyr he had
known the great Englishman well by his works.
The professor replied to the compliment in the
language of his hosts, with a few of his happy

and kindly remarks. A gentleman high in the

diplomatic service, who was present, remarked
that Faraday had said many things which were
not French, but not a word which ought not to

be so.

   More unrestricted was Faraday's sympathy
with Nature. He felt the poetry of the chang-
ing seasons, but there were two aspects of Na-
ture that especially seemed to claim communion
STUDY OF HIS CHAEACTEE.                              115

with his spirit : he delighted in a thunder-storm,

and he experienced a pleasurable sadness as the

orange sunset faded into the evening twilight.
There are other minds to which both these sen-

sations are familiar, but they seem to have been
felt with great intensity by him. No doubt his

electrical knowledge added much to his interest

in the grand discharges from the thunder-clouds,

but it will hardly account for his standing long

at a window watching the vivid flashes, a stran-

ger to fear, with his mind full of lofty thoughts,

or perhaps of high communings. Sometimes,

too, if the storm was at a little distance, he

would summon a cab, and, in spite of the pelting

rain, drive to the scene of awful beauty.

   One clear starry night Captain Close quoted
to him the words of Lorenzo in the " Merchant

of Venice :"  " Look, how the floor of heaven

Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold ;

There's not the smallest orb, which thou behold'st,

But in his motion like an angel sings,

Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubins :

Such harmony is in immortal souls ;

But, whilst this muddy vesture of decay

Doth grossly close us in, we can not hear it."

Faraday, who happened not to be familiar with
the passage, made his friend repeat it over and
over again as he drank in the whole meaning of

the poetry, for there is a true sense in which no
116 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

other mortal had ever opened his ears so fully to
the harmony of the universe.

From the plains of mental mediocrity there

occasionally rise the mountains of genius, and
from, the dead level of selfish respectability

there stand out now and then the peaks of mor-
al greatness. Neither kind of excellence is so

itcommon as we could wish and     rare co-

             isincidence when, as in Socrates, the two meet in
                                a
the same individual. In Faraday we have a
                                             ?
modern instance. There are persons now living
                                         it,

                                                                              ;

                                                   it

                                                               is
                                                                         a

                                                                                                     ;

                                                                                 is
who watched this man of strong will and intense

feelings raising himself from the lower ranks of

society, yet without losing his balance rather

growing in simplicity, disinterestedness, and hu-

mility as princes became his correspondents, and

all the learned bodies of the world vied with

each other to do him homage still finding his

greatest happiness at home, though reigning in

the affections of all his fellows; loving every hon-

est man, however divergent in opinion, and loved

most by those who knew him best.

This the phenomenon. By what theory

to be accounted for

The secret did not lie in the nature of his pur-

suits. This can not be better shown than in the

f"oOllonewinmgorinnicnidge, nt  furnished me by Mrs. Grosser
                                few months after we were
STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.  117

married, my husband took me to the Royal In-

Istitution to call on Mr. and Mrs. Faraday. had

not seen the laboratory there, and the philoso-
pher very kindly took us over the Institution,
explaining for my information many objects of
interest. His great vivacity and cheeriness of

Imanner surprised me in a man who devoted his

life to such abstruse studies, but have since

learned to know that the highest philosophical

nature is often, indeed generally, united with an
almost childlike simplicity.

   "After viewing the ample appliances for ex-

perimental research, and feeling impressed by

Ithe scientific atmosphere of the place, turned

and said, ' Mr. Faraday, you must be very happy
in your position and with your pursuits, which
elevate you entirely out of the meaner aspects
and lower aims of common life.'

   " He shook his head, and with that wonderful

mobility of countenance which was characteris-
tic, his expression of joyousness changed to one

Iof profound sadness, and he replied : ' When

I Iquitted business, and took to science as a career,
   thought had left behind me all the petty

Imeannesses and small jealousies which hinder

man in his moral progress ; but found myself

raised into another sphere only to find poor hu-
man nature just the same every where subject

to the same weaknesses and the same self-seek-

ing, however exalted the intellect.'
118 MICHAEL FABADAY.

  I" These were his words as well as can recol-
Ilect ; and, looking at that good and great man,
Ithought had never seen a countenance which so

impressed me with the characteristic of perfect

unworldliness. We know how his life proved

that this rare qualification was indeed his."

"Childlike simplicity:" "unworldliness."

Where was the tree rooted that bore such beau-

tiful blossoms ? Faraday had learned in the

school of Christ to become " a little child," and

he loved not the world because the love of the

Father was in him.

We have a charming glimpse of this in an ex-

tract which Professor Tyndall has given from

an old paper in which he wrote his impressions

after one of his earliest dinners with the philoso-

pher: "At two o'clock he came down for me.

IHe, his niece, and myself formed the party. '
Inever give dinners,' he said ; ' don't know how
I Ito give dinners; and never dine out. But

Ishould not like my friends to attribute this to a
wrong cause.  act thus for the sake of secur-

ing time for work, and not through religious mo-
Itives, as some imagine.' He said grace.
                                               am

almost ashamed to call his prayer a ' saying' of
grace. In the language of Scripture, it might

be described as the petition of a son into whose

heart God had sent the Spirit of his Son, and

who with absolute trust asked a blessing from
STUDY OF HIS CHARACTER.  119

his father. We dined on roast beef, Yorkshire
pudding, and potatoes, drank sherry, talked of
research and its requirements, and of his habit
of keeping himself free from the distractions of
society. He was bright and joyful boy-like, in
fact, though he is now sixty-two. His work ex-

cites admiration, but contact with him warms

Iand elevates the heart. Here, surely, is a strong

man. love strength, but let me not forget the
example of its union with modesty, tenderness,
and sweetness, in the character of Faraday."

   But his religion deserves a closer attention.

When an errand-boy, we find him hurrying the
delivery of his newspapers on a Sunday morning
so as to get home in time to make himself neat

to go with his parents to chapel : his letters when
abroad indicate the same disposition ; yet he did

not make any formal profession of his faith till
a month after his marriage, when nearly thirty
years of age. Of his spiritual history up to that

period little is known, but there seem to be good
grounds for believing that he did not accept the
religion of his fathers without a conscientious

inquiry into its truth. It would be difficult to

conceive of his acting otherwise. But after he

joined the Sandemanian Church, his question-
ings were probably confined to matters of prac-
tical duty ; and to those who knew him best

nothing could appear stronger than his convic-
120 MICHAEL FARADAY.

tion of the reality of the things he believed. In

order to understand the life and character of

Faraday, it is necessary to bear in mind not mere-

ly that he was a Christian, but that he was a

Sandemanian. From his earliest years that re-

ligious system stamped its impress deeply on his
mind; it surrounded the blacksmith's son with an

atmosphere of unusual purity and refinement ; it
developed the unselfishness of his nature, and in

his after career it fenced his life from the world-

liness around, as well as from much that is es-

teemed as good by other Christian bodies. To

this small self-contained sect he clung with warm

attachment; he was precluded from Christian

communion or work outside their circle, but his

sympathies at least burst all narrow bounds.

Thus the Abbe Moigno tells us that at Faraday's

request he one day introduced him to Cardinal

Wiseman. The interview was very cordial, and

his eminence did not hesitate frankly and good-

naturedly to ask Faraday in his deepest con-
viction, he believed all the Church of Christ,
        ;
holy,   catholic, and  apostolical, was   shut  up                 in the
little  sect in whichI  he bore rule.    " Oh   no                   was

                              is
                                     if,

                                                        is
                                                                 !"
the reply " but do believe from the bottom of

my soul that Christ with us." There were

other points, too, in his character which reflect-

ed the coloring of the religious school to which

he belonged. Thus, while humility insepara-
            STUDY OF HIS CHAEACTEE.  121

ble from a Christian life, there is a special phase

of that virtue bred of those doctrines which teach

that all our righteousness must be the unmerit-

ed gift of another : these doctrines are strongly

insisted upon in the Sandemanian Church, and

this humility was acquired in an intense degree

by its minister. Again, while all Christians de-

plore the terrible amount of folly and sin in the

world, most recognize also a large amount of

good, and believe in progressive improvement ;

but small communities are apt to take gloomy

views, and so did Faraday, notwithstanding his

personal    happiness, and his firm conviction that
" there is   One above who worketh in all things,

and who governs even in the midst of that mis-

rule to which the tendencies and powers of men

are so easily perverted."

  In writing to Professor Schonbein and a few

other kindred spirits, he would turn naturally

enough from scientific to religious thoughts, and

back again to natural philosophy, but he gener-

ally kept these two departments of his mental

activity strangely distinct, though of course it

was well known that the professor at Albemarle

Street was one of that long line of scientific men,
beginning with the savants of the East, who have

brought to the Redeemer the gold, frankincense,
and myrrh of their adoration.

But the peculiar features of Faraday's spiritu-
122 MICHAEL FARADAY.

al life are matters of minor importance : the gen-
uineness of his religious character is acknowl-
edged by all. We have admired his faithfulness,
his amiability of disposition, and his love of jus-
tice and truth : how far these qualities were nat-
ural gifts, like his clearness of intellect, we can
not precisely tell ; but that he exercised constant
self-control without becoming hard, ascended the
pathway of fame without ever losing his balance,
and shed around himself a peculiar halo of love
and joyousness, must be attributed in no small
degree to a heart at peace with God, and to the
consciousness of a higher life.
           FRUITS OP HIS EXPEEIENCE.                     123

              SECTION III;

           FRUITS OF HIS EXPERIENCE.

THOSE who loved Faraday would treasure ev-

ery word that he wrote, and to them the life and

letters which Bence Jones has given to the world

will be inestimable ; but from the multitude who

knew him only at a distance, we can expect no

enthusiasm of admiration. Yet all will readily

believe that through the writings of such a ge-

nius there must be scattered nuggets of intellec-

tual gold, even when he is not treating directly

of scientific subjects. Some of these relate to

questions of permanent interest, and such nug-

gets it is my aim to separate and lay before the

reader.

   When    qpuoitretraaity:ou"nTghemapnhihloesodprehwer  the follow-
ing ideal                                                 should be

a man willing to listen to every suggestion, but

determined to judge for himself. He should not

be biased by appearances, have no favorite hy-
pothesis, be of no school, and in doctrine have
no master. He should not be a respecter of per-

sons, but of things. Truth should be his prima-
Ifry object.
              to these qualities be added indus-

try, he may indeed hope to walk within the veil
124 MICHAEL FARADAY.

of the temple of Nature." This ideal he must

steadily have kept before him, and not unfre-
quently in after days he gave utterance to sim-
ilar thoughts. Here are two instances, the first

from a lecture thirty years afterward, the second
from a private letter : " We may be sure of facts,
but our interpretation of facts we should doubt.
He is the wisest philosopher who holds his the-
ory with some doubt ; who is able to proportion
his judgment and confidence to the value of the
evidence set before him, taking a fact for a fact,

and a supposition for a supposition ; as much as
possible keeping his mind free from all source
of prejudice, or, where he can not do this (as in
the case of a theory), remembering that such a
source is there." The letter is to Mr. Frederick
Field, and relates to a paper on the existence of

silver in the water of the ocean.

      "KOYAL  INSTITUTION, 21s? October, 1856.
DEAR SIR,
I"My           Your paper looks so well,

that, though am of course unable to become
Isecurity for the facts, have still thought it my

Iduty to send it to the Royal Society. Whether

it will appear there or not can not say no one

Ican say even for' his own papers ; but for my

part, think that, as facts are the foundation

of science, however they may be interpreted, so

they are most valuable, and often more so than
FKU1TS OF HIS EXPEKIENCE.                125

Ithe interpretations founded upon them.  hope

Iyour further researches will confirm those you

have obtained ; but would not be too hasty

with them rather wait a while, and make them

Iquite secure.
          " am, sir, your obliged servant,
                                       "M. FAKADAY."

   How pleasant it would have been to peep into
his mind, and watch the process by which he
was transferred into the very image of his ideal
philosopher ! He has partially told us the secret
in two remarkable lectures, one of which was

delivered before the City Philosophical Society
when he was only twenty-seven years of age,
while the other formed part of a series on Edu-

cation at Albemarle Street. Copious extracts

from the first are given by Dr. Bence Jones ; the

second was published at the time. In the early
lecture, which is "On the Forms of Matter," he

points out the advantages and dangers of sys-
tematizing, and winds up his remarks with

   " Nothing is more difficult and requires more
care than philosophical deduction, nor is there
any thing more adverse to its accuracy than fix-
idity of opinion. The man who is certain he is

right is almost sure to be wrong, and he has the
additional misfortune of inevitably remaining so.

All our theories are fixed upon uncertain data,
126 MICHAEL FARADAY.

and all of them want alteration and support.

Ever since the world began opinion has changed

with the progress of things, and it is something

more than absurd to suppose that we have a

sure claim to perfection, or that we are in pos-

session of the highest stretch of intellect which

has or can result from human thought. Why

our successors should not displace us in our opin-

ions as well as in our persons it is difficult to

say ; it ever has been so, and from analogy would

be supposed to continue so ; and yet, with all
this practical evidence of the fallibility of our

opinions, all, and none more than philosophers,

are ready to assert the real truth of their opin-

ions."

In his discourse entitled "Observations on

Mental Education," like a skillful physician he

first determines what is the great intellectual
disease from which the community suffers " de-

ficiency of judgment" and then he lays down

rules    by which    each man may      a"tittemisptnehciesssoawryn
cure.                 self-education,
           For this

...that a man examine himself, and that not care-
lessly.  A first result of this habit of mind

will be an internal conviction of ignorance in

many things respecting which his neighbors are

taught, and that his opinions and conclusions on

such matters ought to be advanced with reser-

vation. A mind so disciplined will be open to
FRUITS OF HIS EXPERIENCE.     127

correction upon good grounds in all things, even

in those it is best acquainted with, and should

familiarize itself with the idea of such being the

case It is right that we should stand by

and act on our principles, but not right to hold

them in obstinate blindness, or retain them when

proved to   be   erroneous."  And then he gives
cases from  his   own mental
                              history : " I remem-
Iber the time when believed a spark was pro-

duced between voltaic metals as they approach-

ed to contact (and the reasons why it might be
possible yet remain) ; but others doubted the

Ifact and denied the proofs, and on re-examina-

tion found reason to admit their corrections

Iwere well-founded. Years ago believed that

electrolites could conduct electricity by a con-

Iduction proper ; that has also been denied by

many through long time : though believed my-

self right, yet circumstances have induced me to

Ipay that respect to criticism as to reinvestigate

the subject, and have the pleasure ^of thinking
that nature confirms my original conclusions.

So, though evidence may appear to preponder-

ate extremely in favor of a certain decision, it

is wise and proper to hear a counter-statement.

IYou can have no idea how often, and how much,

under such an impression, have desired that

the marvelous descriptions which have reached

me might prove, in some points, correct ; and
128 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

Ihow frequently have submitted myself to hot

Ifires, to friction with magnets, to the passes of

hands, etc., lest should be shutting out discov-

Iery encouraging the strong desire that some-

thing might be true, and that might aid in the

development of a new force of nature." He turns
then to another evil, and its cure : " The tenden-

cy to deceive ourselves regarding all we wish for,

....and the necessity of resistance to these desires.
         The force of the temptation which urges
us to seek for such evidence and appearances

as are in favor of our desires, and to disregard

those which oppose them, is wonderfully great.

In this respect we are all, more or less, active

promoters of error." He winds up his remarks

"Iupon this subject with the italicized sentence:

    will simply express my strong belief that that

point of self-education which consists in teach-

ing the mind to resist its desires and inclinations

until they are proved to be right, is the most

important  all, not only in things of natural
it

                      |>f
                                                                            a
                                                                                 a :"
philosophy, but  in every department of     daily
life." He turns  then to the necessity of  " hab-

   of forming clear and precise ideas," and of ex-
pressing them in " clear and definite language

"When the different data required are in our

possession, and we have succeeded in forming

clear idea of each, the mind should be instructed

to balance them one against another, and not suf-
          FRUITS OF HIS EXPERIENCE.           129

fered carelessly to hasten to a conclusion." "As

a result of this wholesome mental condition, we

should be able to form a proportionate judg-

ment;" i. e., one proportionate to the evidence,

ranging   tahdrdosug: h"   all degrees    of  probability
while he                  Frequently          exercise of the
                                        the

judgment ought to end in absolute reservation"
  I" The education
                                              says Fara-
day, " will require
                          which advocate,"    of thought
                          patience and labor

in every exercise tending to improve the judg-
ment. It matters not on what subject a per-

son's mind is occupied, he should engage in it
with the conviction that it will require mental

labor." "Because the education is internal, it

is not the less needful ; nor is it more the duty
of a man that he should cause his child to be

taught, than that he should teach himself. In-

dolence may tempt him to neglect the self-ex-

amination and experience which form his school,

and weariness may induce the evasion of the

necessary practices ; but surely a thought of the

prize should suffice to stimulate him to the req-

uisite exertion; and to those who reflect upon

the many hours and days devoted by a lover of

sweet sounds to gain a moderate facility upon a

mere mechanical instrument, it ought to bring a

correcting blush of shame if they feel convicted

of neglecting the beautiful living instrument

Iwherein play all the powers of the mind."
130 MICHAEL FARADAY.

  At the commencement of this discourse the

lecturer felt called upon to limit the range of
his remarks: "High as man is placed above the
creatures around him, there is a higher and far
more exalted position within his view ; and the
ways are infinite in which he occupies his

Ithoughts about the fears, or hopes, or expecta-

tions of a future life. believe that the truth
of that future can not be brought to his knowl-
edge by any exertion of his mental powers, how-
ever exalted they may be ; that it is made known

to him by other teaching than his own, and is
received through simple belief of the testimony

Igiven. Let no one suppose for a moment that

the self-education am about to commend in re-

spect of the things of this life extends to any

considerations of the hope set before us, as if
man by reasoning could find out God. It would

be improper here to enter upon this subject fur-

Ither than to claim an absolute distinction be-

tween religious and ordinary belief. shall be

Ireproached with the weakness of refusing to ap-

ply those mental operations which think good
in respect of high things to the very highest.

I am content to bear the reproach. Yet, even
Iin earthly matters, believe that ' the invisible

things of Him from the creation of the world are
clearly seen, being understood by the things that

are made, even his eternal power and Godhead ;'
   FRUITS OF HIS EXPERIENCE.                                     131

Iand have never seen any thing incompatible

between those things of man which can be known

by the spirit of man which is within him, and

those higher things concerning his future which

he can not know by that spirit." There of
                                                   ;

                                                             is,
course, certain truth in this passage spiritual
a

discernment  is          real thing possessed by some,
                 a

                        ;
and not by others yet there this absolute dis-
                           is

tinction between religious and ordinary belief?

Surely there the same opportunity and the
             is

same necessity for careful judgment, and for re-

sistance to prejudice or preference, when we are

weighing the credentials of any thing that may

come before us purporting to be revelation

from above; surely, too, if we have satisfied our-
                           it

                               a
                                                a
selves that we possess such revelation, we must

seek for the same clearness of ideas, and must

exercise the same patience and labor of thought

if we would understand aright. That mental

discipline which fits us to interpret the works of

God can not but be akin to the intellectual train-

ing required for interpreting his word.

   Since Faraday thought and wrote, the ques-
tion of public education has taken far deeper
it

    is
                                 is

                                                            a

                                                             is
hold on the feelings and the hopes of the nation,

and not merely the extent of the instruction,

but its nature also, that discussed. It held

to be no longer right that' the minds of our

youth should be fed almost exclusively on the
132 MICHAEL FARADAY.

dry husks of classic or mediaeval knowledge,
while the rich banquet of modern discovery re-
mains untasted. Yet it is hard for natural sci-

ence to gain an honored place in our venerable

scholastic institutions. Faraday, however, had
long formed his conclusions on this subject. In
one of his Friday evening discourses he says :
"The development of the applications of physi-

cal science in modern times has become so large

and so essential to the well-being of men, that it

may justly be used as illustrating the true char-
acter of pure science as a department of knowl-
edge, and the claims it may have for considera-
tion by governments, universities, and all bodies

to whom is confided the fostering care and di-

rection of learning. As a branch of learning,
men are beginning to recognize the right of sci-

ence to its own particular place ; for, though
flowing in channels utterly different in their
course and end from those of literature, it con-
duces not less, as a means of instruction, to the
discipline of the mind, while it ministers more

or less to the wants, comforts, and proper pleas-

ure, both mental and bodily, of every individual
of every class in life. Until of late years, the
education for, and recognition of it by the bodies

which may be considered as governing the gen-
eral course of all education, have been chiefly
directed to it only as it could serve professional
   FKUITS OF HIS EXPERIENCE.                               133

services, viz., those which are remunerated by
society ; but now the fitness of university de-

grees in science is under consideration, and many
are taking a high view of as distinguished
                              i.

                                   it,
                                       a it
from literature, and think that may well be

studied for its own sake, e., as proper exer-

cise of the human intelligence, able to bring into
action and development all the powers of the
mind. As branch of learning, has (without
   it a                       ;

                                     it it
reference to its applications) become as exten-

sive and varied as literature and has this priv-

ilege, that must ever go on increasing."

   On the subject of scientific education Faraday
was examined by the Public Schools Commission,
November 18th, 1862, and his sentiments, of

course, appear in their report. He said to them,

"That the natural knowledge which has been

given to the world in such abundance during

the last fifty years should remain untouched,

and that no sufficient attempt should be made

to convey to the young mind growing up and
   it
       it

          it

          is I
                aI

                   I

                                it

                              I
                                                       is
obtaining its first views of those things, to me

a  matter so strange that find difficult to un-

derstand. Though think see the opposition

breaking away,                yet very hard one to over-

come. That ought to be overcome have not

tahsekeldeahstimdou"bYt oinu  the world."    Lord Clarendon
                               think       now knocking at
   :

                    is
                         a

                        it

                                  is
the door, and there           prospect of the door be-
 134 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

ing opened ?" " Yes," answered Faraday, " and
it will make its way, or we shall stay behind
other nations in our mode of education." He

had been led to the conviction that the exclusive

attention to literary studies created a tendency
to regard other things as nonsense, or belonging
only to the artisan, and so the mind is positive-
ly injured for the reception of real knowledge.

He says : " It is the highly educated man that

we find coming to us again and again, and ask-

ing the most simple question in chemistry or
mechanics ; and when we speak of such things
as the conservation of force, the permanency of
matter, and the unchangeability of the laws of

nature, they are far from comprehending them,

though they have relation to us in every action
of our lives. Many of these instructed persons
are as far from having the power of judging of

these things as if their minds had never been

trained."

   He gives his own opinion as to the precise
course to be pursued with great diffidence ; but
it is evident that he would begin the education

in natural science at a pretty early age, and in
all cases carry it up to a certain point. One
fifth of a t?oy's time might be devoted to this
purpose at present, though in less than half a
century he thinks science will deserve and ob-
tain a far larger share. Supposing a boy of elev-
             FRUITS OP HIS EXPERIENCE.        135

Ien years of age and of ordinary intelligence at

one of our public schools : " would teach him,"
he says, " all those things that come before clas-

sics in the programme of the London University

mechanics, hydrostatics, hydraulics, pneumat-

ics, acoustics, and optics. They are very simple

and easily understood when they are looked at

with attention by both man and boy. With a

candle, a lamp, and a lens or two, an intelligent

Iinstructor might teach optics in a very short
time ; and so with chemistry.           should desire

all these."   Much would depend on the    "coGmopoed-
tency and    earnestness of the teacher.

lectures might do a great deal. They would, at

all events, remove the absolute ignorance which

sometimes now appears, but would' give a very

poor knowledge of natural things."

Perhaps these opinions of one whose lips are

now silent will yet have their weight in the dis-

cussion of this question both in our highest seats

of learning and in those educational parliaments

which have been just called into existence in al-

most every town and district of our country.

From the somewhat disparaging remarks

about lectures quoted above, it must not be sup-

posed that   "thLisecpturirnecse,"  of  lseacitdu,re"rdsepdeenpdreecniattireed-
his office.
                                    he

ly for their value upon the manner in which

they are given. It is not the matter, it is not
136 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

the subject, so much as the man ; but if he is not

competent, and does not feel that there is a need

of competency to convey his ideas gently, and

quietly, and simply to the young mind, he sim-
ply throws up obstacles, and will be found using
words which they will not comprehend." These
were the words of his later days, but fortunate-
ly he felt " the need of competency" before his
own habits were formed, and in four letters to

Abbott we find wonderfully sagacious observa-
tions on the matter, which it would be well for
any young lecturer to study. He describes the
proper arrangement of a lecture-room, dwelling
on the necessity of good ventilation; and then,
having considered the fittest subjects for popu-
lar lectures, he turns to the character of the au-

dience, and shows how that must be studied ;

for some expect to be entertained by the man-
ner of the lecturer as well as his subject, while
others care for something which will instruct.
He dwells on the superiority of the eye over the
ear as a channel of knowledge, and lays down
some rules for this kind of instruction, which he
of all men subsequently carried out to perfec-
tion. "Apparatus is an essential part of every
lecture in which it can be introduced. . . . Dia-

grams and tables, too, are necessary, or at least
add in an eminent degree to the illustration and
perfection of a lecture. When an experimental
         FRUITS OF HIS EXPERIENCE.             137

lecture is to be delivered, and apparatus is to be

exhibited, some kind of order should be observed

in the arrangement of them on the lecture table.

Every particular part illustrative of the lecture

should be in view ; no one thing should hide an-

other from the audience, nor should any thing
stand in the way of or obstruct the lecturer.

They should be so placed, too, as to produce a

kind of uniformity in appearance. No one part

should appear naked and another crowded, un-

less some particular reason exists and makes it

necessary to be so. At the same time, the whole

should be- so arranged as to keep one operation

from interfering with another." A good deliv-

ery comes in for its share of praise ; "for though,
to all true philosophers, science and nature will

Ihave charms innumerable in every dress, yet

am sorry to say that the generality of mankind

can not  accompany us  one short  hour unless  the
path is  strewed with  flowers."               lec-
                                    Then, " a

turer should appear easy and collected, undaunt-

ed and unconcerned, his thoughts about him, and

his mind free and clear for the contemplation

and description of his subject. His action should

not be hasty and violent, but slow, easy, and
natural, consisting principally in changes of the

posture of the body, in order to avoid the air of

stiffness or sameness that would otherwise be

unavoidable. His whole behavior should evince
138 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

respect for his audience, and he should in no case

forget that he is in their presence." He allows

a lecturer to prepare his discourse in writing, but
     to read it before
not  how necessary it   the    audience, and points
out                           to raise their interest
                        is "

at the commencement of the lecture, and by a

series of imperceptible gradations, unnoticed by
the company, keep it alive as long as the subject

demands it." This, of course, forbids breaks in

the argument, or digressions foreign to the main

purpose, and limits the length of the lecture to a

period during which the listeners can pay un-

wearied attention. He castigates those speak-

ers who descend so low as "to angle for claps,"

or who throw out hints for commendation, and

shows that apologies should be made as seldom

acsleapro,sasinbdlee. asEilxypeurnidmeernsttosodsh:ou"ldthbeey  to the point,
                                                                should rath-

er approach to simplicity, and explain the estab-

lished principles of the subject, than be elabo-

rate, and apply to minute phenomena only. . . .

'Tis well, too, when the lecturer has the ready

wit and the presence of mind to turn any casual

circumstance to an illustration of his subject."

But experiments should be explained by a satis-

factory theory; or, if the scientific world is divi-

ded in opinion, both sides of the question ought to

be stated with the strongest arguments for each,

that justice may be done and honor satisfied.
FKUITS OF HIS EXPERIENCE.                            139

   Often in later days  was his experience      in   lec-
turing made use of for  the benefit of others.    "
                                                     If,"
Ihe once remarked to a young lecturer," said to

I Imy audience, ' This stone will fall to the ground

if open my hand,' should open my hand and

let it fall. Take nothing for granted as known ;

Iinform the eye at the same time as you address

the ear." remember him once giving me hints

on the laying of the lecture table at the Institu-

tion, and telling me that, where possible, he was

accustomed to arrange the apparatus in such a

way as to suggest the order of the experiments.
An incident told me by Dr. Carpenter will illus-

trate some of the foregoing points. The first

time he heard Faraday lecture at the Royal In-

stitution, the Professor was explaining the re-

searches of Melloni on radiant heat. During the

discourse he touched on the refraction and polar-

ization of heat ; and to explain refraction, he
showed the simple experiment of fixing some col-

ored wafers at the bottom of a basin, and then

pouring in water so as to make them apparent-

ly rise. Dr. Carpenter, who had come from Bris-

tol with grand ideas of the lectures at Albemarle

Street, wondered greatly at the introduction of

so commonplace an experiment. Of course there

were many other illustrations, and beautiful ones

too. He went down, however, after the lecture,

to the table, and among the crowd chatting there
140 MICHAEL FARADAY.

Iwas an old gentleman, who remarked, " think

the best experiment to-night was that of the

wafers in the basin."

When a young lecturer, Faraday took lessons

in elocution from Mr. Smart, and was at great

pains to cure himself of any defect of pronunci-

ation or manner ; for this purpose he would get a

friendly critic to form part of his audience. On

the  fly-leaves of  rmemaninydoefrst,he"  notes  of his  lectures
are  written the                          Stand          " Don't
                                                 up"

talk quick." Indeed, in early days, it was so

much a matter of anxiety to him that every thing

in his lectures should be as perfect as possible,

that he not only was accustomed to go over ev-

ery thing again and again in his mind, but the

Idifficulty of satisfying himself used to trouble

his dreams. was told this, if I am not mistaken,

by himself; and it goes far to explain how his

discourses possessed such a fascination.

Some of his feelings in regard to lecturing may

be learned from the    following particulars, for
                       to Mr. Charles Tomlinson.
which I am indebted

They relate to a course of lectures he delivered

in 1849 on Statical Electricity. The first lecture

began thus: "Time moves on, and brings changes
I Ito ourselves as well as to science.
                                                 feel that

must soon resign into the hands of my successors

Ithe position which now occupy at this table.
I IIndeed, have long felt how much rather would
FRUITS OP HIS EXPERIENCE.  141

Isit among you and be instructed, than stand here

and attempt to instruct. have always felt my

position in this Institution as a very strange one.

Coming after such a man as Davy, arid associated

Iwith such a man as Brande, and having had to

make a position for myself, have always felt
myself here in a strange position. You will won-

Ider why make these remarks. It is not from
I Iany affectation of modesty that do so, but feel

that loss of memory may soon incapacitate me
altogether for my duties. Without, however,

troubling you more about myself, let us proceed
to the subject before us, and fall back upon the
beginnings of the wonderful science of electrici-

Ity. shall have to trouble you with very little
Iof them. The facts are so wonderful that shall

not attempt to explain them." At the second

lecture, " Faraday advanced to the table at three
o'clock, and began to apologize for an obstruc-
tion of voice, which indeed was painfully evident.
He said that, ' in an engagement where the con-

tracting parties were one and many, the one
ought not, on any slight ground, to break his part
of the engagement with the many, and therefore,

if the audience would excuse his imperfect ut-

terance, he would endeavor ' Murmurs arose :

'Put off the lecture.' Faraday begged to be al-
lowed to go on. A medical man then rose and

said he had given it as his opinion that it would
142 MICHAEL FARADAY.

be dangerous to Dr. Faraday to proceed. Fara-
day again urged his wish to proceed said it was

giving so much trouble to the ladies, who had

sent away their carriages, and perhaps put off

other engagements. On this the whole audience

rose as by a single impulse, and a number of per-

sons surrounded Faraday, who now yielded to

the general desire to spare him the pain and in-

convenience of lecturing." A fortnight elapsed

before he could again make his appearance, but

he continued his course later than usual, in order

not to deprive his audience of any of the eight

lectures he had undertaken to give them. Prince
Albert came to one of these extra lectures.

Faraday's opinion as to the honors due to sci-

entific men from society or from government-

may be gathered from the following extract from

a letter  written me by his     private friend Mr.
Blaikley  : " On one occasion,  when making some

remark in reference to a movement on behalf of

science,! inadvertently spoke of the proper hon-

Ior due to science. He at once remarked, ' am

Inot one who considers that science can be hon-

ored.' at once saw the point. His views of
the grandeur of truth, when once apprehended,
raised it far beyond any honor that man could
give it ; but man might honor himself by respect-

ing and acknowledging it."

Professor George Wilson, of Edinburg, has
FRUITS OF HIS EXPEEIENCE.  143

thus described his first visit to the philosopher :
" Faraday was very kind, showed me his whole
laboratory with labors going on, and talked
frankly and kindly; but to the usual question
of something to do, gave the usual round O an-
swer, and treated me to a just, but not very
cheering animadversion on the government of
this country, which, unlike that of every other
civilized country, will give no help to scientific
inquiry, and will afford no aid or means of study

for young chemists."

   " Take care of your money," was his advice to
Mr. Joule, then another young aspirant to scien-
tific honors, but who has since rendered the high-

est service to science, without leaning on any
hopes of government help or public support.

   But the impressions given in conversation may

not be always correct. Happily there exist his
written opinions on this subject. In a letter ad-
dressed to Professor Andrews, of Belfast, and

dated 2d February, 1843, there occurs this pas-
sage : " As to the particular point of your letter

about which you honor me by asking my advice,

II have no advice to give ; but have a strong
Ifeeling in the matter, and will tell you what
Ishould do. have always felt that there is some-

thing degrading in offering rewards for intellec-
tual exertion, and that societies or academies, or

even kings and emperors, should mingle in the
144 MICHAEL FARADAY.

matter does not remove the degradation, for theI ;
feeling which is hurt is a point above their con-if,
                               a
Idition, and belongs to the respect which a manais a
                is is
owes to himself. With this feeling, have nev-
                        a
Ier, since was a boy, aimed at any such prize ;
               I
or even as in your case, they came near me,
                           it  a
have allowed them to move me from my course
and have always contended that such rewards

will never move the men who are most worthy
of reward. Still, think rewards and honors

good if properly distributed, but they should be

given for what man has done, and not offered
for what he to do, or else talent must be con-

sidered as thing marketable and to be bought
and sold, and then down falls that high tone of
mind which the best excitement to man of
power, and will make him do more than any
commonplace reward. When man reward-

ed for his deserts, he honors those who grant

the reward, and they give not as moving im-
pulse to him, but to all those by the reward are
led to look to that man for an example."

   Eleven years afterward Faraday expressed
similar views, but more fully, in letter to the
late Lord Wrottesley, as chairman of the Parlia-
mentary Committee of the British Association
            I
                                               a
                                                    a

                                                                                                                                    :
" ROYAL INSTITUTION, March Wth, 1854.
" MY LORD,
            feel unfit to give deliberate
FRUITS OP HIS EXPERIENCE.  145

opinion on the course it might be advisable for

the government to pursue if it were anxious to

improve the position of science and its cultiva-

tors in our country. My course of life, and the
circumstances which make it a happy one for
me, are not those of persons who conform to the
usages and habits of society. Through the kind-

Iness of all, from my sovereign down ward, have
Ithat which supplies all my need ; and in respect

of honors, have, as a scientific man, received

from foreign countries and sovereigns those

which, belonging to very limited and select class-
es, surpass in my opinion any thing that it is in
the power of my own to bestow.

  I I" can not say that have not valued such dis-
Itinctions ; on the contrary, esteem them very
I Ihighly, but do not think have ever worked

for or sought after them. Even were such to be

now created here, the time is past when these

Iwould possess any attraction for me; and you

will see, therefore, how unfit am, upon the
strength of any personal motive or feeling, to

Ijudge of what might be influential upon the

minds of others. Nevertheless, will make one

or two remarks which have often occurred to my
mind.

   " Without thinking of the effect it might have
upon distinguished men of science, or upon the
minds of those who, stimulated to exertion, might

                        K
146 .  MICHAEL FAKADAY.

Ibecome distinguished, do think that a govern-

Iment should for its own sake honor the men who
do honor and service to the country.  refer

Inow to honors only, not to beneficial rewards;

of such honors think there are none. Knight-

Ihoods and baronetcies are sometimes conferred

with such intentions, but think them utterly

unfit for that purpose. Instead of conferring dis-

tinction, they confound the man who is one of
twenty, or perhaps fifty, with hundreds of oth-

ers. They depress rather than exalt him, for
they tend to lower the especial distinction of
mind to the commonplaces of society. An intel-

Ifligent country ought to recognize the scientific
men among its people as a class.  honors are

conferred upon eminence in any class, as that of

the law or the army, they should be in this also.

The aristocracy of the class should have other

distinctions than those of lowly and highborn,

rich and poor, yet they should be such as to be
worthy of those whom the sovereign and the

country should delight to honor, and, being ren-

dered very desirable and even enviable in the
eyes of the aristocracy by birth, should be unat-

Itainable except to that of science. Thus much
  think the government and the country ought
to do, for their own sake and the good of science,

more than for the sake of the men who might be

thought worthy of such distinction. The latter
            FRUITS OF HIS EXPEEIENCE.        147

have attained to their fit place, whether the com-

mu"nBituyt  at large  recognize it or not.   of reward
            besides
                      that, and as a matter

Iand encouragement to those who have not yet

risen to great distinction, think the govern-

ment should, in the very many cases which come

before it having a relation to scientific knowl-

edge, employ men who pursue science, provided

they are also men of business. This is perhaps

now done to some extent, but to nothing like

the degree which is practicable with advantage

to all parties. The right means can not have

occurred to a government which has not yet

learned to approach and distinguish the class as

a whole.

  I"At the same time, am free to confess that
I Iam unable to advise how that which think
I Ishould be may come to pass. believe have
Iwritten the expression of feelings rather than the

conclusions of judgment, and would wish your

lordship to consider this letter as private rather

than as one addressed to the chairman of a com-

mittee.

  I" have the honor to be, my lord, your very

faithful servant,     M. FAKADAY."

   In this day, when so many allow their names
to be used for offices of which they never intend-
ed to discharge the duties, the following letter

may convey an appropriate lesson :
148 MICHAEL FARADAY,

       "KOYAL  INSTITUTION, Oct. 17th, 1849.
      PERCY,
I" MY             can not be on the com-
DEAR
I Imittee ; avoid every thing of that kind, that

may keep my stupid mind a little clear. As to

being on a committee and not working, that is
worse still. * * * Ever yours and Mrs. Percy's,

               "M. FARADAY."

  It is well known that he waged implacableis,

war with the Spiritualists. Eighteen years ago

tables took to spinning mysteriously under the
fingers of ladies and gentlemen who sat or stood

around the animated furniture ; much was said

about a new force, much too about strange rev-
elations from another sphere, but Faraday made

a simple apparatus which convinced him and

most others that the tables moved through the

unconscious pressure of the hands that touched
them. The account of this will be found in the

Atheno?um of July 2, 1853. Three weeks after-

Iward he wrote to his friend Schonbein : " have
Inot been at work except in turning the tables

upon the table-turners, nor should have done

Ithat but that so many inquiries poured in upon

me that thought it better to stop the inpour-
ing flood by letting all know at once what my
views and thoughts were. What a weak, credu-

lous, incredulous, unbelieving, superstitious, bold,
frightened what a ridiculous world ours as
        FRUITS OF HIS EXPERIENCE.  149

far as concerns the mind of man. How full of

inconsistencies, contradictions, and absurdities it
is !" But the believers in these occult phenom-

ena, some of them holding high positions about
the court, would not let him alone, and there are
many indications of the annoyance and irritation
they caused him. He declined to meet the pro-
fessors of the mysterious art, and the following
letter will serve to show the way in which he

regarded them :

" SIR,  I " KOTAL INSTITUTION, Nov. 1, 1864.

          beg to thank you for your papers,

but have wasted more thought and time on so-

called spiritual manifestation than it has de-

served. Unless the spirits are utterly contempt-

ible, they will find means to draw my atten-

tion.

   " How is it that your name is not signed to

the testimony that you give ? Are you doubt-

ful even while you publish ? I've no evidence

that any natural or unnatural power is concern-

If Ied in the phenomena that requires investigation
or deserves it.        could consult the spirits, or

I Imove them to make themselves honestly mani-

fest, would do it. But can not, and am wea-
of th"em.am,
Iry              sir,  your  obedient servant,

                                      " M. FARADAY."
150 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

There was once a strange statement put forth

to the effect that Faraday said electricity was

life.* He himself denied it indignantly ; but as
most falsehoods are perversions of some truth,

this one probably originated in his experiments

on the Gymnotus. He felt an intense interest

in those  marine animals that      give                 shocks,   and
          to identify the living  power                  which   they
sought "

possess with that which man can call into action

from inert matter, and by him named electrici-

ty."! The most powerful of these is the Gym-

notus, or electrical eel, and a live specimen of

this creature, forty inches long, was secured by

the Adelaide Gallery a predecessor of the Poly-

technic in the summer of 1838. Four days aft-

er its arrival the poor creature lost an eye ; for
two months it could not be coaxed to eat either

meat or fish, worms or frogs ; but at last one day
it killed and devoured four small fishes, and aft-

erward swallowed about a fish per diem. It was

accustomed to swim round and round the tank

till a live fish was dropped in, when, in some

cases bending round its victim, it would dis-

charge a shock that made the fish float on its

back stunned and ready to be sucked into the

jaws of its assailant.

I* myself once heard this advanced by an infidel lecturer

ontPa"dEdliencgttroicnalGRreeesena, rches," Series XV.
         FRUITS OP HIS EXPERIENCE.            151

Faraday examined this eel and the water

a

           a it,

                                           a
around both with his hands and with special

collectors of electricity, and satisfied himself not

merely of the shock, which was easy enough, but

of its power to deflect galvanometer, to make

   magnet, to effect chemical decomposition, and

to give spark. His account of the experiments

terminates with some speculations on the con-

nections of this animal electricity with nervous

power; but there the matter rested. His own

v"iAewssliwvienreg  thus expressed to his friend Dumas
                    creatures produce heat, and heat
is

  it
         it

               is

                           ?

                        if

                                            is
                                             is

                                                              ?

                                                                   is a

                                                                                                          :
certainly identical with that of our hearths, why

should they not produce ^electricity also, and an

electricity in like manner identical with that of

our machines But the heat produced during

life, and necessary to life, not life after all, why
should electricity itself be life Like heat, like

chemical action, electricity an implement of

life, and nothing more."

Whether the belief that electricity           life

would be inconsistent with the Christian faith

or not,             clear that when an infidel preacher

asserts that Faraday held such an opinion, his

assertion will influence few who are not already

disposed to materialism. Far more damaging

to the cause of religion when her ministers

repeat the assumption of the infidel that those
who study the truths of nature are particularly
152 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

prone to disbelive. Yet such statements have

Ibeen made, even with reference to Faraday.

have it on the best authority that one of the

leading clergymen of the day, preaching on a
special occasion from Peter's words, " The ele-

ments shall melt with fervent heat, the earth

also and the works that are therein shall be burn-

ed up," spoke in antagonism to scientific men,

alluding to Faraday by name, and to his compu-

tation of the tremendous electrical forces that

would be  produced   by sundering the  elements  of
one drop              " They shall be  confuted  by
          of water.

their own element fire," added the preacher,

careless of the conclusion which his audience

might legitimately draw from such a two-edged

argument.. The accuser of the men of science

was much astonished when told after his sermon

by a brother clergyman that Faraday and other

eminent physicists of the day were believers in

a divine revelation.

  It may be doubted whether Faraday ever tried

to form a definite idea of the relation in which

the physical forces stand to the Supreme Intelli-

gence, as Newton did, or his own friend Sir John

Herschel, nor did he consider it part of his duty

as a lecturer to look beyond the natural laws he

was describing. His practice in this respect has

baerden:*w"eTllhdisesgcrreibaetdabndy  the Rev. Professor Pritch-
                                       good man never obtruded

* "Analogies in the Progress of Nature and Grace," p. 121 .
FKUITS OF HIS EXPERIENCE.  153

the strength of his faith upon those whom he

publicly addressed ; upon principle, he was ha-

bitually reticent on such topics, because he be-

lieved they were ill suited for the ordinary as-
semblages of men. Yet on more than one occa-

sion when he had been discoursing on some of
the magnificent prearrangements of divine Prov-

Iidence so lavishly scattered in nature, have

seen him struggle to repress the emotion which
was visibly striving for utterance ; and then, at
the last, with one single far-reaching word, he

would just hint at his meaning rather than ex-

press it. On such occasions he only who had

ears to hear could hear."

   In his more familiar lectures to the cadets at

Woolwich, however, he more than hinted at such
elevated thoughts. In conversation, too, Fara-
day has been known to express his wonder that
any one should fail to recognize the constant
traces of design ; and in his writings there some-

Itimes occur such passages as the following:

"When consider the multitude of associated

Iforces which are diffused through nature when

   think of that calm and tranquil balancing
of their energies which enables elements most

powerful in themselves, most destructive to the
world's creatures and economy, to dwell associ-

Iated together and be made subservient to the

wants of creation, rise from the contemplation
154 MICHAEL FARADAY.

more than ever impressed with the wisdom, the
beneficence, and grandeur beyond our language
to express, of the Great Disposer of all !"

    Faraday's journals abound with descriptions

of" nature and human nature." He had evident-

ly a keen eye for the beauties of scenery, and

occasionally the objects around him suggested
higher thoughts. Here are two instances taken

from his notes of a Swiss tour in 1841 :
   " Monday ,19th. Very fine day; walk with dear

Sarah on the lake side to Oberhofen, through the
beautiful vineyards ; very busy were the women
and men in trimming the vines, stripping off
leaves and tendrils from the fruit-bearing branch-
es. The church-yard was beautiful, and the sim-

plicity of the little remembrance-posts set upon
the graves very pleasant. One who had been

too poor to put up an engraved brass plate, or
even a painted board, had written with ink on

paper the birth and death of the being whose

remains were below, and this had been fastened

to a board, and mounted on the top of a stick at
the head of the grave, the paper being protected
by a little edge and roof. Such was the simple
remembrance ; but Nature had added her pathos,
for under the shelter by the writing a caterpil-
lar had fastened itself, and passed into its death-
like state of chrysalis, and, having ultimately as-
sumed its final state, it had winged its way from
FRUITS OF HIS EXPERIENCE.  155

the spot, and had left the corpse-like relic behind.

How old and how beautiful is this figure of the
resurrection ! Surely it can never appear before
our eyes without touching the thoughts."

  I"August 12th, Brienz Lake. George and

crossed the lake in a boat to the Giessbach he

Ito draw, and to saunter. . . . This most beau-

tiful fall consists of a fine river, which passes by

successive steps down a very deep precipice into
the lake. In some of these steps there is a clear
leap of water of 100 feet or more, in others most

beautiful combinations of leap, cataract, and rap-

id, the finest rocks occurring at the sides and
bed of the torrent. In one part a bridge passes

over it. In another a cavern and a path occur

under it. To-day every fall was foaming from
the abundance of water, and the current of wind
brought down by it was in .some parts almost
too strong to stand against. The sun shone

brightly, and the rainbows seen from various

points were very beautiful. One at the bottom
of a fine but furious fall was very pleasant.
There it remained motionless, while the gusts
and clouds of spray swept furiously across its

place, and were dashed against the rock. It

looked like a spirit strong in faith and steadfast
in the midst of the storm of passions sweeping
across it ; and though it might fade and revive,
still it held on to the rock as in hope and giving
156 MICHAEL FARADAY.

hope ; and the very drops, which in the whirl-

wind of their fury seemed as if they would carry

all away, were made to revive it and give it

greater beauty.

   "How often are the things we fear and esteem

as troubles made to become blessings to those
who are led to receive them with humility and
patience."

   In concluding this section, it may be well to

string together a few gems from Faraday's lec-
tures or correspondence, though they are greatly
damaged by being torn away from their original
setting :

   "After all, though your science is much to

me, we are not friends for science sake only, but
for something better in a man, something more
important in his nature, affection, kindness, good

Ifeeling, moral worth ; and so, in remembrance of

these, now write to place myself in your pres-
ence, and in thought shake hands, tongues, and
hearts together." This was addressed to Schon-

bein.

  "I should be glad to think that high mental

powers insured something like a high moral
sense, but have often been grieved to see the
contrary ; as also, on the other hand, my spirit
has been cheered by observing in some lowly
and uninstructed creature such a healthful, and
FRUITS OF HIS EXPERIENCE.  157

honorable, and dignified mind as made one in
love with human nature. When that which is

good mentally and morally meet in one being,
that that being is more fitted to work out and

Imanifest the glory of God in the creation fully

admit."
   ''Let me, as an old man who ought by this

I I Itime to have profited by experience, say, that

when was younger found often misinter-

Ipreted the intentions of people, and found they

did not mean what at the time supposed they
meant; and further, that, as a general rule, it
was better to be a little dull of apprehension

when phrases seemed to imply pique, and quick
in perception when, on the contrary, they seem-

ed to imply kindly feeling. The real truth never

fails ultimately to appear ; and opposing parties,

if wrong, are sooner convinced when replied to

forbearingly than when overwhelmed."
   "Man is an improving animal. Unlike the an-

imated world around him, which remains in the

same constant state, he is continually varying ;
and it is one of the noblest prerogatives of his
nature that in the highest of earthly distinctions
he has the power of raising and exalting Kim-
self continually. The transitory state of man
has been held up to him as a memento of his
weakness: to man degraded it may be so with
justice; to man as he ought to be it is no re-
158 MICHAEL FARADAY.

proach ; and in knowledge, that man only is to
be contemned and despised who is not in a state

of transition."

  " It is not the duty or place of a philosopher

to dictate belief, and all hypothesis is more or
less matter of belief; he has but to give his facts
and his conclusions, and so much of the logic
which connects the former with the latter as he
may think necessary, and then to commit the
whole to the scientific world for present, and, as
he may sometimes without presumption believe,
for future judgment."
HIS METHOD OF WOBKING.  159

                     SECTION IV.

                   HIS METHOD OF WOEKING.

   IT is on record that when a young aspirant
asked Faraday the secret of his success as a sci-
entific investigator, he replied, "The secret is
comprised in three words Work, Finish, Pub-
lish."

   Each of these words, we may be sure, is full
of meaning, and will guide us in a useful inquiry.

   Already in the " Story of his Life" we have
caught some glimpses of the philosopher at work
in his laboratory ; but, before looking at him
more closely, let us learn from a foreigner with
what feelings to enter a place that is hallowed
by so many memories sacred in the history of
science. Professor Schonbein, of Basle, who vis-

Iited England in 1840, says, " During my stay in

London, once worked with Faraday for a whole
day long in the laboratory of the Royal Institu-

Ition, and can not forbear to say that this was
Ione of the most enjoyable days that ever spent

in the British capital. We commenced our day's

Iwork with breakfast ; and when that was over

was supplied with one of the laboratory dresses
160 MICHAEL FARADAY.

Iof ray friend, which, when was presented in it

to the ladies, gave occasion to no little amuse-

ment, as the dimensions of Faraday are different

fro"mTothowsoerkofwmityh  precious body.      was  in  it-
                          a man like Faraday

self a great pleasure ; but this pleasure was not

a little heightened in doing so in a place where

such grand secrets of nature had been unfolded,

the most brilliant discoveries of the century had

been made, and entirely new branches of knowl-

edge had been brought forth. For the empty

intellect circumstances of this nature are indeed

of little special value ; but they stand in quite

another relation to our power of imagination and

inner nature.

  "I do not deny that my surroundings pro-
Iduced in me a very peculiar feeling ; and while

Itrod the floor upon which Davy had once walk-

ed while availed myself of some instrument

Iwhich this great discoverer had himself handled
   while -stood working at the very table at

which the ever-memorable man sought to solve

the most difficult problems of science, at which
Faraday enticed the first sparks out of the mag-
net, and discovered the most beautiful laws of

Ithe chemical action of current electricity, felt
Imyself inwardly elevated, and believed that

myself experienced something of the inbreath-
ing of the scientific spirit which formerly ruled
HIS METHOD OF WORKING.                                             161

there with such creative power, and which still

works on."*

The habit of Faraday was to think out care-

fully beforehand the subject on which he was

working, and to plan his mode of attack. Then,

if he saw that some new piece of apparatus was

needed, he would describe it fully to the instru-

ment maker with a drawing, and it rarely hap-

pened that there was any need of alteration in

a
             a

                      If,

                                                               a
executing the order.           however, the means of

experiment existed already, he would give An-
derson written list of the things he would re-

quire at least day before for Anderson was

not to be hurried. When all was ready, he

would descend into the laboratory, give quick

glance round to see that all was right, take his

apron from the drawer, and rub his hands to-

gether as he looked at the preparations made for

his work. There must be no tool on the table

but such as he required. As he began, his face

would be exceedingly grave, and during the prog-
ress of an experiment all must be perfectly qui-

et but if was proceeding according to his
;

            it

                                                                a
wish, he would commence to hum tune, and

sometimes to rock himself sideways, balancing

alternately on either foot. Then, too, he would

often talk to his assistant about the result he

* " Mittheilungen aus dem Reisetagebuche eines deutschen

Naturforschers,"  275.
                  p.

                            L
162 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

was expecting. He would put away each tool
in its own place as soon as done with, or, at
any rate, when the day's work was over, and he
would not unnecessarily take a thing away from

its place ; thus, if he wanted a perforated cork,

he would go to the drawer which contained the

corks and cork-borers, make there what he want-

ed, replace the borers, and shut the drawer. No
bottle was allowed to remain without its stop-
per ; no open glass might stand for a night with-

out a paper cover ; no rubbish was to be left on

the floor; bad smells were to be avoided if pos-

sible ; and machinery in motion was not permit-

ted to grate. In working, also, he was very care-

ful not to employ more force than was wanted to
produce the effect. When his experiments were
finished and put away, he would leave the labor-
atory, and think further about them up stairs.

   This orderliness and this economy of means
he not only practiced himself, but he expected
them also to be followed by any who worked

Iwith him ; and it is from conversation with these

that have been enabled to give this sketch of

his manner of working.
   This exactness was also apparent in the ac-

counts he kept with the Royal Institution and
Trinity House, in which he entered every little
item of expenditure with the greatest minuteness
of detail.
        HIS METHOD OF WOKKING.                 163

It was through this lifelong series of experi-

ments that Faraday won his knowledge and mas-

tered the forces of nature. The rare ingenuity

of his mind was ably seconded by his manipu-

lative skill, while the quickness of his perceptions

was equaled by the calm rapidity of his move-

ments.

   He had, indeed, a passion for experimenting.

I recollect his meeting me at the entrance to the

lecture theatre at Jermyn Street when Lyon

Playfair was to give the first, or one of the first

lectures ever delivered in the building. "Let

Ius go up here," said he, leading me far away from
the central table.  asked him why he chose
such an out-of-the-way place. " Oh," he replied,
" we shall be able here to find out what are the

acoustic qualities of the room."

The simplicity of the means with which he

made his experiments wr as often astonishing, and

was, indeed, one of the manifestations of his ge-

nius.
  A
       gAorordowin. sta"nWceheisnththues  narrated by Sir Fred-
erick                                     electric light was first

exhibited permanently at Dungeness, on the 6th

of June, 1862, a committee of the Elder Breth-

Iren, of which was one, accompanied Faraday
Ito observe it. We dined, think, at Dover, and

embarked in the yacht from there, and were out

                                          it,
for some hours watching to Faraday's great
164 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

delight (a very fine night) and especially we
did so from the Varne light-ship, about equidis-

tant between it and the French light of Grisnez,

using all our best glasses and photometers to as-

certain the relative value of the lights ; and this

brings me to my story. Before we left Dover,

Faraday, with his usual bright smile, in great

Iglee showed me a little common paper box, and

said, ' must take care of this ; it's my special

photometer ;' and then, opening     it,  produced  a

lady's ordinary black shawl-pin jet, or imita-

tion perhaps and then holding       it     little way

                                        a

off the candle, showed me the image very dis-

tinct and then, putting  it       little further off,
;                            it, a
placed another candle near and the relative
    I
distance was shown by the size of the image.

He lent me this afterward when we were at the

Varne light-ship, and acted admirably; and
       I it
                     a

                         I
ever since have used one as very convenient

mode of observing, and never do so but think

of that night and dear good Faraday, and his ge-

nial, happy way of showing how even common
things may be made useful." After this Fara-

day modified his glass-bead photometer, and he

might be seen comparing the relative intensity

of two lights by watching their luminous images

on bead of black glass, which he had threaded
aa
on string, and was twirling 'round so as to re-
solve the brilliant points into circles of fainter
HIS METHOD OF WOEKING.    165

light ; or he fixed the black glass balls on pieces

of cork, and, attaching them to a little wheel, set
them spinning for the same purpose. Some of

these beads are preserved by the Trinity House,

with other treasures of a like kind, including a

flat piece of solder of an irregular oval form,

turned up at one side so as to form a thumb-rest,

and which served the philosopher as a candle-

stick to support the wax-light that he used as a
standard. The museum of the Royal Institution

contains a most instructive collection of his ex-

perimental apparatus, including the common elec-
trical machine which he made while still an ap-

prentice at Riebau's, and the ring of soft iron,
with its twisted coils of wire isolated by calico

and tied with common string, by means of which

he first obtained electrical effects from a magnet.

  A lady, calling on his wife, happened to men-

tion that a needle had been once broken into her

did not  know    whether  it had been
or not.    " Oh  !" said  Faraday, "
foot, and she

Iall extracted

will soon tell you that ;" and, taking a finely sus-
pended magnetic needle, he held it close to her

foot, and it dipped to the concealed iron.

  "An artist was once maintaining that in natu-

ral appearances and in pictures, up and down,
and high and low, were fixed indubitable reali-

ties ; but Faraday told him that they were mere-
ly conventional acceptations, based on standards
166 MICHAEL FARADAY.

often arbitrary. The disputant could not be
convinced that ideas which he had hitherto never
doubted had such shifting foundations. 'Well,'
said Faraday, 'hold a walking-stick between your
chin and your great toe ; look along it and say
which is the upper end.' The experiment was
tried, and the artist found his idea of perspective
at complete variance with his sense of reality ;
either end of the stick might be called ' upper'

   pictorially it was one, physically it was the

other."

   On this subject Schonbein has also some good

remarks. " The laboratory of the Institution is
indeed efficiently arranged, though any thing but
large and elaborately furnished. And yet some-

thing extraordinary has happened in this room
for the extension of the limits of knowledge, and
already more has been done in.it than in many
other institutions where the greatest luxury in
the supply of apparatus prevails, and where there
is the greatest command of money. But when
men work with the creative genius of a Davy,
and the intuitive spirit of investigation and the
wealth of ideas of a Faraday, important and

great things must come to pass, even though

the appliances at command should be of so lim-
ited a character. For the experimental investi-
gator of nature, it is especially desirable that, ac-
cording to the kind of his researches, he should
HIS METHOD OP WORKING.  167

have at command such and such appliances; that
he should possess a ' philosophical apparatus,' a
laboratory, etc. ; but for the purpose of produc-

ing something important, of greatly widening the
sphere of knowledge, it in no way follows that
a superfluity of such things is necessary to him.
. . . . He who understands how to put appro-
priate questions to Nature generally knows how

Ito extract the answers by simple means ; and he

who wants this capacity will, fear, obtain no
profitable result, even though all conceivable

tools and apparatus may be ready to his hand."

  Nor did Faraday require elaborate apparatus to

illustrate his meaning. Steaming up the Thames

one July day in a penny boat, he was struck with

the offensiveness of the water. He tor*e some

white cards into pieces, wetted them so as to
make them sink easily, and dropped them into
the river at each pier they came to. Their sud-

den disappearance from sight, though the sun

was shining brightly, was proof enough of the
impurity of the stream ; and he wrote a letter

to the Times describing his observations, and

calling public attention to the dangerous state

of the river.* At a meeting of the British As-

sociation he wished to explain the manner in

    * Punch's cartoon next week represented Professor Fara-

day holding his nose, and presenting his card to Father Thames,

who rises out of the unsavory ooze.
168 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

which certain crystallized bodies place them-
selves between the poles of an electro-magnet :
two or three raw potatoes furnished the mate-
rial out of which he cut admirable models of the

crystals.

   Faraday's manner of experimenting may be
further illustrated by the recollections of other
friends who have had the opportunity of watch-
ing him at work.

   Mr. James Young, who was in the laboratory
of University College in 1838, thus writes:
"About that time Professor Graham had got
from Paris Thilorier's apparatus for producing
liquid and solid carbonic acid ; hearing of this,
Mr. Faraday came to Graham's laboratory, and,

as one might expect, showed great interest in
this apparatus, and asked Graham for the loan
of it for a Friday evening lecture at the Royal
Institution, which of course Graham readily

granted, and Faraday asked me to come down
to the Institution and give him the benefit of

Imy experience in charging and working the ap-

paratus ; so spent a long evening at the Royal
Institution laboratory. There was no one pres-
ent but Faraday, Anderson, and myself. The
principal thing we did was to charge the appa-
ratus and work with the solid carbonic acid, Mr.

Faraday working with great activity : his mo-

tions were wonderfully rapid; and if he had to
         HIS METHOD OF WORKING.             169

cross the laboratory for any thing, he did not

walk at an ordinary step, but ran for       it,and

when he wanted any thing he spoke quickly.           :

Faraday had theory at that time that all met-     it
         a
                      a

                          if
als would become magnetic their temperature

were low enough; and he tried that evening

some experiments with cobalt and manganese,

which he cooled in mixture of carbonic acid

and ether, but the results were negative."

Among the deep mines of the Durham coal-

field one called the Haswell Colliery. One
it

     is
Saturday afternoon, while the men were at work

in as usual, terrible explosion occurred
         a
                  is
proceeded from the fire-damp that collects in the

vaulted space that formed in old workings

when the supporting pillars of coal are removed

and the roof falls in: the suffocating gases rushed

along the narrow passages, and overwhelmed

ninety-five poor fellows with destruction. Of

course there was an inquiry, and the government

sent down to the spot as their commissioners

Professor Faraday and Sir Charles Lyell. The

two gentlemen attended at the coroner's inquest,

where they took part in the examination of the

witnesses they inspected the shattered safety-
;
        ;

                   a
lamps they descended into the mine, spending

the best part of day in the damaged and there-

fore dangerous galleries where the catastrophe

had occurred, and they did not leave without
1VO MICHAEL FARADAY.                             it,     a it  a
                                                                   a
showing in a practical form their sympathy with       a
the sufferers. When down in the pit, an inspect-                          a
or showed them the way in which the workmen
estimated the rapidity of the ventilation draught                     is
by throwing a pinch of gunpowder through the
flame of a candle, and timing the movement of
the little puff of smoke. Faraday, not admiring
the free and easy way in which they handled

their powder, asked where they kept their store

of and learned that was in large black bag

which had been assigned to him as the most com-

fortable seat they could offer. We may imagine
the liveliness with which he sprang to his feet,
and expostulated with them on their culpable

carelessness.

   My own opportunities of observing Faraday
at work were nearly confined to series of ex-

periments, which are the better worth describ-
ing here as they have escaped the notice of pre-
vious biographers. The Royal Commission ap-
pointed to inquire into our whole system of
Lights, Buoys, and Beacons perceived great
defect that rendered many of our finest shore or
harbor lights comparatively ineffective. The

great central lamp in light-house surround-
ed by complicated arrangement of lenses and
prisms, with the object of gathering up as many

of the rays as possible, and sending them over
the surface of the sea toward the horizon. Now
HIS METHOD OF WORKING.  171

it is evident that if this apparatus be adjusted

so as to send the beam two or three degrees up-

ward, the light will be lost to the shipping and

wasted on the clouds ; and if two or three de-

grees downward, it will only illumine the water

in the neighborhood : in either case the beauti-

ful and expensive apparatus would be worse

than useless. It is evident, also, that if the eye

be placed just above the wick of the lamp, it
will see through any particular piece of glass
that very portion of the landscape which will be

illuminated by a ray starting from the same spot;

or the photographic image formed in the place

of the flame by any one of the lenses will tell us
the direction in which that lens will throw the

luminous rays. This simple principle was ap-

plied by the commissioners for testing the ad-

justment of the apparatus in the different lights,
and it was found that few were rightly placed,
or rather that no method of adjustment was in

use better than the mason's plumb-line. The

Royal Commissioners therefore, in 1860, drew
the attention of all the light-house authorities to
this fact, and asked the Elder Brethren of the

Trinity House, with Faraday and other parties,

to meet them at the lights recently erected at

the North Foreland and Whitby. I, as the sci-
entific member of the commission, had drawn
out in detail the course of rays from different
172 MICHAEL FAEADAY.it,

Iparts of the flame, through different parts of theIa

apparatus, and was struck with the readiness                        a
with which Faraday, who had never before con-
sidered the matter,* took up the idea, and recog-a
nized its importance and its practical application.a

With his characteristic ingenuity, too, he de-a
vised a littl'e piece of apparatus for the more ex-
aact observation of the matter inside the light-

house. He took to Mr. Ladd, the optical instru-it
ment maker, a drawing, very neatly executed,
with written directions, and a cork cut into
proper shape, with two lucifer matches stuck
through to serve as further explanation of

   * Since writing the above, have come across letter writ-
ten by Faraday in answer to one by Captain Weller as far
back as 13th Sept., 1839, in which he pointed out the malad-

justment of the dioptric apparatus at Orfordness. In July

of the following year he made lengthy suggestions to the
Trinity House, in which he proposed using flat white cir-
cle or square, half an inch across, on piece of black paper or
card, as a "focal object." This was to be looked at from
outside, in order to test the regularity of the glass apparatus.
He also suggested observations on the divergence by looking
at this white circle at distance of twenty feet at most. An-
other plan he proposed was that of lighting the lamp and put-
ting up white screen outside. These methods of examin-

ing he carried out very shortly afterward at Blackwall, on
French and English refractors, but seems never to have oc-
curred to him to place his eye in the focus, or in any other
manner to observe the course of the rays from inside the ap-
paratus.
         HIS METHOD OF WORKING.                                       173

his meaning, and from this the " focimeter," as

he called was made. The position of the glass
panels at Whitby was corrected by means of this
a
little instrument, and there were many journeys
           it,
down to Chance's glass-works near Birmingham,

where, declining the hospitality of the proprietor

in order to be absolutely independent, he put up

at small hotel while he made his experiments,

and jotted down his observations on the cards he

habitually carried in his pocket. At length we

were invited down to see the result. Faraday

explained carefully all that had been done, and

at the risk of sea-sickness (no trifling matter in

his case) accompanied us out to sea to observe
the effect from various directions and at various

distances. The experience acquired at Whitby

was applied elsewhere, and in May, 1801, the

Trinity House appointed Visiting Committee,

"to examine all dioptric light establishments,
       ;

                                          a
                                                                   a
with the view of remedying any inaccuracies of

arrangement that may be found to exist." Far-

aday had instructed and practiced Captain Nis-

bet and some others of the Elder Brethren in the

use of the focimeter, and now wrote careful

letter of suggestions on the question of adjust-

ment between the lamp, and the lenses, and

prisms    so thoughtfully did he  work for the
benefit  of those who " go down   to the sea in

ships, that do business in great waters."
174 MICHAEL FARADAY.

   As to the mental process that devised, direct-
ed, and interpreted his experiments, it must be
borne in mind that Faraday was no mathema-
tician; his power of appreciating an d priori

reason often appeared comparatively weak. "It

has been stated on good authority that Faraday
boasted on a certain occasion of having only
once in the course of his life performed a mathe-
matical calculation : that once was when he

turned the handle of Babbage's calculating ma-
chine."* Though there was more pleasantry
than truth in this professed innocence of num-

bers, probably no one acquainted with his elec-
trical researches will doubt that, had he possess-

ed: more mathematical ability, he would have
been saved much trouble, and would sometimes

have expressed his conclusions with greater ease
and precision. Yet, as Sir William Thomson has

remarked with reference to certain magnetic
phenomena, " Faraday, without mathematics, di-
vined the result of the mathematical investiga-
tion ; and, what has proved of infinite value to

the mathematicians themselves, he has given

them an articulate language in which to express
their results. Indeed, the whole language of the

magnetic field and ' lines of force' is Faraday's.

It must be said for the mathematicians that they

*

                 it,
greedily accepted     and have ever since been

Dr. Scoffern, Belgravia, October, 1867.
        HIS METHOD OF WORKING.  175

most zealous in using it to the best advan-

tage."

The peculiarity of his mind was indeed well

known to himself. In a letter to Dr. Becker he

Isays : " was never able to make a fact my own

without seeing it ; and the descriptions of the

best works altogether failed to convey to my

mind such a knowledge of things as to allow my-
self to form a judgment upon them. It was so
Ifwith new things.
                    Grove, or Wheatstone, or

Gassiot, or any other told me a new fact, and

wanted my opinion either of its value, or the

cause, or the evidence it could give on any sub-

I Iject, never could say any thing until had seen
Ithe fact. For the same reason, never could

work, as some professors do most extensively,

by students or pupils. All the work had to be

my own."

  The following story by Mr. Robert Mallet serves

Ias an illustration: "It must be now eighteen

years ago when paid him a visit, and brought
some slips of flexible and tough Muntz's yellow

metal to show him the instantaneous change to

complete brittleness with rigidity produced by
dipping into pernitrate of mercury solution. He

Igot the solution, and showedhim the facts ; he

obviously did not doubt what he saw me do be-

fore and close to him; but a sort of experimental
instinct seemed to require he should try it him-
176 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

self. So he took one of the slips, bent it forward

and backward, dipped      I it,and broke    it      up into

short bits between his own fingers. He had not

before spoken. Then he said, Yes,           it      pliable,
                                 '
                                    ' ?' *      is

and does become instantly brittle.' And after
a

     it
  few moments' pause he added, Well, now have
you any more facts of the sort and seemed            a

little disappointed when said No none that  ;

are new.' It has often since occurred to me

how his mind needed absolute satisfaction that

he had grasped fact, and then instantly rushedit
                      a,
to colligate with another, if possible."

   But as the professor watched these new facts,

new thoughts would shape themselves in his

mind, and this would lead to fresh experiments

in order to test their truth. The answers so ob-

tained would lead to further questions. Thus

his work often consisted in the defeat of one hy-
pothesis after another, till the true conditions of

the phenomena came forth, and claimed the as-

sent of the experimenter and ultimately of the

scientific world.

A. de la Rive has some acute observations on

this subject. He explains how Faraday did not

place himself before his apparatus, setting to
         a

                                                 it
work, without preconceived idea; neither did

he take up known phenomena, as some scientific

men do, and determine their numerical data, or

study with great precision the laws which regu-
HIS METHOD OF WOKKING.  177

late them. "A third method, very different from

the preceding, is that which, quitting the beaten

track, leads, as if by inspiration, to those great

discoveries which open new horizons to science.
This method, in order to be fertile, requires one
condition a condition, it is true, which is but
rarely met with namely, genius. Now this
condition existed in Faraday. Endowed, as he
himself perceived, with much imagination, he
dared to advance where others would have re-

coiled : his sagacity, joined to an exquisite sci-
entific tact, by furnishing him with a presenti-
ment of the possible, prevented him from wan-
dering into the fantastic; while, always wishing
only for facts, and accepting theories only with

difficulty, he was nevertheless more or less di-
rected by preconceived ideas, which, whether
true or false, led him into new roads, where most
frequently he found what he sought, and some-
times also what he did not seek, but where he
constantly met with some important discov-

ery". Such a method, if indeed it can be called one,

although barren and even dangerous with medi-

ocre minds, produced great things in Faraday's
hands ; thanks, as we have said, to his genius,
but thanks also to that love of truth which char-

acterized him, and which preserved him from the

temptation so often experienced by every dis-

                               M
178 MICHAEL FARADAY.

coverer, of seeing what he wishes to see, and not

seeing what he dreads."
   This love of truth deserves a moment's pause.

It was one of the most beautiful and most es-

sential of his characteristics ; it taught him to be
extremely cautious in receiving the statements
of others or in drawing his own conclusions,*

* A good instance of his caution in drawing conclusions is

contained in one of his letters to me :

                  "ROYAL INSTITUTION OF GREAT BRITAIN,)  f
                           2d July, 1859.
I"Mr DEAB GLADSTONE, Although have frequently observed
lights from the sea, the only thing I have learned in relation to their

relative brilliancy is that the average of a very great number of ob-

servations would be required for the attainment of a moderate ap-

proximation to truth. One has to be some miles off at sea, or else

the observation is not, made in the chief ray, and then one does not

know the state of the atmosphere about a given light-house. Strong

lights like that of Cape Grisnez have been invisible when they

should have been strong ; feeble lights by comparison have risen up
in force when one might have expected them to be relatively weak ;

and after inquiry has not shown a state of the air at the light-house

explaining such differences. It is probable that the cause of differ-

ence often exists at sea.

"Besides these difficulties there is that other great one of not see-

ing the two lights to be compared in the field of view at the same
Iftime and same distance.
                           the eye has to turn 90 from one to the
Iother, have no confidence in the comparison ; and if both be in

the field of sight at once, still unexpected and unexplained causes

of difference occur. The two lights at the South Foreland are beau-

tifully situated for comparison, and yet sometimes the upper did not

equal the lower when it ought to have surpassed it. This I referred

at the time to an upper stratum of haze ; bnt on shore they knew
nothing of the kind, nor had any such or other reason to expect par-

ticular effects.           Ever truly yours,       M. FARADAY."

As an instance of his unwillingness to commit himself to

an opinion unless he was sure about may be cited a letterit,
             HIS METHOD OF WORKING.                                                                                                               179

and it led him, if his skepticism was overcome,

to adopt at once the new view, and to maintain

   if need be, against the world.

   "The thing am proudest of, Pearsall, that

  have never been found to be wrong," he could
say in the early part of his scientific history with-
out fear of contradiction. After his death A. de

la Rive wrote, "I do not think that Faraday has

once been caught in mistake, so precise and

conscientious was his mode of experimenting
and observing." This not absolutely true
but the extreme rarity of his mistakes, notwith-
standing the immense amount of his published
researches, is. one of those marvels which can be

appreciated only by those who are in the habit
of describing what they have seen in the mist
land that lies beyond the boundaries of previous

knowledge.

   Into this unknown region his mental vision
I it,
               I

                                            a
                                             is

                                                                      is

                                                                                                                           ;

he wrote to Mr. Airy, the Astronomer Royal, who asked for

his advice   in regard to   the  mmadaeteria"l  of which the national
standard of  length should  be                   do not see any reason
             I
                                                                     :
                                  I

                                                                   a

                                                I

                                                                                                                                               ;
why a pure metal should be particularly free from internal

change of its particles, and, on the whole, should rather in-

cline to the hard alloy than to soft copper, and yet hardly

know why.    suppose the labor would be too great to lay

down the standard on different metals and substances and

yet the comparison of them might be very important here-

after, for twenty years seem to do or tell great deal in re-
lation to standard measures. " Bronze was finally chosen.
180 MICHAEL FARADAY.

Iwas ever stretched. " well remember one day,"

writes Mr. Barrett, a former assistant at the Roy-

Ial Institution, "when Mr. Faraday was by my

side, happened to be steadying, by means of
a magnet, the motion of a magnetic needle un-
der a glass shade. Mr. Faraday suddenly look-

ed most impressively and earnestly as he said,

'How wonderful and mysterious is that power

Iyou have there ! the more think over it the
Iless seem to know ;' and yet he who said this

knew more of it than any living man."

   It is easy to imagine with what wonder he

would stand before the apples, or leaves, or pieces
of meat that swung round into a transverse po-
sition between the poles of his gigantic magnet,

or the sand that danced and eddied into regular

figures on plates of glass touched by the fiddle-
bow, or gold so finely divided that it appeared

purple, and when diffused in water took a twelve-

month to settle. It is easy, too, to imagine how

he would long to gain a clear idea of what was
taking place behind the phenomena. But it is
far from easy to grasp the conceptions of his

brain : language is a clumsy vehicle for such

thoughts. He strove to get rid of such figura-
tive terms as "currents" and "poles;" in discuss-
ing the mode of propagation of light and radi-
.ant heat he endeavored " to dismiss the ether,
but not the vibrations;" and in conceiving of
HIS METHOD OP WORKING.  181

... Iatoms, he says : " As to the little solid particles
           can not form any idea of them apart from

Ithe forces, so neither admit nor deny them.

They do not afford me the least help in my en-
deavor to form an idea of a particle of matter.

On the contrary, they greatly embarrass me."
Yet he could not himself escape from the tyran-
ny of words or the deceitfulness of metaphors,
and it is hard for his readers to comprehend
what was his precise idea of those centres of
forces that occupy no space, or of those lines of
force which he behold with his mental eye, curv-

ing alike round his magnetic needle, and that
mightiest of all magnets the earth.

   As he was jealous of his own fame, and had

learned by experience that discoveries could be

stolen, he talked little about them till they were

ready for the public ; indeed, he has been known
to twit a brother electrician for telling his discov-

eries before printing them, adding with a know-

ing laugh, "I never do that." He was obliged,

however, to explain his results to Professor Whe-

well, or some other learned friend, if he wished

to christen some new idea with a Greek name.
One of Whewell's letters on such an occasion,

dated Trinity College, Cambridge, October 14,

1837, begins thus:

I" MY DEAR SIR,  am always glad to hear of
182 MICHAEL FARADAY.

the progress of your researches, and never the
less so because they require the fabrication of a

new word or two. Such a coinage has always
taken place at the great epochs of discovery, like

the medals that are struck at the beginning of a

******new reign, or rather like the change of currency

produced by the accession of a new sovereign,
for their value and influence consists in their
coming into common circulation."

   During the whole time of an investigation
Faraday had kept ample notes, and when all was

completed he had little, to do but to copy these
notes, condensing or rearranging some parts, and
omitting what was useless. The paper then

usually consisted of a series of numbered para-
graphs, containing first a statement of the sub-
ject of inquiry, then a series of experiments giv-
ing negative results, and afterward the positive
discoveries. In this form it was sent to the Roy-
al Society or some other learned body. Yet this
often involved considerable labor, as the follow-
ing words written to Miss Moore in 1850 from

"Ia summer retreat in Upper Norwood will show :
    write, and write, and write, until nearly three
papers for the Royal Society are nearly com-

Ipleted, and hope that two of them will be good
Iif they do justify my hopes, for have to criticise
Ithem again and again before let them loose.
    HIS METHOD OF WORKING.                           183

You shall hear of them at some of the next Fri-

day evenings."

    This criticism did not cease with their publi-

cation, for he endeavored always to improve on

his previous work. Thus, in 1832, he bound his

papers together in one volume, and the introduc-

tion on the fly-leaf shows the object with which

it  was done  :

    " Papers  of  mine,  published  in  octavo,  in  the

Quarterly Journal ofScience and elsewhere, since
the time that Sir H. Davy encouraged me to write

the analysis of caustic lime.

  I" Some, think (at this date), are good, others
Imoderate, and some bad. But have put all

into the volume, because of the utility they have

been of to me and none more than the bad

in pointing out to me in future, or rather after

times, the faults it became me to watch and to

Iavoid.

   " As never looked over one of my papers a

year after it was written without believing, both

Iin philosophy and manner, it could have been

much better done, still hope the collection may

be of great use to me.              M. FARADAY.

    "August 18, 1832."

of  This section may    gbaevesutmhemefidrstu"p   in the words
    Dumas when he                                Faraday Lec-
ture" of the Chemical Society : " Faraday is the
184 MICHAEL FARADAY.

type of the most fortunate and the most accom-
plished of the learned men of our age. His hand
in the execution of his conceptions kept pace
with his mind in designing them ; he never want-
ed boldness when he undertook an experiment,
never lacked resources to insure success, and was
full of discretion in interpreting results. His
hardihood, which never halted when once he had
undertaken a task, and his wariness, which felt
its way carefully in adopting a received conclu-
sion, will ever serve as models for the experi-
mentalist."
THE VALUE OF HIS DISCOVERIES.                       185

SECTION V.

THE VALUE OF HIS DISCOVERIES.

   SCIENCE is pursued by different men from dif-
ferent motives.

' ' To some she is the goddess great ;
     To some the milch-cow of the field :

  Their business is to calculate
      The butter she will yield."

Now Faraday had been warned by Davy before

he entered his service that Science was a mis-

tress who paid badly ; and in 1833 we have seen

him deliberately make his calculation, give up

the butter, and worship the goddess.

   For the same reason, also, he declined most of

the positions of honor which he was invited to

fill, believing that they would encroach too much

on his time, though he willingly accepted the

honorary degrees and scientific distinctions that

were showered upon him.*

* De la Rive points this out in his brief notice of Faraday
"Jeimmediately on receiving the news of his death:
                                                    n'ai

parle que du savant, je tiens aussi a dire un mot de I'homme.
Alliant a une modestie vraie, parcequ'elle provenait de 1'ele-

vation de son ame, une droiture a toute epreuve et une oan-

deur admirable, Faraday n'aimait la science que pour elle-

meme. Aussi jouissait-il des succes des autres au moins
186 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

   And among those who follow science loving-
ly there are two very distinct bands : there are

the philosophers, the discoverers, men who per-
sistently ask questions of Nature ; arid there are

the practical men, who apply her answers to the

various purposes of human life. Many noble

names are inscribed in either bead-roll, but few

are able to take rank in both services; indeed,

the question of practical utility would terribly

cramp the investigator, while the enjoyment of

patient research in unexplored regions of knowl-

edge is usually too ethereal for those who seek
their pleasure in useful inventions. The mental

configuration is diiferent in the two cases ; each
may claim and receive his due award of honor.

   Faraday was  opfre"-epmhiilnoesnotplyhera."  discoverer; he
liked the name
                                                   His favorite

paths of study seem to wander far enough from

the common abodes of human thought or the re-

quirements of ordinary life. He became famil-

iar, as no other man ever was, with the varied

autant que des siens propres ; et quant a lui, s'il a accepte,
avec une sincere satisfaction, les honneurs scientifiques qui
lui ont etc prodigues a si juste titre, il a constamment refuse

toutes les autres distinctions et les recompenses qu'on eut

voulu lui decerner. II s'est contente toute sa vie de la posi-

tion relativement modeste qu'il occupait a ITnstitution Roy-
ale de Londres ; avoir son laboratoire et strictement de quoi
vivre, c'est tout ce qu'il lui fallait. Presinge, le 29 aout,1867.

   A. DE LA ElVE."
THE VALUE OF HIS DISCOVERIES.  187

forces of magnetism and electricity, heat and
light, gravitation and galvanism, chemical affin-
ity and mechanical motion ; but he did not seek
to "harness the lightnings," or to chain those
giants and make them grind like Samson in the
prison-house. His way of treating them reminds
us rather of the old fable of Proteus, who would

transform himself into a whirlwind or a dragon,

a flame of fire or a rushing stream, in order to

elude his pursuer ; but if the wary inquirer could

catch him asleep in his cave, he might be con-
strained to utter all his secret knowledge; for
the favorite thought of Faraday seems to have

been that these various forces were the changing

forms of a Proteus, and his great desire seems
to have been to learn the secret of their origin
and their transformations. Thus he loved to
break down the walls of separation between dif-
ferent classes of phenomena, and his eye doubt-

less sparkled with delight when he saw what had

always been looked upon as permanent gases
liquefy like common vapors under the constraint

of pressure and cold when the wires that coiled
round his magnets gave signs of an electric wave,

or coruscated with sparks when the electrici-
ties derived from the friction machine and from

the voltaic pile yielded him the same series of

phenomena when he recognized the cumulative

proof that the quantity of electricity in a gal van-
188 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

ic battery is exactly proportional to the chemic-

al action when his electro-static theory seemed

to break down the barrier between conductors

and insulators, and many other barriers besides

   when he sent a ray of polarized light through
a piece of heavy glass between the poles of an

electro-magnet, and on making contact saw that

the plane of polarization was rotated, or, as he

said, the light was magnetized and when he

watched pieces of bismuth, or crystals of Iceland
spar, or bubbles of oxygen, ranging themselves

Iina  definite position in the magnetic field.  and

   "   delight in hearing of exact numbers,

the determinations of the equivalents of force

when different forms of force are compared one

with another," he wrote to Joule in 1845; and

no wonder, for these quantitative comparisons
have proved many of his speculations to be true,

and have made them the creed of the scientific

world. When he began to investigate the dif-

ferent sciences, they might be compared to so

many separate countries with impassable front-

iers, different languages and laws, and various

weights and measures ; but when he ceased they
resembled rather a brotherhood of states, linked

together by a community of interests and of

speech, and a federal code; and in bringing

about this unification no one had so great a share

as himself.
THE VALUE OF HIS DISCOVERIES.  189

   He loved to speculate, too, on Matter and
Force, on the nature of atoms and of imponder-

able agents. " It is these things," says the great

German physicist, Professor Helmholz," that Far-
aday in his mature works ever seeks to purify
more and more from every thing that is theoret-

ical, and is not the direct and simple expression

of the fact. For instance, he contended against
the action of forces at a distance, and the adop-
tion of two electrical and two magnetic fluids,
as well as all hypotheses contrary to the law of
the conservation of force, which he early fore-
saw, though he misunderstood it in its scientific
expression. And it is just in this direction that

he exercised the most unmistakable influence first

of all on the English physicists."*

   While, however, Faraday was pre-eminently

an experimental philosopher, he was far from be-
ing indifferent to the useful applications of sci-

ence. His own connection with the practical
side of the question was threefold : he undertook
some laborious investigations of this nature him-

self; he was frequently called upon, especially

by the Trinity House, to give his opinions on the
inventions of others; and he was fond of bring-
ing useful inventions before the members of the
Royal Institution in his Friday evening dis-
courses. The first of these, on February 3, 1826,

       * Preface to "Faraday und seine Entdeckungen."
190 MICHAEL FARADAY.

was on India-rubber, and was illustrated by an
abundance of specimens both in the raw and
manufactured states. In this way, also, he con-
tinued to throw the magic of his genius around
Morden's machinery for manufacturing Bramah's
locks, Ericsson's caloric engine, Brunei's block
machinery at Portsmouth, Petitj can's process for
silvering mirrors, the prevention of dry-rot in
timber, De la Rue's envelope machinery, artifi-
cial rubies, Bonelli's electric silk -loom, Barry's
mode of ventilating the House of Lords, and
many kindred subjects.

  It may not be amiss to describe the last of his

Friday evenings, in which he brought before the
public Mr. C. W. Siemens's Regenerative Gas
Furnace. The following letter to the inventor
will tell the first steps :

I" ROYAL INSTITUTION, March 22, 1862.
"MY DEAR SIR,  have just returned from

Birmingham, and there saw at Chance's works

Ithe application of your furnaces to glass-making.

  was very much struck with the whole matter.
"As our managers want me to end the F. even-
Iings here after Easter, have looked about for a
I I Ithought, for have none in myself.
                                   think
Ishould like to speak of the effects saw at
IfChance's, if you do not object.
                                   you assent,

can you help me with any drawings or models,
     THE VALUE OF HIS DISCOVERIES.      <  191

or illustrations either in the way of thoughts or

experiments ? Do not say much about it out of

Idoors as yet, for my mind is not settled in what
way  (if y"oEuvearssternutl)y    shall  present the subject.
                               yours,          M. FAKADAY.

"C.W. SIEMENS, ESQ."

   Of course the permission was gladly given, and

Mr. Siemens met him at Birmingham, and for
two days conducted him about works for flint
and crown glass, or for enamel, as well as about

iron-works, in which his principle was adopted,
wondering at the professor's simplicity of char-
acter as well as at his ready power of grasping
the whole idea. Then came the Friday even-
ing, 20th of June, 1862, in which'he explained
the great saving of heat effected, and pictured
the world of flame into which he had gazed in
some of those furnaces. But his powers of lec-
turing were enfeebled, and during the course of
the hour he burnt his notes by accident, and at

the conclusion he very pathetically bade his au-

dience farewell, telling them that he felt he had

been before them too long, and that the experi-
ence of that evening showed he was now useless
as their public servant, but he would still en-
deavor to do what he could privately for the In-
stitution. The usual abstract of the lecture ap-

peared, but not from his unaided pen.
192  ^  MICHAEL FAKADAY.

   Inventors, and promoters of useful inventions,

frequently benefited by the advice of Faraday,

or by his generous help. A remarkable instance

of this was told me by Cyrus Field. Near the
commencement of his great enterprise, when he
wished to unite the Old and the New Worlds by
the telegraphic cable, he sought the advice of the
great electrician, and Faraday told him that he
doubted the possibility of getting a message
across the Atlantic. Mr. Field saw that this fa-

tal objection must be settled at once, and begged

Faraday to make the necessary experiments, of-
fering to pay him properly for his services. The
philosopher, however, declined all remuneration,
but worked away at the question, and presently

reported to Mr. Field : " It can be done, but you

will not get an instantaneous message." " How
long will it take?" was the next inquiry. "Oh,
perhaps a second." "Well, that's quick enough
for me," was the conclusion of the American ;

and the enterprise was proceeded with.

   As to the electric telegraph itself, Faraday

does not appear among those who claim its par-
entage, but he was constantly associated with
those who do ; his criticisms led Ritchie to de-

velop more fully his early conception, and he was
constantly engaged with batteries, and wires,

and magnets, while the telegraph was being per-

fected by others, and especially by his friend
THE VALUE OF HIS DISCOVERIES.  193

Wheatstone, whose name will always be asso-

ciated with what is perhaps the most wonderful
invention of modern times.

   As to Faraday's own work in applied science,
his attempts to improve the manufacture of
steel, and afterward of glass for optical purposes,
were among the least satisfactory of his research-
es. He was more successful in the matter of
ventilation of lamp-burners. The windows of

light -houses were frequently found streaming
with water that arose from the combustion of

the oil, and in winter this was often converted

into thick ice. He devised a plan by which

this water was effectually carried away, and the

room was also made more healthy for the keep-

ers. At the AthenaBum Club serious complaints

were made that the brilliantly-lighted drawing-

room became excessively hot, and that headaches

were very common, while the bindings of the
books were greatly injured by the sulphuric acid
that arose from the burnt coal-gas. Faraday
cured this by an arrangement of glass cylinders
over the ordinary lamp chimneys, and descend-
ing tubes which carried off the whole products
of combustion without their ever mixing with
the air of the room. This principle could of

course be applied to brackets or chandeliers else-
where, but the professor made over any pecun-

iary benefit that might accrue from it to his

                             N
194 MICHAEL FARADAY.

brother, who was a lamp manufacturer, and had

aided him in the invention.

The achievements of Faraday are certainly

not to be tested by a money standard, nor by

their immediate  liafed.apt"atPiorancttiocatlhemneenc"emssiitgiehst  or
                                                                     be
conveniences of

disposed to think slightly of the grand discov-
eries of the philosopher. Their ideas of "utility"

will probably be different. One man may take
his wheat -corn and convert it into loaves of

bread, while his neighbor appears to lose his la-

bor by throwing the precious grain into the

earth ; but which after all, most productive
The loaves will at once feed the hungry, but the
                 is,                                  it a
sower's toil will be crowned in process of timea
                                                              ?
by waving harvests.   I

   Yet some of Faraday's most recondite inqui-

ries did bear practical fruit even during his own

lifetime. In proof of this, will take one of his

chemical and two of his electrical discoveries.

Long ago there was Portable Gas Company,

which made oil gas and condensed into liq-
                                                I it
uid. This liquid Faraday examined in 1824, and

he found the most important constituent of to

be light volatile oil, which he called bicarbu-
a

ret of hydrogen. The gas company, presume,

came to an end but what of the volatile liquid?
                 ;

                                             a
Obtained from coal-tar, and renamed Benzine or

Benzol,  it      now prepared on large scale, and

             is
         THE VALUE OF HIS DISCOVERIES.                            195

used as a solvent in some of our industrial arts.

But other chemists have worked upon
           it                                                     and,

                   a

                                      it
                                            it
                                                           a it,
torturing with nitric acid, they have produced

mtro-benzol  gift to the confectioner and the

perfumer. And by attacking this with reducing

agents there was called into existence the won-

drous base aniline wondrous indeed when we

consider the transformations underwent in the

hands of Hofmann, and the light was made to

throw on the internal structure of organic com-

pounds. Faraday used sometimes to pay visit
to the Royal College of Chemistry, and revel in

watching these marvelous reactions. But aniline

was of use to others besides the theoretical chem-

ist. Tortured by fresh appliances, this base gave

highly-colored bodies, which was found possi-
             a it
ble to fix on cotton as well as woolen and silken

fabrics, and thence sprang up large and novel

branch of industry, while our eyes were delight-

ed with  tPhaerirsi,chanhduevsaroiof umsauovtehear n"damnialigneentday,etsh.e"
Bleu de

Every one who at all acquainted with the
             it
habits of electricity knows that the most impas-
sable of obstacles the air, while iron bolts andis is
                                  is ;
bars only help in its flight yet, if an electri-

fied body be brought near another body, with

this invisible barrier between them, the electric-

al state of the second body disturbed. Fara-

day thought much over this question of "indue-
196 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

tion," as it is called, and found himself greatly

puzzled to comprehend how a body should act

where it is not. At length he satisfied himself

by experiment that the interposed obstacle is it-

self affected by the electricity, and acquires an

electro-polar state by which it modifies electric

action in its neighborhood. The amount varies

with the nature of the substance, and Faraday es-

timated it for such dielectrics as sulphur, shellac,

tohrisspneerwmapcreotip, ecrtoymopfarmedattwerith"   air. He termed
                                                    specific inductive

capacity," and figured in his own mind the play
of the molecules as they propagated and for a

while retained the force. Now these very rec-

ondite observations were opposed to the philoso-

phy of the day, and they were not received by
some of the leading electricians, especially of

the Continent, while those who first tried to ex-

tend his experiments blundered over the mat-

ter. However, the present Professor Sir William

Thomson, then a student at Cambridge, showed

that while Faraday's views were rigorously de-

ducible from Coulomb's theory, this discovery

was a great advance in the philosophy of the

subject. When submarine telegraph wires had
to be manufactured, Thomson took " specific in-

ductive capacity" into account in determining

the dimensions of the cable : for we have there

all the necessary conditions the copper wire is
THE VALUE OF HIS DISCOVERIES.  19*7

charged with electricity, the covering of gutta-
percha is a " dielectric," and the water outside
is ready to have an opposite electric condition
induced in it. The result is that, as Faraday

himself predicted, the message is somewhat re-
tarded ; and of course it becomes a thing of im-
portance so to arrange matters that this retard-

ation may be as small as possible, and the sig-

nals may follow one another speedily. Now
this must depend not only on the thickness of
the covering, but also on the nature of the sub-
stance employed, and it was likely, enough that

gutta-percha was not the best possible substance.

In fact, when Professor Fleeming Jenkin came
to try the inductive capacity of gutta-percha by
means of the Red Sea cable, he found it to be al-

most double that of shellac, which was the high-

est that Faraday had determined, and attempts

have been made since to obtain some substance

which should have less of this objectionable qual-

ity, and be as well adapted otherwise for coating

a wire. There is Hooper's material, the great

merit of which is its low specific inductive ca-
pacity, so that it permits of the sending of four
signals while gutta-percha will only allow three
to pass along ; and Mr. Willoughby Smith has
made an improved kind of gutta-percha with re-

duced capacity. Of course no opinion is ex-
pressed here on the value of these inventions, as
198 MICHAEL FARADAY.

many other circumstances must be taken into ac-

count, such as their durability and their power; is,
of insulation that preventing the leakage of

the galvanic charge but at least they show that

one of the most abstruse discoveries of Faraday

has penetrated already into our patent offices

and manufactories. Two students in the Phys-

ical Laboratory at Glasgow have lately deter-

mined with great care the inductive capacity of

paraffin, and there can be little doubt that the

speculations of the philosopher as to the condi-

tion of dielectric will result in rendering                       I it
a
still more easy than at present to send words of
  it
information or of friendly greeting to our cous-
               a
ins across the Atlantic or the Indian Ocean.
               is
The history of the magneto-electric light af-
                 it
fords another remarkable instance of the way in

which one of Faraday's most recondite, discov-
eries bore fruit in his own lifetime and
                      ;                   it      the

                                              is

more interesting, as fell to his own lot to as-

sist in bringing the fruit to maturity.

                                     "BRIGHTON, November 29, 1831.I

   "DEAR PHILLIPS, For once in my life am

able to sit down and write to you without feel-

ing that my time so little that my letter must
of necessity be short one, and accordingly
have taken an extra large sheet of paper, intend-
ing to fill with news.
THE VALUE OF HIS DISCOVERIES.       199

" But how are you getting on ? Are you com-

fortable ? And how does Mrs. Phillips do and

I Ithe girls ? Bad correspondent as am, think

you owe me a letter; and as in the course of

half an hour you will be doubly in my debt, pray

write us, and let us know all about you. Mrs.

Faraday wishes me not to forget to put her kind

remembrances to you and Mrs. Phillips in my

Iletter                       have been work-

   " We are here to refresh.

ing and writing a paper that always knocks me

Iup in health ; but now feel well again, and able
Ito pursue my subject ; and now will tell you
Iwhat it is about. The title will be, think, 'Ex-

perimental Researches in Electricity :' I. On the

Induction of Electric Currents ; II. On the Evo-
lution of Electricity from Magnetism ; III. On a
new Electrical Condition of Matter; IV. On Ara-

go's Magnetic Phenomena. There is a bill of

Ifare for you ; and, what is more, hope it will
Inot disappoint you. Now the pith of all this

must give you   very briefly ; the  dperimntoendstrations"
you shall have  in the paper when

   So wrote Faraday to his intimate friend Rich-

ard Phillips, on November 29th, 1831, and the
letter goes on to describe the great harvest of
results which he had gathered since the 29th of
August, when he first obtained evidence of an
200 MICHAEL FARADAY.

electric current from a magnet. A few days

afterward he was at work again on these curious

relations of magnetism and electricity in his la-

boratory, and at the Round Pond in Kensington

Gardens, and with Father Thames at Waterloo

Bridge. On the 8th of February he entered in
his note-book : " This evening, at Woolwich, ex-

perimented with magnet, and for the first time

got the magnetic spark myself. Connected ends

of a helix into two general ends, and then cross-

ed the wires in such a way that a blow at a b

would open them a little. Then bringing a b

against the poles of a magnet, the ends were dis-

joined, and bright sparks resulted."
  Next day he repeated this experiment at home

with Mr. DanielPs magnet, and then invited some

of his best friends to come and see the tiny speck

of light.*

   But  what was the use    of   this little spark  be-
        the shaken wires ?   "   What is the use
tween                                               of

an infant?" asked Franklin once, when some

such question was proposed to him. Faraday

  I* am indebted to Sir Charles Wheatstone for the follow-

ing impromptu by Herbert Mayo ;

"Around the magnet Faraday

        Was sure that Volta's lightnings play :
           But how to draw them from the wire ?

        He drew a lesson from the heart :

        'Tis when we meet, 'tis when we part,

        Breaks forth the electric fire."
    THE VALUE OF HIS DISCOVERIES.                  201

said that the experimentalist's answer was, "En-
deavor to make it useful." But he passed to

Iother researches in the same field.  he  says, " of

   " have rather been desirous,"

discovering new facts and new relations de-

pendent on magneto-electric induction than of

exalting the force of those already obtained, be-

ing assured that the latter would find their full

development hereafter." And in this assurance

he was not mistaken. Electro-magnetism has

been taken advantage of on a large scale by the

metallurgist and the telegrapher ; and even the

photographer and sugar-refiner have attempted

to make it their servant; but it is its applica-

tion as a source of light that is most interesting

to  us in  connection with    its discoverer.   "
    Many   "electric lights"  were invented by
                                                   prac-

tical men," the power being generally derived

from a galvanic battery ; and it was discovered
that by making the terminals of the wires of

charcoal, the brilliancy of the spark could be

enormously increased. Some of these inventions

were proposed for light-houses, and so came offi-

cially under the notice of Faraday as scientific

adviser to the Trinity House. Thus he was en-

gaged in 1853 and 1854 with the beautiful elec-

tric light of Dr. Watson, which he examined most

carefully, evidently hoping it might be of serv-

ice, and at length he wrote an elaborate report
202 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

pointing out its advantages, but at the same time

the. difficulties in the way of its practical adop-

tion. The Trinity Corporation passed a special
vote of thanks for his report, and hesitated to

proceed further in the matter.
   But Faraday's own spark was destined to be

more successful. In 1853 some large magneto-

electric machines were set up in Paris for pro-

ducing combustible gas by the decomposition
of water. The scheme failed, but a Mr. F. H.

Holmes suggested that these expensive toys

might be turned to account for the production

of light. "My propositions," he told the Royal

Commissioners of Light-houses, " were entirely

I Iridiculed, and the consequence was, that instead
of saying that thought could do  I iIt,promised

                                                   ;
to do by certain day. On that day, with
one of Duboscq's regulators or lamps, produced
a

         it

                a
                    aa

              I
the magneto-electric light for the first time but

as the machines were ill constructed for the

purpose, and as had considerable difficulty to

make even temporary adjustment to produce

fitting current, the light could only be exhib-

ited for few minutes at time." He turned
                        a

his attention to the reconstruction of the ma-

chines, and after carrying on his experiments in

Belgium, he applied to the Trinity Board in Feb-

ruary, 1857. Here was the tiny spark, which

Faraday had produced just twenty-five years
        THE VALUE OP HIS DISCOVEEIES.             203

before, exalted into a magnificent star, and for

Faraday it was reserved to decide whether this

star should shed its brilliance from the cliffs of

Albion. A good piece of optical apparatus, in-

tended for the Bishop Rock in the Scillies, hap-

pened to be at the experimental station at Black-

wall, and with this comparative experiments were

made. We can imagine something of the inter-

est with which Faraday watched the light from

Woolwich, and asked questions of the inventor

about all the details of its working and expense;

and we can picture the alternations of hope and
caution as he wrote in his report, "The light is

so intense, so abundant, so concentrated and fo-

cal, so free from under-shadows (caused in the
common lamp by the burner), so free from flick-

ering,  that one can not  but   desire it should  suc-
         But," he adds,   " it  would require     very
ceed.

careful and progressive introduction men with
peculiar knowledge and skill to attend it ; and
the means of instantty substituting one lamp for

another in case of accident. The common lamp

is so simple, both in principle and practice, that

its liability to failure is very small. There is no

doubt that the magneto-electric lamp involves

a great number of circumstances tending to

Imake its application more refined and delicate ;

but would fain hope that none of these will

prove a barrier to its introduction. Neverthe-
204 MICHAEL FAEADAY.

less, it must pass into practice only through the
ordeal of a full, searching, and prolonged trial."
This trial was made in the upper of the two light
towers at the South Foreland ; but it was not
till the 8th of December, 1858, that the experi-
ment was commenced. Faraday made observa-
tions on it for the first two days, but it did not
act well, and was discontinued till March 28,
1859, when it again shot forth its powerful rays

across the Channel.

  It was soon inspected by Faraday inside and

outside, by land and by sea. His notes termi-
nate in this way : "Went to the hills round, about

a mile off, or perhaps more, so as to see both
upper and lower light at once. The effect was
very fine. The lower light does not come near
the upper in its power, and as to color, looks red,
while the upper is white. The visible rays pro-
ceed from both horizontally, but those from the
low light are not half so long as those from the
electric light. The radiation from the upper
light was beautifully horizontal, going out right
and left with intenseness like a horizontal flood
of light, with blackness above and blackness be-

low, yet the sky was clear and the stars shining

brightly. It seemed as if the lantern* only were

above the earth, so dark was the part immediate-

   * The room with glass sides, from which the light is exhib-
ited at the top of a light-house, is called by this name.
THE VALUE OF HIS DISCOVERIES.  205

ly below the lantern, yet the whole tower was
visible from the place. As to the shadows of

the uprights, one could walk into one and across,
and see the diminution of the light, and could
easily see when the edge of the shadow was
passed. They varied in width according to the

distance from the lantern. With upright bars

their effect is considerable at a distance, as seen

last night ; but inclining these bars would help
in the distance, though not so much as with a

light having considerable upright dimension, as
is the case with an oil lamp.

   "The shadows on a white card were very clear

on the edge a watch very distinct and legible.

On lowering the head near certain valleys, the
feeble shadow of the distant grass and leaves was

evident. The light was beautifully steady and
bright, with no signs of variation the appear-

ance was such as to give confidence to the mind

   no doubt about its continuance.

  "As a light it is unexceptionable as a mag-

neto-electric light wonderful and seems to have
all the adjustments of quality, and more than
can be applied to a voltaic electric light or a
Ruhmkorff coil."

   The Royal Commissioners and others saw with
gratification this beautiful light, and arrange-
ments were made for getting systematic obser-
vations of it by the keepers of all the light-houses
206 MICHAEL FABADAY

within view, the masters of the light-vessels that
guard the Goodwin Sands, and the crews of pi-
lot cutters; after which Faraday wrote a very

Ifavorable report, saying, among other things, "

beg to state that in my opinion Professor Holmes
has practically established the fitness and suffi-

ciency of the magneto -electric light for light-

house purposes, so far as its nature and manage-
ment are concerned. The light produced is pow-

Ierful beyond any other that have yet seen so

applied, and in principle may be accumulated to
any degree ; its regularity in the lantern is great,
its management easy, and its care there may be

confided to attentive keepers of the ordinary de-
gree of intellect and knowledge."*

   The Elder Brethren then wished a further trial
of six months, during which time the light was

to be entirely under their own control. It was

therefore again kindled on August 22, and the
experiment happened soon to be exposed to a
severe test, as one of the light-keepers, who had
been accustomed to the arrangement of the lamps
in the lantern, was suddenly removed, and anoth-
er took his place without any previous instruc-

   * One night there was a beautiful aurora. Mr. Holmes
remarked that his poor electric light could not compare with
that for beauty; but Faraday rejoined, "Don't abuse your
light. The aurora is very beautiful, and so is a wild horse,
but you have tamed it and made it valuable."
THE VALUE OF HIS DISCOVERIES.  207

tion. This man thought the light sufficiently

strong if he allowed the carbon points to touch,

as the lamp then required no attendance what-

ever, and he could leave it in that way for hours
together. On being remonstrated with, he said,

"It is quite good enough." Notwithstanding

such difficulties as these, the experiment was con-

sidered satisfactory, but it was discontinued at

the South Foreland, for the cliffs there are mark-

ed by a double light, and the electric spark was
 o much brighter than the oil flames in the oth-
er house, that there was no small danger of its
being seen alone in thick weather, and thus fatal-
ly misleading some unfortunate vessel.

   After this Faraday made further observations,
estimates of the expense, and experiments on
the divergence of the beam, while Mr. Holmes
worked away at Northfleet perfecting his ap-
paratus, and the authorities debated whether it

was to be exhibited again at the Start, which is a

revolving light, or at Dungeness, which is fixed.
The scientific adviser was in favor of the Start ;

but, after an interview with Mr. Milner Gibson,
then President of the Board of Trade, Dungeness
was determined on ; a beautiful small combina-
tion of lenses and prisms was made expressly
for it by Messrs. Chance, and at last, after two

years' delay, the light again shone on our south-

ern coast.
208 MICHAEL FAKftJDAY.

  It may be well to describe the apparatus.

There are 120 permanent magnets, weighing

about 50 Ibs. each, ranged on the periphery of

two large wheels. A steam-engine of about

three-horse power causes a series of 180 soft iron
cores, surrounded by coils of wire, to rotate past
the magnets. This calls the power into action,
and the small streams of electricity are all col-
lected together, and by what is called a " com-

mutator" the alternate positive and negative
currents are brought into one direction. The
whole power is then conveyed by a thick wire
from the engine-house to the light-house tower,
and up into the centre of the glass apparatus.

There it passes between two charcoal points,
and produces an intensely brilliant continuous

spark. At sunset the machine is started, making

about 100 revolutions per minute; and the at-
tendant has only to draw two bolts in the lamp,
when the power thus spun in the engine-room
bursts into light of full intensity. The " lamp"
regulates itself, so as to keep the points always
at a proper distance apart, and continues to
burn, needing little or no attention for three

hours and a half, when, the charcoals being con-
sumed, the lamp must be changed, but this is
done without extinguishing the light.

   Again there were inspections, and reports
from pilots and other observers, and Faraday
THE VALUE OF HIS DISCOVERIES.  209

propounded lists of questions to the engineer

about bolts, and screws, and donkey-engines,
while he estimated that at the Varne light-ship,
about equidistant from Cape Grisnez and Dun-

geness, the maximum effect of the revolving
French light was equaled by the constant gleam
from the English tower. But delays again en-
sued till intelligent keepers could be found and
properly instructed; but on the 6th of June, 1862,
Faraday's own light, the baby grown into a gi-
ant, shone permanently on the coast of Britain.

   France, too, was alert. Berlioz's machine,
which was displayed at the International Exhi-
bition in London, and which was also examined

by Faraday, was approved by the French gov-
ernment, and was soon illuminating the double

light-house near Havre. These magneto-electric

lights on either side of the Channel have stood

the test of years ; and for the last twelvemonth
there has shone another still more beautiful one

at Souter Point, near Tynemouth ; while the nar-
row strait between England and France is now
guarded by these "sentinels of peaceful prog-
ress," for the revolving light at Grisnez has been
lately illuminated on this principle, and on the
1st of January of this year the two lights of the
South Foreland flashed forth with the, electric

flame.*

   * The illuminating apparatus at Dungeness is one of what

                            o
210 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

   In describing thus the valuable applications
of Faraday's discoveries of benzol, of specific in-
ductive capacity, and of magneto-electricity, it

is not intended to exalt these above other dis-
coveries which as yet have paid no tribute to

the material wants of man. The good fruit borne
by other researches may not be sufficiently ma-
ture, but it doubtless contains the seeds of many
useful inventions. Yet, after all, we must not
measure the worth of Faraday's discoveries by
any standard of practical utility in the present
or in the future. His chief merit is that he en-
larged so much the boundaries of our knowledge
of the physical forces, opened up so many new
realms of thought, and won so many heights
which have become -the starting-points for other

explorers.

is termed the sixth order, 300 millimetres (about 12 inches)

in diameter. Mr. Chance constructed one for Souter Point
of the third order, one metre (nearly 40 inches) in diameter,
with special arrangements for giving artificial divergence to
the beam in a vertical direction, in order to obviate the dan-

ger arising from the luminous point not being always precise-

ly in the same spot. It has also additional contrivances for

utilizing the back light. Similar arrangements have been
made for the South Foreland lights, which are also of the
third order ; and every portion of the machinery and appara-
tus is in duplicate in case of accident, and the double force
can be employed in times of fog.
    SUPPLEMENTARY PORTRAITS.

   IT has been said that there is no photograph
or painting of Faraday which is a satisfactory
likeness ; not because good portraits have never
been published, but because they can not give
the varied and ever -shifting expression of his

Ifeatures. Similarly fear that the mental por-
Itraiture which have attempted will fail to sat-

isfy his intimate acquaintance. Yet, as one who

never saw him in the flesh may gain a good idea
of his personal appearance by comparing several

pictures, so the reader may learn more of his in-
tellectual and moral features by combining the
several estimates which have been made by dif-
ferent minds. Earlier biographies have been al-
ready referred to, but my sketch may well be
supplemented by an anonymous poem that ap-
peared immediately after his death, and by the
words of two of the most distinguished foreign
philosophers Messrs. De la Rive and Dumas.

"Statesmen and soldiers, authors, artists still
      The topmost leaves fall off our English oak :

  Some in green summer's prime, some in the chill
     Of autumn-tide, some by late winter's stroke.
212 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

"Another leaf has dropped on that sere heap

      One that hung highest ; earliest to invite
  The golden kiss of morn, and last to keep

      The fire of eve but still turned to the light.

"No soldier's, statesman's, poet's, painter's name

      Was this, through which is drawn Death's last black line ;

  But one of rarer, if not loftier fame
     A priest of Truth, who lived within her shrine.

"A priest of Truth : his office to expound

      Earth's mysteries to all who willed to hear
  Who in the book of science sought and found,

     With love, that knew all reverence, but no fear.

" A priest who prayed as well as ministered :

      Who grasped the faith he preached, and held it fast :
  Knowing the light he followed never stirred,

      Howe'er might drive the clouds through which it passed.

"And if Truth's priest, servant of Science too,

      Whose work was wrought for love and not for gain :
  Not one of those who serve but to ensue

      Their private profit : lordship to attain

"Over their lord, and bind him in green withes,
     For grinding at the mill 'neath rod and cord ;

  Of the large grist that they may take their tithes

      So some serve Science that call Science lord.

' ' One rule his life was fashioned to fulfill :
      That he who tends Truth's shrine, and does the best

  Of Science, with a humble, faithful will,
      The God of Truth and Knowledge serveth best.

"And from his humbleness what heights he won !

     By slow march of induction, pace on pace,

   Scaling the peaks that seemed to strike the sun,
      Whence few can look, unblinded, in his face,
SUPPLEMENTARY PORTRAITS.                                 213

" Until he reached the stand which they that win
    A bird's-eye glance o'er Nature's realm may throw ;

  "Whence the mind's ken by larger sweeps takes in
      What seems confusion, looked at from below.

' ' Till out of seeming chaos order grows,

     In ever-widening orbs of Law restrained,

  And the Creation's mighty music flows
     In perfect harmony, serene, sustained ;

" And from varieties offeree and power,
    A larger unity, and larger still,

  Broadens to view, till in some breathless hour

    All force is known, grasped in a central Will,

"Thunder and light revealed as one same strength

      Modes of the force that works at Nature's heart
  And through the Universe's veined length

      Bids, wave on wave, mysterious pulses dart.

" That cosmic heart-beat it was his to list,

     To trace those pulses in their ebb and flow

  Toward the fountain-head, where they subsist

     In form as yet not given e'en him to know.

"Yet, living face to face with these great laws,

      Great truths, great myst'ries, all who saw him near
  Knew him for childlike, simple, free from flaws

     Of temper, full of love that casts out fear :

" Untired in charity, of cheer serene ;

      Not caring world's wealth or good word to earn

  Childhood's or manhood's ear content to win ;
     And still as glad to teach as meek to learn.

" Such lives are precious : not so much for all

     Of wider insight won where they have striven,
  As for the still small voice .with which they call

      Along the beamy way from earth to heaven."

                                                Punch, September 7, 1867.
214 MICHAEL FARADAY.

The estimate of M. A. de la Rive is from a let-

ter he addressed to Faraday himself:

  I" am grieved to hear that your brain is wea-

ry; this has sometimes happened on former oc-
casions, in consequence of your numerous and

persevering labors, and you will bear in mind
that a little rest is necessary to restore you.

You possess that which best contributes to peace
of mind and serenity of spirit a full and perfect

faith, a pure and tranquil conscience, filling your

heart with the glorious hopes which the Gospel
imparts. You have also the advantage of hav-

ing always led a smooth and well-regulated life,

free from ambition, and therefore exempt from

all the anxieties and drawbacks which are in-

separable from it. Honor has sought you in
spite of yourself; you have known, without de-

         it,                        at its true worth.

                                it
spising  how to value

You have known how to gain the high esteem,

and at the same time the affection, of all those

acq"uMaoinreteodvewr,itthhaynokus. to the goodness of God,
you have not suffered any of those family mis-
fortunes which crush one's life. You should,

therefore, watch the approach of old age with-

out fear and without bitterness, having the com-

forting feeling that the wonders which you have

been able to decipher in the book of nature must

contribute to the greater reverence and adora-
tion of their Supreme Author.
SUPPLEMENTARY PORTRAITS.  215

   " Such, my dear friend, is the impression that

Iyour beautiful life always leaves upon me ; and

when compare it with our troubled and ill-ful-
filled life-course, with all that accumulation of

Idrawbacks and griefs by which mine in particular

has been attended, put you down as very hap-
py, especially as you are worthy of your good
fortune. This leads me to reflect on the misera-

ble state of those who are without that religious

faith which you possess in so great a degree."

   In M. Dumas's Eloge at the Academic des Sci-

ences occur the following sentences :

  I" do not know whether there is a savant who

would not feel happy in leaving behind him such

works as those with which Faraday has glad-
dened his contemporaries, and which he has left '

Ias a legacy to posterity ; but am certain that

all those who have known him would wish to ap-

proach that moral perfection which he attained

to without effort. In him it appeared to be a
natural grace, which made him a professor full
of ardor for the diffusion of truth, an indefatiga-
ble worker, full of enthusiasm and sprightliness
in his laboratory, the best and most amiable of

men in the bosom of his family, and the most

enlightened preacher among the humble flock

whose faith he followed.

   " The simplicity of his heart, his candor, his
ardent love of the truth, his fellow-interest in all
216 MICHAEL FAKADAY.

the successes, and ingenuous admiration of all
the discoveries of others, his natural modesty in
regard to what he himself discovered, his noble

soul independent and bold all these combined

gave an incomparable charm to the features of

Itheillustrious physicist.  a man  more worthy  of
      have never known
   "

being loved, of being admired, of being mourned.

"Fidelity to his religious faith, and the con-

stant observance of the moral law, constitute

the ruling characteristics of his life. Doubtless

his firm belief in that justice on high which

weighs all our merits, in that sovereign good-
ness which weighs all our sufferings, did not

inspire Faraday with his great discoveries, but

it gave him the straightforwardness, the self-re-
spect, the self-control, and the spirit of justice
which enabled him to combat evil fortune with

boldness, and to accept prosperity without being

puffed upis,

   "There was nothing dramatic in the life of

Faraday. It should be presented under that

simplicity of aspect which is the grandeur of it.

There however, more than one useful lesson

to be learned from the proper study of this il-

lustrious man, whose youth endured poverty

with dignity, whose mature age bore honors

with moderation, and whose last years have

just passed gently away surrounded by marks
of respect and tender affection."
APPENDIX.

    LIST OF LEARNED SOCIETIES TO WHICH MICHAEL
                         FARADAY BELONGED.

 ANNO

1823. Corresponding member of the Academy of Sciences,
            Paris.

Corresponding member of the Accademia dei Georgo-

fili, Florence.

Honorary member of the Cambridge Philosophical

   Society.

Honorary member of the British Institution.

1824. Fellow of the Royal Society.          Society, Swansea.
         Honorary member of the Cambrian
         Fellow of the Geological Society.

1825. Member of the Royal Institution.

Corresponding member of the Society of Medical Chem-
   ists, Paris.

1826. Honorary member of the Westminster Medical Society.
1827. Correspondent of the Societe Philomathique, Paris.
1828. Fellow of the Natural Society of Science, Heidelberg.
1829. Honorary member of the Society of Arts, Scotland.
1831. Honorary member of the Imperial Academy of Sci-

ences, St. Petersburg.

] 832. Honorary member of the College of Pharmacy, Phila-

delphia.

Honorary member of the Chemical and Physical So-
   ciety, Paris.

Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences,
   Boston.
218 APPENDIX.

  ANNO

1 832. Member of the Royal Society of Science, Copenhagen.
1833. Corresponding member of the Royal Academy of Sci-

            ences, Berlin.
        Honorary member of the Hull Philosophical Society.
1834:. Foreign corresponding member of the Academy of

            Sciences and Literature, Palermo.

1835. Corresponding member of the Royal Academy of Med-
            icine, Paris.

         Honorary member of the Royal Society, Edinburg.
        Honorary member of the Institution of British Archi-

               tects.

         Honorary member of the Physical Society, Frankfort.
         Honorary Fellow of the Medico -Chirurgical Society,

            London.
1 836. Senator of the University of London.

         Honorary member of the Society of Pharmacy, Lisbon.
         Honorary member of the Sussex Royal Institution.
         Foreign member of the Society of Sciences, Modena.
         Foreign member of the Natural History Society, Basle.

1837. Honorary member of the Literary and Scientific In-

            stitution, Liverpool.
1838. Honorary member of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

        Foreign member of the Royal Academy of Sciences,

              Stockholm.

1840. Member of the American Philosophical Society, Phila-

             delphia.

         Honorary member of the Hunterian Medical Society,
            Edinburg.

1842. Foreign Associate of the Royal Academy of Sciences,
            Berlin.

1843. Honorary member of the Literary and Philosophical

              Society, Manchester.
         Honoraiy member of the Useful Knowledge Society,

            Aix-la-Chapelle.
APPENDIX.  219

 ANNO

1844. Foreign Associate of the Academy of Sciences, Paris.
         Honorary member of the Sheffield Scientific Society.

1 845. Corresponding member of the National Institute, Wash-

             ington.
         Corresponding member of the Societe d'Encourage-

            ment, Paris.
1846. Honorary member of the Society of Sciences, Vaud.
1847. Member of the Academy of Sciences, Bologna.

         Foreign Associate of the Royal Academy of Sciences
            of Belgium.

         Fellow of the Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences,
            Munich.

        Correspondent of the Academy of Natural Sciences,
            Philadelphia.

1 848. Foreign honorary member of the Imperial Academy
            of Sciences, Vienna.

1849. Honorary member, first class, of the Institut Royal des

            Pays-Bas.
        Foreign correspondent of the Institute, Madrid.
1850. Corresponding Associate of the Accademia Pontificia,

              Rome.
         Foreign Associate of the Academy of Sciences, Haarlem.
1 851 . Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences,The Hague.

        Corresponding member of the Batavian Society of Ex-

            perimental Philosophy, Rotterdam.
         Fellow of the Royal Society of Sciences, Upsala.
1853. Foreign Associate of the Royal Academy of Sciences,

             Turin.
        Honorary member of the Royal Society of Arts and

             Sciences, Mauritius.
1854. Corresponding Associate of the Royal Academy of

              Sciences, Naples.
1855. Honorary member of the Imperial Society of Natural-

              ists, Moscow.
220 APPENDIX.

 ANNO

1855. Corresponding Associate of the Imperial Institute of
            Sciences of Lombardy.

1 856. Corresponding member of the Netherlands' Society of
             Sciences, Batavia.

         Member of the Imperial Royal Institute, Padua.
1857. Member of the Institute of Breslau.

         Corresponding Associate of the Institute of Sciences,
            Venice.

         Member of the Imperial Academy, Breslau.
1858. Corresponding member of the Hungarian Academy of

              Sciences, Pesth.
1860. Foreign Associate of the Academy of Sciences, Pesth.

         Honorary member of the Philosophical Society, Glas-
             gow.

1861. Honorary member of the Medical Society, Edinburg.
1863. Foreign Associate of the Imperial Academy of Medi-

            cine, Paris.
1864. Foreign Associate of the Royal Academy of Sciences,

             Naples.
                                 INDEX.

                                                 De la Rive, A., 102 ; sketches by,

ABBOTT, Benjamin, page 12.                       176, 185, 214.
Abel, F. A., reminiscences by, 45,               Discoveries, value of, 185, 210.
                                                 Domestic affection, 105.
   96.                                           Dumas, sketches by, 90, 183, 184,
                                                 215 '
Anderson, Sergeant, 47.                                          E.
Apparatus, simplicity of, 163, 167.
Arrow, Sir Frederick, anecdote                   EEdnuthcautsioians>m,vie84w, s85o.n, 131.
                                                 Experiment, love of, 163, 175.
   by, 163.                                      Explosions, 20, 21.
Astley's Theatre, adventure at,
                                                                 F.
    33.

Athensenm Club, 34, 193.
Atoms, or centres of force ? 181.

                             B.                  Faithfulness, 83, 84.
                                                 Faraday, Michael, his birth, 9 ;
Barlow, Rev. John, 78 ; incident                 apprenticed to a bookseller, 10,
   at his house, 92.                             83, 84 ; begins to experiment,
                                                 11, 12 ; attends Tatum's lect-
Barnard, F., anecdotes by, 108,

    111, 165, 166.           Jane, 79.           ures, 11,12; Davy's, 16; becomes
                             reminiscences       a journeyman bookbinder, 17 ;
BBaarrrneatrtd, ,WM. iFs.s,                 by,  engaged by Davy, 17, 19; his at-

   97, 180.                                      tempts at self-improvement, 22,
                                                 33; travels on the Continent,
Blacksmith's shop, 58, 105.                      23 ; gives his first lecture, 29 ;
Bollaert, William, 31.                           writes his first paper, 29 ; as-
Bores. 62.                                       sists Professor Brande, 31 ; his
British Association, 58.

                        C.                       amusements, 33, 57, 61; marries,
                                                        gives courses of lectures,
Character of Faraday, 82.                        38 ;    ; appointed Fullerian Pro-
Charitable gifts, 101.                           40,41
Chemical Society, 81.                            fessor, 42 ; his income, 42, 101 ;
Children and Faraday, 47, 48, 51,                                lectureship at Wool-
                                                 waciccehpt^s ;   becomes scientific ad-
    94.                                          viser  to Trinity House, 45 ; his
                                                 usual  day's work, 47 ; his Friday
Church-yard at Oberhofen, 154.                   evenings, 49, 50 ; his juvenile
City Philosophical Society, 21, 29.              lectures, 51 ; his Sunday engage-
Close, Captain, anecdotes by, 114.               ments, 52; his Wednesday meet-
Colliery explosion at Haswell,                   ings, 54 ; his visits to the coun-
                                                 try, 55 ; his correspondence, 66 ;
    169.                                         his publications, 71 ; his honors,
                                                 74, 217 ; declines presidentship
Continent, visits to the, 23, 55, 56.
Correspondence, 66, 67.
Crosse, Mrs. A., visit of, 116, 117.

                        D.                       of Royal Society, 75 ; refuses
Daniell, Professor, 87.                          and accepts pension,76 ; resigns
Davy, Sir Humphry, 16, 17, 18, 26,               his appointments, 77, 78 ; his
                                                 last illness, 78, 79 ; his death, 80.
   29, 90 ; his safety-lamp, 28.
222 INDEX.

Farad"ay's  father, 9, 39, 58, 105, 106.  Becker, Dr., 175 ; Coutts, Lady
            mother, 9, 39.                Burdett, 66, 110 ; Crosse, Mrs.
Field, Cyrus, 192.                        Andrew, 106 ; Deacon, Mrs., 78,
Firmness with gentleness. 107,            79; Faraday, Mrs. (his mother),
                                          F1274ie8; ld;Fa,IrnFav.de,an1y2t,o4;rMs,rGsl.a1d0(h3sits;onwJoeifu,elJ)e..H,3.J9,.;
108.
Force, a Proteus, 187.
Foucault, visit to, 90.                   P., 69,188; Matteucci,91 ; Moore,

Friday evenings at the Royal In-
   stitution, 40, 50, 190.                MPaisrsis, ,6C9,om70t,e18d2e;,7N9o; aPda, rDisr,.,D9r9.,;
Fuller, John, 42.                                                      Phillips,
Funeral, 80.                              18, 68 ; Percy,  Dr., 148 ;   G., 13;
                                          R., 198, 199;      Riebau,
                        G.                Schonbein, 148, 156 ; Siemens,
Giessbach Falls, 155.                     C. W., 190, 191 ; Spiritualist, 149 ;
Graham, Professor, 80, 168.               Wheatstone, Sir Charles, 65;
Gymuotus, 150.                              Wrottesley, Lord, 144, 145.
                                          Light-houses, adjustment of ap-
                      H.                  paratus in, 170 ; illuminated by
Hampton Court, house at, 76.              electricity, 201.
Helmholz, Professor, quotation            Love of study, 84.
                                          Love to children, 94.
   from, 189.
Holland, Sir Henry, 66.                                    M.
Holmes, F. H., 203, 206.
Home life, 39, 47, 56, 105.               Magnetism, wonder at, 180.
Honors, scientific, views on, 142.        Magneto-electric light, 202.
Humility, 120, 121.                       Magrath, Mr., 22, 34.
Humor, 87.                                Mallet, Robert, reminiscences by,

Indignation against wrong, 92.                64, 175.                 by,
Infidelity, accusation of, 151.
Inner conflicts, 112.                     Masquerier, M., 14, 61.
                                          Mathematics, want of, 174.
                J.                        Mayo, Herbert, impromptu

Jermyn Street, incident at, 163.              200.
Jones, Dr. H. Bence, 85, 123.
Journals, 26, 154, 155.                   Melbourne, Lord, 76.
Juvenile lectures at Royal Insti-         Mental education, views on, 126.
                                          Mental and moral greatness con-
   tution, 41, 51.
                                             joined, 116, 156, 157.
                    K.
Kindliness, 93, 101, 107.                                       N.

Lectures at Royal Institution, 40.        Napoleon III., 67.

    140, 141.                             Natural theology, views on, 152.
                                          Noad, Dr., 98.
Lecturing, views on, 135, 136.            Noble, Mr. (the sculptor), 105, 106.
Letters to Faraday, from Bona-            Note-books, 12, 13, 17, 41.

   parte,LouisNapoleon,67; Davy,                                  O.
   Sir Humphry, 30 ; De la Rive,          Orderliness, 161, 162.
  A., 214; Whewell, Dr., 181, 182.
Letters from Faraday to Abbott,                                   P.
                                          Peel, Sir Robert, 75.
  B., 23 ; Abel, F. A., 46 ; Airy, G.     Philosopher portrayed, 123, 158.
  B. (Astronomer Royal),179; An-          Philosophers and practical men,

   drews, Prof., 143,144; Auckland,           185, 194.
  Lord, 43 ; Barnard, F., 70, 71 ;
  Barnard, Miss Sarah, 37, 38 ;           Photometer, special, 164.
                                          Playfulness, 58, 59, 86.
                                          Poetry of nature, 114, 115, 154
                                          Politics, indifference to, 60.
                                         INDEX.  223

Pollock, Lady, description of Fri-             Science a branch of education,

   day evening discourse, 50.                     132.                     86,
Potato models, 168.
Power of imagination, 84.                      Sensitiveness, 92, 112.
Practical applications of science,             Sermons, Faraday's, 53-55.
                                               Simple-minded joyousness,
    189.
                                               Simplicity of character, 109.
Preaching, style of, 53.                       Sirium alias Vestium, 30, 31.
Prince Consort, 52, 66.                        Social character, 112, 118.
Pritchard, Rev. C., quotation                  Society of Arts, 33.
                                               Spiritualists, opinion of, 148.
   from, 152, 153.                             Submarine cables, 196.
Publications, scientific, 72, 183.
Public Schools Commission, evi-                                      T.
                                               Table-turning explained, 148, 149.
   dence before, 133.                          Tenacity of purpose, 85.
Punch, verses in, 211.                         Thames impure, 167.
                                               Thomson, Sir William, 174, 196.
                           Q.                  Thunder-storms enjoyed, 85, 115.
Queen Victoria, 66, 76.                        Trinity House, 44, 45, 78, 103, 171,

R.                                                 201.

Reid, Miss, reminiscences by, 55,              Truthfulness, 110, 178.
                                               Tyndall,Professor,reminiscences
    111.
                                                  by, 75, 108, 109, 118.
Religious belief, views on, 130.
Religious character, 119.                                            U.
Researches, early, 32 ; on electric-           Unworldliness, 118.
  ity and magnetism, 32, 72, 195,
   199 ; electrical eel, 150 tele-                                     V.
  graphy, 192 ; ventilation, 193 ;             Velocipede riding, 33.
   benzol, 194.                                Visitors, attention to, 48, 63.
Reverence, 88, 89, 93, 107.                    Visits to the sick, 101, 102.
Roman Carnival, 27.
Royal Institution, 14, 39,40,77,159,                                W.
166 ; Faraday laboratory assist-               Walmer, visit to, 55, 56.
ant at, 19, 28 ; superintendent                WWeilllsiahmdaImVs.,e7l 6a.t waterfall, 95, 96.
of house at, 39 ; Fullerian Pro-               Wiseman, Cardinal, visit of, 120.
fessorship, 42; relics at, 11, 165.            Woolwich Academy, 44, 45, 46.
Royal Society,     fdeellocwlisnheipd,,        Working, method of, 47, 159.
   presiden tship                        73 ;
communications to, 72, 182.                                        Y.
                                         75;   Young, James, reminiscence by,

                           S.                      168.
Sandemanians,34,120; Faraday's

   eldership among, 52.
Schonbein, Professor, remarks

   of, 159, 166.

                               THE END.
             14 DAY USE

RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED

     LOAN DEPT.

  This book is due on the last date stamped below, or
                  on the date to which renewed.

     Renewed books are subject to immediate recall.

RECTD LD          L-.V * -* > ' '

  J32219!         JN 6

Uun'GlRR

. REC'D

                                                            C"~"

                  JUL2819/U 38

                                                               '

       : DLD      JUL1570-1PM4

LD 21-100m-6,'56                              General Library
                                        University of Calif'

