This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com




-"'_'\—_L_V'——\__'-——-_
                           0/
       ‘1‘} I 1' ,    Z/// T
                         /    jinn/wife):
         /
                                          “n

<36635279180019
<36635279180019
                               ‘
Bayer. Staatsbibiiothek 9;.“1‘

   '/
  /
‘     {R
      " : ,/f
              \
    MARY SOMERVlLLE

  PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS,
      FROM EARLY LIFE TO OLD AGE,
                        01“
MARY SOMERVILLE.
                       WITH
      -&electiuns from bu Qtnrrespun‘ume. -
 BY       DAUGHTER, MARTHA SOMERVILLE.
                    LONDON :
   JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.
                      1873.

                      (lum.n..vrm:1:\
                           mzm               .
                      \_h1‘\~\\('.l-‘.i$l}
       WORKS BY MRS. SOMEBVILLE.
                           H__
 THE MECHANISM OF THE HEAVENS.                   8m.   1831.
 THE CONNECTION OF THE PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
    9th Edition.    Post SW.   98.  1858.
                                                                _-__A_
 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY.             6th Edilzb'n. Post SVO.   9.9.
    1870.                   '
'MOLECULAR AND MICROSCOPIC SCIENCE.                    2 vols.
    Post 8vo.    21s.  1869.

                    CONTENTS
                         CHAPTER I.
                                                          PAG E
INTRODUCTION—PARENTAGE—-LIFE    IN   SCOTLAND IN THE LAST
    CENTURY—EARLY EDUCATION—SCHOOL .
                        CHAPTER II.
FREEDOM—RELIGIOUS EDUCATION—JEDBURGH          .             ‘24
                        CHAPTER III.
EDINBURGH—YOUTHFUL STUDIES AND AMUSEMENTS—POLITICS—
    THE THEATRES OF THE TIME.      .                        41
                        CHAPTER IV.
EDINBURGH SUPPER PARTIES—TOUR IN THE HIGHLANDS—MUTINY
    IN THE FLEET—BATTLE OF CAMPERDO\VN .      q   .         61
                        CHAPTER V.
nns'r  MARRIAGE (l804)—wn>0wnoon—swnms—sncox1) MAR
    RIAGE   .   .
                      0 CHAPTER VI.
SOMERVILLE FAMILY—DR. SOMERVILLE’S CHARACTER—LETTERS—
    JOURNEY TO THE LAKES—DEATH OF SIR WILLIAM FAIRFAX—
    REMINISCENCES OF SIR WALTER SCOTT     .   0   Q‘ Q  I   83

 1V                                       Contents.
                                    CHAPTER VII.
                                                                                                          PAGE
 LlI-‘R IN  HANOVER SQUARE—VISIT TO FRANCE—ARAGO—CUVIER—
              Q     Q      O      O        O        I       O         0         |       g         o     a
                                    CHAPTER VIII.
 EDU(.‘.~\TION OF     DAUGII'l‘ERS—DR.             \VOLLASTON—DR. YOUNG—THE
       ll'ERSCHELS       .      .       .        .        .       .         .     ' .         .        .   127
                                     CHAHER IX.
SOVIET}! Ixv      LONDONTCORONATION                   0F GEORGE I\'.—LBTTER To
       DR. SOMERVTLLE             .        .        .       .         .         .      .         .     .   140
                                      CHAPTER X.
 DEATH OF MARGARET SOMERVILLE—LETTER FROM MRS. SOMER
       VILLE TO THE REV. DR. SOMERVILLE—LIFE AT CHELSEA—
       TIIE NAPIERS—MARIA EDGEVVORTH—TOUR IN GERMANY                                                   .   1 CaIO
         ’      °     '      ‘      CHAPTER XI.
LETTER FROM LORD BROUGHAM—WRITES “MECHANISM OF THE
       HEAVENS”-—AXECDOTE OF THE ROMAN IMPROVISATRICE—
       LETTERS FROM an: JOHN IIERSCHEL AND PROFESSOR WEEWELL
      —-—ELECTED HON. MEMBER OF' THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL
      soZ'IETY—NOTIOE IS: THE AOAOEMIE DES SCIENCES, AND
       LETTER FROM M. BIOT—PENSION—LETTER FROM SIR ROBERT
      PEEL—BEGINS TO WRITE ON THE CONNECTION OF THE
      PHYSICAL SCIENCES—VISIT TO CAMBRIDGE—LETTERS FROM
      PROFESSOR snnawu'x AND LAPLACB                                .         .       .         .     .    161
         5      0     Q      1      I        \        0       I         g         Q       o
                                  CHAPTER XII.
PARIS—ARAGO,        LAFAYETTE,            MM. BOUVARI),             POISSON,          LACROIX,
      &C., MARQUIS}: DE LAPLACE, DUPIN, F. COOPER—LEGITIMISTE
      SOCIETY -— MAJ BNDIE—VISIT BARON LOUIS -- LETTER FROM
      LAFAYETTE         .-     .-     .        .        .       .         .         .       .       .     183

                              Contents.                                 v
                        CHAPTER XIII.
                                                                     PAGE
RETURN TO ENGLAND—LETTER FROM HALLAM—TREATISE ON THE
    FORM AND ROTATION OF THE EARTH AND PLANETS—SECOND
    EDITION OF “THE CONNEXION' OF THE PHYSICAL SCIENCES”
    -—LETTERR   FROM  MARIA      EDGEVVORTH,   MISS  BERRY,    LORD
    BROUGHAM, MRS. MARCET, ADMIRAL SMYTH—DOUBLE STARS
    —ECLIPSE OF DOUBLE STARS—LETTER FROM ADMIRAL SMYTH
    -—SIR “’ILLIAM HERSCHEL—NEBUL/E—LETTER FROM LORD
    ROSSE—LETTER     FROM     SIR JOHN   HERSCHEL—SIR        JAMES
    SOUTH’S   OBSERVATORY-—MR. JOHN MURRAY— MISS BERRY—
    LORD DUDLEY—MR. BO\VDITCH AND           OTHER DISTINGUISHED
    AMERICANS—MRS.     BRO\VNING \VASHINGTON—LETTER FROM
    THE REV. DR. TUCKERMAN—sm WILLIAM FAIRFAX ATTACKED
    BY HIGIIWAYMEX       .     .      .   .    .    .    .      . .    198
                        CHAPTER XIV.
ROME, NAPLES, AND COMO—BADEN — “'INTER AT FLORENCE—
    SIENA—LETTER FROM LORD BROUGHAM—MR MOUNTSTEW'ART
    ELPHINSTONE— LIFE AT ROME—CAMPAGNA CATTLE                .     .
                           CHAPTER XV.
 ALBANO—I’OPULAR SINGING—LETTERS PROM MRS. SOMERVILLE—
     GIBSON—PERUGIA—COMET 0F 1843—SUMMER AT VENICE—
     LETTERS FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE AND MISS JOANNA EAILLIE
     —ELE0TED ASSOCIATE OF THE COLLEGE OF RESURGENTI AND
     R. I. ACADEMY OF scmxcr: AT AREZZO          .    .    .     . .   243
                          CHAPTER XVI.
 PUBLISHES “PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY”-—LETTER FROM IIUMBOLDT—
     CHRISTMAS AT COLLINGWOOD—LETTER FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE
     —— FARADAY—LETTER       FROM    FARADAY—KEITII     JOHNSTON’S
     MAPS—“'INTER AT MUNICH—SALZBURG—LAKE OF GARDA—
     MINISCALCHI—POEM BY CATERINA BRENZONI—LETTER FROM
     BRENZONI —— LETTER     FROM    MRS. SOMERVILLE — RLOGE       BY
     MINISCALCHI—WINTER AT TURIN—BARON             PLANA—CAMILLO
     CAVOUR—COLLINE NEAR TURIN—GENOA—TERESA DOVIA—
     FLORENCE—MISS I". P. COBBE—VIVISECTION-—EXCURSIONS IN

V1                   .      Contents.
   -                                                       PAGE
     THE NEIGHBOURHOOD—CHOLERA—MISERICORDIA—PIO NONO
     IN TUSCANY—COMET—TUSCAN REVOLUTION—WAR IN LOM
     BARDY—ENTRY OF VICTOR EMMANUEL INTO FLORENCE—
     LETTERs FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE—MY FATHER’S DEATH
     LETTER FROM MIss COBBE     .  .    .   .    .   .   .  286
                         CHAPTER XVII.
sPEZIA—OENOA—BECINS MOLECULAR AND MICROSCOPIC SCIENCE—
     TURIN—SPEZIA—BRITISH FLEET—LETTERS FROM MRS. SOMER
     VILLE — GARIBALDI - SEVERE ILLNEss -— FLORENCE — MY
     BROTHER‘s DEATH—NAPLEs—ERUFTION OF VESUVIUS—J. s.
     MILL—CHANGE 'IN PUBLIC OPINION ON WOMEN’S EDUCATION—
     EIOIITY-NINTII YEAR—DESCRIBES IIER OWN CHARACTER—
     THOUGHTS ON A FUTURE LIFE—PROGRESS IN KNOWLEDGE OF
     GEOGRAPHY—VICTORIA MEDAL—MEDAL FROM ROYAL ITALIAN
     GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY — LETTER FROM MENEEREA—ROME,
     CAPITAL 0F ITALY—AURORA BOREALIs     .   .    .   . .  329
                         CHAPTER XVIII.
ECLIPSE—VISITS OF SCIENTIFIC MEN-LIFE AT NAPLES-DARWIN’S
     BOOKS—REMARKS ON CIVILIZATION—FINE AURORA BOREALIS
     —DEATH OF HERSCHEL—SUMMER AT SORRRNTO—BILL FOR
     PROTECTION OF ANIMALS — NINETY-sECONO YEAR -— LETTER
     FROM PROFESSOR SEDGWICK—GRAND ERUPTION 0F vEsuvms
     --LAsT SUMMER AT SORRENTO, PLANTS FOUND THERE—CON
     CLUSION .    .    .   .    .   .   .   .    .   .   .  354

          PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS
                              OF
   MAB-Y SOMEBVILLE.
                      CHAPTER I.
IXTRODUCTION—PARENTAGE—LIFE IN SCOTLAND IN THE LAST CENTURY
                 -—-EABLY EDUCATION—SCHOOL.
   THE life of a woman entirely devoted to her family
duties and to scienti<U+FB01>c pursuits affords- little scope for a
biography. There are in it neither stirring events nor
brilliant deeds to record; and as my Mother was strongly
averse to gossip, and to revelations of private life or of
intimate correspondence, nothing of the kind will be found
in the following pages. It has been only after very great
hesitation, and on the recommendation of valued friends,
who think that some account of so remarkable and
beautiful a character cannot fail to interest the public,
that I have resolved to publish some detached Recollec
tions of past times, noted down by my mother during the
last years of her life, together with a few letters from
eminent men and women, referring almost exclusively to
her scienti<U+FB01>c works. A still smaller number of her own
letters have been added, either as illustrating her
                                                      3

2                 Mary Samervz'lle.
opinions on events she witnessed, or else as affording
some slight idea. of her simple and loving disposition.
   Few thoughtful minds will read without emotion my
mother’s own account of the wonderful energy and in
domitable perseverance by which, in her ardent thirst for
knowledge, she overcame obstacles apparently insur
mountable, at a time when women were well-nigh totally
debarred from education ; and the almost intuitive wayin
which she entered upon studies of which she had scarcely
heard the names, living, as she did, among persons to
whom they were utterly unknown, and who disapproved
of her devotion to pursuits so different from those of
ordinary young .girls at the end of the last century,
especially in Scotland, which was far more old-fashioned
and primitive than England.
   Nor is her simple account of her early days without
interest, when, as a lonely child, she wandered by the
seashore, and on the links of Burntisland, collecting
shells and <U+FB02>owers ; or spent the clear, cold nights at her
window, watching the starlit heavens, whose mysteries,
she was destined one day to penetrate in all their pro
found and sublime laws, making clear to others that
knowledge which she herself had acquired, at the cost of
so hard a struggle.
   It was not only in her childhood and youth that my
mother’s studies encountered disapproval. Not till she
became awidow, had she perfect freedom to pursue them.
The <U+FB01>rst person—indeed the only one in her early days—
who encouraged her passion for learning was her uncle
by marriage, afterwards her father-in-law, the Rev. Dr.
Somerville, minister of Jedbm'gh, a man very much in
advance of his century in liberality of thought on all
subjects.   He was one of the <U+FB01>rst to discern her rare

                        ~ Introduction.                         3
  qualities, and valued hei't asshe' deserved; while through
  life she retained the most grateful affection . for him, and
  con<U+FB01>ded to him many doubts and di<U+FB01>icultieson subjects
 Of the highest importance. Nothing can .be more
  erroneous than the 7 statement, repeated, in several
  Obituary notices of my mother, that Mr. _Greig'(her <U+FB01>rst
  husband) aided her in her mathematical and other pur
  suits. Nearly the contrary was the case. Mr. Greig
  took no interest in science or literature, and possessed
  in full the prejudice against learned women which was
  common at that time.‘ Only on' her marriage with
  my father,- my I mother ‘at last met with one who
  entirely sympathised with her, and warmly entered into
  all her ideas, encouraging her zeal 7fOI' study to the
  utmost, and a<U+FB01>'ording her every facility for itvin his
  power. His love and admiration for herwere' unbounded;
  he frankly, and willingly 'acknOwledged her superiority to
  himself, and many Of our friends can bear witness to the
  honest pride and grati<U+FB01>cation which he always testi<U+FB01>ed
_ in the fame and-honours she attained.
      No one can} escape sorrow, and my mother, in the
  course of her long life, had her full share, but she bore
  it with that deep feeling of trust in the great goodness
  of God which'formed so marked a feature in her cha
  racter. She had-a buoyant and hopeful spirit,an,d’though
  her a<U+FB02>'ections were'véry'strong, and Ishe'felt 'keenly,
  it was
  that     ever her
        is bright and_nature -tO. vin
                       beautiful   turn  from the 'Sheghad
                                      mortal‘life. shadows much
                                                            to all
   to make life pleasrint~in the'greht honours’ universally
   bestowed upon her; but'she' found far more in the de
   voted a<U+FB02>'ection of friends, to_ say nothing Of those whose
  happy lot it has' been toiliveginrclbse'and'loving inter
  course with so noble a'nd'gentle 'a spirit.
                                                        a 2

 4                  Mary Somerm'lle.
     She met with unbounded kindness from men of science
 of all countries, and most profound was her gratitude to
 them. Modest and unpretending to excess, nothing
  could be more generous than the unfeigned delight she
  shewed in recognising the genius and discoveries of others;
  ever jealous of their fame, and never of her own.
     It is not uncommon to see persons who hold in youth
  opinions in advance of the age in which they live, but who
  at a certain period seem to crystallise, and lose the faculty
 of comprehending and accepting new ideas and theories;
 thus remaining at last as far behind, as they were once
 in advance of public opinion. Not so my mother, who
 was ever ready to hail joyfully any new idea or theory,
 and to give it honest attention, even if it were at variance
 with her former convictions. This quality she never lost,
 and it enabled her to sympathise with the younger gene
 ration of philosophers, as she had done with their pre
 decessors, her own contemporaries.
    Although her favourite pursuit, and the one for which
she had decidedly most aptitude, was mathematics; yet
there were few subjects in which she did not take in
terest, whether in science or literature, philosophy or
politics. She was passionately fond of poetry, her es
pecial favourites being Shakespeare and Dante, and
also the great Greek dramatists, whose tragedies she
read <U+FB02>uently in the original, being a good classical
scholar. 'She was very fond of music, and devoted much
time to it in her youth, and she painted from nature with
considerable taste. The latter was, perhaps, the recrea
tion in which she most delighted, from the opportunity
it afforded her of contemplating the wonderful beauty
of the world, which was a never-failing source of in
tense enjoyment to her, whether she watched the

                       Introduction.                       5
changing effects of light and shade on her favourite
Roman Campagna, or gazed, enchanted, on the gorgeous
sunsets on the bay of Naples, as she witnessed them from
her much-loved Sorrento, where she passed the last
summers of her life. All things fair were a joy to her—
the <U+FB02>owers we brought her from our rambles, the sea
weeds, the wild birds she saw, all interested and pleased
her. Everything in nature spoke to her of that great
God who created all things, the grand and sublimer
beautiful as well as the exquisite loveliness of minute
Objects. Above all, in the laws which science unveils
step by step, she found ever renewed motives for the love
and adoration of their Author and Sustainer. This fer
vour of religious feeling accompanied her through life,
and very early she shook Off all that was dark and narrow
in the creed of her <U+FB01>rst instructors for a purer and
a happier faith.
   It would be almost incredible were I to describe how
much my mother contrived to do in the course of the day.
When my sister and I were small children, although
busily engaged in writing for the press, she used to teach
us for three hours every morning, besides managing
her house carefully, reading the newspapers (for she
always was a keen, and, I must add, a liberal politician),
and the most important new books on all subjects, grave
and gay. In addition to all this, she freely visited and re
ceived her friends. She was, indeed, very fond of society,
 and did not look for transcendent talentin those withwhom
 she associated, although no one appreciated it more when
 she found it. Gay and cheerful company was a pleasant
 relaxation after a hard day’s work. My mother never
 introduced scienti<U+FB01>c or learned subjects into general
conversation. \Vhen they were brought forward by

6                     Mary Somervz'lle.
others, she talked simply and naturally about them,
without the slightest pretension to superior knowledge.
Finally, to complete the list of her accomplishments,
I must add that she was a remarkably neat and skilful
needlewoman. We still possess some elaborate specimens
of her embroidery and lace-work.
   Devoted and loving in all the relations of life, my
mother was ever forgetful of self. Indulgent and sym
pathising, she never judged others with harshness or
severity; yet she could be very angry when her in
dignation was aroused by hearing of injustice or oppres
sion, of cruelty to man or beast, or of any attack on
those she loved. Rather timid and retiring in general
society, she was otherwise fearless in her quiet way. I
well remember her cool composure on some occasions
when we were in great danger. This she inherited from
her father, Admiral Sir William Fairfax, a gallant gentle
man who distinguished himself greatly at the battle of
Camperdown.‘
   My mother speaks of him as follows among her
“Recollections,” of which I now proceed to place some
portions before the reader.
  * Sir William Fairfax was the son of Joseph Fairfax, Esq., of Bag
shot, in the county of Surrey, who died in 1783, aged 77, having served
in the army previous to 1745. It is understood that his family was de
scended from the Fairfaxes of Walton, in Yorkshire, the main branch
of which were created Viseounts Fairfax of Emly, in the peerage of
Ireland (now extinct), and a younger branch Barons Fairfax of
Cameron, in the peerage of Scotland. Of the last-named was the great
Lord Fairfax, Commander-in-Chief of the armies of the Parliament,
1645—50, whose title is now held by the eleventh Lord Fairfax, a resi
dent in the United States of America.

                 Admiral Fairfax.                     7
   MY father was very good looking, of a brave and
noble nature, and a perfect gentleman both in ap—
pearance and character. He was sent to sea as
midshipman at ten years of age, so he had very
little education; but he read a great deal, chie<U+FB02>y
history and voyages. He was very cool, and of
instant resource in moments of danger.
   One night, when his little vessel had taken
refuge with many others from an intensely violent
gale and drifting snow in Yarmouth Roads, they
saw lights disappear, as vessel after vessel foundered.
My father, after having done all that was possible
for the safety of the ship, went to bed. His cabin
door did not shut closely, from the rolling of the
ship, and the man who was sentry that night told
my mother years afterwards, that when he saw
my father on his knees praying, he thought it
would soon be all over with them; then seeing
him go to bed and fall asleep, he felt no more
fear. In the morning the coast was strewed with
wrecks. There were no life-boats in those days;
now the lives of hundreds are annually saved by
the noble self-devotion of British sailors.
   My mother was the daughter of Samuel Charters,
Solicitor of the Customs for Scotland, and his wife

 8               Mary Somewz'lle.
Christian Murray, of Kynynmont, whose eldest sister
married the great grandfather Of the present Earl
Of Minto. My grandmother was exceedingly proud
and stately. She made her children stand in her pre
sence. My mother, on the contrary, was indulgent
and kind, so that her children were perfectly at
ease with her. She seldom read anything but the
Bible, sermons, and the newspaper. She was very
sincere and devout in her religion, and was re
markable for good sense and great strength Of ex
pression in writing and conversation. Though by
no means pretty, she was exceedingly distinguished
and ladylike both in appearance and manners.
   My father was constantly employed, and twice
distinguished himself by attacking vessels of superior
force. He captured the <U+FB01>rst, but was overpowered
by the second, and being taken to France, re
mained two years a prisoner on parole, when he
met with much kindness from the Choiseul family.
At last he was exchanged, and afterwards was
appointed lieutenant on board a frigate destined
for foreign service. I think it was the North
American station, for the war Of Independence was
not over till the beginning Of 1 783. As my mother
knew that my father would be absent for some years,
she accompanied him to London, though so near her
con<U+FB01>nement that in returning home she had just

                              Biff/a.                             9
time to arrive at the manse of Jedburgh, her sister
Martha Somerville’s* house, when Iwas born, on the
26th December, 1780.            My mother was dangerously
ill, and my aunt, who was about to wean her second
daughter Janet, who married General Henry Elliot,
nursed me till a. wetnurse could be found. So I
was born in the house of my future husband, and
nursed by his mother—a rather singular coinci
dence.
    During my father’s absence, my mother lived
with great economy in a house not far from
Burntisland which belonged to my grandfather,
solely occupied with the care of her family, which
consisted of her eldest son Samuel, four or <U+FB01>ve years
old, and myself. One evening while my brother was
lying at play on the <U+FB02>oor, he called out, “ O, mam
ma, there’s the moon rinnin’ awa.”                  It was the
celebrated meteor of 1783.
    Some time afterwards, for what reason I do not
know, my father and mother went to live for a.
short time at Inveresk, and thence returned to
Burntisland, our permanent home.
        a            a           s           s            a
    [This place, in which my mother’s early life was spent,
exercised so much in<U+FB02>uence on her life and pursuits,
  “ Wife of the Rev. Dr. Thomas Somerville, minister of Jedburgh,
already mentioned (p. 2). Dr. Somerville was author of Histories of
Queen Anne and of William and Mary, and also of an autobiography.

10               Mary Somem'lle.
that I am happy to be able to give the description of it
in her own words.
   Burntisland was then a small quiet seaport town
with little or no commerce, situated on the coast of
Fife, immediately opposite to Edinburgh. It is
sheltered at some distance on the north by a high
and steep hill called the Bin. The harbour lies on
the west, and the town ended on the east in a plain
of short grass called the Links, on which the towns
people had the right of pasturing their cows and
geese. The Links were bounded on each side by
low hills covered with gorse and heather, and on
the east by a beautiful bay with a sandy beach,
which, beginning at a low rocky point, formed a
bow and then stretched for several miles to the town
of Kinghom, the distant part skirting a range of high
precipitous crags.
   Our house, which lay to the south of the town,
was very long, with a southern exposure, and its
length was increased by a wall covered with fruit
trees, which concealed a courtyard, cow-house, and
 other of<U+FB01>ces. From this the garden extended south
 wards, and ended in a plot of short grass covering a
ledge of low black rocks washed by the sea. It was
 divided into three parts by narrow, almost unfre
 quented, lanes. These gardens yielded abundance

                     Burntz'sland.                   11
of common fruit and vegetables, but the warmest
and best exposures were always devoted to <U+FB02>owers.
The garden next to the house was bounded on the
south by an ivy-covered wall hid by a row of old
elm trees, from whence a steep mossy bank descended
to a <U+FB02>at plot of grass with a gravel walk and <U+FB02>ower
borders on each side, and a. broad gravel walk ran
along the front of the house. My mother was fond
of <U+FB02>owers, and prided herself on her moss-roses,
which <U+FB02>ourished luxuriantly on the front of the
house ; but my father, though a sailor, was an excel
lent <U+FB02>orist. Hc procured the <U+FB01>nest bulbs and <U+FB02>ower
seeds from Holland, and kept each kind in a.
separate bed.
    The manners and customs of the people who
inhabited this pretty spot at that time were ex
ceedingly primitive.
    Upon the death of any of the townspeople, a
man went about ringing a bell at the doors of the
friends and acquaintances of the person just dead, and,
after calling out “ Oyez 1” three times, he announced
 the death which had occurred. This was still called
by the name of the Passing-bell, which in Catholic
times invited the prayers of the living for the
 spirit just passed away.
    There was much sympathy and kindness shown
 on these occasions; friends always paid a visit of

12                 Mary Sommille.
condolence to the af<U+FB02>icted, dressed in black.     The
gude wives in Burntisland thought it respectable to
provide dead-clothes for themselves and the “ gude
man,” that they might have a decent funeral. I once
saw a set of grave-clothes nicely folded up, which
consisted of a long shirt and cap of white <U+FB02>annel,
and a shroud of <U+FB01>ne linen made of yarn, spun by
the gude wife herself. I did not like that gudc wife ;
she was purse-proud, and took every opportunity of
treating with scorn a poor neighbour who had had a
misfortune, that is, a child by her husband before
marriage, but who made a very good wife. Her
husband worked in our garden, and took our cow to
the Links to graze. The wife kept a little shop,
where we bought things, and she told us her neigh
bour had given her “ mony a sair greet "—that is, a.
bitter <U+FB01>t of weeping.             .
   The howdie, or midwife, was a person of much
consequence. She had often to go far into the
country, by day and by night, riding a cart-horse.
The neighbours used to go and congratulate the
mother, and, of course, to admire the baby. Cake
and candle were handed round, caudle being oat
meal gruel, with sugar, nutmeg, and white wine. In
the poorest class, hot ale and “ seons ” were offered.
   Penny-weddings were by no means uncommon in
my young days. \Vhen a very poor couple were

                       Bnmtz'slana'.                  13
   going to be married, the best man, and even the
    bridegroom himself, went from house to house,
   asking for small sums to enable them to have a
   wedding supper, and pay the town <U+FB01>ddler for a
   dance; any one was admitted who paid a penny.
   I recollect the prisoners in the TOlbooth letting
   down bags from the prison windows, begging for
   charity. I do not remember any execution taking
   place.
      Men and Old women of the lower classes smoked
   tobacco in short pipes, and many took snuff—even
   young ladies must have done so ; for I have a very
   pretty and quaint gold snuff-box which was given to
   my grandmother as a marriage present. Licensed beg
   gars, called “ gaberlunzie men,” were still common.
   They wore a blue coat, with a tin badge, and wan
   dered about the country, knew all that was going
 _ on, and were always welcome at the farm-houses,
   where the gudc wife liked to have a crack (gossip)
_ with the blue coat, and, in return for his news, gave
   him dinner or supper, as might be. Edie Ochiltree
   is a perfect specimen of this extinct race. There
   was another species Of beggar, of yet higher an
   tiquity. If a man were a cripple, and poor, his
   relations put him in a hand~barr0w, and wheeled
   him to their next neighbour’s door, and left him
   there. Some one came out, gave him oat-cake

14-              Mary Somerw'lle.
or peasemeal bannock, and then wheeled him to the
next door; and in this way, going from house to
house, he obtained a fair livelihood.
    My brother Sam lived with our grandfather in
Edinburgh, and attended the High School, which
was in the old town, and, like other boys, he was
given pennies to buy bread; but the boys preferred
oysters, which they bought from the <U+FB01>shwives, the
bargain being, a. dozen oysters for a halfpenny, and
a kiss for the thirteenth. These <U+FB01>shwives and their
husbands were industrious, hard-working people,
forming a community of their own in the village of
Newhaven, close to the sea, and about two miles
from Edinburgh. The men were exposed to cold,
and often to danger, in their small boats, not always
well-built nor fitted for our stormy Firth. The
women helped to land and prepare the <U+FB01>sh when
the boats came in, carried it to town for sale in the
early morning, kept the purse, managed the house,
brought up the children, and provided food and
clothing for all. Many were rich, lived well, and
sometimes had dances. Many of the young women
.were pretty, and all wore—and, I am told, still wear
-—a bright-coloured, picturesque costume.       Some
young men, amongst others a cousin of my own,
 who attempted to intrude into one of these balls,
 got pelted with <U+FB01>sh offal by the women. The village

                    Burutzlslmm'.                  '15
smelt strongly Of <U+FB01>sh, certainly ; yet the people
were very Clean personally. I recollect their
keeping tame gulls, which they fed with <U+FB01>sh o<U+FB02>'al.
   Although there was no individual enmity between
the boys of the Old and of the new or aristocratic
part of Edinburgh, there were frequent battles, called
“ bickers,” between them, in which they pelted each
other with stones. Sometimes they were joined by
bigger lads, and then the <U+FB01>ght became so serious
that the magistrates sent the city guard—a set Of
Old men with halberds and a quaint uniform—to
separate them ; but no sooner did the guard appear,
than both parties joined against them.
    Strings of wild geese were common in autumn,
 and I was amused on one occasion tO see the clumsy
 tame fat geese which were feeding on the Links rise
 in a body and try to follow the wild ones.
    As the grass on the plot before our house did not
 form a <U+FB01>ne even turf, the ground was trenched and
 sown with good seed, but along with the grass avast
 crop of thistles and groundsel appeared, which at
 tracted quantities of gold<U+FB01>nches, and in the early
 mornings l have seen as many as sixty to eighty of
 these beautiful birds feeding on it.
    My love Of birds has continued through life, for
 only two years ago, in my extreme old age, I lost a
 pet mountain sparrow, which for eight years was my

 16               Mmy Somerwl/e.
 constant companion: sitting on my shoulder, peck
 ing at my papers, and eating out of my mouth ; and
 I am not ashamed to say I felt its accidental
 death very much.
     Before the grass came up on this plot of ground,
 its surface in the evening swarmed with earthworms,
 which instantly shrank into their holes on the ap
 proach of a foot. My aunt Janet, who was then
 with us, and afraid even to speak of death, was
 horri<U+FB01>ed on seeing them, <U+FB01>rmly believing that she
 would one day be eaten by them—a. very general
 opinion at that time; few people being then aware
 that the <U+FB01>nest mould in our gardens and <U+FB01>elds
 has passed through the entrails of the earthworm,
 the vegetable juices it contains being suf<U+FB01>cient to
maintain these harmless creatures.
   My mother was very much afraid of thunder and
lightning. She knew when a storm was near from
the appearance of the clouds, and prepared for it by
taking out the steel pins which fastened her cap on.
She then sat on a sofa at a distance from the <U+FB01>re
place, which had a very high chimney, and read
different parts of the Bible, especially the sublime
descriptions of storms in the Psalms, which made
me, who sat close by her, still more afraid.   \Ve had
an excellent and beautiful pointer, called Here, a.
great favourite, who generally lived in the garden, but

                       C/zz'ldkooa'.                17
at the <U+FB01>rst clap of thunder he used to rush howling
in-doors, and place his face on my knee. Then my
father, who laughed not a little at our fear, would
bring a glass of wine to my mother, and say, “ Drink
that, Peg ; it will give you courage, for we are going
to have a rat-tat-too.”     My mother would beg him
to shut the window-shutters, and though she could
no longer see to read, she kept the Bible on her knee
for protection.
   My mother taught me to read the Bible, and
to say my prayers morning and evening ; other
wise she allowed me to grow up a wild creature.
“Then I was seven or eight years old I began to
be useful, for I pulled the fruit for preserving ;
shelled the peas and beans, fed the poultry, and
looked after the dairy, for we kept a cow.
   On one occasion I had put green gooseberries into
bottles and sent them to the kitchen with orders to
the cook to boil the bottles uncorked, and, when the
fruit was suf<U+FB01>ciently cooked, to cork and tie up the
bottles. After a time all the house was alarmed by
loud explosions and violent screaming in the kitchen ;
the cook had corked the bottles before she boiled
them, and of course they exploded. For greater
preservation, the bottles were always buried in the
ground; a number were once found in our garden
with the fruit in high preservation which had been
                                                C

 18               Mary Somerw'tle.
buried no one knew when.          Thus experience is
 sometimes the antecedent of science, for it was little
 suspected at that time that by shutting out the air"
the invisible organic world was excluded—the cause
of all fermentation and decay.
    Inever cared for dolls, and had no one to play
with me. I amused myself in the garden, which
was much frequented by birds. I knew most of
them, their <U+FB02>ight and their habits. The swallows
were never prevented from building above our
windows, and, when about to migrate, they used to
assemble in hundreds on the rOOf of our house, and
prepared for their journey by short <U+FB02>ights. lVe fed
the birds when the ground was covered with snow,
and opened our windows at breakfast-time to let in
the robins, who would hop on the table to pick up
crumbs. The quantity of singing birds was very
great, for the farmers and gardeners were less cruel
and avaricious than they are now—though poorer.
They allowed our pretty songsters to share in the
bounties of providence. The shortsighted cruelty,
which is too prevalent now, brings its own punish
ment, for, owing to the reckless destruction of birds,
the equilibrium of nature is disturbed, insects in
crease to such an extent as materially to affect every
description of crop. This summer (1872), when I
was at SorrentO, even the Olives, grapes, and oranges

                    T/Ze Cafcrlzz'sm.             19
 were seriously injured by the caterpillars—a dis
 aster which I entirely attribute to the ruthless
havoc made among every kind of bird.
       1'        I'        'I'        i     Q
    My mother set me in due time to learn the
catechism of the Kirk of Scotland, and to attend
the public examinations in the kirk.     This was a
severe trial for me; for, besides being timid and
shy, I had a bad memory, and did not understand
one word of the catechism. These meetings, which
began with prayer, were attended by all the chil
dren of the town and neighbourhood, with their
mothers, and a great many old women, who came
to be edi<U+FB01>ed. They were an acute race, and could
quote chapter and verse of Scripture as accurately
as the minister himself. I remember he said to one
of them—“ Peggie, what lightened the world before
the sun was made '5 ” After thinking for a minute,
she said—“’Deed, sir, the question is mair curious
than edifying.”
   Besides these public examinations, the minister
made an annual visit to each household in his
parish. When he came to us, the servants were
called in, and we all knelt while he said a prayer;
and then he examined each individual as to the
state of his soul and conduct. He asked me if I
could say my “Questions”—that is, the catechism of
                                            c2

 20                diary Somerw'lle.
the Kirk of Scotland—and asked a question at
 random to ascertain the fact. He did the same to
 the servants.
    When I was between eight and nine years old, my
 father came home from sea, and was shocked to <U+FB01>nd
 me such a savage. I had not yet been taught to
 write, and although I amused myself reading the
 “Arabian Nights,” “Robinson Crusoe,” and the
 “ Pilgrim’s Progress,” I read very badly, and with a
 strong Scotch accent; so, besides a chapter of the
 Bible, he made me read a paper of the “ Spectator ”
 aloud 'every morning, after breakfast; the conse
 quence of which discipline is that I have never since
 opened that book. Hume’s “ History of England”
 was also a real penance to me. I gladly accompanied
my father when he cultivated his <U+FB02>owers, which even
now I can say were of the best quality.     The tulips
and other bulbous plants, ranunculi, anemones, car
nations, as well as the annuals then known, were all
beautiful. He used to root up and throw away
many plants I thought very beautiful; he said he
did so because the colours of their petals were not
sharply de<U+FB01>ned, and that they would spoil the
seed of the others. Thus I learnt to know the
good and the bad—how to lay carnations, and
how to distinguish between the leaf and fruit buds
in pruning fruit trees; this kind of knowledge

                        50/1001.                     21
was of no practical use, for, as my after-life was
spent in towns, I never had a garden, to my great
regret.
   George the Third was so popular, that even in
Burntisland nosegays were placed in every window
on the 4th of June, his birthday ; and it occasionally
happened that our garden was robbed the preceding
night of its gayest <U+FB02>owers.
   My father at last said to my mother,~—“ This kind
of life will never do, Mary must at least know
how to write and keep accounts.” So at ten years
old I was sent to a boarding-school, kept by a
Miss Primrose, at Musselburgh, where I was utterly
wretched. The change from perfect liberty to per
petual restraint was in itself a great trial ; besides,
being naturally shy and timid, I was afraid of
strangers, and although Miss Primrose was not
unkind she had an habitual frown, which even the
elder girls dreaded.    My future companions, who
were all older than I, came round me like a
swarm of bees, and asked if my father had a title,
what was the name of our estate, if we kept
a carriage, and other such questions, which made
me <U+FB01>rst feel the difference of station. However,
the girls were very kind, and often bathed my
eyes to prevent our stern mistress from seeing
that I was perpetually in tears. A few days after

  22              [Mary Somerwz'l/e.
  my arrival, although perfectly straight and well
 made, I was enclosed in sti<U+FB01>' stays with a steel
 busk in front, while, above my frock, bands drew
 my shoulders back till the shoulder-blades met.
 Then a steel rod, with a semi-circle which went
 under the chin, was clasped to the steel busk in
 my stays. In this constrained state I, and most
 of the younger girls, had to prepare our lessons.
 The chief thing I had to do was to learn by heart
 a. page of Johnson’s dictionary, not only to spell
 the words, give their parts of speech and meaning,
 but as an exercise of memory to remember their
 order of succession. Besides I had to learn the
 <U+FB01>rst principles of writing, and the rudiments of
 French and English grammar. The method of
 teaching was extremely tedious and ine<U+FB02>icient.
 Our religious duties were attended to in a remark
 able way. Some of the girls were Presbyterians,
 others belonged to the Church of England, so Miss
 Primrose cut the matter short by taking us all to
the kirk in the morning and to church in the
afternoon.
    In our play-hours we amused ourselves with
playing at ball, marbles, and especially at “Scotch
and English,” a game which represented a raid on
the debatable land, or Border between Scotland and
England, in which each party tried to rob the

                       Holidays.                   23
other Of their playthings. The little ones were
always compelled to be English, for the bigger girls
thought it too degrading.
    Lady Hope, a relative of my mother, frequently
invited me to spend Saturday at Pinkie. She was
a. very ladylike person, in delicate health, and with
cold manners. Sir Archibald was stout, loud, pas
sionate, and devoted to hunting. I amused myself
in the grounds, a. good deal afraid Of a turkey
cock, who was pugnacious and de<U+FB01>ant.

                     CHAPTER II.
           FREEDOM—RELIGIOUS EDU CATION — J EDBURG B.
   [My mother remained at school at Musselburgh for a
twelvemonth, till she was eleven years old. After this
prolonged and elaborate education, she was recalled to
Bin'ntisland, and the results of the process she had
undergone are detailed in her “Recollections” with
much drollery.
   SOON after my return home I received a note
from a lady in the neighbourhood, inquiring for my
mother, who had been ill. This note greatly dis
tressed me, for my half-text writing was as bad as
possible, and I could neither compose an answer nor
spell the words. My eldest cousin, Miss Somerville,
a grown-up young lady, then with us, got me out of
this scrape, but I soon got myself into another, by
writing to my brother in Edinburgh that I had
sent him a bank-knot (note) to buy something for
me. The school at Musselburgh was expensive,
and I was reproached with having cost so much
money in vain. My mother said she would have

                       Freedom.                   25
been contented if I had only learnt to write well
and keep accounts, which was all that a woman was
expected to know.
   This passed over, and I was like a wild animal
escaped out of a cage. I was no longer amused
in the gardens, but wandered about the country.
When the tide was out I spent hours on the sands,
looking at the star-<U+FB01>sh and sea-urchins, or watch—
ing the children digging for sand-eels, cockles, and
the spouting razor-<U+FB01>sh.     I made a collection of
shells, such as were cast ashore, some so small that
they appeared like white specks in patches of black
sand. There was a small pier on the sands for
shipping limestone brought from the coal mines
inland. I was astonished to see the surface of
these blocks of stone covered with beautiful im
pressions of what seemed to he leaves; how they
got there I could not imagine, but I picked up
the broken bits, and even large pieces, and brought
them to my repository. I knew the eggs of many
birds, and made a collection of them.        I never
robbed a nest, but bought strings of eggs, which
were sold by boys, besides getting sea-fowl eggs
from sailors who had been in Whalers or on other
northern voyages. It was believed by these sailors
that there was a gigantic <U+FB02>at <U+FB01>sh in the North Sea,
called a kraken. It was so enormous that when

26                Mary Somerw'lle.
it came to the surface, covered with tangles and
sand, it was supposed to be an island, till, on one
occasion, part of a ship’s crew landed on it and
found out their mistake. However, much as they
believed in it, none of the sailors at Burntisland
had ever seen it. The sea serpent was also an
article of our faith.
   In the rocks at the end of our garden there
was a shingly opening, in which we used to'
bathe, and where at low tide I frequently waded
among masses of rock covered with sea-weeds.
\Vith the exception of dulse and tangle I knew
the names of none, though I was well acquainted
with and admired many of these beautiful plants.
I also watched the crabs, live shells, jelly-<U+FB01>sh, and
various marine animals, all of which were objects
of curiosity and amusement to me in my lonely life.
   The <U+FB02>ora on the links and hills around was very
beautiful, and I soon learnt the trivial names of all
the plants. There was not a tree nor bush higher
than furze in this part of the country, but the coast
to the north-west of Burntisland was bordered by a
tree and brushwood-covered bank belonging to the
Earl of Morton, which extended to Aberdour.         I
could not go so far alone, but had frequent oppor
tunities of walking there and gathering ferns, fox
gloves, and primroses, which grew on the mossy

                      Shakespeare.                   27
banks of a little stream that ran into the sea. The
bed of this stream or burn was thickly covered
with the freshwater mussel, which I knew often
contained pearls, but I did not like to kill the
creatures to get the pearls.
   One day my father, who was a keen sportsman,
having gone to <U+FB01>sh for red trout at the mouth of this
stream, found a young whale, or grampus, stranded
in the shallow water.       He immediately ran back
to the town, got boats, captured the whale, and
landed it in the harbour, where I went with the
rest of the crowd to see the muckle<U+FB01>sh.
   There was always a good deal of shipbuilding
carried on in the harbour, generally coasting vessels
or colliers. \Ve, of course, went to see them launched,
which was a pretty sight.
       1          §          *         i‘       I
   ‘Vhen the bad weather began I did not know
what to do with myself. Fortunately we had a
small collection of books, among which I found
Shakespeare, and read it at every moment I could
spare from my domestic duties. These occupied a
great part of my time; besides, I had to shew
(sew) my sampler, working the alphabet from A
to Z, as well as the ten numbers, on canvas.
   My mother did not prevent me from reading, but
my aunt Janet, who came to live in Burntisland

28                Mary Somerw'lle.
after her father’s death, greatly disapproved of my
conduct. She was an old maid who could be very
agreeable and witty, but she had all the prejudices
of the time with regard to women’s duties, and said   _- ._ -.:_
to my mother, “I wonder you let Mary waste her
time in reading, she never shows (sews) more than if
she were a. man.” Whereupon I was sent to the
village school to learn plain needlework. I do not
remember how long it was after this that an Old
lady sent some very <U+FB01>ne linen to be made into
shirts for her brother, and desired that one should
be made entirely by me. This shirt was so well
worked that I was relieved from attending the
school, but the house linen was given into my
charge to make and to mend. We had a large
stock, much Of it very beautiful, for the Scotch
ladies at that time were very proud of their napery,
but they no longer sent it to Holland to be bleached,
as had once been the custom. We grew <U+FB02>ax, and
our maids spun it. The coarser yarn was woven in
Burntisland, and bleached upon the links ; the <U+FB01>ner
was sent to Dunfcrmline, where there was a manu
factory Of table-linen.
   I was annoyed that my turn for reading was so
much disapproved of, and thought it unjust that
women should have been given a desire for know
ledge if it were wrong to acquire it. Among our

                      Memory.                        29
books I found Chapone’s “ Letters to Young \Vomen,”
and resolved to follow the course of history there
recommended, the more so as we had most of the
works she mentions. One, however, which my
cousin lent me was in French, and here the little I had
learnt at school was useful, for with the help of a
dictionary I made out the sense. What annoyed
me was my memory not being good—I could re
member neither names nor dates. Years afterwards
I studied a “Memoria Technica,” then in fashion,
without success; yet in my youth I could play long
pieces of music on the piano without the book, and
I never forget mathematical formulae. In looking
over one of my MSS., which I had not seen for forty
years, I at once recognised the formulae for com
puting the secular inequalities of the moon.
   We had two small globes, and my mother allowed
me to learn the use of them from Mr. Reed, the
village schoolmaster, who came to teach me for a
few weeks in the winter evenings. Besides the
ordinary branches, Mr. Reed taught Latin and navi
gation, but these were out of the question for me.
At the village school the boys often learnt Latin,
but it was thought suf<U+FB01>cient for the girls to be able
to read the Bible ; very few even learnt writing. I
recollect, however, that some men were ignorant of
book-keeping; our baker, for instance, had a wooden

  30                 Mary Semen/27w.
  tally, in which he made a notch for every loaf of
  bread, and of course we had the corresponding tally.
  They were called nick-sticks.
     My bedroom had a window to the south, and a
  small closet near had one to the north. At these I
  spent many hours, studying the stars by the aid of
  the celestial globe. Although I watched and ad
  mired the magni<U+FB01>cent displays of the Aurora, which
  frequently occurred, they seemed to be so nearly
  allied to lightning that I was somewhat afraid of
 them. At an earlier period of my life there was a
 comet, which I dreaded exceedingly.
        I-        .I       l-       ‘l       i
     My father was Captain of the “Repulse,” a <U+FB01>fty
 gun ship, attached to the Northern <U+FB02>eet commanded
 by the Earl of Northesk. The winter was extremely
 stormy, the <U+FB02>eet was driven far north, and kept
 there by adverse gales, till both of<U+FB01>cers and crew
were on short rations. They ran out of candles,
and had to tear up their stockings for wicks, and
dip them into the fat of the salt meat which was
left. We were in great anxiety, for it was reported
that some of the ships had foundcrcd ; we were,
however, relieved by the arrival of the “Repulse "
in Leith roads for repair.
    Our house on one occasion being full, I was
sent to sleep in a room quite detached from the
               #AIW) m >

                 Nodumal Terrors.                  31
rest and with a different staircase. There was
a closet in this room in which my father kept
his fowling pieces, <U+FB01>shing tackle, and golf clubs,
and a long garret overhead was <U+FB01>lled with
presses and stores of all kinds, among other things
a number of large cheeses were on a board slung
by ropes to the rafters. One night I had put
out my candle and was fast asleep, when I was
awakened by a violent crash, and then a rolling noise
over my head. Now the room was said to be
haunted, so that the servants would not sleep in it.
I was desperate, for there was no hell. I groped
my way to the closet—lueifer matches were un
known in those days—I seized one of the golf clubs,
which are shod with iron, and thundered on the bed—
room door till I brought my father, followed by
the whole household, to my aid. It was found
that the rats had gnawed through the ropes byv
which the cheeses were suspended, so that the crash
and rolling were accounted for, and I was scolded
for making such an uproar.
   Children suffer much misery by being left alone in
the dark. When I was very young I was sent to bed at
eight or nine o’clock, and the maid who slept in the
room went away as soon as I was in bed, leaving
me alone in the dark till she came to bed herself.
All that time I was in an agony of fear of something

 32                  {Mary Somervz'lle.
 inde<U+FB01>nite, I could not tell what.    The joy, the relief,
 when the maid came back, were such that I instantly
 fell asleep. Now that I am a widow and old,
 although I always have a night-lamp, such is the
 power of early impressions that I rejoice when
 daylight comes.
       <U+FB01>-         3%        'IF         it       *
    At Burntisland the sacrament was administered in
 summer because people came in crowds from the
 neighbouring parishes to attend the preachings.
 The service was long and fatiguing. A number
of clergymen came to assist, and as the minister’s
 manse could not accommodate them all, we enter
 tained three of them, one of whom was always the
 Rev. Dr. Campbell, father of Lord Campbell.
    Thursday was a day of preparation. The morning
service began by a psahn sung by the congregation,
then a prayer was said by the minister, followed by
a lecture on some chapter of the Bible, generally
lasting an hour, after that another psalm was sung,
followed by a prayer, a sermon which lasted seldom
less than an. hour, and the whole ended with a
psalm, a short prayer and a benediction. Every one
then went home to dinner and returned afterwards
for afternoon service, which lasted more than an
hour and a half. Friday was a day of rest, but I
together with many young people went at this time

                    The Sazmment.                   33
 to the minister to receive a stamped piece of lead as
 a token that we were suf<U+FB01>ciently instructed to be
 admitted to Christ’s table. This ticket was given
to the Elder on the following Sunday. On Saturday
there was a morning service, and on Sunday such
multitudes came to receive the sacrament that the
devotions continued till late in the evening. The
ceremony was very strikingly and solemnly con
ducted. The communicants sat on each side of long
narrow tables covered with white linen, in imitation
of the last supper of Christ, and the Elders handed
the bread and wine. Aftera short exhortation from
one of the ministers the <U+FB01>rst set retired, and were
succeeded by others. When the weather was <U+FB01>ne a
sermon, prayers, and psalm-singing took place either
in the churchyard or on a grassy bank at the Links
for such as were waiting tO communicate. On the
Monday morning there was the same long service as
on the Thursday. It was too much for me ; I always
came home with a headache, and took a dislike to
sermons.
   Our minister was a rigid Calvinist. His sermons
were gloomy, and so long that he occasionally would
startle the congregation by calling out to some cul
prit, “ Sit up there, how daur ye sleep i’ the kirk.”
Some saw-mills in the neighbourhood were burnt
down, so the following Sunday we had a sermon on
                                                D

34                Mary Somervz'l/e.
hell-<U+FB01>re. The kirk was very large and quaint; a
stair led to a gallery on each side of the pulpit, which
was intended for the tradespeople, and each division
was marked with a suitable device, and text from
Scripture. On the bakers’ portion a sheaf of wheat
was painted; a balance and weights on the grocers’,
and on the weavers’, which was opposite to our pew,
there was a shuttle, and below it the motto, “My
days are swifter than a weaver’s shuttle, and are
spent without hop job.” The artist was evidently
no clerk.
   My brother Sam, while attending the university
in Edinburgh, came to us on the Saturdays and
returned to town on Monday. He of course
went with us to the kirk on Sunday morning,
but we let our mother attend afternoon service
alone, as he and I were happy to be together,
and we spent the time sitting on the grassy rocks
at the foot of our garden, from whence we could
see a vast extent of the Firth of Forth with Edin
burgh and its picturesque hills. It was very
amusing, for we occasionally saw three or four
whales spouting, and shoals of porpoises at play.
However, we did not escape reproof, for Irecollect
the servant coming to tell us that the minister
had sent to inquire whether Mr. and Miss Fairfax
had been taken ill, as he had not seen them at

                      Edz'nhzrg/z.        -          35
the kirk in the afternoon. The minister in ques
tion was Mr. \Vemyss, who had married a younger
sister of my mother’s.
        l'       'l-       i          'I'       i
   \Vhen I was about thirteen my mother took a
small apartment in Edinburgh for the winter, and I
was sent to a writing school, where I soon learnt
to write a good hand, and studied the common
rules of arithmetic.    My uncle \Villiam Henry
Charters, lately returned from India, gave me a
pianoforte, and I had music lessons from an old lady
who lived in the top story of one of the highest houses
in the old town. I slept in the same room with
my mother. One morning I called out, much
alarmed, “ There is lightning!” but my mother said,
after a moment, “ No ; it is <U+FB01>re !” and on opening
the window shutters I found that the <U+FB02>akes of <U+FB01>re
<U+FB02>ying past had made the glass quite hot. The next
house but one was on <U+FB01>re and burning <U+FB01>ercely,
and the people next door were throwing everything
they possessed, even china and glass, out of the
windows into the street. We dressed quickly, and
my mother sent immediately to Trotter the up
holsterer for four men. We then put our family
papers, our silver, &c., &c., into trunks; then my
mother said, “ Now let us breakfast, it is time enough
for us to move our things when the next house takes
                                               I) 2

  36                [Mary Samara/2710.
  <U+FB01>re.” Of its doing so there was every probability
  because casks of turpentine and oil were exploding
  from time to time in a carriage manufactory at the
  back of it. Several gentlemen of our acquaintance
  who came to assist us were surprised to <U+FB01>nd us
  breakfasting quietly as if there were nothing unusual
  gOing 011- In fact my mother, though a coward in
  many things, had, like most women, the presence of
  mind and the courage of necessity. The <U+FB01>re was
 eXtingUished, and we had only the four men to pay
 for doing nothing, nor did we sacri<U+FB01>ce any of our
 PP°PePty like our neighbours who had completely
 lost their heads from terror. I may mention
 here that on one occasion when my father was at
 hfune he had been ill with a severe cold, and wore
 Ins nightcap. While reading in the drawing-room'
 of“: evening he called out, “ I smell <U+FB01>re, there is no
 tune to be lost,” so, snatching up a candle, he
 wandered from room to room followed by us all still
 Inleng <U+FB01>re, when one of the servants said, “ O, sir,
1t 18 the tassel of your nightcap that is on <U+FB01>re.”
         *         ’l         1"       ii        'I'
ho on mlfuming to Burntisland, I spent four or <U+FB01>ve
80:13 dfllly at the piano ; and for the sake of having
fro ethmg to do, I taught myself Latin enough,
    m Such books as we had, to read Caesar’s “ Com

                     Yea’éurg/z.                  37
mentaries.” I went that summer on a visit to my
aunt at Jedburgh, and, for the <U+FB01>rst time in my life,
I met in my uncle, Dr. Somerville, with a friend
who approved of my thirst for knowledge. During
long walks with him in the early mornings, he was
so kind, that I had the courage to tell him thatI
had been trying to learn Latin, but I feared it was
in vain ; for my brother and other boys, superior to
me in talent, and with every assistance, spent years
in learning it. He assured me, on the contrary,
that in ancient times many women—some of them
of the highest rank in England—had been very
elegant scholars, and that he would read Virgil
with me if I would come to his study for an
hour or two every morning before breakfast, which
I gladly did.
   I never was happier in my life than during the
months I spent at Jedburgh. My aunt was a
charming companion—witty, full of anecdote, and
had read more than most women of her day, es
pecially Shakespeare, who was her favourite author.
My cousins had little turn for reading, but they
were better educated than most girls. They were
taught to write by David Brewster, son of the
village schoolmaster, afterwards Sir David, who
became one of the most distinguished philosophers
and discoverers of the age, member of all the

 38                Mary Somewz'lle.
 scienti<U+FB01>c societies at home and abroad, and at last
 President of the University of Edinburgh. He was
 studying in Edinburgh when I was at Jedburgh;
 so I did not make his acquaintance then; but later
 in life he became my valued friend. I did not
 know till after his death, that, while teaching my
 cousins, he fell in love with my cousin Margaret.
 I do not believe she was aware of it. She was
afterwards attached to an of<U+FB01>cer in the army ; but
my aunt would not allow her to go to that out
landish place, Malta, where he was quartered ; so
she lived and died unmarried. Steam has changed
our ideas of distance since that time.
   My uncle’s house—the manse—in which I was
born, stands in a pretty garden, bounded by the
<U+FB01>ne ancient abbey, which, though partially ruined,
still serves as the parish kirk. The garden produced
abundance of common <U+FB02>owers, vegetables, and fruit.
Some of the plum and pear trees were very old, and
were said to have been planted by the monks.
Both were excellent in quality, and very productive.
The view from both garden and manse was over the
beautiful narrow valley through which the Jed
<U+FB02>ows. The precipitous banks of red sandstone
are richly clothed with vegetation, some of the trees
ancient and very <U+FB01>ne, especially the magni<U+FB01>cent one
called the capon tree, and the lofty king of the
                                           *- ~*_

                      Y'edémjg/z.                  89
wood, remnants of the <U+FB01>ne forests which at one
time had covered the country.      An inland scene
was new to me, and I was never tired of admiring
the tree-crowned scaurs or precipices, where the rich
glow of the red sandstone harmonized so well with
the autumnal tints of the foliage.
   We often bathed in the pure stream of the Jed.
My aunt always went with us, and was the merriest
of the ' party ; we bathed in a pool which was
deep under the high scaur, but sloped gradually
from the grassy bank on the other side. Quiet and
transparent as the Jed was, it one day came down
with irresistible fury, red with the debris of the
sandstone scaurs. There had been a thunderstorm
in the hills up-stream, and as soon as the river
began to rise, the people came out with pitchforks
and hooks to catch the hayricks, sheaves of corn,
drowned pigs, and other animals that came sweeping
past. My cousins and I were standing on the
bridge, but my aunt called us off when the water
rose above the arches, for fear of the bridge giving
way. We made expeditions every day ; sometimes
we went nutting in the forest; at other times we
gathered mushrooms on the grass parks of Stewart
<U+FB01>eld, where there was a wood of picturesque old
Scotch <U+FB01>rs, inhabited by a colony of rocks. I still
kept the habit of looking out for birds, and had the

 40                Mary Somcrw'Z/e.
 good fortune to see a heron, now a rare bird in the
 valley of the Jed. Some of us went every day to
'a spring called the Allerly well, about a quarter of
 a mile from the manse, and brought a large jug of
  its sparkling water for dinner. The evenings were
 cheerful ; my aunt sang Scotch songs prettily, and
 told us stories and legends about Jedburgh, which
 had been a royal residence in the olden time. She
 had a tame white and tawny-coloured owl, which
 we fed every night, and sometimes brought into the
 drawing-room. The Sunday evening never was
 gloomy, though properly observed. We occasionally
 drank tea with acquaintances, and made visits of a
 few days to the Rutherfurds of Edgerton and others ;
 but I was always glad to return to the manse.
     My uncle, like other ministers of the Scottish
 Kirk, was allowed a glebe, which he farmed him
 self.  Besides horses, a cow was kept, which sup
 plied the family with cream and butter, and the
 skimmed milk was given to the poor; but as the
 milk became scarce, one woman was deprived, for the
time, of her share. Soon after, the cow was taken
'ill, and my uncle’s ploughman, Will, came to him
'and said, “ Sir, gin you would give that carline
 Tibby Jones her soup 0’ milk again, the coo would
soon be weel encugh.”      \Vill was by no means the
only believer in witchcraft at that time.

                    CHAPTER III.
 EDXXBURGH—YOUTHPUL STUDIES  AND AMUSEMENT<U+FB01>—POLITICS—THE
                   THEATRES OF THE TIME.
    [My mother’s next visit was to the house of her uncle,
William Charters, in Edinburgh.      From thence she was
enabled to partake of the advantages of a dancing-school
of the period.
  ' THEY sent me to Strange’s dancing school. Strange
himself was exactly like a <U+FB01>gure on the stage; tall
and thin, he wore a powdered wig, with cannons at
the ears, and a pigtail. Ru<U+FB02>ies at the breast and
wrists, white waistcoat, black silk or velvet shorts,
white silk stockings, large silver buckles, and a pale
.blue coat completed his costume. He had a little
<U+FB01>ddle on_which he played, called a kit. My <U+FB01>rst
lesson was how to walk and make a curtsey. “Young
lady, if you visit the queen you must make three
curtsies, lower and lower and lower as you approach
her. So—o—o,” leading me on and making me
curtscy. “ Now, if the queen were to ask you to
eat a bit of mutton with her, what would you say ? ”

42                [Mary Somcrw'lle.
Every Saturday afternoon all the scholars, both boys
and girls, met to practise in the public assembly
rooms in George’s Street. It was a handsome large
hall with benches rising like an amphitheatre.
Some of the elder girls were very pretty, and
danced well, so these practisings became a lounge for
of<U+FB01>cers from the Castle, and other young men. We
used always to go in full evening dress. We learnt
the minuct de la cour, reels and country dances.
Our partners used to give us gingerbread and
oranges. Dancing before so many people was quite
an exhibition, and I was greatly morti<U+FB01>ed one day
when ready to begin a minuet, by the dancing
master shaking me roughly and making me hold
out my frock properly.
   Though kind in the main, my uncle and his wife
were rather sarcastic and severe, and kept me down
a good deal, which I felt keenly, but said nothing. I
was not a favourite with my family at that period
of my life, because I was reserved and unexpansive,
in consequence of the silence I was obligedto observe
on the subjects which interested me. Three Miss
Melvilles, friends, or perhaps relatives, of Mrs.
Charters, were always held up to me as models of
perfection, to be imitated in everything, and I
wearied of hearing them constantly praised at my
expense.

                  Edz'néurgk Gossip.                   43
   In a small society like that of Edinburgh there
was a good deal of scandal and gossip; every one’s
character and conduct were freely criticised, and by
none more than by my aunt and her friends. She
used to sit at a window embroidering, where she not
only could see every one that passed, but with a
small telescope could look into the dressing-room of
a lady of her acquaintance, and watch all she did.
A spinster lady of good family, a cousin of ours,
carried her gossip so far, that she was tried for de
famation, and condemned to a month’s imprisonment,
which she actually underwent in the Tolbooth. She
was let out just before the king’s birthday, to cele
brate which, besides the guns <U+FB01>red at the Castle, the
boys let off squibs and crackers in all the streets.
As the lady in question was walking up the High
Street, some lads in a wynd, or narrow street, <U+FB01>red a
small cannon, and one of the slugs with which it
was loaded hit her mouth and wounded her tongue.
This raised a universal laugh ; and no one enjoyed
it more than my uncle William, who disliked this
somewhat masculine woman.
   \Vhilst at my uncle’s house, I attended a school
for writing and arithmetic, and made considerable
progress in the latter, for I liked it, but I soon forgot
it from want of practice.
   My uncle and aunt generally paid a visit to the

44-              Mary Somerw'lle.
Lyells of Kinnordy, the father and mother of my
friend Sir Charles Lyell, the celebrated geologist;
but this time they accepted an invitation from Cap—
tain \Vedderburn, and took me with them. Captain
\Vedderburn was an old bachelor, who had left the
army and devoted himself to agriculture. Mounted
on a very tall but quiet horse, I accompanied my
host every morning when he went over his farm,
which was chie<U+FB02>y a grass farm. The house was
infested with rats, and a masculine old maid, who
was of the party, lived in such terror of them, that
she had a light in her bedroom, and after she
was in bed, made her maid tuck in the white
dimity curtains all round. One night we were
awakened by violent screams, and on going to see
what was the matter, we found Miss Cowe in the
middle of the room, bare-footed, in her night-dress,
screaming at the top of her voice. Instead of tucking
the rats out of the bed, the maid had tucked one
in, and Miss Cowe on waking beheld it sitting on
her pillow.
       *        *          i'        l-       i'
    There was great political agitation at this time.
The corruption and tyranny of the court, nobility,
and clergy in France were so great, that when the
revolution broke out, a large portion of our popula
tion thought the French people were perfectly justi

                      Politics.                   45
<U+FB01>ed in revolting, and warmly espoused their cause.
Later many changed their opinions, shocked, as
every one was, at the death of the king and
queen, and the atrocious massacres which took place
in France. Yet some not only approved of the
revolution abroad, but were so disgusted with, our
mal-administration at home, to which they attributed
our failure in the war in Holland and elsewhere,
that great dissatisfaction and alarm prevailed
throughout the country. The violence, on the
other hand, of the opposite party was not to be
described,—the very name of Liberal was detested.
   Great dissensions were caused by difference of
opinion in families; and I heard people pre
viously much esteemed accused from this cause
of all that was evil. My uncle \Villiam and my
father were as violent Tories as any.
    The Liberals were distinguished by wearing their
 hair short, and when one day I happened to say
how becoming a crop was, and that I wished the
 men would cut off those ugly pigtails, my father
 exclaimed, “By G——, when a man cuts off his
 queue, the head should go with it.”
    The unjust and exaggerated abuse of the Liberal
 party made me a Liberal. From my earliest
 years my mind revolted against oppression and
 tyranny, and I resented the injustice of the world'

46                 Mary Somervz'lle.
in denying all those privileges of education
to my sex which were so lavishly bestowed on
men. My liberal opinions, both in religion and
politics, have remained unchanged (or, rather, have
advanced) throughout my life, but I have never been
a republican. I have always considered a highly—
educated aristocracy essential, not only for govern
ment, but for the re<U+FB01>nement of a people.
   [After her winter in Edinburgh, my mother returned
to Burntisland. Strange to say, she found there, in an
illustrated Magazine of Fashions, the introduction to the
great study of her life.
   I was often invited with my mother to the tea
parties given either by widows or maiden ladies who
resided at Bumtisland. A pool of commerce used
to be keenly contested till a late hour at these
parties, which bored me exceedingly, but I there be
came acquainted with a Miss Ogilvie, much younger
than the rest, who asked me to go and see fancy
works she was doing, and at which she was very
clever. I went next day, and after admiring her
work, and being told how it was done, she showed
me a monthly magazine with coloured plates of
ladies’ dresses, charades, and puzzles. At the end
of a page I read what appeared to me to be simply
an arithmetical question ; but on turning the page I

                              A lgcém.                             47
was surprised to see strange looking lines mixed
with letters, chie<U+FB02>y X’es and Y’s, and asked; “ \Vhat
is that @” “Oh,” said Miss Ogilvie, “it is a. kind
of arithmetic : they call it Algebra; but I can tell
you nothing about it.” And we talked about
other things; but on going home I thought I
would look if any of our books could tell me what
was meant by Algebra.
    In Robertson’s “ Navigation ” I <U+FB02>attered myself
that I had got precisely what I wanted ; but I soon
found that I was mistaken. I perceived, however,
that astronomy did not consist in star-gazing,* and
as I persevered in studying the book for a time, I
certainly got a dim view of several subjects which
were useful to me afterwards. Unfortunately not one
of our acquaintances or relations knew anything of
science or natural history; nor, had they done so,
should I have had courage to ask any of them a
 question, for I should have been laughed at. I
 was often very sad and forlorn; not a hand held
 out to help me.
     My uncle and aunt Charters took a house at Burnt
 island for the summer, and the Miss Melville I have
already mentioned came to pay them a visit.                       She
   " Many people evidently think the science of astronomy consists
 entirely in observing the stars, for I have been frequently asked if I
 passed my nights looking through a telescope,and I have astonished
 the enquirers by saying I did not even possess one.

48                Mary Sommz'lle.
painted miniatures, and from seeing her at work, I
took a fancy to learn to draw, and actually wasted
time in copying prints; but this circumstance en-_
abled me to get elementary books on Algebra and
Geometry without asking questions of any one, as
will be explained afterwards. The rest of the sum
mer I spent in playing on the piano and learning
Greek enough to read Xenophon and part of Hero
dotus ; then we prepared to go to Edinburgh.
   My mother was so much afraid of the sea that she
never would cross the Firth except in a boat belonging
to a certain skipper who had served in the Navy and
lost a hand; he had a hook fastened on the stump
to, enable him to haul ropes. My brother and I were
tired of the country, and one sunny day we per
suaded my mother to embark. When we came to
the shore, the skipper said, “I wonder that the
leddy boats to-day, for though it is calm here under
the lee of the land, there is a stilt breeze outside."
\Ve made him a sign to hold his tongue, for we
knew this as well as he did. Our mother went
down to the cabin and remained silent and quiet for
a time; but when we began to roll and be tossed
about, she called out to the skipper, “George! this
is an awful storm, 1 am sure we are in great danger.
Mind how you steer; remember, I trust in you!”
He laughed, and said, “ Dinna trust in me, leddy;

                      Painting Lessons.                          49
trust in God Almighty.”               Our mother, in perfect
terror, called out, “ Dear me! is it come to that '?"
We burst out laughing, skipper and all.
   Nasmyth, an exceedingly good landscape painter_
had opened an academy for ladies in Edinburgh, a
proof of the gradual improvement which was taking
place in the education of the higher classes; my
mother, very willingly allowed me to attend it. The
class was very full.         I was not taught to draw, but
looked on while Nasmyth painted; then a picture
was given me to copy, the master correcting the
faults. Though I spoilt canvas, I had made some
progress by the end of the season." Mr. Nasmyth,
besides being a good artist, was clever, well
informed, and had a great deal of conversation. One
day I happened to be near him while he was talking
to the Ladies Douglas about perspective. He said,
“ You should study Euclid’s Elements of Geometry ,
the foundation not only of perspective, but of astro
nomy and all mechanical science.” Here, in the most
unexpected manner,I got the information I wanted,
for I at once saw that it would help me to under
stand some parts of Robertson’s “ Navigation 3” but
as to going to a bookseller and asking for Euclid the
  " Nasmyth told a lady still alive who took lessons from him in her
youth, that the cleverest young lady he ever taught was Miss Mary
Fairfax.
                                                            n

 50                [Mary Semen/ilk.
 thing was impossible! Besides I did not yet know
 anything de<U+FB01>nite about Algebra, so no more could
 be done at that time; but I never lost sight of an
 object which had interested me from the <U+FB01>rst.
    I rose early, and played four or <U+FB01>ve hours, as
 usual, on the piano, and had lessons from Corri, an
 Italian, who taught carelessly, and did not correct a
habit I had of thumping so as to break the
strings; but I learned to tune a piano and mend the
strings, as there was no tuner at Burntisland. After
wards I got over my bad habit and played the music
then in vogue : pieces by Pleyel, Clementi, Steibelt,
Mozart, and Beethoven, the last being my favourite
to this day. I was sometimes accompanied on
the violin by Mr. Thomson, the friend of Burns;
more frequently by Stabilini ; but I was always too
shy to play before people, and invariably played
badly when obliged to do so, which vexed me.
        i        i        '5?       *         9'1
   The prejudice against the theatre had been very
great in Scotland, and still existed among the rigid
Calvinists.   One day, when I was fourteen or <U+FB01>fteen,
on going into the drawing-room, an old man sitting
beside my mother rose and kissed me, saying, “I
am one of your mother’s oldest friends.” It was
Home, the author of the tragedy of “ Douglas.”
He was obliged to resign his living in the kirk for
                                                       p

                         T/zeaz‘res.                  St
  the scandal of having had his play acted in the
  theatre in Edinburgh, and some of his clerical friends
  were publicly rebuked for going to see it. Our family
  was perfectly liberal in all these matters. The <U+FB01>rst
  time I had ever been in a theatre I went with my
  father to see “Cymbeline.” I had never neglected
  Shakespeare, and when our great tragedians, Mrs.
  Siddons and her brother, John Kemble, came for a
  short time to act in Edinburgh, I could think of
  nothing else. They were both remarkably hand
  some, and, notwithstanding the Scotch prejudice,
  the theatre was crowded every night. It was a
  misfortune to me that my mother never would go
  into society during the absence of my father, nor,
  indeed, at any time, except, perhaps, to a dinner
  party; but I had no dif<U+FB01>culty in <U+FB01>nding a chaperone,
  as we knew many people. I used to go to the
  theatre in the morning, and ask to see the plan of
  the house for the evening, that I might know which
  ladies I could accompany to their boxes. Of
  course I paid for my place. Our friends were so
  kind that I saw these great artists, as well as
  Charles Kemble, Young, and Bannister, in “ Ham
  let,” “Macbeth,” “Othello,” “ Coriolanus,” “ The
  Gamester,” &c.
     It was greatly to the honour of the British stage
' that all the principal actors, men and women, were
                                                a2

 52                <U+FB01>lmy Somervzl/c.
 of excellent moral character, and much esteemed.
 Many years afterwards, when Mrs. Siddons was an
 old woman, I drank tea with her, and heard her
read Milton and Shakespeare. Her daughter told us .
to applaud, for she had been so much accustomed to
it in the theatre that she could not read with spirit '
without this expression of approbation.
    My mother was pleased with my music and
painting, and, although she did not go to the
 theatre herself, she encouraged me to go. She was
quite of the old school with regard to the duties of
women, and very particular about her table; and,
although we were obliged to live with rigid economy,
our food was of the best quality, well dressed, and
neatly served, for she could tell the cook exactly
what was amiss when anything was badly cooked.
She thought besides that some of the comfort of
married life depended upon the table, so I was sent
to a pastrycook for a short time every day, to learn
the art of cookery. I had for companions Miss Mon
creiff, daughter of Sir Henry'Monci-eiff Wellwood,
a Scotch baronet of old family. She was older than
I, pretty, pleasing, and one of the belles of the
day. We were amused at the time, and afterwards
made jellies and creams for little supper parties,
then in fashion, though, as far as economy went, we
might as well have bought them.

                     Euclid at last.                 {)8
   On returning to Burntisland, I played on the
piano as diligently as ever, and painted several
hours every day. At this time, however, a Mr.
Craw came to live with us as tutor to my youngest
brother, Henry. He had been educated for the
kirk, was a fair Greek and Latin scholar, but,
unfortunately for me, was no mathematician.         He
was a simple, good-natured kind of man, and I
ventured to ask him about algebra and geometry,
and begged him, the <U+FB01>rst time he went to Edin—
burgh, to buy me something elementary on these
subjects, so he soon brought me “Euclid” and Bonny
castle’s “Algebra,” which were the books used in the
schools at that time. Now I had got what I so
long and earnestly desired. I asked Mr. Craw to
hear me demonstrate a few problems in the <U+FB01>rst
book of “ Euclid,” and then I continued the study
alone with courage and assiduity, knowing I was on
the right road. Before I began to read algebra I
found it necessary to study arithmetic again, having
forgotten much of it. I never was expert at
addition, for, in summing up a long column of
pounds, shillings, and pence, in the family account
book, it seldom came out twice the same way.         In
after life I, of course, used logarithms for the higher
branches of science.
   I had to take part in the household affairs, and to

 54                  Mary Somerw'llc;
 make and mend my own clothes. I rose early,
 played on the piano, and painted during the time
 I could sparc in the daylight hours, but I sat up
 very late reading Euclid.     The servants, however,
 told my mother “It was no wonder the stock of
 candles was soon exhausted, for Miss Mary sat up
 reading till a very late hour;” whereupon an order
 was given to take away my candle as soon as I was
 in bed. I had, however, already gone through the
first six books of Euclid, and now I was thrown
 on my memory, which I exercised by beginning at
the <U+FB01>rst book, and demonstrating in my mind a
certain number of problems every night, till I could
nearly go through the whole. My father came home
for a short time, and, somehow or other, <U+FB01>nding out
what I was about, said to my mother, “Peg, we
must put a stop to this, or we shall have Mary in
a strait jacket one of these days. There was X.,
who went raving mad about the longitude I"
       as         as        k         s        is
    In our younger days my brother Sam and I kept
various festivals: we burnt nuts, ducked for apples,
and observed many other of the ceremonies of
Halloween, so well described by Burns, and we
always sat up to hail the new year on New Year’s
Eve. \Vhen in Edinburgh we sometimes disguised
ourselves as “ guisarts,” and went about with a basket

                  Clzristmas Doings.                55
full of Christmas cakes called buns and shortbread,
and a <U+FB01>agon of “ het-pint ” or posset, to wish our
friends a “ Happy New Year." At Christmas time a
set of men, called the Christmas Wakes, walked
slowly through the streets during the midnight
hours, playing our sweet Scotch airs on <U+FB02>ageolets.
I remember the sound from a distance féll gently
on my sleeping ear, swelled softly, and died away
in distance again, a passing breeze of sweet sound.
It was very pleasing ; some thought it too sad.
   My grandfather was intimate with the Boswells
of Balmuto, a bleak place a few miles to the north
of Burntisland. Lord Balmuto, a Scotch judge,
who was then proprietor, had been a dancing com
panion of my mother’s, and had a son and two
daughters, the eldest a nice girl of my age, with whom
I was intimate, so I gladly accepted an invitation to
visit them at Balmuto. Lord Balmuto was a large
coarse-looking man, with black hair and beetling
eyebrows. Though not vulgar, he was passionate,
and had a boisterous manner. My mother and her
sisters gave him the nickname of the “ black bull of
Norr’away,” in allusion to the northern position of
l-lalmuto. Mrs. Boswell was gentle and lady-like.
The son had a turn for chemistry, and his father took
me to see what they called the Laboratory. What
a laboratory might be I knew not, as I had never

  56               Mary Somervz'lle.
  heard the word before, but somehow I did not like the
 look of the curiously-shaped glass things and other
  apparatus, so when the son put a substance on the
 table, and took a hammer, his father saying, “ Now
 you will hear a <U+FB01>ne report,” I ran out of the room,
 saying, “I don’t like reports. ” Sure enough there was
 a very loud report, followed by a violent crash, and
 on going into the room again, we found that the son
 had been knocked down, the father was trembling
 from head to foot, and the apparatus had been
 smashed to pieces. They had had a narrow escape.
 Miss Boswell led a dull life, often passing the
 winter with her mother in that solitary place,
 Balmuto; and when in Edinburgh, she was much
 kept down by her father, and associated little with
people of her own age and station. The conse
 quence was that she elopcd with her drawing
master, to the inexpressible rage and morti<U+FB01>eation
of her father, who had all the Scotch pride of family
and pure blood.
    This year we remained longer in the country
than usual, and I went to spend Christmas with
the Oswalds of Dunnikeir. The family consisted
of a son, a colonel in the army, and three.
daughters, the youngest about my age, a bold
horsewoman. She had talent, became a good
Greek and Latin scholar, and was afterwards

                 The Oswald Family.               57
married to the Earl of Elgin. More than seventy
years after this I had a visit from the Dean of
 Westminster and Lady Augusta Stanley, her
daughter; a. very charming person, who told me
about her family, of which I had heard nothing
for years. I was very happy to see the Dean, one
of the most liberal and distinguished members of
the Church of England, and son of my old friend
the late Bishop of Norwich.
       *         'I-        i-    9!-       '1
   When I returned to Edinburgh Mr. Nasmyth
was much pleased with the progress I had made in
painting, for, besides having copied several land
scapes he had lent me, I had taken the outline
of a print and coloured it from a storm I saw at
the end of our garden. This picture I still possess.
   Dr. Blair, minister of the High Kirk of Edin
burgh, the well-known author and professor of
Rhetoric and Belles Lettres in the University, an
intimate friend of my grandfather’s, had heard of
my turn for painting, and asked my mother to let
him see some of my pictures. A few of the best
were sent to him, and were returned after a few
days accompanied by a long letter from the old
gentleman, pointing out what he admired most in
each picture. I was delighted with the letter, and
not a little vain of the praise.

58                 Mary Somcrm'l/e.
      LETTER FROM DR. BLAIR TO MARY FAIRFAX.
   Mr mean Miss FAIRFAX,
        This comes to return you a thousand thanks
for the pleasure and entertainment I have had from your
landscape paintings. I had them placed in the best
light I could contrive in my drawing-room, and enter
tained myself a good while every day looking at them
and admiring their beauties, which always grew upon me.
I intend to return them to you to-morrow, or rather on
the beginning of next week; and as they were taken
particular care of, I hope they shall not appear to have
su<U+FB01>'ered any injury.
   I have exhibited them to several people, some of
whom were excellent judges, whom I brought on purpose
to view them—Lady Miller, the Solicitor and Mrs. Blair,
his lady, Dr. Hill, Miss Anne Ker of Nisbet, and a
variety of ladies. All joined in praising them highly.
The penserosa <U+FB01>gure caught the highest admiration of
any, from the gracefulness of the <U+FB01>gure and attitude, and
the boldness and propriety of the scenery. The two
morning and evening views—one of Lochness, and the
 other of Elcho Castle—which make <U+FB01>ne companions, and
 which I always placed together, were also highly admired.
 Each of them had their different partizans, and I myself
 was for a good while undetermined which of them to
 prefer. At last, I found the placidity of the scene in
 Elcho Castle, with the cottages among the trees, dwelt
 most on my imagination, though the gaiety and brightness
 of the morning sky in the other has also exquisite beauty.
 On the whole, I am persuaded that your taste and powers
 of execution in that art are uncommonly great, and that

                  Letterfrom Dr. Blair.                   59
if you go on you must excel highly, and may go what
length you please. Landscape painting has been always
a. great favourite with me; and you have really con
tributed much to my entertainment. As I thought you
might wish to know my sentiments, after your paintings
had been a little considered, I was led to write you these
lines (in which I assure you there is nothing <U+FB02>attering),
before sending back your pieces to you. With best
compliments to Lady Fairfax, believe me,
        Your obliged and most obedient Servant,
                                              HUGH BLAIR.
   AncrLL SQUARE, 11th April (probably) 1796.
    A day or two after this a Mrs. Ramsay, a rich
proud widow, a relation of my mother’s, came with
her daughter, who was an heiress, to pay us a
morning visit. Looking round the room she asked
who had painted the pictures hung up on the
walls. My mother, who was rather proud of them,
said they were painted by me. “ I am glad,” said
Mrs. Ramsa ', “that Miss Fairfax has any kind of
talent that may enable her to win her bread, for
everyone knows she will not have a sixpence.”
It was a very severe hit, because it was true. Had
it been my lot to win my bread by painting, I fear
I should have fared badly, but I never should have
been ashamed of it; on the contrary, I should have
been very proud had I been successful. I must
say the idea of making money had never entered

60               Mary Somen/ille.
my head in any of my pursuits, but I was in
tensely ambitious to excel in something, for I felt
in my own breast that women were capable of
taking a higher place in creation than that as
signed to them in my early days, which was
very low.
   Not long after Mrs. Ramsay’s visit to my mother,
Miss Ramsay went to visit the Dons, at Newton
Don, a pretty place near Kelso. Miss Ramsay and
the three Miss Dons were returning from a long
walk; they had reached the park of Newton Don,
when they heard the dinner bell ring, and fearing to
be too late for dinner, instead of going round, they
attempted to cross a brook which runs through the
park. One of the Miss Dons stumbled on the
stepping-stones and fell into the water. Her two
sisters and Miss Ramsay, trying to save her, fell
in one after another. The three Miss Dons were
drowned, but Miss Ramsay, who wore a stiff worsted
petticoat, was buoyed up by it and carried down
stream, where she caught by the branch of a tree
and was saved. She never recovered the shock of
the dreadful scene.

                     CHAPTER IV.
EDINBURGH  SUPPER  PARTIES—TOUR IN THE IllGHLANDS—MUTINY IN
              THE FLEET—BATTLE 0F CAMPERDOWN.
   [By this time my mother was grown up, and extremely
pretty. All those who knew her speak of her rare and
delicate beauty, both of face and <U+FB01>gure. They called
her the “ Rose of Jedwood.” She kept her beauty to
the last day of her life, and was a beautiful old woman,
as she had been a lovely young one. She used to
say, laughing, that “it was very hard no one ever thought
of painting her portrait so long as she was young and
pretty.” After she became celebrated, various like
nesses were taken of her, by far the best of which
are a beautiful bust, modelled at Rome in 1844 by Mr.
Lawrence Macdonald, and a crayon drawing by Mr.
James Swinton, done in London in 1848. My mother
always looked considerably younger than her age; even
at ninety, she looked younger than some who were
her juniors by several years. This was owing, no doubt,
principally to her being small and delicate in face and
<U+FB01>gure, but also, I think, to the extreme youthfulness
and freshness of both her heart and mind, neither of
which ever grew old. It certainly was not due to a
youthful style of chess, for she had perfect taste in such
matters, as well as in other things; and although no

62                 Mary Somersz/e.
one spent less thought or money on it than she, my
mother was at all times both neatly and becomingly
dressed.   She never was careless; and her room, her
papers, and all that belonged to her were invariably in
the most beautiful order. My mother’s recollections of
this period of her life are as follows :—
   Ar that time Edinburgh was really the capital of
Scotland ; most of the Scotch families of distinction
spent the winter there, and we had numerous
acquaintances who invited me to whatever gaiety
was going on. As my mother refused to go into
society when my father was at sea, I had to <U+FB01>nd a
chaperon; but I never was at a loss, for we were
somehow related to the Erskine family, and the
Countess of Buchan, an amiable old lady, was always
ready to take charge of me.
   It was under Lady Buchan’s care that I made
my <U+FB01>rst appearance at a ball, and my <U+FB01>rst dancing
partner was the late Earl of Minto, then Mr. Gilbert
Elliot, with whom I was always on very friendly
tenns, as well as with his family. Many other
ladies were willing to take charge of me, but a
chaperon was only required for the theatre, and con~
certs, and for balls in the public assembly rooms ; at
private balls the lady of the house was thought suf<U+FB01>
cient. Still, although I was sure to know everybody
in the room, or nearly so, I liked to have some one

                       Fz'rst Ball                     63
with Whom to enter and to sit beside. Few ladies
kept carriages, but went in sedan chairs, of which
there were stands in the principal streets. Ladies
were generally attended by a man-servant, but I
went alone, as our household consisted of two maid
servants only. My mother knew, however, that
the Highlanders who carried me could be trusted.
I was fond of dancing, and never without partners,
and often came home in bright daylight. The
dances were reels, country dances, and sometimes
Sir Roger de Coverley,
   [At this period, although busily engaged in studying
painting at Nasmyth’s academy, practising the piano <U+FB01>ve
hours a day, and pursuing her more serious studies
zealously, my mother went a good deal into society, for
Edinburgh was a gay, sociable place, and many people
who recollect her at that time, and some who were her
dancing partners, have told me she was much admired,
and a great favourite. They said she had a graceful
<U+FB01>gure, below the middle size, a small head, well set on
her shoulders, a beautiful complexion, bright, intelligent
 eyes, and a profusion of soft brown hair.   Besides the
various occupations I have mentioned, she made all her
 own dresses, even for balls. These, however, unlike the
 elaborate productions of our day, were simply of <U+FB01>ne
India muslin, with a little Flanders lace.   She says of
her life in Edinburgh :—

64.                Mary Semen/ills.
    Girls had perfect liberty at that time in Edin
burgh ; we walked together in Princes Street, the
fashionable promenade, and were joined by our
dancing partners. We occasionally gave little
supper parties, and presented these young men to
our parents as they came in. At these meetings
we played at games, danced reels, or had a little
music—never cards. After supper there were toasts,
sentiments, and songs. There were always one or
two hot dishes, and a variety of sweet things and
fruit. Though I was much more at ease in society
now, I was always terribly put out when asked for
a toast or a sentiment. Like other girls, I did not dis
like a little quiet <U+FB02>irtation ; but I never could speak
across a table, or take a leading part in conversation.
This di<U+FB01>idence was probably owing to the secluded
life I led in my early youth. At this time I gladly
took part in any gaiety that was going on, and spent
the day after a ball in idleness and gossiping with my
friends ; but these were rare occasions, for the balls
were not numerous, and I never lost sight of the
main object of my life, which was to prosecute my
studies. So I painted at Nasmyth’s, played the
usual number of hours on the piano, worked and
eonversed with my mother in the evening; and as
we kept early hours, I rose at day-break, and after
dressing, I wrapped myself in a blanket from my

                Relief from Sludy.                  65 ‘
bed on account of the excessive cold—having no
<U+FB01>re at that hour—and read algebra or the classics
till breakfast time. I had, and still have, deter
mined perseverance, but I soon found that it was
in vain to occupy my mind beyond a certain time.
I grew tired and did more harm than good; so, if I
met with a dif<U+FB01>cult point, for example, in algebra,
instead of poring over it till I was bewildered, I left
it, took my work or some amusing book, and resumed
it when my mind was fresh. Poetry was my great
resource on these occasions, but at a later period
I read novels, the “ Old English Baron,” the
“ Mysteries of Udolpho,” the “ Romance of the
Forest,” &c. I was very fond of ghost and witc‘i
stories, both of which were believed in by most of
the common people and many of the better educated.
I heard an old naval of<U+FB01>cer say that he never opened
his eyes after he was in bed. I asked him why?
and he replied, “ For fear I should see something !”
Now I did not actually believe in either ghosts or
witches, but yet, when alone in the dead of the
night, I have been seized with a dread of, I know
not what. Few people will now understand me if I
say I was eerie, a Scotch expression for supersti
tious awe.   I have been struck, on reading the life
of the late Sir David Brewster, with the in<U+FB02>uence
the superstitions of the age and country had on
                                                 F

 66                Mary Somervz'lle.
 both learned and unlcarned.      Sir David was one of
 the greatest philosophers of the day. He was only a
 year younger than I; we were both born in Jed
  burgh, and both were in<U+FB02>uenced by the supersti
  tions of our age and country in a similar manner,
  for he confessed that, although he did not believe
  in ghosts, he was eerie when sitting up to a late
  hour in a lone house that was haunted. This is a
  totally different thing from believing in spirit
  rapping, which I scorn.
      We returned as usual to Burntisland, in spring,
  and my father, who was at home, took my mother
  and me a tour in the Highlands. I was a. great
- admirer of Ossian’s poems, and viewed the grand and
   beautiful scenery with awe; and my father, who
   was of a romantic disposition, smiled at my en
   thusiastic admiration of the eagles as they soared
   above the mountains. These noble birds are nearly
   extirpated; and, indeed, the feathered tribes, which
   were more varied and numerous in Britain than in
   any part of Europe, will soon disapPear. They
   will certainly be avenged by the insects.
       On coming home from the journey I was quite
    broken-hearted to <U+FB01>nd my beautiful gold<U+FB01>nch, which
    used to draw its water so prettin with an ivory cup
    and little chain, dead in its cage.      The odious
    matches of servants, to whose care I trusted it, let

                      <U+FB02>lzn‘z'ny in Me Fleet.                          67
 it die of hunger. My heart is deeply pained as
 I write this, seventy years afterwards.
          I             'I'         §             *            i
     In Fifeshire, as elsewhere, political opinions
 separated friends and disturbed the peace of
 families; discussions on political questions were
 violent and dangerous on account of the hard
 drinking then so prevalent. At this time the
 oppression and cruelty committed in Great Britain
 were almost beyond endurance. Men and women
 were executed for what at the present day would
'only have been held to deserve a few weeks’
 or months’ imprisoninent.* Every liberal opinion
 was crushed, men were entrapped into the army
 by promises which were never kept, and press
 gangs tore merchant seamen from their families,
  and forced them to serve in the navy, where
  they were miserably provided for. The severity
  of discipline in both services amounted to tor
 ture. Such was the treatment of the brave men
  on whom the safety of the nation depended ! They
  could bear it no longer ; a. mutiny broke out in the
  <U+FB02>eet which had been cruising off the Texel to watch
  the movements of a powerful Dutch squadron. The
     ' The late Justice Coltman told us, when he and Lady Coltmm
  came to see my father and mother at Siena, that he recollect/ed when he
  <U+FB01>rst went the circuit seeing more than twenty people hanged at once at
  York, chie<U+FB02>y for horse-stealing and such 0ffen065.-——EDITO}L
                                                                r2

68                  <U+FB01>lmy Somerzzz'lle.
men rose against their of<U+FB01>cers, took the command,
and ship after ship returned to England, leaving
only a frigate and the “ Venerable,” commanded by
Admiral Duncan, with my father as his <U+FB02>ag-captain.
To deceive the Dutch, they continued to make
signals, as if the rest of the <U+FB02>eet were in the of<U+FB01>ng, till
they could return to England ; when, without delay,
Admiral Duncan and my father went alone on board
each ship, ordered the men to arrest the ringleaders,
which was done, and the <U+FB02>eet immediately returned
to its station off the Texel. At last, on the morning
of the 11th October, 1797, the Dutch <U+FB02>eet came out
in great force, and formed in line of battle ; that is,
with their broadsides towards our ships. Then
Admiral Duncan said to my father, “ Fairfax, what
shall we do 'Q”——“ Break their line, sir, and draw up
on the other side, where they will not be so well
prepared."-—“D0 it, then, Fairfax.” So my father
signalled accordingly. The circumstances of the
battle, which was nobly fought on both sides, are
historical. Nine ships of the line and two frigates
were taken, and my father was sent home to an
nounce the victory to the Admiralty. The rejoicing
was excessive; every town and village was illumi
nated ; and the Administration, relieved from the
fear of a revolution, continued more con<U+FB01>dently its
oppressive measures.

                    Campera’own.                  69
   When Admiral Duncan came to London, he was
made a Baron, and afterwards Earl of Camperdown;
and, by an unanimous vote of the House of Com
mons, he received a pension or a sum of money,I
forget which; my father was knighted, and made
Colonel of Marines. Earl Spencer was First Lord
of the Admiralty at the-time, and Lady Spencer
said to my father, “You ask for the promotion of
your o<U+FB02>icers, but you never have asked a reward
for yourself.” He replied, “I leave that to my
country.” But his country did nothing for him;
and at his death my mother had nothing to live
upon but the usual pension of an Admiral’s widow,
of seventy-<U+FB01>ve pounds a-year. Our friends, espe
cially Robert Ferguson, junior, of Raith, made
various attempts to obtain an addition to it; but
it was too late : Camperdown was forgotten.
    I remember one morning going to Lord Camper
down’s house in Edinburgh with my mother, to see
a very large painting, representing the quarter-deck
of the “ Venerable,” Admiral Duncan, as large as
life, standing upright, and the Dutch Admiral, De
W'nter, presenting his sword to my father. Another
representation of the same scene may be seen
among the numerous pictures of naval battles which
decorate the walls of the great hall at Greenwich
Hospital. Many years afterwards I was surprised to

 .__     .__ .. '--'3   u .-___._. va-u- -   -‘_. _-“_._ *M
70                    Mary Somervz'lle.
see an engraving of this very picture in the public
library at Milan. I did not know that one existed.
   At a great entertainment given to Lord Duncan
by the East India Company, then in great power,
the President asked my father, who sat at his left
hand, if he had any relation in India '4 He replied,
“ My eldest son is in the Company’s military service.”
“Then,” said the President, “ he shall be a \Vriter,
the highest appointment in my power to bestow.”
I cannot tell how thankful we were ; for, instead of
a separation of almost a lifetime, it gave hopes that
my brother might make a suf<U+FB01>cient fortune in a
few years to enable him to come home. There was
a great review of the troops at Calcutta, under a
burning sun ; my brother returned to the barracks,
sun-struck, where he found his appointment, and
died that evening, at the age of twenty-one.
       i           1'         i          'I'        I
   [My mother has often told us of her heart-broken
parting with this brother on his going to India. It was
then almost for a lifetime, and he was her favourite
brother, and the companion of her childhood. He must
have been wonderfully handsome, judging from a beauti
fully-painted miniature which we have of him.
   Public events became more and more exciting
every day, and di<U+FB02>iculties occurred at home. There
had been bad harvests, and there was a great

                 -- "_-_          ..  , _
                     A t Yea'éurg<U+FB01>.                7l
scarcity of bread ; the people were much distressed,
and the manufacturing towns in England were
almost in a state of revolution; but the fear of
invasion kept them quiet. I gloried in the brilliant
success of our arms by land and by sea; and
although I should have been glad if the people
had resisted oppression at home, when we were
threatened with invasion, I would have died to
prevent a Frenchman from landing on our coast.
No one can imagine the intense excitement which
pervaded all ranks at that time. Every one was
armed, and, notwithstanding the alarm, we could
not but laugh at the awkward, and often ridiculous,
<U+FB01>gures of our old acquaintances, when at drill in
uniform. At that time I went to visit my relations
at Jedburgh. Soon after my arrival, we were
awakened in the middle of the night by the
Yeomanry entering the town at full gallop.
The beacons were burning on the top of the
Cheviots and other hills, as a signal that the French
had landed. When day came, every preparation
was made ; but it was a false alarm.
   The rapid succession of victories by sea and land
was intensely exciting. We always illuminated our
house, and went to the rocky bank in our southern
garden to see the illumination of Edinburgh, Leith,
and the shipping in the Roads, which was inex—
                            A' f'    ’ ‘me—~vrw ——~*

72                Illary Somemille.
pressibly beautiful, though there was no gas in
those times. It often happened that balls were
given by the of<U+FB01>cers of the ships of war that came
occasionally to Lcith Roads, and I was always
invited, but never allowed to go; for my mother
thought it foolish to run the risk of crossing the
Firth, a distance of seven miles, at a late hour, in
a small open boat and returning in the morning, as
the weather was always uncertain, and the sea often
rough from tide and wind.       On one occasion, my
father was at home, and, though it was blowing
hard,I thought he would not object to accepting
the" invitation; but he said, “ Were it a matter of
duty, you should go, even at the risk of your life,
but for a ball, certainly not.”
   We were as poor as ever, even more so ; for my
father was led into unavoidable expenses in London;
so, after all the excitement, we returned to our
more than usually economical life. No events worth
mentioning happened for a long time. I continued
my diversi<U+FB01>ed pursuits as usual; had they been
more concentrated, it would have been better; but
there was no choice; for I had not the means of
pursuing any one as far as I could wish, nor had I
any friend to whom I could apply for direction or
information. I was often deeply depressed at
spending so much time to so little purpose.

                     CHAPTER V.
 rmsr nanamoa (1804)—wmownoon-srnmns—sacosn MARRIAGE.
   [Mr. Samuel Greig was a distant relation of the
Charters family. His father, an of<U+FB01>cer in the British
navy, had been sent by our government, at the request
of the Empress Catharine, to organize the Russian navy.
Mr. Greig came to the Firth of Forth on board a Russian
frigate, and was received by the Fairfaxes at Burntisland
with Scotch hospitality, as a cousin. He eventually mar
ried my mother; not, however, until he had obtained the
Russian consulship, and settled permanently in London,
for Russia was then governed in the most arbitrary and
tyrannical manner, and was neither a safe nor a desirable
residence, and my grandfather only gave his consent to
the marriage on this condition. My mother says :—
   MY cousin, Samuel Greig, commissioner of the
Russian navy, and Russian consul for Britain, came
to payus a visit, and ultimately became my hus
band. Fortune I had none, and my mother could
only afford to give me a very moderate trousseau,
consisting chie<U+FB02>y of <U+FB01>ne personal and household

 74                Mllle Somerm'lle.
linen. When I was going away she gave me
twenty pounds to buy a shawl or something warm
for the following winter. I knew that the Presi
dent of the Academy of Painting, Sir Arthur Shee,
had painted a portrait of my father immediately
after the battle of Camperdown, and I went to see
it. The likeness pleased me,—the price was twenty
pounds; so instead of a warm shawl I bought my
father’s picture, which I have since given to my
nephew, Sir William George Fairfax. My husband’s
brother, Sir Alexis Greig, who commanded the
Russian naval force in the Black Sea for more than
twenty years, came to London about this time, and
gave me some furs, which were very welcome. Long
after this, I applied to Sir Alexis, at the request
of Dr. Whewell, Master of Trinity College, Cam
bridge, and through his interest an order was
issued by. the Russian Government for simultaneous
observations to be made of the tides on every
sea-coast of the empire.
    LETTER FROM DR. WHEWELL T0 MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                              waxnsrrr Cum, Jan. 5, 1838.
    MY DEAR Mas. Sonnnvmnn,
           I enclose a memorandum respecting tide
observations, to which subject I am desirous of drawing
the attention of the Russian Government. Nobody
knows better than you do how much remains to be done

                      First Marm'age.                     75
respecting the tides, and what important results any
advance in that subject would have. I hope, through
your Russian friends, you may have the means of
bringing this memorandum to the notice of the adminis
tration of their navy, so as to lead to some steps being
taken, in the way of directing observations to be
made. The Russian Government has shown so much
zeal in promoting science, that I hope it will not be
dif<U+FB01>cult to engage them in a kind of research so easy,
so useful practically, and so interesting in its theoretical
bearing.
            Believe me, dear Mrs. Somerville,
                  Very faithfully yours,
                                        W. WHEWELL.
       i          ‘l'        i          i           -'
   My husband had taken me to his bachelor’s house
in London, which was exceedingly small and ill
ventilated. I had a key of the neighbouring square,
where I used to walk. I was alone the whole of the
day, so I continued my mathematical and other
pursuits, but under great disadvantages; for although
my husband did not prevent me from studying, I
met with no sympathy whatever from him, as he
had a very low opinion of the capacity of my sex,
and had neither knowledge of nor interest in science
of any kind. I took lessons in French, and learnt
to speak it so as to be understood. I had no car
riage, so went to the nearest church; but, accus

76                Mary Semen/ilk.
tomed to 01'1r Scotch Kirk, I never could sympathise
with the coldness and formality of the service of the
Church of England. However, I thought it my
duty to go to church and join where I could in
prayer with the congregation.
   There was no Italian Opera in Edinburgh; the
<U+FB01>rst time Iwent to one was in London as chaperone
to Countess Catharine Woronzow, afterwards Coun
tess of Pembroke, who was godmother to my eldest
son. I sometimes spent the evening with her, and
occasionally dined at the embassy; but went nowhere
else till we became acquainted with the family of
Mr. Thomson Bonar, a rich Russian merchant, who
lived in great luxury at a beautiful villa at Chisel—
hurst, in the neighbourhood of London, which has
since become the refuge of the ex-Emperor Napoleon
the Third and the Empress Eugenie. The family
consisted of Mr. and Mrs. Bonar,—kind, excellent
people,—with two sons and a daughter, all grown
up. We were invited from time to time to spend
ten days or a fortnight with them, which I enjoyed
exceedingly. I had been at a riding school in
Edinburgh, and rode tolerably, but had little prac
tice, as we could not afford to keep horses. On our
<U+FB01>rst visit, Mrs. Bonar asked me if I would ride with
her, as there was a good lady’s horse to spare, but I
declined. Next day I said, “I should like to ride

                       Tbe Bonars.                      77
with you.” “ Why did you not go out with me
yesterday?” she asked. “Because I had heard so
much of English ladies’ riding, that I thought you
would clear all the hedges and ditches, and that I
should be left behind lying on the ground.” I spent
many pleasant days with these dear good people ;
and no words can express the horror I felt when we
heard that they had been barbarously murdered in
their bedroom. The eldest son and daughter had
been at a ball somewhere near, and on coming home
they found that one of the men-servants had dashed
out the brains of both their parents with a poker.
The motive remains a. mystery to this day, for it was
not robbery.
         I         Q          i          O        D
    [After three years of married life, my mother returned
to her father’s house in Burntisland, a widow, with two
little boys. The youngest died in childhood. The eldest
was Woronzow Greig, barrister-at-law, late Clerk of
the Peace for Surrey.       He died suddenly in 1865, to
the unspeakable sorrow of his family, and the regret of
all who knew him.
    I was much out of health after my husband’s
death, and chie<U+FB02>y occupied with my children,
especially with the one I was nursing; but as

78               Mary Somerm'lle.
I did not go into society, I rose early, and,
having plenty of time, I resumed my mathe
matical studies. By this time I had studied
plane and spherical trigonometry, conic sections, and
Fergusson’s “Astronomy.” I think it was imme
diately after my return to Scotland that I attempted
to read Newton’s “ Principia.” I found it extremely
dif<U+FB01>cult, and certainly did not understand it till
I returned to it some time after, when I studied
that wonderful work with great assiduity, and wrote
numerous notes and observations on it. I obtained
a loan of what I believe was called the Jesuit’s
edition, which helped me.     At this period mathe
matical science was at a low ebb in Britain; reverence
for Newton had prevented men from adopting the
“Calculus,” which had enabled foreign mathema
ticians to carry astronomical and mechanical science
to the highest perfection.     Professors Ivory and
de Morgan had adopted the “ Calculus”; but several
years elapsed before Mr. Herschel and Mr. Babbage
 were joint-editors with Professor Peacock in pub
lishing an. abridged translation of La Croix’s
“ Treatise on the Differential and Integral- Cal
culus.”    I became acquainted with Mr. _Wallace,
Who was, if I am not mistaken, mathematical
Teacher of the Military College at Marlow, and
editor of a mathematical journal published there.

                    Mat/zematz'rs.                  79
 I had solved some of the problems contained in
 it and sent them to him, which led to a corres
 pondence, as Mr. Wallace sent me his own solutions
 in return. Mine were sometimes right and some
 times wrong, and it occasionally happened that we
 solved the same problem by different methods. At
 last I succeeded in solving a prize problem I It was
a diophantine problem, and I was awarded a silver
medal cast on purpose with my name, which pleased
me exceedingly.
    Mr. Wallace was elected Professor of Mathematics
in the University of Edinburgh, and was very kind
to me. When I told him that I earnestly desired
to go through a regular course of mathematical and
astronomical science, even including the highest
branches, he gave me a list of the requisite books,
which were in French, and consisted of Francoeur’s
pure “Mathematics,” and his “ Elements of Me
chanics,” La Croix’s “ Algebra,” and his large work
on the“ Differential and Integral Calculus,” together
with his work on “ Finite Differences and Series,”
Biot’s “ Analytical Geometry and Astronomy,”
Poisson’s “Treatise on Mechanics,”       La Grangc’s
“Theory of Analytical Functions,” Euler’s “Algebra,”
Euler’s “ Isoperimetrical Problems” (in Latin), Clair
ault’s “Figure of the Earth,” Monge’s “ Application
of Analysis to Geometry,” Callet’s “Logarithms,”

 80                      .Mary Somcrw'lle.
 La Place’s “ Mécanique Celeste," and his “ Ana
 lytical Theory of Probabilities,” &c., &c., &c."
    I was thirty-three years of age when I bought this
 excellent little library. I could hardly believe that I
 possessed such a treasure when I looked back on the
 day that I <U+FB01>rst saw the mysterious word “ Algebra,"
 and the long course of years in which I had perse
 vered almost without hope. It taught me never to
 despair. I had now the means, and pursued my
studies with increased assiduity; concealment was
no longer possible, nor was it attempted.                      I was
considered eccentric and foolish, and my conduct
Was highly disapproved of by many, especially by
some members of my own family, as will be seen
hereafter. They expected me to entertain and keep
a gay house for them, and in that they were disap
pointed. As I was quite independent, I did not
care for their criticism. A great part of the day I
was occupied with my children; in the evening[
worked, played piquet with my father, or played on
the piano, sometimes with violin accompaniment.
        *     I        U          Q'          'I'           I“
   This was the most brilliant period of the Edz'n
burgh Rem'cw; it was planned and conducted with
  ' These books and all the other mathematical works belonging to my
mother at the time of her death have been presented to the College for
Women, at (iii-ton, Cambridge.
                __             _ __r__.____..____              a ._    J

                 7710 Edinburgh Review.            8l
consummate talent by a small society of men of the
most liberal principles. Their powerful articles gave
a severe and lasting blow to the oppressive and
illiberal spirit which had hitherto prevailed. I be
came acquainted with some of these illustrious men,
and with many of their immediate successors. I
then met Henry Brougham, who had so remarkable
an in<U+FB02>uence on my future life. His sister had been
my early companion, and While visiting her I saw
her mother—a <U+FB01>ne, intelligent old lady, a niece of
Robertson the historian. I had seen the Rev. Sydney
Smith, that celebrated wit and able contributor to
the Review, at Burntisland, where he and his wife
came for sea-bathing. Long afterwards we lived
on the most friendly terms till their deaths. Of
that older group no one was more celebrated than
Professor Playfair. He knew that I was reading the
“ Mécanique Celeste,” and asked me how I got on?
I told him that I was stopped short by a dif<U+FB01>culty
now and then, but I persevered till I got over it.
He said, “ You would do better to read on for a few
pages and return to it again, it will then no longer
seem so dif<U+FB01>cult.” I invariably followed his advice
and with much success.
   Professor Playfair was a man of the most varied
accomplishments and of the highest scienti<U+FB01>c dis
tinction.     He was an elderly man when I <U+FB01>rst
                                               0

82                 Mary Someer/e.
became acquainted with him, by no means good
looking, but with a benevolent expression, somewhat
concealed by the large spectacles he always wore.
His manner was gravely cheerful ; he was perfectly
amiable, and was both respected and loved, but he
could be a. severe though just critic. He liked
female society, and, philosopher as he was, marked.
attention from the sex obviously <U+FB02>attered him.
   I had now read a good deal on the higher branches
of mathematics and physical astronomy, but as I
never had been taught, I was afraid that I might
imagine that I understood the subjects when I really
did not; so by Professor \Vallace’s advice I engaged
his brother to read with me, and the book I chose
to study with him was the “Mécanique Céleste.” Mr.
John Wallace was a good mathematician, but I soon
found thatI understood the subject as well as he
did.   I was glad, however, to have taken this resolu
tion, as it gave me con<U+FB01>dence in myself and conse
quently courage to persevere. We had advanced
 but little in this work when my marriage with my
 cousin, William Somervillc (1812), put an end to
 scienti<U+FB01>c pursuits for a time.

                        CHAPTER VI.
  SOMERVILLE  FAMILY —- DR. SOMERVILLE’S CHARACTER -- LETI'ERS -
      JOURNEY TO   THE  LAKES— DEATH  OF SIR. WILLIAM FAIRFAX——
      REMINISCENCES OF SIR WALTER SCOTT.
     [With regard to my father’s family, I cannot do better
  than quote what my grandfather, the Rev. Thomas
  Somerville, says in his “ Life and Times ” :‘——“ I am a
  descendant of the ancient family of Somerville of Cam
  busnethan, which was a branch of the Somervilles of
  Drum, ennobled in the year 1424. Upon the death of
  George Somerville, of Corhouse, <U+FB01>fty years ago, I became
  the only male representative of the family.” There is a
  quaint old chronicle, entitled “Memorie of the Somer
  villes,” written by James, eleventh Lord Somerville, who
  died in 1690, which was printed for private distribution,
  and edited by Sir \Valter Scott, and gives ample details
  of all the branches of our family. Although in<U+FB01>nitely
  too prolix for our nineteenth century ideas, it contains
  many curious anecdotes and pictures of .Scottish life.
     My father was the eldest son of the minister of Jed
' burgh, and until his marriage with my mother, had lived
  almost entirely abroad and in our colonies. It was
  always a subject of regret to my mother that my father
  never could be induced to publish an account of his im
  portant travels in South Africa, for which he had ample
                                                       n 2

84                 Mary Somerw'lle.
materials in the notes he brought home, many of which
we still possess. Without being very deeply learned
on any one special subject, he was generally well~
informed, and very intelligent. He was an excellent
classical scholar, and could repeat long passages from
Horace and other authors. He had a lively interest in
all branches of natural history, was a good botanist and
mineralogist, and could take note of all the strange
animals, plants, or minerals he saw in his adventurous
journies in the countries, now colonized, but then the
hunting-grounds of Ca<U+FB02>'res and other uncivilized tribes.
He was the <U+FB01>rst white man who penetrated so far into
the country, and it was not without great risk. Indeed,
on one occasion he was sentenced to death by a Ca<U+FB01>'re
chief, and only saved by the interposition of the chief’s
mother.
   My father’s style in writing English was singularly
pure and correct, and he was very fastidious on this
topic—a severe critic, whether in correcting the chil
dren’s lessons or in reading over the last proof sheets of
my mother’s works previous to their publication. These
qualities would have <U+FB01>tted him very well to write the
history of his travels, but he disliked the trouble of it,
and, never having the slightest ambition on his own
account, he let the time for publication slip by. Others
travelled over the country he <U+FB01>rst explored, and the
novelty was at an end. He was far happier in helping
my mother in various ways, searching the libraries for
the books she required, indefatigably copying and re
copying her manuscripts, to save her time. No trouble
seemed too great which he bestowed upon her; it was a
labour of love. My father was most kindhearted, and
I have often heard my mother say how many persons he

                Dr. Somerm'lle's Character.             85
had assisted in life, and what generous actions he had
done, many of them requited with ingratitude, and with
betrayal of con<U+FB01>dence. From the way my mother speaks
of their life, it can be seen how happy was their marriage
and how much sympathy there was between them.
Speaking of his son’s marriage with my mother, the Rev.
Dr. Somerville says, in his “ Life and Times,” page 390:
“ To myself this connection was on every account pecu
liarly gratifying. Miss Fairfax had been born and nursed
in my house; her father being at that time abroad on
public service. She afterwards often resided in my
family, was occasionally my scholar, and was looked
upon by me and my wife as if she had been one of our
own children. I can truly say, that next to them she
was the object of our most tender regard. Her ardent
thirst for knowledge, her assiduous application to study,
and her eminent pro<U+FB01>ciency in science and the <U+FB01>ne
arts, have procured her a celebrity rarely obtained
by any of her sex. But she never displays any pre
tensions to superiority, while the a<U+FB02>'ability of her
temper, and the gentleness of her manners afford con
stant sources of grati<U+FB01>cation to her friends. But what,
above all other circumstances, rendered my son’s choice
acceptable to me, was that it had been the anxious,
though secret, desire of my dear wife.”     I have already
said that this esteem and affection of her father-in-law
was warmly responded to by my mother. The following
letter from her to him shows it vividly :—

86                  Mary Somcrz'z'lle’.
         LETTER FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO THE
                   REV. DR. SOMERVILLE.
                                  EDINBURGH, lst June, 1812.
   MY DEAR Sm,
         I have this moment been grati<U+FB01>ed and de
lighted with your excellent and affectionate letter; the
intercourse we have so long enjoyed has always been a
source of the purest pleasure to me, and the kind interest
you have taken from my infancy in my welfare was at all
times highly <U+FB02>attering, and much valued; but now that
the sacred name of Father is added, nothing is wanting
to complete my happiness; and you may rest assured
that William is not more anxious to hasten our visit to
Jedburgh than I am. . . . . With the affectionate
love of all here,
       I remain your ever most affectionate daughter,
                               MARY Sonsnvrnnn.
  P.S.—I am much <U+FB02>attered by the Latin quotation,
and feel happy that your instructions have enabled me to
read it.
         s         a         s          s            s
   [I will now proceed with the extracts from my mother’s
Recollections :—-—
   My husband had been present at the taking of the
Cape of Good Hope, and was sent by the authorities
to make a treaty with the savage tribes on the
borders of the colony, who had attacked the boors,
or Dutch farmers, and carried off their cattle.            In

            A Happ] Daug/u‘er-in-Law.               87
this journey he was furnished with a waggon and
accompanied by Mr. Daniel, a good artist, who made
drawings of the scenery, as well as of the animals
and people. The savage tribes again became
troublesome, and in a second expedition my cousin
was only accompanied by a faithful Hottentot as
interpreter. They were both mounted, and each led
a spare horse with such things as were absolutely
necessary, and when they bivouacked where, for fear
of the natives, they did not dare light a <U+FB01>re to keep
off the wild beasts, one kept watch while the other
slept.   After many adventures and dangers, my
husband reached the Orange River, and was the <U+FB01>rst
white man who had ever been in that part of Africa.
He afterwards served in Canada and in Sicily at the
head of the medical staff, under his friend General
Sir James Craig.      On returning to England he
generally lived in London, so that he was seldom
with his family, with whom he was not a favourite
on account of his liberal principles, the very circum
stance that was an attraction to me. He had lived
in the world, was extremely handsome, had gentle
manly manners, spoke good English, and was emanci
pated from Scotch prejudices.
   I had been living very quietly with my parents
and children, so until I was engaged to my cousin
I was not aware of the extreme severity with which

 88                Mmy Somerr/z'lle.
 my conduct was criticised by his family, and I have
 no doubt by many others; for as soon as our en
 gagement was known I received a most impertincnt
 letter from one of his sisters, who was unmarried,
 and younger than I, saying, she “hoped I would
give up my foolish manner of life and studies, and
make a respectable and useful wife to her brother.”
I was extremely indignant. My husband was still
more so, and wrote a severe and angry letter to
her; none of the family dared to interfere again.
I lived in peace with her, but there was a coldness
and reserve between us ever after. I forgot to
mention that during my widowhood I had several
offers of marriage. One of the persons whilst he
was paying court to me, sent me a volume of ser
mons with the page ostentatiously turned down at a
sermon on the Duties of a Wife, which were expa
tiatcd upon in the most illiberal and narrow-minded
language. I thought this as impertinent as it was
premature; sent back the book and refused the
proposal.
    My uncle, the Rev. Dr. Somerville, was delighted
with my marriage with his son, for he was liberal, and
sincerely attached to me. We were married by his
intimate friend, Sir Henry Moncrei<U+FB01>' Wellwood, and
set off for the lakes in Cumberland. My husband’s
second sister, Janet, resolved to go with us, and she
                \I

                 Yam/my to the Lakes.                89
  succeeded through the in<U+FB02>uence of my aunt, now
  my mother-in-law—a very agreeable, but hold, de—
  termined person, who was always very kind and
  sincerely attached to me. \Ve were soon followed
_ by my cousin, Samuel Somerville and his wife. We
  had only been a day or two in the little inn at
  Lowood when he was taken ill of a fever, which de
  tained us there for more than a month. During his
  illness he took a longing for current jelly, and here
  my cookery was needed; I made some that was ex
  cellent, and I never can forget the astonishment ex
  pressed at my being able to be so useful.
     Somerville and I proceeded to London ; and
  we managed to obtain a good position near Tem
  ple Bar to see the Emperor of Russia, the King
  of Prussia and his sons, Blucher, Plato<U+FB02>‘, the Het
  man of the Cossacks, &c., &c., enter the City. There
  was a brilliant illumination in the - evening, and
  great excitement. We often saw these noted persons
  afterwards, but we did not stay long in London, as
  my husband was appointed head of the Army Medi
  cal Department in Scotland, so we settled in Edin
  burgh. As he was allowed to have a secretary, he
  made choice of Donald Finlayson, a young man of
  great learning and merit, who was to act as tutor
  to my son, \Voronzow Greig, then attending the
  High School, of which Mr. Pillans was master.    Mr.

90                Mmy Somerw'lle.
Finlayson was a remarkably good Greek scholar, and
my husband said, “ Why not take advantage of such
an opportunity of improvement ?” So I read Homer
for an hour every morning before breakfast. Mr.
Finlayson joined the army as surgeon, and distin
guished himself by his courage and humanity during
the battle of \Vaterloo ; but he was lost in the march
of the army to Paris, and his brother George, after
having sought for him in vain, came to live with
us in his stead.    He excelled in botany, and here
again, by my husband’s advice, I devoted a morning
hour to that science, though I was nursing a baby at
the time. I knew the vulgar name of most of the
plants that Mr. Finlayson had gathered, but now I
was taught systematically, and afterwards made a
herbarium, both of land plants and fuei. This
young man’s hopeful career was early arrested by
his love of science, for he died of jungle fever in
Bengal, caught while in search of plants.
   Professor Playfair was now old, and resigned his
chair, which Mr. Leslie was perfectly competent to
<U+FB01>ll on account of his acknowledged scienti<U+FB01>c acquire
ments ; but, being suspected of heretical opinions, his
appointment was keenly opposed, especially on the
part of the clergy, and a violent contest arose, which
ended in his favour. We became acquainted with
him and liked him. He was a man of on'ginal genius,

                     Professor Leslie.              91
full of information on a variety of subjects, agree—
able in conversation and good natured, but with a
singular vanity as to personal appearance. Though
one of the coarsest looking men I ever knew, he
talked so much of polish and re<U+FB01>nement that it
tempted Mr. \Villiam Clerk, of Eldin, to make a
very clever clay model of his ungainly <U+FB01>gure. The
professor’s hair was grey, and he dyed it with some
thing that made it purple ; and, as at that time the
art was not brought to its present perfection, the
operation was tedious and only employed at inter
vals, so that the professor’s hair was often white at
the roots and dark purple at the extremities. He
was always falling in love, and, to Somerville’s inex
pressible amusement, he made me his decoy duck,
inviting me to see some experiments, which he per
formed dexterously ; at the same time telling me to
bring as many young ladies as I chose, especially
Miss ——--, for he was sure she had a turn for
science. He was unfortunate in his aspirations, and
remained a bachelor to the end of his life.
       'I'        l'         §         §       1
   It was the custom in Edinburgh, especially among
the clergy, to dine between the morning and even~
ing service on Sundays, and to sup at nine or ten
o’clock. In no family were these suppers more agree
able or cheerful than in that of Sir Henry Moncrei<U+FB01>'

92               Mary Somervz'l/e.
\Vellwood, minister of the \Vest Kirk.     There were
always a few of the friends of Sir Henry and Lady
Moncrei<U+FB01>‘ present, and we were invited occasionally.
There was a substantial hot supper of roasted fowls,
game, or lamb, and afterwards a lively, animated
conversation on a variety of subjects, without a shade
of austerity, though Sir Henry was esteemed an
orthodox preacher.
   There was an idiot in Edinburgh, the son of a
respectable family, who had a remarkable memory.
He never failed to go to the Kirk on Sunday, and
on returning home could repeat the sermon _word
for word, saying, Here the minister coughed, Here
he stopped to blow his nose. During the tour
we made in the Highlands we met with another
idiot who knew the Bible so perfectly that if you
asked him where such a verse was to be found,
he could tell without hesitation, and repeat the
chapter. The common people in Scotland at that
time had a kind of serious compassion for these
harmless idiots, because “ the hand of God was
upon them.”
   The wise as Well as the foolish are sometimes
endowed with a powerful memory. Dr. Gregory,
an eminent Edinburgh physician, one of the cleverest
and most agreeable men I ever met with, was a
remarkable instance of this.     He wrote and spoke

          Deal/z of Sir William Fairfax.             98
Latin <U+FB02>uently, and Somerville, who was a good
Latinist, met with a Latin quotation in some book he
was reading, but not knowing from whence it was
taken, asked his friend Dr. Gregory. “It is forty
years since I read that author,” said Dr. Gregory,
 “ but I think you will <U+FB01>nd the passage in the
middle of such a page.” Somcrville went for the
book, and at the place mentioned there it was.
       i         i           Q         i        *
   I had the grief to lose my dear father at this
time. He had served sixty-seven years in the
British Navy, and must have been twice on the
North American station, for he was present at
the taking of Quebec by General Wolfe, in 1759,
and afterwards during the War of Independence.
After the battle of Camperdown he was made a
Colonel of Marines, and died, in 1813, Vice-Admiral
of the Red.
       1'        'I'         i         *        1'
   Geology, which has now been so far advanced
as a science, was still in its infancy. Professor Play
fair and Mr. Hugh Miller had written on the sub
ject; and in my gay young days, when Lady Helen
Hall was occasionally my chaperone, I had heard
that Sir James Hall had taken up the subject, but
I did not care about it; Iam certain that at that
time I had never heard the word Geology.        I think

94                JWary Somerville.
it was now, on going with Somerville to see the
Edinburgh Museum, that I recognised the fossil
plants I had seen in the coal limestone on the
sands at the Links of Burntisland. Ultimately
Geology became a favourite pursuit of ours, but
then minerals were the objects of our joint study.
Mineralogy had been much cultivated on the Con
tinent by this time, especially in Germany. It had
been established as a science by Werther, who was
educated at an institution near the silver mines of
Friburg, where he afterwards lectured on the pro~
perties of crystals, and had many pupils. In one
of our tours on the Continent, Somerville and I
went to see these silver mines and bought some
specimens for our cabinet.      The French took up
the subject with great zeal, and the Abbé Ha'uy’s
work became a standard book on the science.
Cabinets of minerals had been established in the
principal cities of Great Britain, professors were
appointed in the Universities, and collections of
minerals were not uncommon in private houses.
While quite a girl, I went with my parents to visit
the Fergusons of Raith, near Kirkealdy, and there I
saw a magni<U+FB01>cent collection of minerals, made by
their son while abroad.   It contained gems of great
value and crystallized specimens of precious and
other metals, which surprised and interested me i

         Reminiscences qf Sir Walter Scott.        95
 but seeing that such valuable things could never be
obtained by me, I thought no more about them.
 In those early days I had every dif<U+FB01>culty to con
tend with; now, through the kindness and liberal
 opinions of my husband, I had every encourage
 ment. He took up the study of mineralogy with
 zeal, and I heartily joined with him. We made
 the acquaintance of Professor Jameson, a pupil of
 \Verner’s, whose work on mineralogy was of great
 use to us.  We began to form a cabinet of minerals,
which, although small, were good of their kind. WVe
were criticized for extravagance, and, no doubt I
had the lion’s share of blame ; but more of minerals
hereafter.
        i        i“        i         *        i
    Abbotsford is only twelve miles distant from Jed—
burgh, and my father-in-law, Dr. Somerville, and Sir
Walter Scott had been intimate friends formanyyears,
indeed through life. The house at Abbotsford was
at <U+FB01>rst a mere cottage, on the banks of the Tweed ;
my brother-in-law, Samuel, had a villa adjacent to
it, and John, Lord Somerville, had a house and
property on the opposite bank of the river, to which
he came every spring for salmon <U+FB01>shing. He was
a handsome, agreeable man, had been educated in
England, and as he thought he should never live
in Scotland, he sold the family estate of Drum,

  96                 1V]ary Somerw'l/e.
  within <U+FB01>ve miles of Edinburgh, which be after
 wards regretted, and bought the property on the
 Tweed he then inhabited.
     There was great intimacy between the three
 families, and the society was often enlivened by
 Adam Ferguson and Willie Clerk, whom we had
 met with at Raith. I shall never forget the charm
 of this little society, especially the supper-parties at
 Abbotsford, when Scott was in the highest glee,
 telling amusing tales, ancient legends, ghost and
 witch stories. Then Adam Ferguson would sing
 the “Laird of Cockpcn,” and other comic songs,
 and Willie Clerk amused us with his dry wit.
 \Vhen it was time to go away all rose, and, stand
 ing hand-in-hand round the table, Scott taking the
 lead, we sang in full chorus,
                   Weel may we a’ be,
                   111 may we never see ;
                   Health to the king
                   And the gude companie.
    At that time no one knew who was the author
of the \Vaverley Novels. There was much specu
lation and curiosity on the subject. While talking
about one which had just been published, my son
\Voronzow said, “ I knew all these stories long ago,
for Mr. Scott writes on the dinner-table. “Then he
has <U+FB01>nished, he puts the green-cloth with the papers

                      Walter Scott.                 97'
in a corner of the dining-room; and when he goes
out, Charlie Scott and I read the stories." My
son’s tutor was the original of Dominie Sampson
in “ Guy Mannering.” The “ Memorie of the Somer
villes ” was edited by Walter Scott, from an ancient
and very quaint manuscript found in the archives
of the family, and from this he takes passages
which he could not have found elsewhere. Although
the work was printed it was never published, but
copies were distributed to the different members of
the family. One was of course given to my hus
band.
   The Burning of the Water, so well described by
\Valter Scott in “ Redgauntlet,” we often witnessed.
The illumination of the banks of the river, the
activity of the men striking the salmon with the
“leisters,” and the shouting of the people when a
<U+FB01>sh was struck, was an animated, and picturesque,
but cruel scene.
   Sophia Scott, afterwards married to Mr. Lockhart,
editor of the “ Quarterly Review,” was the only one of
Sir Walter’s family who had talent. She was not
pretty, but remarkably engaging and agreeable, and
possessed her father’s joyous disposition as well as
his memory and fondness for ancient Border legends
and poetry. Like him, she was thoroughly alive to
peculiarities of character, and laughed at them

98                Mary Somerville.
good-naturedly. She was not a musician, had little
voice, but she sang Scotch songs and translations
from the Gaelic with, or without, harp accompani
ment ; the serious songs with so much expression,
and the merry ones with so much spirit, that she
charmed everybody. The death of her brothers and
of her father, to whom she was devotedly attached,
cast a shade over the latter part of her life.   Mr.
Lockhart was clever and an able writer, but he was
too sarcastic to be quite agreeable; however, we
 were always on the most friendly terms. He was
 of a Lanarkshire family and distantly related to
 Somerville. After the death of his wife and sons,
 Lockhart fell into bad health and lost much of his
asperity.
    Scott was ordered to go abroad for relaxa
 tion. Somerville and I happened to be at the sea
 port where he embarked, and we went to take leave
 of him.    He kissed me, and said, “Farewell, my
 dear; I am going to die abroad like other British
 novelists.” Happy would it have been if God
 had so willed it, for he returned completely broken
 down ; his hopes were blighted, his sons dead, and
 his only remaining descendant was a grand-daughter,
 daughter of Mrs. Lockhart. She married Mr. James
 Hope, and soon died, leaving an only daughter, the
 last descendant of Sir Walter Scott. Thus the

                     fame: Veitc/z.                   99
“ Merry, merry days that I have seen,” ended very
sadly.
        §         I!        i        i          i
   When at Jedburgh, I never failed to visit James
Veitch, who was Laird of Inchbonny, a small pro
perty beautiquy situated in the valley of the Jed,
at a short distance from the manse. He was a
plough-wright, a hard—working man, but of rare
genius, who taught himself mathematics and
astronomy in the evenings with wonderful success,
for he knew the motions of the planets, calculated
eclipses and occultations, was versed in various
scienti<U+FB01>c subjects, and made excellent telescopes, of
which I bought a very small one ; it was the only
one I ever possessed. Veitch was handsome, with
a singularly
       looked<U+FB01>ne  bald forehead and piercing        that I
                                             eyes,aware
quite          through  one. He   was  perfectly
of his talents, shrewd, and sarcastic. His fame had
spread, and he had many visits, of which he was
impatient, as it wasted his time. He complained
especially of those from ladies not much skilled in
science, saying, “What should they do but ask
silly questions, when they spend their lives in
doing naething but spatting muslin ?” Veitch
was strictly religious and conscientious, observing
the Sabbath day with great solemnity; and I
had the impression that he was stem to his wife,
                                               :12

100               Mary Somerville.
who seemed to be a person of intelligence, for
I remember seeing her come from the washing
tub to point out the planet Venus while it was
still daylight.
    The retiu'n of Halley’s comet, in 1835, exactly
 at the computed time, was a great astronomical
 event, as it was the <U+FB01>rst comet of long period
 clearly proved to belong to our system. I was
 asked by Mr. John Murray to write an article on
 the subject for the “ Quarterly Review.” After it
 was published, I received a letter from James Veitch,
  rcproaching me for having mentioned that apeasant
  in Hungary was the <U+FB01>rst to see Halley’s comet, and
  for having omitted to say tha , “ a peasant at Inch
  bonny was the <U+FB01>rst to see the comet of 1811, the
  greatest that had appeared for a century.” I re
  gretted, on receiving this letter, that I either had not
  known, or .had forgotten the circumstance.        Veitch
  has been long dead, but I avail myself of this oppor
  tunity of making the mnendc honorable. to a man
   of great mental power and acquirements who had
  struggled through dif<U+FB01>culties, unaided, as I have
   done myself.

              Letterfrom farms Veitc/z.                   101
   LETTER FROM JAMES VEITCH TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                              Ixcnnormr, 12th October, 1836.
  DEAR MADAM,
            I saw in the Quarterly review for December
1835 page 216 that the comet 1682 was discovered by a
Peasent, George Palitzch residing in the neighbourhood
of Dresden on the} 25th of December 1758 with a small
Telescope. But no mention is made of the Peasent at
Inchbonny who <U+FB01>rst discovered the beautiful comet 1811.
You will remember when Dr. Wollaston was at Inch
bonny I put a dif<U+FB01>cult question to him that I could not
solve about the focal distance of optic glasses when the
Dr. got into a passion and said: Had he problems in his
pocket ready to pull out in every occasion ? and with an
angry look at me said, You pretend to be the <U+FB01>rst that
discovered the comet altho’ it has been looked for by
men of science for some time back. Now I never heard
of such a thing and you will perhaps know something
about it as the Dr. would not be mistaken. After we
got acquainted, the Dr. was a warm friend of mine and
I have often regretted that I had not improved the
opportunity I had when he was here on many things
he was master off. What ever others had known or
expected I knew nothing about, But I know this, that on
the 27th of August 1811 I <U+FB01>rst saw it in the NNW.
part of the Heavens nigh the star marked 26 on the
shoulder of the little Lion and continued treacing its
path among the <U+FB01>xed stars untill it dissapeared and it
was generally admitted that I had discovered it four
days before any other person in Britain. However
Mr. Thomas Dick on the Diffusion of Knowledge page

102                Mary Somen/z'lle.
101 and 102 has made the following observation ‘ The
splendid comet which appeared in our hemisphere in
1811 was <U+FB01>rst discovered in this country by a sawer.
The name of this Gentleman is Mr. Veitch and I
believe he resides in the neighbourhood of Kelso who
with a Re<U+FB02>ecting telescope of his own construction and
from his sawpit as an observatory, descried that celestial
visitant before it had been noticed by any other
astronomer in North Britain.’ A strange story—a
sawer and a gentleman;      and what is stranger still
Mr. Baily would not have any place but the sawpit
for his observatory on the 15th May last. I am sorry
to say with all the improvement and learning that we
can host of in the present day Halley’s comet the
predictions have not been ful<U+FB01>lled, either with respect
to time or place. Thus on the 10 October, at 50
minutes past 5 in the evening the Right ascension of
the comet was 163° 37', with 63° 38’ of north declina
tion but by the nautical almanac for the 10 October
its right ascension ought to have been 225° 2’ 6, and
its declination 29° 33'. Hence the difference is no less
than 61° in Right ascension and 34° in declination.
When you have time, write me.
                 Dear Madam, I remain,
                              Yours sincerely,
                                       JAMES Vnrrcn.
   Sir David Brewster was many years younger than
James Veitch ; in his early years he assisted his
father in teaching the parish-school at Jedburgh,
and in the evenings he went to Inchbonny to study

                        Brewster.                 103
astronomy with James Veitch, who always called him
Davie. They were as much puzzled about the mean
ing of the word parallax as I had been with regard to
the word algebra, and only learnt what it meant when
Brewster went to study for the kirk in Edinburgh.
They were both very devout; nevertheless, Brewster
soon gave up the kirk for science, and he devoted
himself especially to optics, in which he made so
many discoveries. Sir David was of ordinary
height, with fair or sandy-coloured hair and blue
eyes. He was by no means good-looking, yet with
a very pleasant, amiable expression; in conversa
tion he was cheerful and agreeable when quite at
ease, but of a timid, nervous, and irritable tempera
ment, often at war with his fellow-philosophers
upon disputed subjects, and extremely jealous
upon priority of discovery. I was much indebted
to Sir David, for he reviewed my book on the
“ Connexion of the Physical Sciences,” in the April
number of the “Edinburgh Review " for 1834, and
the “ Physical Geography " in the April number
of the “ North British Review,” both favourably.

                    CHAPTER VII
  LIFE IN HANOVER SQUARE—VISIT T0 FRANCE—ARAGO—CL'VIER—
                           ROME.
   My father was appointed, in 1816, a. member of the
Army Medical Board, and it became necessary for him
to reside in London. He and my mother accordingly
wished farewell to Scotland, and proceeded to take up
their residence in Hanover Square. My mother pre
served the following recollections of this journey :—
   ON our way we stopped a day at Birmingham,
on purpose to see \Vatt and Boulton’s manu
factory of steam engines at Soho. Mr. Boulton
showed us everything. The engines, some in action,
although beautifully smooth, showed a power that
was almost fearful. Since these early forms of the
steam engine I have lived to see this all but omnipo
tent instrument change the locomotion of the whole
civilized world by sea and by land.
   Soon after our arrival in London we became
acquainted with the illustrious family of the
Herschels, through the kindness of our friend Pro

                 Tlze Hersc/wl Family.             105
fessor Wallace, for it was by his arrangement that
we spent a day with Sir William and Lady Herschel,
at Slough. Nothing could exceed the kindness of
Sir William. He made us examine his celebrated
telescopes, and explained their mechanism; and he
showed us the manuscripts which recorded the
numerous astronomical discoveries he had made.
They were all arranged in the most perfect order,
as was also his musical library, for that great genius
was an excellent musician. Unfortunately, his sister,
Miss Caroline Herschel, who shared in the talents
of the family, was abroad, but his son, afterwards
Sir John, my dear friend for many years, was at
home, quite a youth. It would be di<U+FB02>icult to
name a branch of the physical sciences which he
has not enriched by important discoveries. He has
ever been a dear and valued friend to me, whose
advice and criticism I gratefully acknowledge.
       *         {I        §         §         ‘
   I took lessons twice a week from Mr. Glover, who
painted landscapes very prettily, and I liked him on
account of his kindness to animals, especially birds,
which he tamed so that they <U+FB02>ew before him when
he walked, or else sat on the trees, and returned to
him when he whistled. I regret now that I ever
resumed my habit of painting in oil; water-colonrs
are much better suited to an amateur, but as I had

106               Mary Somem'lla
never seen any that were good, I was not aware of
their beauty.
   I also took lessons in mineralogy from Mrs.
Lowry, a Jewess, the wife of an eminent line
engraver, who had a large collection of minerals,
and in the evening Somerville and I amused our
selves with our own, which were not numerous.
   Our house in Hanover Square was within a walk
ing distance of many of our friends, and of the
Royal Institution in Albemarle Street, where I
attended the lectures, and Somerville frequently
went with me. The discoveries of Sir Humphry
Davy made this a memorable epoch in the annals of
chemical science. At this time there was much talk
about the celebrated Count Rumford’s steam kitchen,
by which food was to be cooked at a very small
expense of fuel. It was adopted by several people,
and among others by Naldi, the opera singer, who
invited some friends to dine the <U+FB01>rst day it was to
be used. Before dinner they all went to see the
new invention, but while Naldi was explaining its
structure, it exploded and killed him on the spot.
By this sad accident his daughter, a pretty girl and
a good singer, was left destitute. A numerously
attended concert was given for her bene<U+FB01>t, at which
Somerville and I were present. She was soon after
engaged to sing in Paris, but ultimately married the

                 Tlze Prince de C012116.           107
Comte de Sparre, a French gentleman, and left the
stage.
   When MM. Arago and Biot came to England to
continue the French are of the meridian through
Great Britain, they were warmly received by the
scienti<U+FB01>c men in London, and we were always in
vited to meet them by those whom we know. They
had been told of my turn for science, and that I had
read the works of La Place.       Biot expressed his
surprise at my youth.
       I         'I       ‘          ‘        ‘
   One summer Somerville proposed to make a tour
in Switzerland, so we set off, and on arriving
at Chantilly we were told that we might see the
chateau upon giving our cards to the doorkeeper.
On reading our name, Mademoiselle de Rohan came
to meet us, saying that she had been at school in
England with a sister of Lord Somerville’s, and was
glad to see any of the family. She presented us to
the Prince de Condé, a <U+FB01>ne-looking old man, who
received us very courteously, and sent the lord-in
waiting to show us the grounds, and especially the
stables, the only part of the castle left in its regal
magni<U+FB01>cence after the Revolution. The Prince and
the gentleman who accompanied us wore a gaudy
uniform like a livery, which we were told was the
Chantilly uniform, and that at each palace belonging

103                Mary Somerville.
to the Prince there was a different uniform worn by
him and his court.
   At Paris we were received with the kindest hos
pitality by M. and Mme. Arago. I liked her
much, she was so gentle and ladylike; he was tall
and good-looking, with an animated countenance
and black eyes. His character was noble, generous,
and singularly energetic; his manners lively and even
gay. He was a. man of very general information,
and, from his excitable temperament, he entered as
ardently into the politics and passing events of the
time as into science, in which few had more exten
sive knowledge. On this account I thought his
conversation more brilliant than that of any of the
French savans with whom I was acquainted. They
were living at the Observatory, and M. Arago
showed me all the instruments of that magni<U+FB01>cent
establishment in the minutest detail, which was
highly interesting at the time, and proved more
useful to me than I was aware of. M. Arago made
us acquainted with the Marquis de la Place, and the
Marquise, who was quite an élégante. The Marquis
was not tall, but thin, upright, and rather formal.
He was distinguished in his manners, and I thought
there was a little of the courtier in them, perhaps from
having been so much at the court of the Emperor
Napoleon, who had the highest regard for him.

                 Arago and La Plate.               109
Though incomparably superior to Arago in mathe
matics and astronomical science, he was inferior to
him in general acquirements, so that his conversa
tion was less varied and popular. We were invited
to go early and spend a day with them at Arcoeuil,
where they had a country house. M. Arago had
told M. de la Place that I had read the “ Méca
nique Céleste,” so we had a great deal of conversation
about astronomy and the calculus, and he gave me
a copy of his “ Systeme du Monde,” with his in
scription, which pleased me exceedingly. I spoke
French very badly, but I was less at a loss on scien—
ti<U+FB01>c subjects, because almost all my books on science
were in French. The party at dinner consisted of
MM. Biot, Arago, Bouvard, and Poisson.           I sat
next M. de la Place, who was exceedingly kind
and attentive. In such an assemblage of philoso
phers I expected a very grave and learned conversa
tion. But not at all! Everyone talked in a gay,
animated, and loud key, especially M. Poisson, who
had all the vivacity of a Frenchman. Madame
Biot, from whom we received the greatest attention,
made a party on purpose, as she said, to show us,
“les personnes distinguées.” Madame Biot was a
well-educated woman, and had made a translation
from the German of a work, which was published
under the name of her husband.        The dinner was

110              Mary Somervz'lle.
very good, and Madame Biot was at great pains in
placing every one. Those present were Monsieur
and Madame Arago, Monsieur and Madame Poisson,
who had only been married the day before, and
Baron Humboldt.      The conversation was lively and
entertaining.
   The consulate and empire of the <U+FB01>rst Napoleon
was the most brilliant period of physical astronomy
in France. La Grange, who proved the stability of
the solar system, La. Place, Biot, Arago, Bouvard,
and afterwards Poinsot, formed a perfect constella
tion of undying names; yet the French had been
for many years-inferior to the English in practical
astronomy.    The observations made at Greenwich
by Bradley, Maskelyn, and Pond, have been so ad
mirably continued under the direction of the present
astronomer-royal, Mr. Airy, the <U+FB01>rst practical astro
nomer in Europe, that they have furnished data for
calculating the astronomical tables both in France
and England.
   The theatre was at this time very brilliant in
Paris.   \Ve saw Talma, who was considered to be
the <U+FB01>rst tragedian of the age in the character of Tan
crede. I admired the skill with which he overcame
the disagreeable effect which the rhyme of the French
tragedies has always had on me. Notwithstand—
ing his personal advantages, I thought him a great

                        Cuw'er.                  111
artist, though inferior to John Kemble. I am afraid
my admiration of Shakespeare, my want of sym
pathy with the arti<U+FB01>cial style of French tragedy,
and perhaps my youthful remembrance of our great
tragedian Mrs. Siddons, made me unjust to Madc
moiselle Duchénois, who, although ugly, was cer—
tainly an excellent actress and a favourite of the
public. I was so fond of the theatre that I enjoyed
comedy quite as much as tragedy, and was delighted
with Mademoiselle Mars, whom we saw in Tartu<U+FB02>'e.
Some years later I saw her again, when, although
an old woman, she still appeared handsome and
young upon the stage, and was as graceful and
lively as ever.
   Soon after our dinner party at Arcoeuil, we went
to pay a morning visit to Madame de la Place. It
was late in the day; but she received us in bed
elegantly dressed. I think the curtains were of
muslin with some gold ornaments, and the coverlet
was of rich silk and gold. It was the <U+FB01>rst time that
I had ever seen a lady receive in that manner.
Madame de La Place was lively and agreeable; I
liked her very much.
   We spent a most entertaining day with M. and
Madame Cuvier at the Jardin des Plantes, and saw
the Museum, and everything in that celebrated
establishment. On returning to the house, we

112              <U+FB01>lmy Somerm'l/e.
found several people had come to spend the
evening, and the conversation was carried on with
a good deal of spirit; the Countess Albrizzi,
a Venetian lady, of high acquirements, joined in
it with considerable talent and animation. Cuvier
had a very remarkable countenance, not hand
some, but agreeable, and his manner was pleasing
and modest, and his conversation very interest
ing. Madame de Stae'l having died lately, was
much discussed. She was much praised for her
good-nature, and for the brilliancy of her conversa—
tion. They agreed, that the energy of her character,
not old age, had worn her out.        Cuvier said, the
force of her imagination misled her judgment, and
made her see things in a light different from all
the world. As a proof of this, he mentioned
that she makes Corinne lean on a marble lion
which is on a tomb in St. Peter’s, at Rome,
more than twenty feet high.           Education was
very much discussed.     Cuvier said, that when he
was sent to inspect the schools at Bordeaux and
Marseilles, he found very few of the scholars who
could perform a simple calculation in arithmetic;
as to science, history, or literature, they were un
known, and the names of the most celebrated
French philosophers, famed in other countries, were
utterly unknown to those who lived in the pro

                         1W}: Pent/and.                            113
 vinces.     M. Biot had written home, that he had
 found in Aberdeen not one alone, but many, who
 perfectly understood the object of his journey, and
 were competent to converse with him on the sub
 ject. Cuvier said such a circumstance constituted
 one of the striking differences between France and
 England; for in France science was highly cultivated,
 but con<U+FB01>ned to the capital. It was at M. Cuvier’s
 that I <U+FB01>rst met Mr. Pentland, who made a series of
 physical and geological observations on the Andes
 of Peru. I was residing in Italy when I published
 my “Physical Geography," and Mr. Pentland" kindly
 undertook to carry the book through the press for
 me. From that time he has been a steady friend,
 ever ready to get me information, books, or any
 thing I wanted. lVe became acquainted also with
 M. Gay-Lussac, who lived in the Jardin des Plantes,
 and with Baron Larrcy, who had been at the head
 of the medical department of the army in Egypt
under the <U+FB01>rst Napoleon.
        i            '1'          *           *l'           'i
    At Paris I equipped myself in proper dresses, and
we proceeded by Fontainebleau to Geneva, where
we found Dr. Marcet, with whom my husband had
  ’ Joseph Barclay Pentland, Consul-General in Bolivia (1836-39), died
in London, July, 1873. He <U+FB01>rst discovered that Illimani and Sorata
(not Chimborazo) were the highest mountains in America.          (See
Humboldt’s “ Kosmos.")

114               Mary Somerville.
already been acquainted in London.            I, for the
<U+FB01>rst time, met Mrs. Marcet, with whom I have ever
lived on terms of affectionate friendship. So many
books have now been published for young people,
that no one at this time can duly estimate the im
portance of Mrs. Marcet’s scienti<U+FB01>c works. To them
is partly owing that higher intellectual education
now beginning to prevail among the better classes
in Britain. They produced a great sensation, and
went through many editions. Her “ Conversations
on Chemistry,” <U+FB01>rst opened out to Faraday’s mind
that <U+FB01>eld of science in which he became so illus
trious, and at the height of his fame he always men
tioned Mrs. Marcet with deep reverence.
   Through these kind friends we became acquainted
with Professors De Candolle, Prevost, and De la Rive.
Other distinguished men were also presented to us ;
among these was Mr. Sismondi, author of the “ His
tory of the Italian Republics.” Madame Sismondi
was a. Miss Allen, of a family with whom we were
very intimate.
   [Some time after her return to England, my mother,
desirous of continuing the study of botany, in which she
had already attained considerable pro<U+FB01>ciency, wrote to
M. De Candolle, asking his advice, and he sent her the
following reply :—

                          De Candolle.                     115
   LETTER FROM M. DE CANDOLLE TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                                       Lonnnns, 5 Juin, 1819.
    BIADAME,
           Vous avez passé les premières difficultés de
 l’étude des plantes et vous me faites l’honneur de me
 consulter sur les moyens d'aller en avant; connaissant
 votre goût et votre talent pour les sciences les plus
 relevées je ne craindrai point de vous engager à sortir
 de la. Botanique élémentaire et à vous élever aux con
 sidérations et aux études qui en font une science sus
 ceptible d‘idées générales, d’applications aux choses
 utiles et de liaison avec les autres branches des con
naissances humaines. Pour cela il faut étudier non plus
seulement la nomenclatiu'e et l’échafaudage arti<U+FB01>ciel
qui la soutient, mais les rapports des plantes entre elles
et avec les élémens extérieurs, ou en d’autres termes, la
classi<U+FB01>cation naturelle et la Physiologie.
    Pour l’un et l’autre de ces branches de la science il est
nécessaire en premier lieu de se familiariser avec la
structure (les plantes considérée dans leur caractère
exacte. Vous trouverez un précis abrégé de ces carac
tères dans le 1cr vol. de la Flore française; vous la
trouverez plus développé et accompagné de planches dans
les Elémens de Botanique de Michel. Quant à. la struc
ture du fruit qui est un des points les plus di<U+FB01>iciles et
les plus importans, vous allez avoir un bon ouvrage
traduit et augmenté par un de vos jeunes et habiles com
patriotes, Mr. Lindley—c'est l’analyse du fruit de M.
Richard. La traduction vaudra mieux que l’original.
Outre ces lectures, ce qui vous apprendra surtout la
structure des plantes, c’est de les analyser et de les
                                                     IO

 116                JWary Somemilie.
décrire vous-même d’après les termes techniques; ce
travail deviendrait pénible et inutile à faire sur un grand
nombre de plantes, et il vaut mieux ne le faire que sur
un très petit nombre d’espèces choisies dans des classes
très distinctes. Quelques descriptions faites aussi com
plètes qu’il vous sera possible vous apprendra plus que
tous les livres.
   Dès que vous connaîtrez bien les organes et concur
remment avec cette étude vous devrez chercher à prendre
une idée de la classi<U+FB01>cation naturelle.   Je crains de vous
paraître présomptueux en vous engageant à lire -_ d'abord
sous ce point de vue ma Théorie élémentaire. Après
ces études ou à. peu près en même temps pour pro<U+FB01>ter
de la saison, vous ferez bien de rapporter aux ordres
naturels toutes les plantes que vous aurez recueillies.
La lecture des caractères des familles faites la plante à.
la main et l’acte de ranger vos plantes en familles vous
feront comiaître par théorie et par pratique ces groupes
naturels. Je vous engage dans cette étude, surtout en le
commencement, à. ne donner que peu d’attention au
svstème général qui lie les familles, mais beaucoup à la
connaissance de la physionomie qui est propre à chacmie
d’elles.   Sous ce point de vue vous pourrez trouver
quelque intérêt à. lire—1o les Tableaux de la. Nature de
M. de Humboldt; 2° mon essai sur les propriétés des
plantes comparées avec leurs formes extérieures; 3° les
remarques sur la géographie botanique de la Nouvelle
Hollande et de l’Afrique, insérés par M. Robt. Brown
à la <U+FB01>n du voyage de Finders et de l’expedition au
 Congo.              .
   Quant à l’étude de la Physiologie ou de la connais
sance des végétaux considérés comme êtres vivans, je
vous engage à lire les ouvrages dans l’ordre suivant:

                        De Ca<U+FB02>dolle.                    117
Philibert, Elémens de Bot. et de Phys, 3 vols.; la 2‘lc
partie des principes élémentaires de la Bot. de la Flore
française. Vous trouverez la partie anatomique dans
l’ouvrage de Mirbel; la partie chimique dans les
recherches chimiques sur la Veget. de T. de Saussure;
la partie statique dans la statique des végétaux de
Hales, &c. &c. Mais je vous engage surtout à voir par
vous-même les plantes à. tous leurs ages, à suivre leur
végétation, à les décrire en détail, en un mot à vivre avec
elles plus qu’avec les livres.
   Je désire, madame, que ces conseils puissent vous
engager à. suivre l’étude des plantes sous cette direction
qui je crois en relève beaucoup l’importance et l'intérêt.
Je m’estimerai heureux si en vous l’indiquant je puis
concourir à. vos succès futures et à. vous initier dans une
étude que j’ai toujours regardé comme une de celles
qui peut le plus contribuer au bonheur journalier.
   Je vous prie d’agréer mes hommages empressés.
                                          DE CANDOLLE.
   \Ve had made the ordinary short tour through
Switzerland, and had arrived at Lausanne on our
way home, when I was taken ill with a severe fever
which detained us there for many weeks. I shall
never forget the kindness I received from two Miss
Barclays, Quaker ladies, and a Miss Fotheringham,
who, on hearing of my illness, came and sat up
alternate nights with me, as if I had been their
sister.
   The winter was now fast approaching, and Somer

     118              [Mary Somerville.
     ville thought that in my weak state a warm climate
     was necessary ; so we arranged with our friends, the
     Miss Barclays, to pass the Simplon together. \Ve
     parted company at Milan, but we renewed our
     friendship in London.
        We went to Monza, and saw the iron crown ; and
     there I found the Magnolia grandi<U+FB01>ora, which
     hitherto I had only known as a greenhouse plant,
    rising almost into a forest tree.
        At Venice we renewed our acquaintance with the
    Countess Albrizzi, who received every evening. It
    was at these receptions that we saw Lord Byron, but
    he would not make the acquaintance of any English
   Pfaople at that time. When he came into the room I
   (116? not perceive his lameness, and thought him
  stnkingly like my brother Hem'y, who was remark
  ably handsome. 1 said to Somerville, “Is Lord
  Higon like anyone you know ?” “Your brother
  Camrg (lbecldedly.” Lord Broughton, then Sir J01111
      At 1?] house, was also present.
 Albany (lrénce, I was presented to the Countess of
 the Preien‘llldow of Prince Charles Edward Stuart
 to Al<U+FB01>eri ther. She was then supposed to be married
QVQPy eVenizopoet, and had a kind of state reception
again H b“ I dld not like her, and never went
you d , er manner was proud and insolent. “So
         on 13 speak Italian -          t h ’ 11 d       ’
                              , you mus    me a a ver)

                   Countess of A Many.                 119
bad education, for Miss Clephane Maclane there
[who was close by] speaks both French and Italian
perfectly.” So saying, she turned away, and never
addressed another word to me. That evening I
recognised in Countess Moretti my old friend
Agnes Bonar. Moretti was of good family; but,
having been banished from home for political
opinions, he taught the guitar in London for bread,
and an attachment was formed between him and
his pupil. After the murder of her parents, they
were both persecuted with the most unrelenting
cruelty by her brother. They escaped to Milan
where they were married.
   I was still ayoung woman; but I thought myself
too old to learn to speak a foreign language, conse
quently I did not try. I spoke French badly ; and
now, after several years’ residence in Italy, although
I can carry on a conversation <U+FB02>uently in Italian, I
do not speak it well.
   [When my mother <U+FB01>rst went abroad, she had no
<U+FB02>uency in' talking French, although she was well ac
quainted with the literature. To show how, at every
 period of her life, she missed no opportunity of acquiring
 information or improvement, I may mention that many
years after, when we were spending a summer in
 Siena, where the language is spoken with great purity
 and elegance, she engaged a lady to converse in Italian
with her for a couple of hours daily. _By this means

     120               Mary Somervz'l/c.
     she very soon became perfectly familiar with the language,
     and could keep up conversation in Italian without dif<U+FB01>
     culty. She never cared to write in any language but
     English. Her style has been reckoned particularly clear
     and good, and she was complimented on it by various
     competent judges, although she herself was always di<U+FB01>i
     dent about her writings, saying she was only a self
    taught, uneducated Scotchwoman, and feared to use
    Scotch idioms inadvertently. In speaking she had a
    very decided but pleasant Scotch accent, and when
    aroused and excited, would often unconsciously use not
    only native idioms, but quaint old Scotch words. Her
   voice was soft and low, and her manner earnest.
       On our way to Rome, where we spent the winter of
   1817, it was startling to see the <U+FB01>ne church of Santa
  Maria dcgli Angeli, below Assisi, cut in two; half
  of the church and half of the dome above it were
 still entire ; the rest had been thrown down by the
 earthquake Which had destroyed the neighbouring
 town of Foligno, and committed such ravages in
this Part Of Umbria.
daililfggtstime I might have been pardoned if I had
                 - Peter’s, the Vatican, and the innume
                     of art and antiquity at Rome} but
                    y are so well known it would be
                     super<U+FB02>uous Here I gained a little
                    ge about pictures; but I preferred
                     " from the noble specimens of Greek

              T/zor waldsen and Canova.          121
art I saw in Paris and Rome, and partly because I
was such an enthusiast about the language and
everything belonging to ancient Greece. During
this journey I was highly grati<U+FB01>ed, for we made the
acquaintance of Thorwaldsen and Canova. Canova
was gentle and amiable, with a beautiful counte
nance, and was an artist of great reputation. Thor
waldsen had a noble and striking appearance, and
had more power and originality than Canova. His
bas-reliefs were greatly admired. I saw the one he
 made of Night in the house of an English lady, who
 had a talent for modelling, and was said to be
attached to him.     We were presented to Pope Pius
the Seventh ; a handsome, gentlemanly, and amiable
 old man. He received us in a summer-house in the
garden of the Vatican. He was sitting on a sofa,
and made me sit beside him. His manners were
simple and very gracious; he spoke freely of what
he had suffered in France.     He said, “God forbid
that he should bear ill-will to any one; but the
journey and the cold were trying to an old man, and
he was glad to return to a warm climate and to his
 own country.” When we took leave, he said to me,
 “Though a Protestant, you will be none the worse
for an old man’s blessing.” Pius the Seventh was
loved and respected; the people knelt to him as he
passed. Many years afterwards we were pre

1-22              <U+FB01>lmy Semrrriile'.
sented to Gregory the Sixteenth, a Yer? cofnmon'
looking man, forming a great contrast to Plus the
Seventh.
    I heard more good music during this <U+FB01>rst visit to
 Rome than I ever did after; for besides that usual
 in St. Peter’s, there was an Academia every week,
 where Marcello’s Psalms were sung in concert by a
 number of male voices, besides other concerts, private
 and public. We did not make the acquaintance of
  any of the Roman families at this time ; but we saw
  Pauline Borghese, sister of the Emperor XaPOICOD’
  so celebrated for her beauty, walking on the Pincio
  every afternoon. Our great geologist, Sir Roderick
  Murchison, with his wife, were among the English
  residents at Rome. At that time he hardly knew
   one stone from another. He had been an o<U+FB02>icer in
   the Dragoons, an excellent horseman, and a keen
   fox-hunter. Lady Murchison,—an amiable and ac
   comPliShed woman, with solid acquirements which
   few ladies at that time possessed—had taken to
   the Study Of geology; and soon after her husband
    began that career which has rendered him the <U+FB01>rst
    SQOIOgiSt of our country. It was then that a
    friendship began between them and us, which will
    0Illy end with life. Mrs. Fairfax, of Gilling Castle,
    11:1: 110; two handsome daughters were also at
        me. the was my namesake_Mary Fairfax and

“a” *7__ _
                           Brzlgamis.                   123
     my valued friend till her death. Now, alas! many
    of these friends are gone.
        There were such troops of brigands in the Papal
     States, that it was considered unsafe to go outside
     the gates of Rome.     They carried off people to the
     mountains, and kept them till ransomed ; sometimes
    even mutilated them, as they do at the present day
     in the kingdom of Naples. Lucien Bonaparte made
    a narrow escape from being carried off from his villa,
     Villa Rutiinella, near Frascati.   When it could be
    proved that brigands had committed murder, they
    were con<U+FB01>ned in prisons in the Maremma, at Campo
     Morto, where fever prevails, and where they were
    supposed to die of malaria. I saw Gasperone, the
     chief of a famous band, in a prison at Civita Vccchia;
    he was said to be a relative of Cardinal Antonelli,
    both coming from the brigand village of Sonnino, in
    the Volscian mountains. In going to Naples our
    friends advised us to take a guard of soldiers ; but
    these were suspected of being as bad, and in league
    with the brigands. So we travelled post without
    them ; and though I foolishly insisted on going round
    by the ruins of ancient Capua, which was considered
    very unsafe, we arrived at Naples without any
    encounter. Here we met with the son and daughter
    of Mr. Smith, of Norwich, a celebrated leader in the
    anti-slavery question.    This was a bond of interest

12 t              Mary Somerville.
between his family and me ; for when I was a girl I
took the anti-slavery cause so warmly to heart that
I would not take sugar in my tea, or indeed taste
anything with sugar in it. I was not singular in
this, for my cousins and many of my acquaintances
came to the same resolution. How long we kept it
I do not remember. Patty Smith and I became
great friends, and I knew her sisters; but only
remember her niece Florence Nightingale as a very
little child. My friend Patty was liberal in her
opinions, witty, original, an excellent horsewoman,
and drew cleverly; but from bad health she was
peculiar in all her habits. She was a good judge
of art. Her father had a valuable collection of
pictures of the ancient masters ; and I learnt much
from her with regard to paintings and style in
drawing. \Ve went to see everything in Naples and
its environs together, and she accompanied Somer
ville and me in an expedition to Paestum, where we
made sketches of the temples. At Naples we bought
a beautiful cork model of the Temple of Neptune,
which was placed on our mineral cabinet on our
return to London. A lady who came to pay me a
morning visit asked Somerville what it was; and
when he told her, she said, “How dreadful it isto
think that all the people who worshipped in that
temple are in eternal misery, because they did not

                      JVz'nerals.                 125
believe in our Saviour.”      Somerville asked, “How
could they believe in Christ when He was not
born till many centuries after?” I am sure she
thought it was all the same.
         Q       '1        II        '*      it
   There had been an eruption of Vesuvius just
before our arrival at Naples, and it was still
smoking very much; however, we ascended it,
and walked round the crater, running and holding
a handkerchief to our nose as we passed through the
smoke, when the wind blew it to our side.         The
crater was just like an empty funnel, wide at the
 mouth, and narrowing to a throat.       The lava was
 hard enough to hear us ; but there were numerous
fumeroles, or red-hot chasms, in it, which we could
 look into. Somerville bought a number of crystals
 from the guides, and went repeatedly to Portici
 afterwards to complete our collection of volcanic
 minerals.
    They were excavating busily at Pompeii ; at that
 time, and in one of our many excursions there
 Somerville bought from one of the workmen a
 bronze statuette of Minerva, and a very <U+FB01>ne rosso
 antico Terminus, which we contrived to smuggle
 into Naples ; and it now forms part of a small
 but excellent collection of antiques which I still
 possess. The excavations at that period were con

 126              Mary Somerville.
 ducted with little regularity or direction, and the
 guides were able to carry on a contraband trade
 as mentioned. Since the annexation of the Nea
 politan provinces to the kingdom of Italy, the
 Cavaliere Fiorelli has organized the system of ex
 cavations in the most masterly manner, and has
 made many interesting discoveries. About one
third of the town has been excavated since it was
discovered till the present day.
   In passing through Bologna, we became ac
 quainted with the celebrated Mezzofanti, after
wards Cardinal. He was a quiet-looking priest;
we could not see anything in his countenance that
indicated talent, nor was his conversation remark~
able ; yet he told us that he understood <U+FB01>fty-two
languages. He left no memoir at his death; nor
did he ever trace any connection between these
languages; it was merely an astonishing power,
which led to nothing, like that of a young American
I lately heard of, who could play eleven games
at chess at the same time, without looking at any
chess-board.

                   CHAPTER VIII.
     EDUCATION OF DAUGHTERS—DR. WOLLASTON—DB. YOUNG—
                       THE HERSCHEIS.
“ WHEN we returned to Hanover Square, I devoted
my morning hours, as usual, to domestic affairs;
but now my children occupied a good deal of my
time. Although still very young, I thought it ad
visable for them to acquire foreign languages ; so I
engaged aFrench nursery-maid,that theymight never
suffer what I had done <U+FB01>'om ignorance of modern
languages. I besides gave them instruction in such
things as I was capable of teaching, and which were
suited to their age.
   It was a great amusement to Somerville and
myself to arrange the minerals we had collected
during our journey. Our cabinet was now very rich.
Some of our specimens we had bought ; our friends
had given us duplicates of those they possessed;
and George Finlayson, who was with our troops in
Ceylon, and who had devoted all his spare time to
the study of the natural productions of the country,

   1'28              Mary Souzervzlle.
   sent us a valuable collection of crystals of sapphire,
  ruby, oriental topaz, amethyst, &c., &c. Somerville
  used to analyze minerals with the blowpipe, which
  I never did. One evening, when he was so occu
  pied, I was playing the piano, when suddenly I
  fainted; he was very much startled, as neither I
  nor any of our family had ever done such a thing.
   When I recovered, I said it was the smell of
  garlic that had made me ill. The truth was, the
  mineral contained arsenic, and Iwas poisoned for
   the time by the fumes.
      At this time we formed an acquaintance with Dr.
   Wollaston, which soon became a lasting friendship.
  He was gentlemanly, a cheerful companion, and a
  philosopher; he was also of agreeable appearance,
  having a remarkably <U+FB01>ne, intellectual head. He
  was essentially a chemist, and discovered palladium ;
  but there were few branches of science with which
  he was not more or less acquainted. He made ex
  periments to discover imponderable matter; I believe,
  with regard to the ethereal medium. Mr. Brand, of
  the Royal Institution, enraged him by sending so
  strong a current of electricity through a machine he
  had made to prove electro-magnetic rotation, as to
- destroy it. His characteristic was extreme accuracy,
  which particularly <U+FB01>tted him for giving that pre
  cision to the science of crystallography which it had

                   Dr. IVo/laston.                129
not hitherto attained. By the invention of the
goniometer which bears his name, he was enabled to
measure the angle formed by the faces of a crystal
by means of the re<U+FB02>ected images of bright objects
seen in them. \Ve bought a goniometer, and Dr.
Wollaston, who often dined with us, taught Somer
ville and me how to use it, by measuring the angles
of many of our crystals during the evening. I
learnt a great deal on a variety of subjects besides
crystallography from Dr. \Vollaston, who, at his
death, left me a collection of models of the forms of
all the natural crystals then known.
   Though still occasionally occupied with the
mineral productions of the earth, I became far
more interested in the formation of the earth itself.
Geologists had excited public attention, and had
shocked the clergy and the more scrupulous of the
laity by proving beyond a doubt that the forma
tion of the globe extended through enormous
periods of time. The contest was even more keen
then than it is at the present time about the various
races of pre-historic men. It lasted very long, too ;
for after I had published my work on Physical
Geography, I was preached against by name in York
Cathedral.   Our friend, Dr. Buckland, committed
himself by taking the clerical view in his “ Bridge
water Treatise ;” but facts are such stubborn things ,
                                               K

130               Mary Somerville.
that he was obliged to join the geologists at last.
He and Mrs. Buckland invited Somerville and me
to spend a week with them in Christchurch College,
Oxford.     Mr. and Mrs. Murchison were their guests
at the same time. Mr. Murchison (now Sir Roderick)
was then rising rapidly to the pre-eminence he now
holds as a geologist. We spent every day in seeing
some of the numerous objects of interest in that
celebrated university, venerable for its antiquity,
historical records, and noble architecture.
    Somerville and I used frequently to spend the
evening with Captain and Mrs. Kater. - Dr. Wol
laston, Dr. Young, and others were generally of the
 party; sometimes we had music, for Captain and
 Mrs. Kater sang very prettily. All kinds of scienti<U+FB01>c
 subjects were discussed, experiments tried and astro
 nomical observations made in a little garden in front
 of the house. One evening we had been trying the
 power of a telescope in separating double stars till
 about two in the morning; on our way home we
 saw a light in Dr. Young’s window, and when
 Somerville rang the bell, down came the doctor him
 self in his dressing-gown, and said, “ Come in ; I
 have something curious to show you.” Astronomi
  cal signs arc frequently found on ancient Egyptian
  monuments, and were supposed to have been em
  ployed by the priests to record dates. Now Dr.

                       Dr. Young.                     13L
  Young had received a papyrus from Egypt, sent to
  him by Mr. Salt, who had found it in a mummy
  case; and that very evening he had proved it to
  be a horoscope of the age of the Ptolemies, and
  had determined the date from the con<U+FB01>guration
  of the heavens at the time of its construction.
  Dr. Young had already made himself famous by
  the interpretation of hieroglyphic characters on a
  stone which had been brought to the British Museum
  from Rosetta in Egypt. On that stone there is an
  inscription in Hieroglyphics, the sacred symbolic
  language of the early Egyptians; another in the
  Enchorial or spoken language of that most ancient
  people, and a mutilated inscription in Greek. By
  the aid of some fragments of papyri Dr. Young dis
  covered that the Enchorial language is alphabetical,
  and that nine of its letters correspond with ours;
  moreover, he discovered such a relation between the
  Enchorial and the hieroglyphic inscription that he
  interpreted the latter and published his discoveries in
4 the years 1815 and 1816.
     M. Champollion, who had been on the same pur
  suit, examined the <U+FB01>ne collection of papyri in the
  museum at Turin, and afterwards went to Egypt to
  pursue his studies on hieroglyphics, to our know—
  ledge of which he contributed greatly. It is to
  be regretted that one who had brought that branch
                                                 K2

 132              Mmy Somerville.
of science to such perfection should have been so
 ungenerous as to ignore the assistance he had re
 ceived from the researches of Dr. Young. \Vhen the
 Royal Institution was <U+FB01>rst established, Dr. Young
lectured on natural philosophy. He proved the un
 dulatory theory of light by direct experiment, but as
it depended upon the hypothesis of an ethereal
medium, it was not received in England, the more
so as it was contrary to Newton’s theory. The
French savans afterwards did Young ample justice.
The existence of the ethereal medium is now all but
proved, since part of the corona surrounding the
moon during a total solar eclipse is polarized—a phe
nomenon depending on matter. Young’s Lectures,
which had been published, were a mine of riches to
me.    He was of a Quaker family ; but although he
left the Society of Friends at an early age, he retained
their formal precision of manner to the last. He
was of a kindly disposition, and his wife and
her sisters, with whom I was intimate, were much
attached to him. Dr. Young was an elegant and
critical scholar at' a very early age; he was an
astronomer, a mathematician, and there were few
branches of science in which he was not versed.
When young, his Quaker habits did not prevent him
from taking lessons in music and dancing. I have
heard him accompany his sister-in-law with the <U+FB02>ute,

           Tlze Fz'a'st Spectrum A naZysz's.       133
while she played the piano. When not more than
sixteen years of age he was so remarkable for steadi
ness and acquirements that he was engaged more as
a companion than tutor to young Hudson Gurney,
who was nearly of his own age. One spring morn
ing Young came to breakfast in a bright green coat,
and said in explanation of his somewhat eccentric
costume for one who had been a Quaker, that it was
suitable to the season. One day, on returning from
their ride Gurney, leaped his horse over the stable
yardgate. Young, trying to do the same, was thrown;
he got up, mounted, and made a second attempt with
no better success; the third time he kept his seat,
then quietly dismounting, he said, “ What one man
can do, another may.”
       <U+FB01>         'l'       *         i!        'i
   One bright morning Dr. Wollaston came to pay
us a visit in Hanover Square, saying, “ I have dis
covered seven dark lines crossing the solar spectrum,
which I wish to show you ;” then, closing the window
shutters so as to leave only a narrow line of light,
he put a small glass prism into my hand, telling me
how to hold it. I saw them distinctly. I was
among the <U+FB01>rst, if not the very <U+FB01>rst, to whom he
showed these lines, which were the origin of the most
wonderful series of cosmical discoveries, and have
proved that many of the substances of our globe are

134                 Mary Somerville.
also constituents of the sun, the stars, and even of
the nebulae. Dr. Wollaston gave me the little prism,
which is doubly valuable, being of glass manufac
tured at Munich by Fraunhofer, whose table of dark
lines has now become the standard of comparison in
that marvellous science, the work of many illustrious
men, brought to perfection by Bunsen and Kirchhoff.
       I'         '1'      'I'       'i          ‘
   Sir William Herschel had discovered that what
appeared to be single stars were frequently two stars
in such close approximation that it required a very
high telescopic power to see them separately, and
that in many of these one star was revolving in an
orbit round the other. Sir James South estab
lished an observatory at Camden Hill, near Kensing
ton, where he and Sir John Herschel united in
observing the double stars and binary systems with
the view of affording further data for improving our
knowledge of their movements. In each two observa
tions are requisite, namely, the distance between the
two stars, and the angle of position, that is, the angle
which the meridian or a parallel to the equator
makes with the lines joining the two stars. These
observations were made by adjusting a micrometer
to a very powerful telescope, and were data su<U+FB01>i~
eient for the determination of the orbit of the
revolving star, should it be a binary system. I have

                    Binary Stars.                  135
given an account of this in the “ Connexion of the
Physical Sciences,” so I shall only mention here that
in one or two of the binary systems the revolving
star has been seen to make more than one revolution,
and that the periodical times and the elliptical ele
ments of a great many other orbits have been calcu~
lated, though they are more than 200,000 times
farther from the sun than we are.
   After Sir John Herschel was married, we paid
him a visit at Slough; fortunately, the sky was
clear, and Sir John had the kindness to show me
many nebulae and clusters of stars which~ I had
never seen to such advantage as in his 20 ft. tele
scope. I shall never forget the glorious appearance
of Jupiter as he entered the <U+FB01>eld of that instrua
ment.
   For years the British nation was kept in a state of
 excitement by the Arctic voyages of our undaunted
 seamen in quest of a north-west passage from the'
 Atlantic to the Paci<U+FB01>c Ocean. The idea was not
 new, for a direct way to our Eastern possessions had
 been long desired. On this occasion the impulse
 was given by \Villiam Scoresby, captain of a whaler,
 who had sailed on the east coast of Greenland as
 high as the 80th parallel of latitude, and for two suc
 cessive seasons had found that the sea between
 Greenland and Spitzbergen was free of ice for 18,000

 156              [Ifa ry Somerville.
 square miles—a circumstance which had not oc
 curred before in the memory of man.     Seoresby was
 of rare genius, well versed in science, and of
 strict probity. When he published this discovery,
 the Admiralty, in the year 1818, sent off two expedi
 tions, one under the command of Captains Franklin
 and Buchan to the east of Greenland, and another
 under Captains Ross and Parry to Ba<U+FB01>in’s Bay.
 Such was the beginning of a series of noble adven
 tures, now the province of history.
    I had an early passion for everything relating to
 the sea, and when my father was at home I never
 tired asking him questions about his voyages and the
 dangers to which he had been exposed. Now, when
 I knew something of nautical science, I entered with
 enthusiasm into the spirit of these Arctic voyages ;
 nor was my husband less interested. We read
 Scoresby’s whaling voyages with great delight, and
 ive made the acquaintance of all the of<U+FB01>cers who
 had been on these northern expeditions.
    Sir Edward'Parry, who had brought us minerals
and seeds of plants from Melville Island, invited us
to See the ships prepared for his third voyage, 'and
three years’ residence in’ the Arctic seas. It is im
possible to describe how perfectly everything was
arranged: exPerience had taught them what was
necessary for such an expedition. On this occasion
   “k     .,       n  >_ _   v    V   V         ‘:v'\j‘;

                   Somerville Island.                 137
 I put in practice my lessons in cookery by making a
 large quantity of orange marmalade for the voyage.
 When, after three years, the ships returned, we
 were informed that the name of Somerville had been
 given to an island so far to the north that it was
all but perpetually covered with ice and snow. Not
 withstanding the sameness which naturally prevails
 in the narratives of these voyages, they are invested
with a romantic interest by the daring bravery dis
played, and by the appalling dif<U+FB01>culties overcome.
The noble endeavour of Lady Franklin to save her
gallant husband, and the solitary voyage of Sir
Leopold McClintock in a small yacht in search of
his lost friend, form the touching and sad termina
tion to a very glorious period of maritime adventure.
More than <U+FB01>fty years after these events I renewed my
acquaintance with Lady Franklin. She and her niece
came
She hadto see               on their
              me at Spezia the
          circumnavigated             withtoherDalmatia.
                                globeway        husband I
when he was governor in Australia. After his loss
she and her niece had gone round the world a second
time, and she assured me that although they went to
Japan and China. (less known at that time than they
are now), they never experienced any dif<U+FB01>culty.
Seeing ladies travelling alone, people were always
willing to help them. The French sent a Polar expe
dition under Captain Gaimard in the years 1838 and

138               Mary Somerm'lle.
1839 ; and the United States of North America took
an active part in Arctic exploration. Whether Dr.
Kane’s discovery of an open polar ocean will ever be
veri<U+FB01>ed is problematical; at all events, the deplorable
fate of Sir John Franklin has put a stop to the
chance of it for the present; yet it is a great geogra—
phical question which we should all like to see
decided.
   Captain Sabine, of the Artillery (now General Sir
Edward Sabine, President of the Royal Society),
was appointed to accompany the <U+FB01>rst expedition
under Captains Ross and Parry on account of his
 high scienti<U+FB01>c aequirements. The observations made
 during the series of Arctic voyages on the magnetism
 of the earth, combined with an enormous mass of
 observations made by numerous observers in all
 parts of the globe by sea and by land, have enabled
 Sir Edward Sabine, after a labour of nearly <U+FB01>fty
 years, to complete his marvellous system of terrestrial
 magnetism in both hemispheres. During that long
 period a friendship has lasted between Sir Edward
 and me. He has uniformly sent me copies of all
 his works; to them I chie<U+FB02>y owe what I know on
 the subject, and quite recently I have received his
latest and most important publication.       Sir Edward
married a lady of talent and scienti<U+FB01>c acquirements.
She translated “ Cosmos” from the German, and

                     .szeéoaz‘s.                 139
assisted and calculated for her husband in his labo~
rious work.
   I do not remember the exact period, but I think
it was subsequent to the Arctic voyages, that the
theory was discovered of those tropical hurricanes
which cause such devastation by sea and land.
Observations are now made on barometric pres
sure, and warnings are sent to our principal sea
ports by telegraph, as well as along both sides
of the Channel; but notwithstanding numerous
disastrous shipwrecks occur every winter on our
dangerous coasts. They were far more numerous
in my younger days. Life-boats were not then
invented ; now they are stationed on almost
every coast of Great Britain, and on many conti—
nental shores. The readiness with which they are
manned, and the formidable dangers encountered to
 save life, show the gallant, noble character of the
sailor.

                     CHAPTER IX.
     SOCIETY IN LONDON—CORONATION OF GEORGE IV.—LE1TER
                      TO DR. SOMBRVILLE.
   WE went frequently to see Mr. Babbage while he
was making his Calculating-machines. He had a
transcendant intellect, unconquerablc perseverance,
and extensive knowledge on many subjects, besides
being a <U+FB01>rst-rate mathematician. I always found
him most amiable and patient in explaining the
structure and use of the engines. The <U+FB01>rst he made
could only perform arithmetical operations.            Not
satis<U+FB01>ed' with that, Mr. Babbage constructed an
analytical engine, which could be so arranged as to
perform all kinds of mathematical calculations, and
print each result.
   Nothing has afforded me so convincing a proof of
the unity. of the Deity as these purely mental con
ceptions of numerical and mathematical science
which have been by slow degrees vouchsafed to
man, and are still granted in these latter times by
the Differential Calculus, now superseded by the

                   Relzlgzbus Opinions.             141
 Higher Algebra, all of which must have existed in
 that sublimely omniscient Mind from eternity.
    Many of our friends had very decided and various
religious opinions, but my husband and I never
 entered into controversy ; we had too high a regard
for liberty of conscience to interfere with any one’s
opinions, so we have lived on terms of sincere
friendship and love with people who differed essen
tially from us in religious views, and in all the books
which I have written I have con<U+FB01>ned myself strictly
and entirely to scienti<U+FB01>c subjects, although my
religious opinions are very decided.
   Timidity of character, probably owing to early
education, had a great in<U+FB02>uence on my daily life;
for I did not assume my place in society in my
younger days ; and in argument I was in
stantly silenced,_ although I often knew, and could
have proved, that I was in the right. The only
thing in which I was determined and in<U+FB02>exible
was in the prosecution of my studies. They were
perpetually interrupted, but always resumed at the
<U+FB01>rst opportunity. No analysis is so dif<U+FB01>cult as that
of one’s own mind, but I do not think I err much in
saying that perseverance is a characteristic of mine.
       *         ‘I'         ‘<U+FB01>'      §         “I
   Somerville and I were very happy when we
lived in Hanover Square. We were always on

142              <U+FB01>lary Somerville.
gaged in some pursuit, and had good society.
General society was at that time brilliant for
wit and talent. The Rev. Sidney Smith, Rogers,
Thomas Moore, Campbell, the Hon. \Villiam Spencer,
Macaulay, Sir James Mackintosh, Lord Melbourne,
&c., &c., all made the dinner-parties very agreeable.
The men sat longer at table than they do now, and,
except in the families where I was intimate, the con
versation of the ladies in the drawing-room, when we
came up from dinner, often bored me. I disliked routs
exceedingly, and should often have sent an excuse if
I had known what to say. After my marriage I did
not dance, for in Scotland it was thought highly in
decorous for a married woman to dance. Waltzing,
when <U+FB01>rst introduced, was looked upon with horror,
and even in England it was then thought very im
proper.                              ,
   One season I subscribed to the Concerts of Ancient
Music, established by George the Third. They
seemed to be the resort of the aged; a young face
was scarcely to be seen. The music was perfect
of its kind, but the whole affair was very dull.
The Philharmonic Concerts were excellent for scien
ti<U+FB01>c musicians, and I sometimes went to them ;
but for my part I in<U+FB01>nitely preferred hearing
Pasta, Malibran, and Grisi, who have left the
most vivid impression on my mind, although so

                        Tlzeatrar.                143
different from each other. Somerville enjoyed a
comic opera exceedingly, and so did I ; and at that
time Lablache was in the height of his fame.
W'hen Somerville and I made the tour in Italy al
ready mentioned, we visited Catalani (then Madame
Valabreque) in a villa near Florence, to which she
retired in her old age.   She, however, died in Paris,
of cholera, some years later.
    Somerville liked the theatre as much as I did; so
we saw all the greatest actors of the day, both in
tragedy and comedy, and the English theatre was
then excellent.   Young, who was scarcely inferior
 to John Kemble, Macready, Kean, Liston, &c., and
 Miss O’Neill, who after a short brilliant career
 entered into domestic life on her marriage with Sir
 William Beecher, were all at the height of their
 fame. It was then I became acquainted with Lady
 Beecher, who was so simple and natural that no one
 could have discovered she had ever been on the
 stage. A very clever company of French comedians
 acted in a temporary theatre in Tottenham Court
 Road, where we frequently went with a party of
 friends, and enjoyed very pleasant evenings. I
 think my fondness for the theatre depended to a
 certain degree on my silent disposition; for unless
 among intimate friends, or when much excited, I
 was startled at the sound of my own voice in

 144,              jl/Iary Somerville.
general conversation, from the shyness which has
haunted me through life, and starts up occasionally
like a ghost in my old age. At a play I was not
called upon to make any exertion, but could enjoy
at my ease an intellectual pleasure for the most part
far superior to the general run of conversation.
    Among many others, we were intimate with
Dr. and Mrs. Baillie and his sisters. Joanna was
my dear and valued friend to the end of her life.
When her tragedy of “Montfort” was to be brought
on the stage, Somerville and I, with a large party of
her relations and friends, went with her to the theatre.
The play was admirably acted, for Mrs. Siddons and
her brother John Kemble performed the principal
parts. It was warmly applauded by a full house,
but it was never acted again. Some time afterwards
“The Family Legend,” founded on a Highland
story, had better success in Edinburgh ; but Miss
Baillie’s plays, though highly poetical, are not suited
to the stage.     Miss Mitford was more successful,
for some of her plays were repeatedly acted. She
excelled also as a writer. “ Our Village ” is perfect of
its kind; nothing can be more animated than her
description of a game of cricket. I met with Miss
Austin’s novels at this time, and thought them ex
cellent, especially “Pride and Prejudice.” It cer—

              ll/lrs. Opz'e and Airs. Fry.            145
tainly formed a curious contrast to my old favourites,
the Radcliffe novels and the ghost stories; but I
had now come to years of discretion.
   Among my Quaker friends I met with that amiable
but eccentric person Mrs. Opie. Though a “wet”
Quakeress, she continued to wear the peculiar dress.
I was told that she was presented in it at the Tuileries,
and astonished the French ladies. We were also ac
quainted with Mrs. Fry, avery different person, and
heard her preach. Her voice was <U+FB01>ne, her delivery
admirable, and her prayer sublime. \Ve were inti
mate with Mr. (now Sir Charles) Lyell, who, if I mis
take not, <U+FB01>rst met with his wife at our house, where
she was extremely admired as the beautiful Miss
Horner.    Until we lost all our fortune, and went
to live at Chelsea, I used to have little evening
parties in Hanover Square.
       I“          ‘         <U+FB01>        *          C“
   l was not present at the coronation of George the
Fourth; but I had a ticket for the gallery in West
minster Hall, to see the banquet. Though I went
very early in the morning, I found a wonderful
confusion. I showed my ticket of admission to one '
of<U+FB01>cial person after another ; the answer always was
“I know nothing about it.” At last I got a good
place near some ladies I knew; even at that early
hour the gallery was full.       Some time after the
                                                    L

146              <U+FB01>fm'y Somerville.
ceremony in the Abbey was over, the door of the
magni<U+FB01>cent hall was thrown open, and the king
entered in the <U+FB02>owing curls and costume of Henry
the Eighth, and, imitating the jaunty manner of that
monarch, walked up the hall and sat down on the
throne at its extremity. The peeresses had already
taken their seats under the gallery, and the king
was followed by the peers, and the knights of the
Garter, Bath, Thistle, and St. Patrick, all in their
robes.   After every one had taken his seat, the
Champion, on his horse, both in full armour, rode
up the hall, and threw down a gauntlet before the
king, while the heralds proclaimed that he was
ready to do battle with any one who denied that
George the Fourth was the liege lord of these
realms. Then various persons presented offerings to
the king in right of which they held their estates.
One gentleman presented a beautiful pair of falcons
in their hoods. While this pageantry and noise was
at its height, Queen Caroline demanded to be ad
mitted. There was a sudden silence and consterna
tion,——it was like the “handwriting on the wall 1”
The sensation was intense. At last the order was given
to refuse her admittance; the pageantry was re
newed, and the banquet followed.           The noise,
In at, and vivid light of the illumination of the hall
gave me a racking headache ; at last I went out of

                      Two Coronatz'ons.             147
 the gallery and sat on a stair, where there was a.
 little fresh air, and was very glad when all was over.
 Years afterwards I was present in Westminsttr
 Abbey at the coronation of our Queen, then a pretty
 young girl of eighteen. Placed in the most trying
 position at that early age, by her virtues, both
 public and private, she has endeared herself to the
 nation beyond what any sovereign ever did before.
         i          Q        5         i“        i
    I, who had so many occupations and duties at
home, soon tired of the idleness and formality of
visiting in the country. I made an exception, how
ever, in favour of an occasional visit to Mr. Sotheby,
the poet, and his family in Epping Forest, of which,
if I mistake not, he was deputy-ranger; at all
events, he had a pretty cottage there where he
and his family received their friends with kind
hospitality. He spent part of the day in his study,
and afterwards I have seen him playing cricket
with his son and grandson, with as much vivacity
as any of them. The freshness of the air was quite
reviving to Somerville and me; and our two little
girls played in the forest all the day.
   We also gladly went for several successive years
to visit Sir John Saunders Scbright at Beech
wood Park, Hertfordshire. Dr; \Vollaston gene
rally travelled with us on these occasions, when
                                               1. 2

148               Mary Somerville.
we had much conversation on a variety of sub
jects, scienti<U+FB01>c or general. He was remarkably
acute in his observations on objects as we passed
them.    “ Look at that ash tree; did you ever
notice that the branches of the ash tree are
curves of double curvature?” There was a comet
visible at the time of one of these little journeys.
Dr. Wollaston had made a drawing of the orbit and
its elements; but, having left it in town, he de
 scribed the lines so accurately without naming
 them, that I remarked at once, “That is the curtate
 or perihelion distance,” which pleased him greatly,
 as it showed how accurate his description was. He
 was a chess-player, and, when travelling alone, he
 used to carry a book with diagrams of partially
 played games, in which it is required to give check
 mate in a <U+FB01>xed number of moves. He would
 study one of them, and then, shutting the book,
 play out the game mentally.
    Although Sir John was a keen sportsman and
 fox-hunter in his youth, he was remarkable for his
 kindness to animals and for the facility with which
 he tamed them. He kept terriers, and his pointers
 were <U+FB01>rst rate, yet he never allowed his keepers to
 beat a dog, nor did he ever do it himself; he said a
 dog once cowed was good for nothing ever after.
 He trained them by tying a string to the collar and

                       Training Dogs.                        149
giving it a sharp pull when the dog did wrong,
and patting him kindly when he did right. In this
manner he taught some of his non-sporting dogs
to play all sorts of tricks, such as picking out the
card chosen by any spectator from a number placed
in a circle on the <U+FB02>oor, the signal being one
momentary glance at the card, &c. &c.                  Sir John
published a. pamphlet on the subject, and sent
copies of it to the sporting gentlemen and keepers
in the county, I fear with little effect; men are
so apt to vent their own bad temper on their dogs
and horses.
  At one of the battues at Beechwood, Chantrey killed
two woodcocks at one shot. Mr. Hudson Guru-y
some time after saw a brace of woodcocks carved in
marble in Chantrey’s studio; Chantrey told him of
his shot and the di<U+FB02>iculty of <U+FB01>nding a suitable
inscription, and that it had been tried in Latin
and even Greek without success. Mr. Gurney said it
should be very simple, such as :—
       Driven from the north, where winter starved them,
       Chan trey <U+FB01>rst shot, and then he carved them.
   Beechwood was one of the few places in Great
Britain in which hawking was kept up. The falcons
were brought from Flanders, for, except in the Isle
of Skye, they have been extirpated in Great Britain
like many other of our <U+FB01>ne indigenous birds. Sir

. --_ 736*)?!      --_-~___   .-_ ._~.__ ____>'   _ .. ,_
     150                <U+FB01>lmy Samerz'z'lfe.
     .Iohn kept fancy pigeons of all breeds. He told
     me he could alter the colour of their plumage in
     three years by cross-breeding, but that it required
     fully six to alter the shape of the bird.
             ‘         1'        ‘             Q        §
        At some house where we were dining in London,
     I forget with whom, Ugo Foscolo, the poet, was
     one of the party.     He was extremely excitable and
     irritable, and when some one spoke of a translation
     of Dante as being perfect, “Impossible,” shouted
     Foscolo, starting up in great excitement, at the
     same time tossing his cup full of coffee into the
     air, cup and all, regardless of the china and the
     ladies’ dresses. He died in England, I fear in great
     poverty. He was a most distinguished classical
     scholar as well as poet. His remains have been
     brought to Italy within these few years, and in
     terred in Sante Croce, in Florence.
             i         i         .             i'       I'
        I had a severe attack of what appeared to be
     cholera, and during my recovery Mrs. Hankey very
     kindly lent us her villa at Hampstead for a few
      weeks. There I went with my children, Somerville
     with some friends always coming to dinner on the
      Sundays. On one of these occasions there was a
     violent thunderstorm, and a large tree was struck
     not far from the house. We all went to look at the

               Practical Aslronamy.               151
tree as soon as the storm ceased, and found that a
large mass of wood was scooped out of the trunk
from top to bottom. I had occasion in two other
instances to notice the same effect. Dr. Wollaston
lent me a sextant and arti<U+FB01>cial horizon ; so I amused
myself taking the altitude of the sun, the conse
quence of which was that I became as brown as u,
mulatto, but I was too anxious tolearn something of
practical astronomy to care about the matter.

                       CHAPTER X.
 HEATH OF MARGARET SOMERVILLE—LETTER     FROM  MRS. SOMERVILLE
     TO THE REV. DR. SOMERVILLE—LIFE AT CHELSEA—THE NAPIEBS—
     MARIA EDGE‘NORTH—TOUR IN GERMANY.
    OUR happy and cheerful life in Hanover Square
 came to a sad end. The illness and death of our
 eldest girl threw Somerville and me into the deepest
 af<U+FB02>iction. She was a child of intelligence and
 acquirements far beyond her tender age.
   [The long illness and death of this young girl fell very
heavily on my mother, who by this time had lost several
children. The following letter was written by her to
my grandfather on this occasion.      It shows her steadfast
faith in the mercy and goodness of God, even when
crushed by almost the severest a<U+FB01>liction which can wring
a mother’s heart :—
     MRS. SOMERYILLE TO THE REV. DR. SOMERVILLE.
                                        Lonnox, October, 1823.
   MY DEAR FATHER,
        I never was so long of writing to you, but when
the heart is breaking it is impossible to <U+FB01>nd words ade
quate to its relief. We are in deep af<U+FB02>iction, for though
the <U+FB01>rst violence of grief has subsided, there has suc

               Appoz'nlmmt 2‘0 C/zelsca.               153
 ceeded a calm sorrow not less painful, a feeling of hope
lessness in this world which only <U+FB01>nds comfort in the
prospect of another, which longs for the consummation
of all things that we may join those who have gone
before.   To return to the duties of life is irksome, even _
to those duties which were a delight when the candle of
the Lord shone upon us. I do not arraign the decrees
of Providence, but even in the bitterness of my soul I
acknowledge the wisdom and goodness of God, and
endeavour to be resigned to His will. It is ungrateful
not to remember the many happy years we have enjoyed,
but that very remembrance renders our present state
more desolate and dreary—presenting a sad contrast.
The great source of consolation is in the mercy of God
and the virtues of those we lament; the full assurance
that no good disposition can be lost but must be brought
to perfection in a better world. Our business is to
render ourselves <U+FB01>t for that blessed inheritance that we
may again be united to those we mourn.
                     Your affectionate daughter,
                                    MARY SOMERVILLE.
   Somerville still held his place at the army medical
board, and was now appointed physician to Chelsea
Hospital ; so we left our cheerful, comfortable house
and went to reside in a government house in a very
dreary and unhealthy situation, far from all our
friends, which was a serious loss to me, as I was not
a good walker, and during the whole time I lived
at Chelsea I suffered from sick headaches. Still we

1 :4              <U+FB01>lary Samewz'lle.
were very glad of the appointment, for at this time
we lost almost the whole of our fortune, through the
dishonesty of a person in whom we had the greatest
con<U+FB01>dence.
    All the time we lived at Chelsea we had constant
intercourse with Lady Noel Byron and Ada, who
lived at Esher, and when I came abroad I kept up a
correspondence with both as long as they lived. Ada
 was much attached to me, and often came to stay
 with me. It was by my advice that she studied
 mathematics. She always wrote to me for an ex
 planation when she met with any dif<U+FB01>culty. Among
 my papers I lately found many of her notes, asking
 mathematical questions. Ada Byron married Lord
 King, afterwards created Earl of Lovelace, a college
 companion and friend of my son.                     -
     Somerville had formed a friendship with Sir
 Henry Bunbury when he had a command in Sicily,
 and we went occasionally to visit him at Barton in
  Suffolk. I liked Lady Bunbury very much; she
  was a niece of the celebrated Charles Fox, and had
  a turn for natural history.   I had made a collec
  tion of native shells at Burntisland, but I only
  knew their vulgar names ; now I learnt their scien
  ti<U+FB01>c arrangement from Lady Bunbury. Her son,
 Sir Charles Bunbury, is an authority for fossil
 botany. The <U+FB01>rst Pinetum I ever saw was at Barton,

                       Tbe Napz'ers.                15
 and in 1837 I planted a cedar in remembrance of
 one of our visits.
    Through Lady Bunbury we became intimate with
'all the members of the illustrious family of the
 Napiers, as she was sister of Colonel, afterwards
 General Sir William Napier, author of the “His
 tory of the Peninsular \Var.” One day Colonel
 Napier, who was then living in Sloane Street, intro~
 duced Somerville and me to his mother, Lady Sarah
 Napier. Her manners were distinguished, and
 though totally blind, she still had the remains of
 great beauty; her hand and arm, which were ex
 posed by the aneicnt costume she wore, were most
 beautiful still. The most sincere friendship existed
 between Richard Napier and his wife and me through
 life ; I shall never forget their kindness to me at a
 time when I was in great sorrow. All the brothers
 are now gone. Richard and his wife were long in
 bad health, and he was nearly blind ; but his wife
 never knew it, through the devoted attachment of
 Emily Shirrifl', daughter of Admiral Shirriff, who
 was the comfort and consolation of both to their
 dying day.
    Maria Edgeworth came frequently to see us when
 she was in England. She was one of my most
 intimate friends, warm-hearted and kind, a charming
 companion, with all the liveliness and originality of

1.36                <U+FB01>lmy Somerville.
an Irishwoman.       For seventeen years I was in con
stant correspondence with her.        The cleverness and
animation as well as affection of her letters I cannot
express; certainly women are superior to men in
letter-writing.
   [The following is an extract from a letter from Maria
Edgeworth to a friend concerning my mother :—
          MARIA EDGEWORTH TO MISS         . . . . .
                         Bsrcrrwoon PARK, January 17th, 1822.
        We have spent two days pleasantly here with Dr.
\Vollaston, our own dear friend Mrs. Marcet, and the
Somervilles. Mrs. Somerville is the lady who, Laplace
says, is the only woman who understands his works.
She draws beautifully, and while her head is among the
stars her feet are <U+FB01>rm upon the earth.      V
   Mrs. Somerville is little, slightly made, fairish hair,
pink colour, small, grey, round, intelligent, smiling eyes,
very pleasing countenance, remarkably soft voice, strong,
but well-bred Scotch accent; timid, not disqualifying
timid, but naturally modest, yet with a degree of self
possession through it which prevents her being in the
least awkward, and gives her all the advantage of her
understanding, at the same time that it adds a pre
possessing charm to her manner and takes off all dread
of her superior scienti<U+FB01>c learning.
   \Vhile in London I had a French maid for my
daughters, and on coming to Chelsea I taught them

                Ea'ucatz'on of Daug<U+FB01>z‘ers.          157
  a little geometry and algebra, as well as Latin and
  Greek, and, later, got a master for them, that they
  might have a more perfect knowledge of these lan
  guages than I possessed. Keenly alive to my own
  defects, I was anxious that my children should never
  undergo the embarrassment and morti<U+FB01>cation I had
  suffered from ignorance of the common European
  languages. I engaged a young German lady,
  daughter of Professor Becker, of Offenbach, near
  Frankfort, as governess, and was most happy in my
  choice; but after being with us for a couple of
  years, she had a very bad attack of fever, and was
  obliged to return home.      She was replaced by a
  younger sister, who afterwards married Professor
  Trendelenburg, Professor of Philosophy at the Uni
  versity of Berlin. Though both these sisters were
  quite young, I had the most perfect con<U+FB01>dence
  in them, from their strict conscientiousness and
  morality. They were well educated, ladylike, and
  so amiable, that they gained the friendship of my
  children and the affection of us all.
     As we could with perfect con<U+FB01>dence leave the
  children to Miss Becker’s care, Sir James Mackintosh,
' Somerville and Imade an excursion to the Continent.
  \Ve went to Brussels, and What lady can go there
  without seeing the lace manufactory? I saw,
  admired,—and bought none! We were kindly re

158              Alary Somerville.
eeived by Professor Quetelet, whom we had pre
viously known, and who never failed to send me a
copy of his valuable memoirs as soon as they were
published. I have uniformly met with the greatest
kindness from scienti<U+FB01>c men at home and abroad. If
any of them are alive when this record is) published,
I beg they will accept of my gratitude. Of those
that are no more I bear a grateful remembrance.
    The weather was beautiful when we were at
Brussels, and in the evening we went to the public
garden. It was crowded with people, and very gay.
We sat down, and amused ourselves by looking at
them as they passed. Sir James was a most agree
able companion, intimate with all the political
 characters of the day, full of anecdote and historical
 knowledge. That chning his conversation was so
 brilliant that we forgot the time, and looking
 around found that everybody had left the garden,
 so we thought we might as Well return to the hotel ;
 but on coming to the iron-barred gate we found it
 locked. Sir James and Somerville begged some of
 those that were passing to call the keeper of the
 park to let us out; but they said it was impossible,
 that we must wait till morning. A crowd as
 sembled laughing and mocking, till at last we got
out through the house of one of the keepers of the
Park.

                  Tour in Holland.                159
   At Bonn we met with Baron Humboldt, and M.
Sehlegel, celebrated for his translation of Shake
speare. On going up the Rhine, Sir James knew the
history of every place and of every battle that had
been fought. A professor of his acquaintance in one
of the towns invited us to dinner, and I was as
tonished to see the lady of the house going about
with a great bunch of keys dangling at her side,
assisting in serving up the dinner, and doing all the
duty of carving, her husband taking no part what
ever in it. I was annoyed that we had given so
much trouble by accepting the invitation. In my
younger days in Scotland, a lady might make the
pastry and jelly, or direct in the kitchen; but she
took no part in cooking or serving up the dinner,
and never rose from the table till the ladies went to
the drawing-room. However, as we could not afford
to keep a regular cook, an ill-dressed dish would
occasionally appear, and then my father would say,
“ God sends food, but the devil sends cooks.”
   In our tour through Holland, Somerville was
quite at home, and amused himself talking to the
people, for he had learnt the Dutch language at the
Cape of Good Hope. We admired the pretty quaint
costumes of the women ; but I was the only one who
took interest in the galleries.  Many of the pictures
of the Dutch school are very <U+FB01>ne; but I never

 160                    Mary Somerville.
 should have made a collection exclusively of them as
 was oiten done at one time in England. Lord Gran
 ville was British Minister at the Hague, and dining
 at the Embassy one day we met with a Mrs.                     '     ,
 who, on hearing one of the attachés addressed as Mr.
 Abercromhy,’ said, “ Pray, Lord Granville, is that a
 son of the great captain whom the Lord slew in the
 land of Egypt ? "
     I never met with Madame de Staél, but heard a
 great deal about her during this journey from Sir
 James Mackintosh, who was very intimate with her.
 At that time the men sat longer at table after
 dinner than they do now ; and on one occasion,
 at a dinner party at Sir James’s house, when Lady
 Mackintosh and the ladies returned to the drawing
 room, Madame de Staél, who was exceedingly im
 patient of women’s society, would not deign to
 enter into conversation with any of the ladies, but
walked about the room ; then suddenly ringing
the bell, she said, “ Ceci est insupportable ! " and
when the Servant appeared, she said: “Tell your
lmaster to come upstairs directly; they have sat
 ong enough at their wine.”
  ~ Afterwards Sir
<U+FB01>rst at FIOrence’
                    Ralph Abercromby, later Lord Dunfermliuc, minister
                  the!) at Turin,

                        CHAPTER XI.
 LETI'ER   FROM  LORD  BROUGHAJI — \VRITES   “ MECHANISM   OF   THE
      HEAVBNS"—ANECDOTE OF THE ROMAN IMPROVISATRICE—LETTERS
      FROM SIR JOHN   IIBRSCHEL AND PROFESSOR \YHE\\"ELL—ELF.L"I‘EB
      HON. MEMBER. OF THE ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY—NOTICE IN
      THE   AOAD<U+FB01>MIE  DES  SCIENCES,  AND LETTER   FROM  M. BIOT—
      PENSIOX—LETTER FROM SIR ROBERT PEEL—BEGINS 1‘0 \VRITE ON
      THE  CONNECTION  OF  THE   PHYSICAL SCIENCES—VISIT  T0  (‘.\)I~
      BRIDGE—LETTERS FROM PROFESSOR SEDGWICK AND LAPLACE.
    [After my mother’s return home my father received
 the following letter from Lord Brougham, which very
importantly in<U+FB02>uenced the further course of my mother’s
life.   It is dated March 27th, 1827 :—
   LETTER FROM LORD BROUGHAM TO DR. SOMERVILLE.
   MY DEAR Sm,
          I fear you will think me very daring for the
design I have formed against Mrs. Somerville, and still
more for making you my advocate with her; through
whom I have every hope of prevailing. There will be
sent to you a- prospectus, rules, and a preliminary treatise
of our Society for Diffusing Useful Knowledge, and I
assure you I speak without any <U+FB02>attery when I say that
of the two subjects which I <U+FB01>nd it most di<U+FB02>icult to see
                                                          M

162                Mary Somerville.
the chance of executing, there is one, which—unless Mrs
Somerville will undertake—none else can, and it must be
left undone, though about the most interesting of the
whole, I mean an account of the Mécanique Céleste ; the
'other is an account of the Principia, which I have some
hopes of at Cambridge. The kind of thing wanted is
such a description of that divine work as will both explain
to the unlearned the sort of thing it is—the plan, the
vast merit, the wonderful truths unfolded or methodized
—and the calculus by which all this is accomplished, and
will also give a somewhat deeper insight to the un
initiated. Two treatises would do this. No one without
trying it can conceive how far we may carry ignorant
readers into an understanding of the depths of science,
and our treatises have about 100 to 800 pages of space
each, so that one might give the more popular view, and
another the analytical abstracts and illustrations. In
England there are now not twenty people who know this
great work, except by name; and not a hundred who
know it even by name. My <U+FB01>rm belief is that Mrs.
Somerville could add two cyphers to each of those
<U+FB01>gures. Will you be my counsel in this suit? Of
course our names are concealed, and no one of our
council but myself needs to know it.
                             Yours ever most truly,
                                         H. Baoucnan.
    My mother in alluding to the above says :—
    THIs letter surprised me beyond expression. I
 thought Lord Brougham must have been mistaken
 With regard to my acquirements, and naturally con

                       Di<U+FB01>ia'euce.                   163
cluded that my self-acquired knowledge was so far
inferior to that of the men who had been educated
in our universities that it would be the height of
presumption to attempt to write on such a subject,
or indeed on any other. Afew days after this Lord
Brougham came to Chelsea himself, and Somerville
joined with him in urging me at least to make the
attempt. I said, “Lord Brougham, you must be
aware that the work in question never can be popu
larized, since the student must at least know some
thing of the differential and integral calculi, and as
 a preliminary step I should have to prove various
problems in physical mechanics and astronomy.
 Besides, La Place never gives diagrams or <U+FB01>gures,
 because they are not necessary to persons versed in
 the calculus, but they would be indispensable in a
 work such as you wish me to write. I am afraid I
 am incapable of such a task: but as you both wish
 it so much, I shall do my very best upon condition of
 secrecy, and that if I fail the manuscript shall be
 put into the <U+FB01>re." Thus suddenly and unexpectedly
 the whole character and course of my future life was
 changed.
     I rose early and made such arrangements with re
 gard to my children and family affairs that I had time
 to write afterwards; not, however, without many in_
 terruptions.    A man can always command his time
                                                11 2

164,                Mary Somerville.
under the plea of business, a. woman is not allowed
any such excuse. At Chelsea I was always supposed
to be at home, and as my friends and acquaintances
came so far out of their way on purpose to see me,
it would have been unkind and ungencrous not to
receive them.       Nevertheless, I was sometimes an
noyed when in the midst of a dif<U+FB01>cult problem some
one would enter and say, “ I have come to spend a
few hours with you.” However, I learnt by habit
to leave a subject and resume it again at once, like
putting a mark into a book I might be reading ; this
was the more necessary as there was no <U+FB01>re-place
in my little room, and I had to write in the
drawing-room in winter. Frequently I hid my
papers as soon as the bell announced a visitor, lest
anyone should discover my secret.
    [My mother had a singular power of abstraction. \Vhen
occupied with some di<U+FB02>icult problem, or even a train
 of. thought which deeply interested her, she lost all con
 sciousness of what went on around her, and became so
 entirely absorbed that any amount of talking, or even
practising scales and solfeggi, went on without in the
least disturbing her. Sometimes a song or a strain of
nlelOdY would recall her to a sense of the present, for
Slfle “(as Passionately fond of music. A curious instance
ilrtlensyricuharity of hers occurred at Rome, when a
imgr 1_‘1 V were assembled to listen to a celebrated
    p owsatnce. My mother was placed in the front row,

                    T/ze Improvz'satrz'm                 165
close to the poetess, who, for several stanzas, adhered
strictly to the subject which had been given to her. \Vhat
it was I do not recollect, except that it had no connec
tion with what followed. All at once, as if by a sudden
inspiration, the lady tiu'ned her eyes full upon my mother,
and with true Italian vehemence and in the full musical
accents of Rome, poured forth stanza after stanza of the
most eloquent panegyric upon her talents and virtues,
extolling them and her to the skies. Throughout the
whole of this scene, which lasted a considerable time,
my mother remained calm and unmoved, never changing
countenance, which surprised not only the persons
present but ourselves, as we well knew how much she
disliked any display or being brought forward in public.
The truth was, that after listening for a while to the
improvising, a thought struck her connected with some
subject she was engaged in writing upon at the time and
so entirely absorbed her that she heard not a word of all
that had been declaimed in her praise, and was not a
little surprised and confused when she was complimented
on it. I call this, advisedly, a power of hers, for although
it occasionally led her into strange positions, such as the
 one above mentioned, it rendered her entirely indepen
 dent of outward circumstances, nor did she require to
isolate herself from the family circle in order to pursue
 her studies. I have already mentioned that when we
 were very young she taught us herself for a. few hours
 daily; when our lessons were over we always remained
 in the room with her, learning grammar, arithmetic, or
 some such plague of childhoole Any one who has
 plunged into the mazes of the higher branches of
 mathematics or other abstruse science, would probably
 feel no slight degree of irritation on being inter

166                  diary Somervz/le.
rupted at a critical moment when the solution was
ahnost within his grasp, by some childish question
about tense or gender, or how much seven times
seven made. My mother was never impatient, but
explained our little di<U+FB02>iculties quickly and kindly,
and returned calmly to her own profound thoughts.
Yet on occasion she could show both irritation and
impatience—when we were stupid or inattentive, neither
of which she could stand. With her clear mind she
darted at the solution, sometimes forgetting that we had
to toil after her laboriously step by step. I well remem
ber her slender white hand pointing impatiently to the
book or slate—“ Don’t you see it? there is no di<U+FB02>iculty
in it, it is quite clear.” Things were so clear to her! I
must here add some other recollections by my mother of
this very interesting portion of her life.
   I was a considerable time employed in writing this
book, but I by no means gave up society, which
would neither have suited Somerville nor me. We
dined out, went to evening parties, and occasionally
to the theatre. As soon as my work was <U+FB01>nished I
sent the manuscript to Lord Brougham, requesting
that it might be thoroughly examined, criticised and
destroyed according to promise if a failure. I was
very nervous while it was under examination, and
was equally surprised and grati<U+FB01>ed that Sir John
 Herschel, our greatest astronomer, and perfectly
versed in the calculus, should have found so few

                   Hersc/wl’s Approz'al.                  167
errors.    The letter he wrote on this occasion-made
me so happy and proud that I have preserved it.
LETTER FROM SIR. JOHN HERSCHEL TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.
   Daaa Mas. SonERvILLa,
     I have read your manuscript with the greatest
pleasure, and will not hesitate to add, (because I am sure
you will believe it sincere,) with the highest admiration.
Go on thus, and you will leave a memorial of no common
kind to posterity; and, what you will value far more
than fame, you will have accomplished a most useful
work. What a pity that La Place has not lived to see
this illustration of his great work! You will only, I fear,
give too strong a stimulus to the study of abstract science
by this performance.
    I have marked as somewhat obscure it part of the
illustration of the principle of virtual velocities. . . . . .
“fill you look at this point again? I have made a.
tri<U+FB02>ing remark in page 6, but it is a mere matter of
metaphysical nicety, and perhaps hardly worth pencilling
your beautiful manuscript for.
                         Ever yours most truly,
                                          J. Haascnaa.
   [In publishing the following letter, I do not consider
that I am infringing on the rule I have followed in obedi
ence to my mother’s wishes, that is, to abstain from
giving publicity to all letters which are of a private and
con<U+FB01>dential character. This one entirely concerns her
scienti<U+FB01>c writings, and is interesting as showing the con
<U+FB01>dence which existed between Sir John Herschel and

 168                Mary Somerville.
 herself. This great philosopher was my mother’s truest
 and best friend, one whose opinion she valued above all
 others, whose genius and consummate talents she ad
 mired, and whose beautiful character she loved with an
 intensity which is better shown by some extracts from
 her letters to be given presently than by anything I can
 say. This deep regard on her part he returned with the
 most chivalrous respect and admiration. In any doubt
 or dif<U+FB01>culty it was his advice she sought, his criticism
 she submitted to; both were always frankly given with
 out the slightest fear of giving o<U+FB01>‘ence, for Sir John
 Herschel well knew the spirit with which any remarks of
 his would be received.
    FROM SIR JOHN HERSCIIEL TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                                      Snouea, Db. 23rd, 1830.
   MY DEAR Mas. Somnnvmnn,
           .  .  .  .  .  As you contemplate         separate
publication, and as the attention of many will be turned
to a work from your pen who will just possess quantum
enough of mathematical knowledge to be able to read the
<U+FB01>rst chapter without being able to follow you into its
application, and as these, moreover, are the very people
who will think themselves privileged to criticise and use
their privilege with the least discretion, I cannot recom
mend ' too much clearness, fulness, and order in the
exposé of the principles. \Vere I you, I would devote to
this <U+FB01>rst part at least double the space you have done.
Your familiarity with the results and formulae has led you
into what is extremely natural in such a case—a somewhat
hasty passing over what, to a beginner, would prove

                    Hcrsc/zel's A dw'ce.                  169
insuperable dif<U+FB01>culties; and if I may so express it, a
sketchiness of outline (as a painter you will imderstand
my meaning, and what is of more consequence, see how
it is to be remedied).
   You have adopted, I see, the principle of virtual velocity,
and the principle of d’Alembert, rather as separate and
independent principles to be used as instruments of
investigation than as convenient theories, <U+FB02>owing them~
selves from the general law of force and equilibrium,
to be <U+FB01>rst proved and then remembered as compact
statements in a form <U+FB01>t for use. The demonstration of
the principle of virtual velocities is so easy and direct
in Laplace that I cannot imagine anything capable of
rendering it plainer than he has done. But a good deal
more explanation of what is virtual velocity, &c., would be
advantageous—and virtual velocities should be kept quite
distinct from the arbitrary variations represented by the
sign 6.
    With regard to the principle of d’Alembcrt—take my
 advice and explode it altogether. It is the most awkward
 and involved statement of a plain dynamical equation
that ever puzzled student. I speak feelingly and with a
 sense of irritation at the whirls and vortices it used to
 cause in my poor head when <U+FB01>rst I entered on this
 subject in my days of studentship. I know not a single
 case where its application does not create obscurity—nay
 doubt. Nor can a case ever occur where any such
 principle is called for. The general law that the change
 of motion is proportional to the moving force and takes
 place in its direction, provided we take care always to
 regard the reaction of curves, surfaces, obstacles, &c., as
 so many real moving forces of (for a time) unknown
 magnitude, will always help us out of any dynamical

[70                   ManI Somerville.
scrape we may get into. Laplace, page 20, Méc. Cél. art.
7, is a little obscure here, and in deriving his equation
(f) a page of explanation would be well bestowed.
   One thing let me recommend, if you use as principles
either this, or that of virtual velocities, or any other, state
them broadly and in general terms.             .   .   .  . . . .
You will think me, I fear, a rough critic, but I think of
Horace’s good critic,
             Fiet Aristamhus : nec dicet, cur ego amicum
             O<U+FB01>endam in nugis ? Ha: nugm seria duccnt
             In mala,
and what we can both now laugh at, and you may, if you
like, burn as nonsense (I mean these remarks), would come
with a very different kind of force from some sneering
reviewer in the plenitude of his triumph at the detection
 of a slip of the pen or one of those little inaccuracies
which humana parum cavit natura.                      . .
                                  Very faithfully yours,
                                                   J. HERSCHEL.
    [About the same time my father received a letter from
 Dr. \Vhewell, afterwards Master of Trinity College,
 Cambridge, dated 2nd November, 1831, in which he
 says :—
    “ I beg you to offer my best thanks to Mrs. Somerville
 for her kind present. I shall have peculiar satisfaction
 in possessing it as a gift of the author, a book which I
 look upon as one of the most remarkable which our age
 has produced, which would be highly valuable from any
  one, and which derives a peculiar interest from its writer.

                   Dr. W/zewell’s Sonnet.                   171
I am charged also to return the thanks of the Philosophi
cal Society here for the copy presented to them. I have
not thought it necessary to send the of<U+FB01>cial letter con
taining the acknowledgment, as Mrs. Somerville will
probably have a suf<U+FB01>cient collection of specimens of such
character. I have also to thank her on the part of our
 College for the copy sent to the library. I am glad that
our young mathematicians in Trinity will have easy access
to the book, which will be very good for them as soon as
they can read it. When Mrs. Somerville shows herself
in the <U+FB01>eld which we mathematicians have been labouring
in all our lives, and puts us to shame, she ought not to
be surprised if we move off to other ground, and betake
ourselves to poetry. If the fashion of ‘ commendatory
verses’ were not gone by, I have no doubt her work
might have appeared with a. very pretty collection of
well-deserved poetical praises in its introductory pages.
As old customs linger longest in places like this, I hope
she and you will not think it quite extravagant to send a
single sonnet on the occasion.
                            “ Believe me,
                                 “ Faithfully yours,
                                               “ W. WHEwnLLf’
                     TO mas. sonaavums,
              ON HER “MECHANISM or THE HEAVENS.”
        LADY, it was the went in earlier days
        When some fair volume from a. valued pen,
        Long looked for, came at last. that grateful men
        Hailed its forthcoming in complacent lays :
        As if the Muse would gladly haste to praise
        That which her mother, Memory, long should keep
        Among her treasures. Shall such usage sleep
        With us, who feel too slight the common phrase

17-2                   diary Somerville.
        For our pleased thoughts of you, when thus we <U+FB01>nd
        That dark to you seems bright, perplexed seems plain,
        Seen in the depths of a pellucid mind,
        Full of clear thought, pure from the ill and vain
        That cloud the inward light 3 An honoured name
        Be yours ; and peace of heart grow with your growing fame.
   [Professor Peacock, afterwards Dean of Ely, in a letter,
dated February 14th, 1832, thanked my mother for a
copy of the “ Mechanism of the Heavens.”
LETTER FROM PROFESSOR PEACOCK TO MRS. SOMERVILLE
   “I consider it to be a work which will contribute
greatly to the extension of the knowledge of physical!
astronomy, in this country, and of the great analytical
processes which have been employed in such investiga
tions. It is with this view that I consider it to be a
work of the greatest value and importance. Dr. \Vhewell
and myself have already taken steps to introduce it into.
the course of our studies at Cambridge, and I have little
doubt that it will immediately become an essential work
to those of our students who aspire to the highest places
in. our examinations.”
    [On this my mother remarks :—
    I consider this as the highest honour I ever
received, at the time I was no less sensible of
it, and was most grateful. I was surprised and
pleased beyond measure to <U+FB01>nd that my book
should be so much approved of by Dr. \Vhewell,
one of the most eminent men of the age for

                   Professor Peacoat'.              1 73
science and literature; and by Professor Peacock, a
profound mathematician, who with Herschel and
Babbage had, a few years before, <U+FB01>rst introduced the
calculus as an essential branch of science into the
University of Cambridge.
   In consequence of this decision the whole edition
of the “Mechanism of the Heavens," amounting to
 750 copies, was sold chie<U+FB02>y at Cambridge, with the
exception of a very few which I gave to friends;
but as the preface was the only part of the work
that was intelligible to the general reader, I had
some copies of it printed separately to give away. '
   I was astonished at the success of my book; all
the reviews of it were highly favourable ; I received
letters of congratulation from many men of science.
I was elected an honorary member of the Royal
Astronomical Society at the same time as Miss
Caroline Herschel. To be associated with so distin
guished an astronomer was in itself an honour.
Mr. De Morgan, to whom I am indebted for many
excellent mathematical works, was then secretary of
the society, and announced to us the distinction
conferred. The council of the Society ordered that
a copy of the “ Greenwich Observations ” should be
regularly sent to me.
   [The Académic (lcs Sciences elected my mother’s old
friend M. Biot to draw up a report upon her “Mechanism

1 74-              Mary Some; ville.
of the Heavens,” which he did in the most <U+FB02>attering
terms, and upon my mother writing to thank him, replied
as follows :—
           FROM M. BIOT TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.
    MADAME,
        Revenu de Lyon depuis quelques jours, j’ai trouvé
à Paris les deux lettres dont vous avez daigné m’honorer,
etj’ai reçu également l’exemplaire de votre ouvrage que
vous avez bien voulu joindre à. la dernière. C’est être
mille fois trop bonne, Madame, que de me remercier en
core de ce qui m’a fait tant de plaisir. En rendant
compte de cet étonnant Traité, je remplissais d'abord un
devoir, puisque l’Académie m'avait chargé de le lire pour
elle; mais ce devoir m’o<U+FB02>'rait un attrait que vous con
cevriez facilement, s’il vous était possible de vous rappeler
l’admiration vive et profonde que m’inspira il y a long
tems l'union si extraordinaire de tous les talens et de
toutes les grâces, avec les connaissances sevères que
nous autres hommes avions la folie de croire notre
partage exclusif. Ce qui me charma alors, Madame, je
n‘ai pas cessé depuis de m’en souvenir; et des rapports
d'amitié qui me sont bien chers, ont encore, a votre insçu,
fortifié ces sentimens. Jugez donc, Madame, combien
j'étais heureux d’avoir à peindre ce que je comprenais si
bien, et ce que j’avais vu avec un si vif intérêt. Le plus
amusant pour moi de cette rencontre, c'était (le voir
nos plus graves confrères, par exemple, Lacroix et
Legendre, qui certes ne sont pas des esprits légers, ni
galans d’habitude, ni faciles à émouvoir, me gourmander,
comme ils le faisaient à chaque séance, de ce que je tar
dais tant à faire mon rapport, de ce que j'y mettais tant

                         D71 Bz'ot.                      175
d’insouciance et si peu de grâce; en<U+FB01>n, Madame, c’était
une conquête intellectuelle complète. Je n’ai pas manqué
de raconter cette circonstance comme un des <U+FB02>eurons de
votre couronne. Je me suis ainsi acquitté envers eux;
et quant à vous, Madame, d'après la manière dont vous
parlez vous-même de votre ouvrage, j'ai quelque espérance
de l'avoir présenté sous le point de vue où vous semblez
l’envisager.   Mais, en vous rendant ce juste et sincère
hommage et en l’insérant au Journal des Savans, je n’ai
pas eu la précaution de demander qu’on m’en mit a part;
aujourd’hui que la collection est tirée je suis aux regrets
d'avoir été si peu prévoyant. Au reste, Madame, il n'y a
rien dans cet extrait que ce que pensent tousceux qui
vous connaissent, ou même qui ont eu une seule fois le
bonheur de vous approcher. Vos amis trouveront que
j’ai exprimé bien faiblement les charmes de votre esprit et
 de votre caractère; charmes qu’ils doivent apprécier
 d'autant mieux qu’ils en jouissent plus souvent ; mais
 vous, Madame, qui êtes indulgente, vous pardonnerez la
 faiblesse d’un portrait qui n’a pu être fait que (le sou
 venir.
       J’ai l’honneur d’être, avec le plus profond respect,
                                 Madame,
              Votre très humble et très obéissant serviteur,
                                                      Bror.
    It was unanimously voted by the Royal Society
 of London, that my bust should be placed in their
 great Hall, and Chantrey was chosen as the sculptor.
 Soon after it was <U+FB01>nished, Mr. Potter, a great ship

176              Mary Somervzlle.
builder at Liverpool, who had just completed a <U+FB01>ne
vessel intended for the China and India trade, wrote
to my friend, Sir Francis Beaufort, hydrographer of
the Royal Navy, asking him if I would give him
permission to call her the “Mary Somerville,” and
to have a copy of my bust for her <U+FB01>gure-head. I
was much grati<U+FB01>ed with this, as might be expected.
The “ Mary Somerville ” sailed, but was never heard
of again ; it was supposed she had foundered during
a typhoon in the China sea.
   I was elected an honorary member of the Royal
Academy at Dublin, of the Bristol Philosophical
Institution, and of the Société de Physique et
d’Histoire Naturelle of Geneva, which was an
nounced to me by a very gratifying letter from
Professor Prevost.
   Our relations and others who had so severely
criticized and ridiculed me, astonished at my suc
cess, were now loud in my praise. The warmth
with which Somerville entered into my success
deeply affected me; for not one in ten thousand
would have rejoiced at it as he did ; but he was of
a generous nature, far above jealousy, and he con
tinued through life to take the kindest interest in
all I did.
   I now received the following letter from Sir
Robert Peel, informing me in the handsomest

                    Sir Roéert Peel.                     177
manner that he had advised the King to grant
me a pension of 2001. a year :—
 LETTER FROM SIR ROBERT PEEL TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                                      \VKITEHALL Gaannss,
                                          March, 1835.
     Manam,
          In advising the Crown in respect to the grant
of civil pensions, I have acted equally with a sense of
public duty and on the impulse of my own private
feelings in recognising among the <U+FB01>rst claims on the
Royal favour those which are derived from eminence in
science and literature.
   In reviewing such claims, it is impossible that I can
overlook those which you have established by the
successful prosecution of ' studies of the highest order,
both from the importance of the objects to which they
relate, and from the faculties and acquirements which
they demand.
   As my object is a public one, to encourage others to
follow the bright example which you have set, and to
prove that great scienti<U+FB01>c attainments are recognised
among public claims, I prefer making a direct connnuni
cation to you, to any private inquiries into your pecuniary
circumstances, or to any proposal through a third party.
I am enabled to advise His Majesty to grant to you a
pension on the civil list of two hundred pounds per
annum; and if that provision will enable you to pursue
your labours with less of anxiety, either as to the present
or the future, I shall only be ful<U+FB01>lling a public duty, and
not imposing upon you the slightest obligation, by
                                                       N

178               Mary Somerville.
availing myself of your permission to submit such a.
recommendation to the King.
                I have the honour to be,
           Madam, with the sincerest respect,
                                        ROBERT PEEL.
    I was highly pleased, but my pleasure was of short
duration, for the very next day a letter informed
us that by the treachery of persons in whom we
trusted, the last remains of our capital were lost.
 By the kindness of Lord John Russell, when he
 was Prime Minister, a hundred a-year was added to
 my pension, for which I was very grateful.
        a         a         a         o        a
    After the “ Mechanism of the Heavens” was pub
 lished, I was thrown out of work, and now that I
 had got into the habit of writing I did not know
 what to make of my spare time. Fortunately the
 preface of my book furnished me with the means
 of active occupation; for in it I saw such mutual
 dependence and connection in many branches of
 science, that I thought the subject might be carried
 to a greater extent.
    There were many subjects with which I was only
 partially acquainted, and others of which I had no
 previous knowledge, but which required to be care
 fully investigated, so I had to consult a variety of

                         Camérz'a'ge.                         179
authors, British and foreign. Even the astronomical
part was di<U+FB02>icult, for I had to translate analytical
formulae into intelligible language, and to draw
diagrams illustrative thereof, and this occupied the
<U+FB01>rst seven sections of the book. I should have been
saved much trouble had I seen a work on the subject
by Mr. Airy, Astronomer-Royal, published sub
sequently to my book.
   My son, \Voronzow Greig, had been educated at
Trinity College, Cambridge, and was travelling on
the Continent, when Somerville and I received an
invitation from the Principal, Dr. \Vhewell, to visit
the University. Mr. Airy, then astronomer at
Cambridge, now Astronomer-Royal at Greenwich,
and Mrs.          kindly wished us to be their guests ;
but as the Observatory was at some distance from
Cambridge, it was decided that we should have an
apartment in Trinity College itself; an unusual
favour where a lady is concerned. Mr. Sedgwick,
the geologist, made the arrangements, received us,
and we spent the <U+FB01>rst day at dinner with him. He
is still alive*—one of my few coevals—either in
Cambridge or England. The week we spent in
Cambridge, receiving every honour from the heads
of the University, was a period of which I have
ever borne a proud and grateful remembrance.
       * Professor Sedgwick died shortly after my mother.
                                                          N 2

180                Mary Sonzervz'lle
  [Professor Sedgwick wrote as follows to my father :—
    FROM PROFESSOR SEDGWIGK T0 DR. SOMERVILLE.
                                Tnmrrv Courses, April, 1834.
   MY DEAR Sommvmna,
        Your letter delighted us. I have ordered dinner
on Thursday at 6% and shall have a small party to
welcome you and Mrs. Somerville. In order that we
may not have to <U+FB01>ght for you, we have been entering on
the best arrangements we can think of. On Tuesday you
will, I hope, dine with Peacock; on Wednesday with
\Vhewell ; on Thursday at the Observatory. For Friday,
 Dr. Clarke, our Professor of Anatomy, puts in a claim
 For the other days of your visit we shall, D.V., <U+FB01>nd ample
 employment. A four-poster bed now (a thing utterly out
 of our regular monastic system) will rear its head for you
 and Madame in the chambers immediately below my
 own; and your handmaid may safely rest her bones in a
 small inner chamber. Should Sheepshanks return, we
 can stu<U+FB01>' him into a lumber room of the observatory ; but
 Of this there is no fear as I have written to him on the
 SHbject, and he has no immediate intention of returning
 You will of course drive to the great gate of Trinity
 Conege, and my servant will be in waiting at the Porter’s
 1°d€e to show you the way to your academic residence.
 We have no cannons at Trinity College, otherwise we
 w°111d <U+FB01>re a salute on your entry; we will however give
 you the Warmest greeting we can. Meanwhile give my
 best l‘egards to Mrs. S.
                      And believe me most truly yours,
                                             A. Sencwmx.
                    ‘         Q           Q         I

                       La Place.                   18]
    La Place had a profound veneration for Newton ;
he sent me a copy of his “ Système du Monde,” and
a letter, dated 15th August, 1824, in which he says :
“ Je publie successivement les divers livres du cin
quième livre qui doit terminer mon traité de
‘ Mécanique Celeste,’ et dans cela. je donne l’analyse
historique des recherches des géomètres sur cette
matière, cela m’a fait relire avec une attention par
ticulière l’ouvrage si incomparable des principes
mathématiques de la philosophie naturelle de Newton,
qui contient le germe de toutes ses recherches. Plus
j’ai étudié cet ouvrage plus il m’a paru admirable,
en me transportant surtout à, l’époque où il a été
publié. Mais en même tems que je sens l’élégance
de la méthode synthétique suivant laquelle Newton
a presenté ses découvertes, j’ai reconnu l’indispen
sable nécessité de l’analyse pour approfondir les
questions très dif<U+FB01>ciles que Newton n’a pu qu’e<U+FB01>leurer
par la synthèse. Je vois avec un grand plaisir vos
mathématiciens se livrer maintenant à l’analyse et
je ne doute point qu’en suivant cette méthode avec
la sagacité propre à votre nation ils ne seront con
duits a d’importantes découvertes.”
   Newton himself was aware that by the law of
gravitation the stability of the solar system was
endangered. The power of analysis alone enabled
La Grange to prove that all the disturbances arising

182               Mary Somerville.
from the reciprocal attraction of the planets and
satellites are periodical, whatever the length of the
periods may be, so that the stability of the solar
system is insured for unlimited ages. The pertur
bations are only the oscillations of that immense
pendulum of Eternity which beats centuries as ours
beats seconds.
   La Place, and all the great mathematicians of that
period, had scarcely passed away when the more
powerful Quaternion system began to dawn.

                      CHAPTER XII.
I'.\RlS—ARAGO, LAFAYETTE, MM. souvann, POISSON, LACROIX, an,
    naaoursn DE LA rues, nuns, r. COOPER—LEGITIMISTE soeiarv
    —MAJENDXE—VISIT BARON LOUIS—LETTER raom LAFAYETTE.
    MY health was never good at Chelsea, and as I had
been working too hard, I became so ill, that change
of air and scene were thought absolutely necessary
for me. \Ve went accordingly to Paris; partly, because
it was near home, as Somerville could not remain
long with us at a time, and, partly, because we
thought it a good opportunity to give masters to
the girls, which we could not afford to do in London.
When we arrived, I was so weak, that I always
remained in bed writing till one o’clock, and then,
either went to sit in the Tuileries gardens, or else
received visits. All my old friends came to see me,
Arago, the <U+FB01>rst. He was more engaged in politics
than science, and as party spirit ran very high at
that time, he said he would send tickets of admission
to the Chambers every time there was likely to be
an “ orage.” When I told him what I was writing,

184               Illary Somerville.
he gave me some interesting memoirs, and lent me
a mass of manuscripts, with leave to make extracts,
which were very useful to me.         General de La.
 Fayette came to town on purpose to invite
 Somerville and me to visit him at La Grange,
 where we found him living like a patriarch, sur
 rounded by his family to the fourth generation.
 He was mild, highly distinguished, and noble in his
 manners; his conversation was exceedingly in
 teresting, as he readily spoke of the Revolution in
 which he had taken so active a part. Among other
 anecdotes, he mentioned, that he had sent the prin
 cipal key of the Bastile to General \Vashington,
 who kept it under a glass case. He was much in
 terested to hear that I could, in some degree, claim
 a kind of relationship with \Vashington, whose
 mother was a Fairfax.     Baron Fairfax, the head of
 the family, being settled in America, had joined
the independent party at the Revolution.
_ The two daughters of La Fayette, who had been
In Prison with him at Olmiitz, were keen politicians,
       discussed points with a warmth of gesticulation
whlch amused Somerville and me, accustomed to
0;: c°1d still manners.         The grand-daughters,
  _ Sdmfles de Rémusat and de Coreelles, were
  my fl'l'BIlds to me all the time I was in Paris.
     I. Bouvard, whom we had known in London,

                  Freud; Savanls.                 185
was now Astronomer-Royal of France, and he invited
us to dine with him at the Observatory.     The table
was surrounded by savants, who complimented me
on the “Mechanism of the Heavens.” I sat next
M. Poisson, who advised me in the strongest manner
to write a second volume, so as to complete the
account of La Place’s works ; and he afterwards
told Somerville, that there were not twenty men in
France who could read my book. M. Arago, who
was of the party, said, he had not written to thank
me for my book, because he had been reading it, and
was busy preparing an account of it for the Journal
of the Institute. At this party, I made the acquaint
ance of the celebrated astronomer, M. Pontécoulant,
and soon after, of M. La Croix, to whose works I was
indebted for my knowledge of the highest branches
of mathematics.    M. Prony, and M. Poinsot, came
to visit me, the latter, an amiable and gentlemanly
person ; both gave me a copy of their works.
   We had a long visit from M. Biot, who seemed
really glad to renew our old friendship. He was
making experiments on light, though much out of
health ; but when we dined with him and Madame
Biot, he forgot for the time his bad health, and re
sumed his former gaiety.      They made us promise
to visit them at their country-house when we re
turned to England, as it lay on our road.

186               Mary Somewz'lle.
   To my in<U+FB01>nite regret, La Place had been dead
some time ; the Marquise was still at Arcoeuil, and
we went to see her. She received us with the
greatest warmth, and devoted herself to us the
whole time we were in Paris. As soon as she came
to town, we went to make a morning visit; it was
past <U+FB01>ve o’clock; we were shown into a beautiful
drawing-room, and the man-servant, without knock
ing at the door, went into the room which was
adjacent, and we heard her call out, “ J’irai 1a voir !
j’irai la voir!” and when the man-servant came
out, he said, “ Madame est désolée, mais elle est en
chemise.”     Madame de La Place was exceedingly
agreeable, the life of every party, with her cheerful
gay manner. She was in great favour with the
Royal Family, and was always welcome when she
went to visit them in an evening. She received
once a week, and her grand-daughter, only nineteen,
lovely and graceful, was an ornament to her parties.
She was already married to M. de Colbert, whose
father fell at Corunna.
    No one was more attentive to me than Dr.
 Milne-Edwards, the celebrated natural historian.
 He was the <U+FB01>rst Englishman who was elected
 a member of the Institute.         I  was indebted
 to him for the acquaintance of MM. Ampere and
 Becquerel.    I believe Dr. Edwards was at that time

                    Female Socz'ez‘y.            1'87
writing on Physiology, and, in conversation, I hap
pened to mention that the wild ducks in the fens, at
Lincolnshire, always build their nests on high tufts
of grass, or reeds, to save them from sudden <U+FB02>oods ;
and that Sir John Sebright had raised wild ducks
under a hen, which built their nests on tufts of
grass as if they had been in the fens. Dr. Edwards
begged of me to inquire for how many generations
that instinct lasted.
   Monsieur and Madame Gay Lussac lived in the
Jardin des Plantes. Madame was only twenty-one,
exceedingly pretty, and well-educated; she read
English and German, painted prettily, and was a
musician. She told me it had been computed,
that if all the property in France were equally
divided among the population, each person would
have 150 francs a-year, or four sous per day; so
that if anyone should spend eight sous a-day, some
other person would starve.
  The Duchesse de Broglie, Madame de Staél’s
daughter, called, and invited us to her receptions,
which were the most brilliant in Paris.       Every
person of distinction was there, French or foreign,
generally four or <U+FB01>ve men to one woman.         The
Duchess was a charming woman, both handsome
and amiable, and received with much grace. The
Duke was, then, Minister for Foreign A<U+FB01>'airs. They

 188              Mary Somerville.
were remarkable for their domestic virtues, as well
as for high intellectual cultivation.    The part the
Duke took in politics is so well known, that I need
not allude to it here.
   At some of these parties I met with Madame
Charles Dupin, whom I liked much. When I went
to return her visit, she received us in her bed-room.
She was a fashionable and rather elegant woman,
with perfect manners. She invited us to dinner
to meet her brother-in-law, the President of the
Chamber of Deputies.         He   was animated    and
witty, very fat, and more ugly than his brother,
but both were clever and agreeable. The President
invited me to a very brilliant ball he gave, but as it
was on a Sunday I could not accept the invitation.
We went one evening with Madame Charles Dupin
to be introduced to Madame de Rumford. Her <U+FB01>rst
husband, Lavoisier, the chemist, had been guillotined
at the Revolution, and she was now a widow, but
had lived long separated from her second husband.
She was enormously rich, and had a magni<U+FB01>cent
palace, garden, and conservatory, in which she gave
balls and concerts.    At all the evening parties in
Paris the best bed-room was lighted up for reception
like the other rooms.     Madame de Rumford was
capricious and ill-tempered ; however, she received
me very Well, and invited me to meet a. very large

                  Franc/z Society.                189
party at dinner. Mr. Fenimore Cooper, the Ameri
can novelist, with his wife and daughter, were
among the guests. I found him extremely amiable
and agreeable, which surprised me, for when I knew
him in England he was so touchy that it was
dif<U+FB01>cult to converse with him without giving him
offence. He was introduced to Sir Walter Scott by
Sir James Mackintosh, who said, in presenting him,
“ Mr. Cooper, allow me to introduce you to your
great forefather in the art of <U+FB01>ction ”; “Sir,” said
Cooper, with great asperity, “ I have no forefather.“
Now, though his manners were rough, they were
quite changed. We saw a great deal of him, and
I was frequently in his house, and found him per
fectly liberal; so much so, that he told us the
faults of his country with the greatest frankness,
yet he was the champion of America, and hated
England.
   None were kinder to us than Lord and Lady
Granville. Lady Granville invited us to all her
parties ; and when Somerville was obliged to return
to England, she assured him that in case of any dis
turbance, we should <U+FB01>nd a refuge in the Embassy.
I went to some balls at the Tuileries with Madame
de Lafayette Lasteyrie and her sister. The Queen
Amelie was tall, thin, and very fair, not pretty,
but in<U+FB01>nitely more regal than Adelaide, Queen of

  190             Mary Samervzlle.
 England, at that time. The Royal Family used to
 walk about in the streets of Paris without any
 attendants.
    Sir Sydney Smith was still in Paris trying to
 renew the order of the Knights Templars. Somer
 ville and I went with him one evening to a. recep
 tion at the Duchesse d’Abrantés, widow of Junot.
 She was short, thick, and not in the least dis
 tinguished-looking, nor in any way remarkable. I
 had met her at the Duchesse de Broglie’s, where she
 talked of Junot as if he had been in the next room.
 Sir Sydney was quite covered with stars and crosses,
 and I was amused with the way he threw his
 cloak back to display them as he handed me to the
 carriage.
    I met with Prince Koslo<U+FB02>'sky everywhere; he
was the fattest man I ever saw, a perfect Fal
staff. However, his intellect was not smothered,
for he would sit an hour with me talking
about mathematics, astronomy, philosophy, and
what not.    He was banished from Russia, and as
he had been speaking imprudently about politics in
Paris, he was ordered to go elsewhere; still, he
lingered on, and was with me one morning when
Pozzo di Borgo, the Russian Ambassador called.
Pozzo di Borgo said to me, “Are you aware that
Prince Kosloffsky has left Paris?” “Oh yes,” I

                     Legu‘z'mzsts.              191
said, “I regret it much.” He took the hint, and
went away directly.
   I had hitherto been entirely among the Liberal
set. How it came that I was invited to dine with
M. Héricourt de Thury, I do not remember. M. de
Thury was simple in his manners, and full of in
formation ; he had been Director of the Mines under
Napoleon, and had charge of the Public Buildings
under Louis XVIII. and Charles X., but resigned
his charges at the Revolution of July. At this time
the Duchesse de Berry was con<U+FB01>ned in the citadel of
Blaye. She had a strong party in Paris, who
furiously resented the treatment she met with.
M. de Thury was a moderate Legitimiste, but
Madame was ultra. When I happened to mention
that we had been staying with Lafayette, at La
Grange, she was horri<U+FB01>ed, and begged of me not to
talk politics, or mention where we had been, or
else some of her guests would leave the room. The
ladies of that party would not dance or go to any
gay party ; they had a part of the theatre reserved
for themselves; they wore high dark dresses with
 long sleeves, called “Robes de Resistance,” and
even the Legitimiste newspapers appeared with
 black edges.  They criticised those who gave balls,
and Lady Granville herself did not escape their
 censure. The marriage of the Duchesse de Berry to

192              Mmy Somervz/le.
the Marchese Lucchesi Palli made an immense sen
sation; it was discussed in the salons in a truly
French manner; it was talked of in the streets;
the Robes de Resistance were no longer worn, and
the Legitimiste newspapers went out of mourning.
   All parties criticised the British Administration
in Ireland. A lady sitting by me at a party said,
“ No wonder so many English prefer France to so
odious a. country as England, where the people are
oppressed, and even eabbages are raised in hot
beds." I laughed, and said, “I like England very
well, for all that.” An old gentleman, who was
standing near us, said, “ \Vhatevcr terms two
countries may be on, it behoves us individuals to
observe good manners ;” and when I went away, this
gentleman handed me to the carriage, though I had
never seen him before.
   The Marquise de La Place was commissioned by
Dr. Majendie to invite me to meet her and Madame
Gay Lussac at dinner. I was very unwilling to go ;
for I detested the man for his wanton cruelties, but
I, found I could not refuse on account of these
ladies. There was a large party of savants, agreeable
and gentlemanly; but Majendie himself had the
coarsest manners; his conversation was horridly
professional; many things were said and subjects
discussed not <U+FB01>t for women to hear. What a con

                 zlfty'r/zdz'e and Bell.             193
trast the re<U+FB01>ned and amiable Sir Charles Bell formed
with Majendie! Majendie and the French school of
anatomy made themselves odious by their cruelty,
and failed to prove the true anatomy of the brain
and nerves, while Sir Charles Bell did succeed, and
thus made one of the greatest physiological dis
coveries of the age without torturing animals, which
his gentle and kindly nature abhorred. To Lady
Bell I am indebted for a copy of her husband’s Life.
She is one of my few dear and valued friends who
are still alive.
        §         §           '1'      'I       *
    While in Paris, I lost my dear mother. She died
at the age of ninety, attended by my brother
Henry. She was still a <U+FB01>ne old lady, with few
grey hairs. The fear of death was almost hereditary
in the Charters family, and my mother possessed it
in no small degree ; yet when it came, she was
perfectly composed and prepared for it. I have
 never had that fear ; may God grant that I may be
 as calm and prepared as she was.
        "i        i            I        "        i
    I was in better health, but still so delicate that I
 wrote in bed till one o’clock. The “ Connexion of
 the Physical Sciences ” was a tedious work, and
 the proof sheets had to be sent through the Embassy.
    M. Arago' told me that David, the sculptor,
                                                   0

 194              Mary Somerz'il/e.
 wished to make a medallion of me ; so he came and
 sat an hour with me, and pleased me by his in
 telligent conversation and his enthusiasm for art.
 A day was <U+FB01>xed, and he took my pro<U+FB01>le on slate
 with pink wax, in a wonderfully short time. He
 made me a present of a medallion in bronze, nicely
 framed, and two plaster casts for my daughters.
        .         D        l         'D        ‘D
    I frequently went to hear the debates in the
 Chambers, and occasionally took my girls, as I
thought it was an excellent lesson in French. As
party spirit ran very high, the scenes that occurred
 were very amusing. A member, in the course of
his speech, happening to mention the word “ liberté,”
the President Dupin rang the bell, called out “ Stop,
a propos de liberté,” . . . jumped down from his
seat, sprung into the tribune, pushed out the deputy,
and made a long speech himself.
   The weather being <U+FB01>ne, we made excursions
in the neighbourhood. At Sévres I saw two
pieces of china; on one of them was a gnu, on
the other a zebra. Somerville had told me that
soon after his return from his African expedition, he
had given the original drawings to M. Brongniart
then director of the manufactory.
   Baron Louis invited me to spend a day with him
and his niece, Mademoiselle de Rigny, at his country

                    Baron Louzk.                  195
house, not far from Paris. I went with Madame
de la Place, and we set out early, to be in time for
breakfast.   The road lay through the Forest of
Vincennes.    The Baron’s park, which was close to
the village of Petit-Brie, was very large, and richly
wooded ; there were gardens, hot-houses, and all
the luxuries of an English nobleman’s residence.
The house was handsome, with a magni<U+FB01>cent library;
I remarked on the table the last numbers of the
“Edinburgh” and “ Quarterly ” Reviews. Both
the Baron and his niece were simple and kind.
I was greatly taken with both ; the Baron had all
the quiet elegance of the old school, and his niece
had great learning and the manners of a woman of
fashion. She lived in perfect retirement, having
suffered much in the time of the Revolution.
They had both eventful lives; for Baron Louis, who
had been in orders, and Talleyrand of<U+FB01>ciated at the
Champs de Mars when Louis the Sixteenth took
the oath to maintain the constitution. Field
Marshal Macdonald, Due de Tarante, and hisson
in-law, the Due de Massa; Admiral de Rigny,
Minister of Marine ; M. Barthe, Garde dos Sceaux;
and the Bouvards, father and son, formed the party.
After spending a most delightful and interesting
day, we drove to Paris in bright moonlight.
   Our friends in Paris and at La Grange had been
                                              0 2

196          '        [Wary Samara/ills.
so kind to us that we were very sad when we went
to express our gratitude and take leave of them.
We only stayed two days at La Grange, and when
we returned to Paris, Somerville went home and
my son joined us, when we made a rapid tour in
Switzerland, the only remarkable event of which
was a singular atmospheric phenomenon we saw
on the top of the Grimsel. On the clouds of
vapour below us we saw our shadows projected, of
giant proportions, and each person saw his own
shadow surrounded by a bright circle of prismatic
colours. It is not uncommon in mountain regions.
        'I           Q           l'           i             .
    [General Lafayette and all his family were extremely
kind to my mother. He was her constant visitor, and
we twice visited him at his country house, La Grange.
He wished to persuade my mother to go there for some
days, a<U+FB01>er our return from Switzerland, which we did not
accomplish. The General wrote the following letter to
my father :—                                     '
           FROM LAFAYETTE TO DR. SOMERVILLE.
  _                                 LA GRANGE, 3131! October, 1833.
    MY DEAR Sm,
        I waited to answer your kind letter, for the
arrival of Mr. Coke's“ precious gift, which nobody could
higher value, on every account, than the grateful farmer
on whom it has been bestowed. The heifers and bull
        " Mr. Coke, of Holkham, afterwards Earl of Leicester.

                        Lafayette.                      197
are beautiful ; they have reached La Grange in the best
order, and shall be tenderly attended to. . . . It has been
a great disappointment not to see Mrs. Somerville and
the young ladies before their departure. Had we not de
pended on their kind visit, we should have gone to take
leave of them. They have had the goodness to regret the
impossibility to come before their departure. Be so kind
as to receive the affectionate friendship and good wishes
of a family who are happy in the ties of mutual attachment
that bind us to you and them. . . . Public interest is now
<U+FB01>xed upon the Peninsula, and while dynasties are at civil
war, and despotic or juste milieu cabinets seem to agree
in the fear of a genuine development of popular institu
tions, the matter for the friends of freedom is to know
how far the great cause of Europe shall be forwarded by
these royal squabbles.
   We shall remain at La Grange until the opening of the
session, hoping that, notwithstanding your and the ladies’
absence, your attention will not be quite withdrawn from
our interior a<U+FB02>'airs—the sympathy shall be reciprocal.
                 With all my heart, I am
                           Your affectionate friend,
                                             LAFAYETTE.

                       CHAPTER XIII.
   RETURX TO ENGLAND—LETTER FROM HALLAM—TREATISE ON THE FORM
      AND ROTATION OF THE EARTH AND PLANETS—SECOND EDITION OI"
       “CONNEXION  OF PHYSICAL   SCIENCES "—LETTERS    FROM  MARIA
      EDUEWORTII, MISS BERRY, LORD BROUGHAM, MRQMARCET, ADMIRAL
      SMYTH—DOUBLE STARS—ECLIPSE 0! DOUBLE STARS—LETTER PROM
      ADMIRAL SMYTH—SIR WILLIAM HEILSCHEL—NEBULE—LETTER FROM
      LORD  ROSSE— LETTER    FROM  SIR  JOHN HERSCHEL— SIR   JAMES;
      BOUTK'S OBSERVATORY—MR.    JOHN  MURRAY—MISS BERRY—LORD
      DUDLEY—MR. BOWDI'I‘CII AND OTHER DISTINGUISHED AMERICANS—
      MRS.  BROWNING   WASHINGTON —- LETTER   FROM   THE  REV.  DR.
      TUC‘KIBMAN—SIR “'ILLIADI FAIRFAX ATTACKEI) BY BIGKWAYMEN.
     As soon as we returned to Chelsea, the “ Con
  nexion of the Physical Sciences ” was published. It
  was dedicated to Queen Adelaide, who thanked me
  for it at a drawing-room. Some time after Somerville
  and I went to Scotland ; we had travelled all night
  in the mail coach, and when it became light, a
  gentleman who was in the carriage said to Somer
  ville, “Is not the lady opposite to me Mrs. Somer
 ville, whose bust I saw at Chantrey’s ?” The
 gentleman was Mr. Sopwith, of Newcastle-on-Tyne,
 a civil and mining engineer. He was distinguished
,‘for scienti<U+FB01>c knowledge, and had been in London

                  T/ze Egyptian Year.                199
to give information to a parliamentary committee.
He travelled faster than we did, and when we
arrived at Newcastle he was waiting to take us to
his house, where we were hospitany received by
Mrs. Sopwith. His conversation was highly in
teresting, and to him I was indebted for much
information on mining generally, and on the mineral
wealth of Great Britain, while writing on Physical
Geography. Many years after he and Mrs. Sopwith
came and saw me at Naples, which gave me much
pleasure. He was unlike any other traveller I
ever met with, so profound and original were his
observations on all he saw.
       'I'        I'         "         §         &
   On coming home I found that I had made an
error in the <U+FB01>rst edition of the “ Physical Sciences,” in
giving 365 days 6 hours as the length of the civil
year of the ancient Egyptians. My friend Mr.
Hallam, the historian, wrote to me, proving from
history and epochs of the chronology of the ancient
Egyptians, that their civil year was only 365 days.
I was grateful to that great and amiable man for
copies of all his works while he was alive, and I am
obliged to his daughter for an excellent likeness of
him, now that he is no more.

200                <U+FB01>lmy Sommz'lle.
   FROM HENRY HALLAM, ESQ, TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                            erou-z Srasn'r, March 12th, 1835.
   MY DEAR MADAM,
        As you will probably soon be called upon for
another edition of your excellent work on the “ Connexion
of the Physical Sciences,” I think you will excuse the
liberty I take in mentioning to you one passage which
seems to have escaped your attention in so arduous a
labour. It is in page 104, where you have this sen
tence :—
   “ The Egyptians estimated the year at 365d. 6h.,
by which they lost one year in every 14,601, their Sothiac
period. They determined the length of their year by
the heliacal rising of Sirius, 2782 years before the Chris
tian era, which is the earliest epoch of Egyptian chron
ology.”
   The Egyptian civil year was of 365 days only, as we
find in Herodotus, and I apprehend there is no dispute
about it. The Sothiac period, or that cycle in which the
heliacal rising of Sirius passed the whole civil year, and
took place again on the same day, was of 1461 years, not
14,601. If they had adopted a year of 365d. 6h.,
this period would have been more than three times
14,601 ; the excess of the sidereal year above that being
only 9' 9”, which will not amount to a day in less than
about 125 years.                -
   I do not see how the heliacal rising of Sirius in any one
year could help them to determine its length. By com
paring two successive years they could of course have got
at a sidereal year; but this is what they did not do;
hence the irregularity which produced the canicular cycle.

                   Unpuélis<U+FB01>ed Writing.                   201
The commencement of that cycle is placed by ancient
chronologers in 1322 A.C. It seems not correct to call
2782 A.C. “the earliest epoch of Egyptian chronology,”
for we have none of their chronology nearly so old, and
in fact no chronology, properly so called, has yet been
made out by our Egyptian researches. It is indeed cer
tain that, if the reckoning by heliacal risings of Sirius did
not begin in 1322, we must go nearly 1460 years back for
its origin; since it must have been adopted when that
event preceded only for a short time the annual inunda
tion of the Nile.    But, according to some, the year 1322
A.C. fell during the reign of Sesostris, to whom Herodotus
ascribes several regulations connected with the rising of
the Nile. Certainly, 2782 A.C. is a more remote era than
we are hitherto warranted to assume for any astronomical
observation.
              Believe me, dear Mrs. Somerville,
                                   Very truly yours,
                                         HENRY HALLAM.
   I refer you to Montucla, if you have any doubt about
the Egyptian year being of 365 days without bissextile of
any kind.
   I had sent a copy of the “Mechanism of the
Heavens” to M. Poisson soon after it was published,
and I had received a letter from him dated 30th
May, 1832, advising me to complete the work by
writing a volume on the form and rotation of the
earth and planets. Being again strongly advised to

21'2             Mary Somerville.
do so while in Paris, I now began the work, and, in
consequence, I was led into a correspondence with
Mr. Ivory, who had written on the subject, and also
with Mr. Francis Baily, on the density and com
pression of the earth. My work was extensive, for
it comprised the analytical attraction of spheroids,
the form and rotation of the earth, the tides of the
ocean and atmosphere, and small undulations.
   When this was <U+FB01>nished, I had nothing to do,
and as I preferred analysis to all other subjects,
I wrote a work of 246 pages on curves and sur
faces of the second and higher orders. While
writing this, con amore, a new edition of the
“ Physical Sciences” was much needed, so I put
on high pressure and worked at both. Had these
two manuscripts been published at that time, they
might have been of use; I do not remember why
they were laid aside, and forgotten till I found
them years afterwards among my papers. Long
after the time I am writing about, while at Naples,
I amused myself by repairing the time-worn parts
of these manuscripts, and was surprised to <U+FB01>nd that
in my eighty-ninth year I still retained facility in
the “ Calculus.”
    The second edition of the “ Physical Sciences "
was dedicated to my dear friend, Sir John Herschel.
 It went through nine editions, and has been trans

                 T/ze DIM/1885 of Kent.                  203
lated into German and Italian.          The book went
through various editions in the United States, to
the honour, but not to the pro<U+FB01>t, of the author.
However, the publisher obligingly sent me a copy.
I must say that pro<U+FB01>t was never an object with
me: I wrote because it was impossible for me to
be idle.
   I had the honour of presenting a copy of my
book to the Duchess of Kent at a private audience.
The Duchess and Princess Victoria were alone, and
received me very graciously, and conversed for half
an hour with me.       As I mentioned before, I saw
the young Princess crowned: youthful, almost child
like as she was, she went through the imposing
ceremony with all the dignity of a Queen.
  [A few letters from some of my mother’s friends,
written at this period, may prove of interest. They
are chie<U+FB02>y written to thank her for copies of the Pre
liminary Dissertation or of the “Physical Sciences.”
One from Lord Brougham concerns my mother’s esti
mate of the scienti<U+FB01>c merit of Dr. Young, for whom she
had the sincerest admiration, and considered him one
of the <U+FB01>rst philosophers and discoursers of the age.
     FROM MISS EDGEWORTH TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                            Encwon'rn'rown, May 31st, 1832.
  MY DEAR MRS. SOMERVILLE,
       There is one satisfaction at least in giving
knowledge to the ignorant, to those who know their

204                Mary Somervzlle.
ignorance at least, that they are grateful and humble.
You should have my grateful and humble thanks long
ago for the favour—the honour—you did me by sending
me that Preliminary Dissertation, in which there is so
much knowledge, but that I really wished to read it over
and over again at some intervals of time, and to have
the pleasure of seeing my sister Harriet read it, before
I should write to you. She has come to us, and has
just been enjoying it, as I knew she would. For my
part, I was long in the state of the boa constrictor after
a full meal—and I am but just recovering the powers of
motion. My mind was so distended by the magnitude,
the immensity, of what you put into it! I am afraid
that if you had been aware how ignorant I was you would
not have sent me this dissertation, because you would
have felt that you were throwing away much that I
could not understand, and that could be better bestowed
on scientific friends capable of judging of what they
admire. I can only assure you that you have given me
a great deal of pleasure ; that you have enlarged my con
ception of the sublimity of the universe, beyond any ideas
I had ever before been enabled to form.
   The great simplicity of your manner of writing, I may
say of your mind, which appears in your writing, parti
cularly suits the scienti<U+FB01>c sublime—which would be
destroyed by what is commonly called <U+FB01>ne writing. You
trust suf<U+FB01>ciently to the natural interest of your subject,
to the importance of the facts, the beauty of the whole,
and the adaptation of the means to the ends, in every
part of the immense whole. This reliance upon your
reader’s feeling along with you, was to me very gratifying.
The ornaments of eloquence dressing out a sublime
subject are just so many proofs either of bad taste in the

                       Mis: Edgeworl/z.                   205
orator, or of distrust and contempt of the taste of those
whom he is trying thus to captivate.
   I suppose nobody yet has completely mastered the
tides, therefore I may well content myself with my in
ability to comprehend what relates to them. But instead
0 plaguing you with an endless enumeration of my dif<U+FB01>
culties, I had better tell you some of the passages which
gave me, ignorainus as I am, peculiar pleasure . . . . . .
I am afraid I shall transcribe your whole book if I go
on to tell you all that has struck me, and you would not
thank me for that—you, who have so little vanity, and
so much to do better with your time than to read my
ignorant admiration. But pray let me mention to you
a few of the passages that amused my imagination
particularly, viz., 1st, the inhabitant of Pallas going
round his world—or who might go——-in <U+FB01>ve or six
hours in one of our steam carriages ; 2nd, the moderate
 sized man who would weigh two tons at the surface
 of the sun-—and who would weigh only a few pounds
 at the surface of the four new planets, and would be
 so light as to <U+FB01>nd it impossible to stand from the
 excess of muscular force! I think a very entertaining
 dream might be made of a man’s visit to the sun and
 planets—~these ideas are all like dreamy feelings when one
 is a little feverish. I forgot to mention (page 58) a passage
 on the propagation of sound. It is a beautiful sentence,
 as well as a sublime idea, “ so that at a very small height
 above the surface of the earth, the noise of the tempest
 ceases and the thunder is heard no more in those bound
 less regions, where the heavenly bodies accomplish their
 periods in eternal and sublime silence.”
    Excuse me in my trade of sentence-monger, and believe

206                jllarjy Somcrm'lle.
me, dear Mrs. Somerville, truly your obliged and truly
your affectionate friend,
                                   MARIA Enaawoarn.
   I have persuaded your dear curly-headed friend,
Harriet, to add her own observations; she sends her
love to you; and I know you love her, otherwise I would
not press her to write her own say.
    FROM MISS JOANNA BAILLIE TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                              HAMPSTEAD, February lat, 1832.
   MY DEAR Mas. SOMERVILLE,
        I am now, thank God! recovered from a very
heavy disease, but still very weak. I will not, however,
delay any longer my grateful acknowledgments for your
Very <U+FB02>attering gift of your Preliminary Dissertation.
Indeed, I feel myself greatly honoured by receiving such
a mark of regard from one who has done more to remove
the light estimation in which the capacity of women is
too often held, than all that has been accomplished by
the whole sisterhood of poetical damsels and novel
 writing authors. I could say much more on this subject
were I to follow my own feelings; but I am still so
 weak that writing is a trouble to me, and I have nearly
 done all that I am able.
             God bless and prosper you I
                       Yours gratefully and truly,
                                             J. BAILLIE.

                      Mzss Berry.                          207
         FROM MISS BERRY TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                              BELLEVUE, 18th September, 1834.
   MY DEAR Mas. SOMERVILLE,
        I have just <U+FB01>nished reading your book, which has
entertained me extremely, and at the same time, I hope,
improved my moral character in the Christian virtue of
humility. These must appear to you such odd results-—
so little like those produced on the great majority of
your readers, that you must allow me to explain them to
you. Humbled, I must be, by <U+FB01>nding my own intellect
unequal to following, beyond a <U+FB01>rst step, the explanations
by which you seek to make easy to comprehension the
marvellous phenomena of the universe—~humbled, by
feeling the intellectual difference between you and me,
placing you as much above me in the scale of reasoning
beings, as I am above my dog. Still I rejoice with
humility at feeling myself, in that order of understand
ings which, although utterly incapable of following the
chain of your reasonings, calculations, and inductions—
utterly deprived of the powers necessary sic itur ad
astra—am yet informed, enlightened, and entertained with
the series of sublime truths to which you conduct me.
   In some foggy morning of November, I shall drive out
to you at Chelsea. and surprise you with my ignorance
of science, by asking you to explain to me some things
which you will wonder any one can have so long existed
without knowing. In the mean time, I wish you could
read in any combination of the stars the probability of
our often having such a season as this, of uninterrupted
summer since April last, and when last week it was
sobering into autumn, has now returned to enter

208                Mary Somervzlle.
summer again. The thermometer was at 83° in the
shade yesterday, and to-day promises to be as much.
We are delighted with our two months’ residence at this
place, which we shall see with regret draw towards a
close the end of this month. October we mean to spend
at Paris, before we return to the nebulositics of London.
During my residence in Paris, before we came here, I
never had the good luck to meet with your friend M.
Arago; had I not been reading your book, I should
have begged you to give me a letter for him. But as it
is, and as my stay at Paris will now be so short, I shall
content myself with looking up at a respectful distance to
all your great <U+FB01>xed stars of science, excepting always
yourself, dear Mrs. Somerville. No “disturbing in<U+FB02>u~
ence” will, I hope, ever throw me out of the orbit of
your intimacy and friendship, whose value, believe me, is
most duly and accurately calculated by your ignorant
but very affectionate friend,
                                              M. BERRY.
      FROM LORD BROUGHAM TO MRS. SOMERVILLF.
                                                      1834.
   MY DEAR Mas. SOMERVILLE,
        Many thanks for the sheets, which I have read
with equal pleasure and instruction as those I formerly
had from you. One or two things I could have troubled
you with, but they are of little moment. I shall note them.
The only one that is at all material relates to the way you
mention Dr. Young—not that I object to the word “ illus
trious,” or as applied to him. But as you don’t give it
to one considerably more so, it looks either as if you over
rated him, or underrated Davy, or (which I suppose to be

                          Mrs. Marcet.                         209
 the truth) as if you felt Young had not had his due share of
 hon0ur, and desired to make it up to his memory. Observe
 I give him a very high place—but Davy’s discoveries are
 both of more unquestioned originality and more un
 doubtedly true—perhaps I should say, more brought to
 a close. The alkalis and the principle of the safety
lamp are concluded and <U+FB01>xed, the undulation is in pro
 gress, and somewhat uncertain as to how and where it
 may end. You will please to observe that I reckon both
 those capital discoveries of Davy the fruit of inquiry,
 and not at all of chance—for, as to the lamp, it is plain ;
and as to the metals, if you look at the inquiries that
immediately preceded, you will see he was thereby led
to the alkalis. Indeed, I well remember saying, when
I read them, “ He will analyse lime and barytes.”           I am
quite ready to admit his extreme folly in some things,
but that is nothing to the present purpose.
                                          Yours,
                                              H. B.
                                      (Henry Brougham.)
        FROM MRS. MARCET TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                                      Ganava, 617:. April, 1834.
   DEAR Mas. Somaavnmn,
        I am desired by Professor Prevost to inform
you that you were elected an honorary member of the
Société de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de Geueve
on the 3rd April, and that a diploma will be forwarded
to you by the earliest opportunity. After all the honours
you have received, this little feather is hardly worthy of
waving in your plume, but I am glad that Geneva should
                                                          P

 210                    Mary Somervz'lle.
know how to appreciate your merit.             You receive great
 honours, my dear friend, but that which you confer on our
 sex is still greater, for with talents and acquirements of
 masculine magnitude you unite the most sensitive and
 retiring modesty of the female sex; indeed, I know not
 any woman, perhaps 1 might say, any human being, who
 would support so much applause without feeling the
weakness of vanity. Forgive me for allowing my pen
to run away with this undisguised praise, it looks so
much like compliment, but I assure you it comes
straight from the heart, and you must know that it is
fully deserVed. . . . . I know not whether you have
heard of the death of Professor de la Rive (the father) ;
it was an unexpected blow, which has fallen heavily on
all his family. It is indeed a great loss to Geneva,
both as a man of science and a most excellent citizen.
    M. Rossi” has left us to occupy the chair of political
economy of the late M. Say, at Paris; his absence is
sadly felt, and it is in vain to look around for any one
capable of replacing him. . . . .
                                  Yours affectionately,
                                                    J. MARCET.
   FROM ADMIRAL W. H. SMYTH TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                             Cameras-r, Bnnronn, October 3rd, 1835.
    MY DEAR MADAM,
          As an opportunity offers of sending a note to
town, I beg to mention that I have somewhat impatiently
waited for some appearance of settled weather, in order
  " M. Pellegrino Rossi, afterwards Minister of France at Rome, then
Prime Minister to Pius the Ninth; murdered in 1848 on the steps
of the Cancelleria, at Rome.

                      A dm'z'ml Smyt/z.                  21 1
to press your coming here to inspect Halley’s comet,
before it should have become visible to the unassisted
eye.   That unerring monitor, however, the barometer,
held forth no hope, and the ceaseless traveller is already
an object of conspicuous distinction without arti<U+FB01>cial
aid, except, perhaps, to most eyes an opera-glass, mag
nifying three or four times, will be found a pleasant
addition. It is now gliding along with wonderful celerity,
and the nucleus is very bright. It is accompanied with
a great luminosity, and the nucleus has changed its
position therein; that is, on the 29th August, the nucleus
was like a minute star near the centre of the nebulous
envelope and
quarter,       the 2ndit September
          ; onlatterly                 appeared
                         has been initthe s. f. in the n.
   How remarkable that the month of August this year
should rattle Halley’s name throughout the globe, in
identity with an astonishing scienti<U+FB01>c triumph, and that
in the selfsame month the letters of Flamsteed should'
have appeared! How I wish some one would give us a
life of Newton, with all the interesting documents that
exist of his labours! Till such appears, Flamsteed’s
statements, though bearing strong internal evidence of
truth, are ez-parte, and it is evident his anxiety made
him prone to impute motives which he could not prove.
The book is painfully interesting, but except in all that
relates to the personal character of Flamsteed, I could
almost have wished the documents had been destroyed.
People of judgment well know that men without faults
are monsters, but vulgar minds delight in seeing the
standard of human excellence lowered.
                             Dear Madam,
                                   Yours faithfully,
                                            W. H. SMYTH.
                                                     P 2

  212             Mary Somerville.
    We were deprived of the society of Sir John and
 Lady Herschel for four years, because Sir John took
 his telescope and other instruments to the Cape of
 Good Hope, where he went, accompanied by his
 family, for the purpose of observing the celestial
 phenomena of the southern hemisphere. There are
 more than 6,000 double stars in the northern hemis
 phere, in a large proportion of which the angle of
 position and distance between the two stars have
 been measured, and Sir John determined, in the
 same manner, 1081 in the southern hemisphere, and
 I believe many additions have been made to them
 since that time. In many of these one star revolves
 rapidly round the other. The elliptical orbits and
'periodical times of sixteen or seventeen of these
 stellar systems have been determined. In Gamma
 Virginis the two stars are nearly of the same magni
 tude, and were so far apart in the middle of the
 last century that they were considered to be quite
 independent of each other. Since then they have
 been gradually approaching one another, till, in
 March, 1836, I had a letter from Admiral Smyth,
 informing me that he had seen one of the stars
 eclipse the other, from his observatory at Bedford.

                 Owulz‘atz'on of a Star.                 213
      FROM ADMIRAL SMYTH T0 MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                       CRESCENT, Bsnroan, March 26th, 1836.
  MY DEAR .MADAM,
        Knowing the great interest you take in sidereal
astronomy, of which so little is yet known, I trust it will
not be an intrusion to tell you of a new, extraordinary,
and very unexpected fact, in the complete occultation of
one “ <U+FB01>xed” star by another, under circumstances which
admit of no possible doubt or equivocation.
   You are aware that I have been measuring the position
and distance of the two stars y‘ and 'y’ Virginis, which
are both nearly of similar magnitudes, and also, that they
have approximated to each other very rapidly. They were
very close last year, and I expected to <U+FB01>nd they had
crossed each other at this apparition, but to my surprise
I <U+FB01>nd they have become a fair round disc, which my
highest powers will not elongate— in fact, a single star!
I shall watch with no little interest for the reappearance
of the second y.
              My dear madam,
                      Your truly obliged servant,
                                          \V. H. SMYTH.
This eclipse was also seen by Sir John Herschel at
the Cape of Good Hope, as well as by many astrono
mers in Europe provided with instruments of great

 214               Mary Sommz'l/e.
 optical power. In 1782 Sir William Herschel saw
 one of the stars of Zeta Herculis eclipse the
 other.
    In the “ Connexion of the Physical Sciences” I
 have given an abridged account of Sir John
 Herschel’s most remarkable discoveries in the
 southern hemisphere ; but I may mention here that
 he determined the position and made accurate draw
 ings of all the nebulae that were distinctly visible in
 his 20 ft telescope. The work he published will be
 a standard for ascertaining the changes that may
 take place in these mysterious objects for ages to
 come. Sir William Herschel had determined the
 places of 2,500 nebulae in the northern hemisphere ;
 they were examined by his son, and drawings made
 of some of the most remarkable, but when these
 nebulae were viewed through Lord Rosse’s telescope,
 they presented a very different appearance, showing
 that the apparent form of the nebulae depends upon
 the space-penetrating power of the telescope, a cir
 cumstance of vital importance in observing the
 changes which time may produce on these wonder
ful objects.
   [Long afterwards Lord Rosse wrote in reply to some
questions which my mother had addressed to him on
this subject :—

                     Tlze Earl of Rosse.                 215
    FROM THE EARL 0F ROSSE T0 MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                        CASTLE, Pmonsrown, June 12th, 1844.
   DEAR Mas. Sormavmnn,
        I have very reluctantly postponed so long reply
ing to your inquiries respecting the telescope, but there
were some points upon which I was anxious to be
enabled to speak more precisely. The instrument we
are now using is 3 feet aperture, and 27 feet focus,
and in the greater proportion of the nebulae which have
been observed with it some new details have been
brought out. Perhaps the most interesting general
result is that, as far as we have gone, increasing optical
power has enlarged the list of clusters, by diminishing
that of the nebula properly so-called. Such has always
been the case since the nebulae have been observed with
telescopes, and although it would be unsafe to draw the
inference, it is impossible not to feel some expectation
that with suf<U+FB01>cient optical power the nebulae would all
be reduced into clusters. Perhaps the two of the most
remarkable of the resolved nebulae are Fig. 26 and
Fig. 55. In several of the planetary nebula: we have
discovered a star or bright point in the centre, and a
<U+FB01>lamentous edge, which is just the appearance which a
cluster with a highly condensed centre would present in
a small instrument. For instance, Figs. 47 and 32.
\Ve have also found that many of the nebula: have not
a symmetrical form, as they appear to have in inferior
instruments; for instance, Fig. 81 is a cluster with long
resolvable <U+FB01>laments from its southern extremity, and
Fig. 85 is an oblong cluster with a bright centre.
Fig. 45 is an annular nebula, like Herschel’s drawing

216               Mary Somervz'lle.
of the annular nebula in Lyra. I have sent drawings
of a few of these objects to the Royal Society, they
were forwarded a few days ago. \Ve have upon the
whole as yet obserVed but little with the telescope of
3 feet aperture. You recollect Herschel said that it
was a good observing year, in which there were 100
hours <U+FB01>t for observing, and of the average of our hours
I have not employed above 30. \Ve have been for the
last two years engaged in constructing a telescope of
6 feet aperture and 52 feet focus, and it would have
been impossible to have bestowed the necessary atten
tion upon it had we made a business of observing.
That instrument is nearly <U+FB01>nished, and I hope it will
effect something for astronomy. The unequal refrac
tion of the atmosphere will limit its powers, but how
far remains to be ascertained. . . . . Lady Rosse joins
me in very kind remembrances and believe me to be,
                 Dear Mrs. Somerville,
                           Yours very truly and ever,
                                                   Rossn.
    [Sir John Herschel wrote to my father from the
Cape :—
     FROM SIR JOHN HERSCHEL TO MR. SOMERVIILE.
          FELDHAUSEN, sans WYXBERG, C.G.H., July 17th, 1830.
   MY DEAR Somnavnmn,
        Since our arrival here, I have, I know in many
instances, maintained or established the character of a
bad correspondent ; and really it is not an inconvenient
character to have established. Only, in your case, I
                                                             -

                     Hersdzel at Me Cafe.                  217
should be very sorry to appear in that, or any other
negligent or naughty light; but you, I know, will allow
for the circumstances which have occasioned my silence.
 Meanwhile, I am not sorry that the execution of an
 intention I had more than once formed should have been
 deferred, till we read in the papers of the well-judged and
 highly creditable notice (creditable I mean to the govern
 ment pro tempera) which His Majesty has been pleased to
 take of Mrs. Somerville’s elaborate works. Although
 the Royal notice is not quite so swift as the lightning in
 the selection of its objects, it agrees with it in this, that
 it is attracted by the loftiest; and though what she has
performed may seem so natural and easy to herself, that
 she may blush to <U+FB01>nd it fame ; all the rest of the world
 will agree with me in rejoicing that merit of that kind is
 felt and recognised at length in the high places of the
 earth. This, and the honourable mention of                 by
men of both parties in the House of Commons about the
same time, are things that seem to mark the progress of
the age we live in ; and I give Peel credit for his tact in
perceiving this mode of making a favourable impression
on the public mind.
    We are all going on very comfortably, and continue to
like the Cape as a place of (temporary) residence as much
or more than at <U+FB01>rst. The climate is so very delicious.
. . . . . The stars are most propitious, and, astronomi
cally speaking, I can nowvdeclare the climate to be most
excellent. Night after night, for weeks and months,
with hardly an interruption, of perfect astronomical
weather, discs of stars reduced almost to points, and
tranquilly gliding across the <U+FB01>eld of your telescope. It
is really a. treat, such as occurs once or perhaps twice a
year in England—hardly more. I had almost forgotten

218               Mary, Somerville.
that by a recent vote of the Astronomical Society I can
now claim Mrs. Somerville as a colleague. Pray make
my compliments to her in that capacity, and tell her
thatI hope to meet her there at some future session. . . .
                  Yours very faithfully,
                                    H. W. HERSCHEL.
  To W11.er SOMEBVILLE, Esq.
   Spectrum analysis has shown that there is
a vast quantity of self-luminous gaseous matter
in space, incapable of being reduced into stars,
however powerful the telescope through which
it is observed. Hence the old opinion once more
prevails, that this is the matter of which the sun
and stellar systems have been formed, and that
other stellar systems are being formed by slow, con
tinuous condensation. The principal constituents
of this matter are, the terrestrial gases, hydrogen,
and nitrogen. The yellow stars, like the sun, con
tain terrestrial matter. The nebulous and stellar
constituents were chie<U+FB02>y discovered by Dr. Huggins.
   Somerville and I were always made welcome by Sir
James South, and at Camden Hill I learnt the method
of observing, and sometimes made observations my—
self on the double stars and binary systems, which,
worthless as they were, enabled me to describe better
what others had done. One forenoon Somerville and
I went to pay a visit to Lady South. Sir James, who

                    Scienti<U+FB01>c Safety.                219
 was present, said, “Come to the observatory, and
 measure the distance of Mercury from the sun ; for
 they are in close approximation, and I wish to see
 What kind of observation you will make.” It was
 erroneous, as might have been expected ; but when I
 took the mean of several observations, it differed but
 little from that which Sir James South had made ;
 and here I learnt practically the importance of taking
the mean of approximate quantities.
         'l       i         ‘l        ‘I'        'l'
    Dr. Wollaston, Dr. Young, and the Katers died
before I became an author; Lord Brougham was
one of the last of my scienti<U+FB01>c contemporaries, all
the rest were younger than myself, and with this
younger set, as with their predecessors, we had
most agreeable and constant intercourse. Although
we lived so much in scienti<U+FB01>c society we had all
along been on the most friendly and intimate terms
with the literary society of the day, such as Hallam,
Milman, Moore, Malthus, &c., &c.          The highly in
tellectual conversation of these was enlivened by the
brilliant wit of my early friend, Sydney Smith, who
was loved and admired by every one. His daughter
married our friend Sir Henry Holland, the distin
guished physician, well known for his eminent
literary and scienti<U+FB01>c acquirements as well as for his
re<U+FB01>ned taste.

220            ' Mary Somervz'lle.
   No house in London was more hospitable and
agreeable than that of the late Mr. John Murray, in
Albemarle Street. His dinner parties were brilliant,
with all the poets and literary characters of the day,
and Mr. Murray himself was gentlemanly, full of
information, and kept up the conversation with
spirit.  He generously published the “Mechanism
of the Heavens ” at his own risk, which, from its
analytical character, could only be read by mathe
maticians.              '
   Besides those I have mentioned we had a numer
ous acquaintance who were neither learned nor
scienti<U+FB01>c; and at concerts at some of their houses I
enjoyed much hearing the great artists of the day,
such as Pasta, Malibran, Grisi, Rubini, &c., &c.
We knew Lucien Buonaparte, who gave me a copy
of his poems, which were a failure.
   I had become acquainted with Madame de
Montalembert, who was an Englishwoman, and
was mother of the celebrated Comte; she was
very eccentric, and at that time was an Ultra
Protestant.   One day she came to ask me to go
and drive in the Park with her, and afterwards
dine at her house, saying, “We shall all be in
high dresses.” So I accepted, and on entering the
drawing-room, 'found a bishop and several clergy
men, Lady Olivia Sparrow, and some other ladies,

                                .v ~—— ~-rr..r.-W~-_w-— .._
                     Exeter Hall.                   221
all in high black satin dresses and white lace caps,
precisely the dress I wore, and I thought it a
curious coincidence. The party was lively enough,
and agreeable, but the conversation was in a style I
had never heard before—in fact, it affected the
phraseology of the Bible. \Ve all went after dinner
to a. sort of meeting at Exeter Hall, I quite forget
for what purpose, but our party was on a kind of
raised platform. I mentioned this to a friend after
wards, and the curious circumstance of our all being
 dressed alike. “Do you not know,” she said, “ that
 dress is assumed as a distinctive mark of the Evan
 gelical party! So you were' a. wolf in sheep’s
 clothing!”
     I had been acquainted with the Miss Berrys at
 Raith, when visiting their cousins, Mr. and Mrs.
 Ferguson.     Mary, the eldest, was a handsome,
 accomplished woman, who from her youth had
 lived in the most distinguished society, both at
 home and abroad. She published a “ Comparative
 View of Social Life in France and England,” which
 was well received by the public.        She was a Latin
 scholar, spoke and wrote French <U+FB02>uently, yet with
 all these advantages, the consciousness that she
 might have done something better, had female
  education been less frivolous, gave her a character
  istic melancholy which lasted through life. She did

 222              <U+FB01>lmy Swami/1e.
not talk much herself, but she had the tact to lead
conversation. She and her sister received every
evening a select society in their small house in
Curzon Street. Besides any distinguished foreigners
who happened to be in London, among their
habitual guests were my friend, Lady Charlotte
Lindsay, always witty and agreeable, the brilliant
and beautiful Sheridans, Lady Theresa Lister, after
wards Lady Theresa Lewis, who edited Miss Berry’s
“Memoirs,” Lord Lansdowne, and many others. Lady
Davy came occasionally, and the Miss Fanshaws,
who were highly accomplished, and good artists,
besides Miss Catherine Fanshaw wrote clever was
de société, such as a charade on the letter H, and, if
I am not mistaken, “The Butter<U+FB02>y’s Ball,” &c. I
visited these ladies, but their manners were so cold
and formal that, though I admired their talents, I
never became intimate with them. On the con
trary, like everyone else, I loved Mary Berry, she
was so warm-hearted and kind. \Vhen London
began to <U+FB01>ll, and the season was at its height, the
Miss Berrys used to retire to a pretty villa at
Twickenham, where they received their friends to
luncheon, and strawberries and cream, and very
delightful these visits were in <U+FB01>ne spring weather.
I recollect once, after dining there, to have been
foruntate enough to give a place in my carriage to

                        Rogers’ Epzlgmm.                      223
  Lord Macaulay, and those who remember his charm
  ing and brilliant conversation will understand how
  short the drive to London appeared.
     We sometimes went to see Miss Lydia White,
  who received every evening; she was clever, witty,
  and very free in her conversation.              On one occasion
  the party consisted, besides ourselves, of the Misses
  Berry, Lady Davy ; the three poets, Rogers, lVilliam
  Spencer, and Campbell; Sir James Macintosh, and
  Lord Dudley. Rogers, who was a bitter satirist
  and hated Lord Dudley, had written the following
  epigram :—
            Ward has no heart, ’tis said ; but I deny it.
            He has a heart, and gets his speeches by it.
  I had never heard of this epigram, and on coming
  away Lord Dudley said, “ You are going home
  to sleep and I to work.” I answered, “Oh! you
  are going to prepare your speech for to-morrow."
 Lly appropriate remark raised an universal laugh.
         i-         '1'           .-             *        ~1
    Llr. Bowditch, of Boston, U. S., who died in 1838,
 left among other works a “ Commentary on La Place’s
Mécanique Céleste" in four volumes. WVhile busily
Occupied in bringing out an edition of the “ Physical
Sciences,” I received a letter from his son, Mr. H.
Bowditch, requesting me to write an elaborate review
of that work, which would be published in Boston

   mm<U+FB02>wu‘,_w ,             V _ _
   224.              Mary Sommz'lla
  along with the biography of his father, written by
  Mr. Young, who sent me a copy of it. Though
  highly sensible of the honour, I declined to under
  take so formidable a work, fearing that I should not
  do justice to the memory of so great a man.
      I have always been in communication with some
  of the most distinguished men of the United States.
  Washington Irving frequently came to see me when
  he was in London ; he was as agreeable in conversa
 tion as he was distinguished as an author. No one
 could be more amiable than Admiral Wilkes, of the
 U. S. navy: he had all the frankness of a sailor.
 We saw a good deal of him when he was in London,
 and I had a long letter from him, giving me an ac
 count of his <U+FB02>eet, his plan for circumnavigation, &c. &c.
 I never had the good fortune to become personally
acquainted with Captain Maury, of the U. S. navy,
 author of that fascinating book, the “ Physical
Geography of the Sea,” but I am indebted to him
for a copy of that work, and of his valuable charts~
Mr. Dana, who is an honour to his country, sent me
copies of his works, to which I have had occasion
frequently to refer as acknowledged authority on
many branches of natural history.        I should be um
grateful if I did not acknowledge the kindness
I received from the Silliman family, who informed
me of any scienti<U+FB01>c discovery in the United States,

                 A mcrz'mu Ffiends. _            225
 and sent me a copy of their Journal when it con—
tained anything which might interest me. I was
 elected an honorary member of the Geographical
and Statistical Society of New York, U. S. on the
 15th May, 1857, and on the 15th October, 1869,
 I was elected a member of the American Philo
 sophical Society at Philadelphia, for Promoting
Useful Knowledge. I shall ever be most grateful
for these honours.
   While living in Florence, many years after, an
American friend invited me to an evening party to
meet an American authoress who wished particu
larly to make my acquaintance. I accordingly
went there on the evening in question, and my
friends, after receiving me with their accustomed
cordiality, presented me to the lady, and placed
me beside her to give me an opportunity of con—
versing with her.     I addressed her several times,
and made various attempts to enter into con
versation, but only received very dry answers in
reply. At last she fairly turned her back upon
me, and became engrossed with a lady who sat
on her-other side, upon which I got up and left
her and never saw her again. A very different
person in every respect was present that even
ing, as much distinguished by her high mental
qualities and poetical genius as by her modesty and
                                              Q

   226               [Mary Somerz/z'llc.
  simplicity.    I allude to our greatest British poetess,
  Mrs. Browning, who at that time resided in Florence,
  except when the delicacy of her health obliged her
  to go to Rome. I think there is no other instance
  of husband and wife both poets, and both distin
  guished in their different lines. I can imagine no
  happier or more fascinating life than theirs; two
  kindred spirits united in the highest and noblest
  aspirations. Unfortunately her life was a short
  one; in the full bloom of her intellect her frail
  health gave way, and she died leaving a noble
  record of genius to future ages, and a sweet memory
  to those who were her contemporaries. The F10
  rentines, who, like all Italians, greatly appreciate
  genius, whether native or foreign, have placed a
  commemorative tablet on Case Guidi, the house
_ Mrs. Browning inhabited.
     I was extremely delighted last spring in being
  honoured by a visit from Longfellow, that most
  genial poet. It is not always the case that the
  general appearance of a distinguished person answers
  to one’s ideal of what he ought to be—in this respect
  Longfellow far surpasses expectation. I was as
  much charmed with his winning manner and con
  versation as by his calm, grand features and the ex
  pression of his intellectual countenance.
     The Barons Fairfax, as I mentioned already, had

                       Tuckerman.                          227
long been members of the Republic of the United
States, and \Vashington’s mother belonged to this
family. During the war of Independence, while my
father, then Lieutenant Fairfax, was on board a
man-of-war on the American station, he received a
letter from General Washington claiming him as a
relation, and inviting him to pay him a visit, saying,
he did not think that war should interfere with the
courtesies of private life. Party spirit ran so high
 at that time that my father was reprimanded for
 being in correspondence with the enemy. I men
 tioned to my friend, the Rev. Dr. Tuckerman, of the
 United States, how much I regretted that so pre—
 cious a letter had been lost, and he most kindly
 on going home sent me an autograph letter of
 General Washington.
 FROM THE REV. JOSEPH TUCKERMAN T0 MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                                    BOSTON, August 28th, 1834.
    MY DEAR MADAM,
         Ihave very great pleasure in sending to you an
  autograph letter of your and our glorious Washington.
  I obtained it from Mr. Sparks, who had the grati<U+FB01>cation
  of seeing you when he was in England, and who told me
  when I applied to him for it, that there is no one in the
  world to whom he would be so glad to give it. It is
  beyond comparison the best and almost the only re
  maining one at his disposal among the “ Washington ”
  papers.
                                                      q 2

 228               Mary Somerville.
   I am again in my family and in the <U+FB01>eld of my
 ministry.
   But very dear to me are my associations with scenes.
 and friends in England ; and most glad should I be if I
 could renew that intercourse with yourself, and with the
intellect and virtue around you, to which I have been
indebted for great happiness, and which, I hope, has
 done something to qualify me for a more ef<U+FB01>cient service.
Will you please to present my very sincere respects to
your husband, and to recall me to the kind remembrance
of your children. With the highest respect and regard,
allow me to call myself,
                          Your friend,
                                 Jossrn TUCKERMAN.
   I think it must have been on returning from the
American station, or may be later in the career of
my father’s life, that a circumstance occurred which
distressed him exceedingly. Highway robberies were
common on all the roads in the vicinity of London,
but no violence was offered.      My father was travel
ling alone over Blackheath when the postilion was
ordered to stop, a pistol presented at my father, and
his purse demanded.       My father at once recognised
the voice as that of a shipmate, and exclaimed,
“Good God ! I know that voice I can it be
young —-—'l 'I am dreadfully shocked; I have
a hundred pounds which shall be yours—come into

               Roébers on Black/walla            229
the carriage, and let me take you to London, where
you will be safe.” . . “No, no,” the young man
said, “ I have associates whom I cannot leave—it
is too late.” . . . It was too late; he was arrested
eventually and suffered. Years afterwards when
by some accident my father mentioned this event,
he was deeply affected, and never would tell the
name of the young man who had been his mess
mate.

                    CHAPTER XIV.
ROME,  NAPLES, AND COMO—BADEN—“1NTER AT    FLORENCE—SIENA—
    LETTER FROM LORD BROUGHAM—MR. MOUNTSTUART ELPHISSTONE
    —LIFE AT ROME—CAMPAGNA CATTLE.
   [My mother was already meditating writing a book upon
Physical Geography, and had begun to collect materials
for it, when my father’s long and dangerous illness
obliged her to lay it aside for a time. My father was
ordered to a warmer climate for the winter, and as soon
as he was able to travel we proceeded to Rome. We
were hardly settled when my mother, with her usual
energy, set to work diligently, and began this book, which
was not published for some time later, as it required much
thought and research. She never allowed anything to
interfere with her morning’s work; after that was over
she was delighted to join in any plan which had been
formed for the afternoon’s amusement, and enjoyed her
self 'thoroughly, whether in visiting antiquities and
galleries, excursions in the neighbourhood, or else going
with a friend to paint on the Campagna. My mother was.
extremely fond of Rome, and often said no place had
ever suited her so well. Independently of the picturesque
beauty of the place, which, to such a lover of nature,
was suf<U+FB01>cient in itself, there was a very pleasant society

                Yokn Gibson at Rome.               231
during many seasons we spent there. The visitors were
far less numerous than they are now, but on that very
account there was more sociability and intimacy, and
scarcely an evening passed without our meeting. The
artists residing at Rome, too, were a most delightful
addition to society. Some of them became our very dear
friends. My mother remarks :—
   WE took lodgings at Rome, and as soon as we
were settled I resumed my work and wrote every
morning till two o’clock, then went to some gallery,
walked on the Pincio, dined at six, and in the
evening either went out or received visits at home—
the pleasantest way of seeing friends, as it does
not interfere with one’s occupations.
   We once joined a party that was arranged to see
the statues in the Vatican by torchlight, at which
Lord Macaulay astonished us by his correct know
ledge and learning as we passed through the gallery
of inscriptions. To me this evening was memorable ;
on this occasion I <U+FB01>rst met with John Gibson, the
sculptor, who afteiwards became a dear and valued
friend. He must have been a pupil of Canova’s
or Thorwaldsen’s when Somerville and I were <U+FB01>rst
at Rome. Now his fame was as great as that of
either of his predecessors.
        ‘          Q        i       ~I-       ‘

232         i       <U+FB01>lary Somerville.
   [In spring we went to Naples for a few weeks, and
returned to Rome by the San Germano road, now so
familiar to travellers, but then hardly ever frequented, as
it was extremely unsafe on account of the brigands. We
met with no adventures, although we often reached our
night quarters long after sunset, for my mother sketched
a great deal on the road. \Ve travelled by vetturino and
continued this delightful journey to Como. My mother
was a perfect travelling companion, always cheerful and
contented and interested in all she saw. I leave her to
tell of our pleasant residence at Bellaggio in her own
words :—
    We remained only a short time at Florence, and
then went for a month to Bellaggio, on the Lake of
Como, at that time the most lonely village imaginable.
We had neither letters, newspapers, nor any books,
except the Bible, yet we liked it exceedingly. I
did nothing but paint in the mornings, and Somer
ville sat by me. My daughters wandered about,
and in the evening we went in a boat on the lake.
Sometimes we made longer excursions. One day we
went early to Menaggio, at the upper end of the
lake. The day had been beautiful, but while at
dinner we were startled by a loud peal of thunder.
The boatmen desired us to embark without delay,
as a storm was rising behind the mountains;
it soon blew a gale, and the lake was a sheet

                      Storm.                    283
of foam; we took shelter for a while at some
place on the coast and set out again, thinking
the storm had blown over, but it was soon worse
than ever.    We were in no small danger for two
hours.    The boatmen, terri<U+FB01>ed, threw themselves
on their knees in prayer to the Madonna. Somer
ville seized the helm and lowered the sail and
ordered them to rise, saying, the Madonna would
help them if they helped themselves, and at last
they returned to their duty. For a long time we
remained perfectly silent, when one of our daugh
ters said, “I have been thinking what a paragraph
it will be in the newspapers, ‘ Drowned, during a
sudden squall on the lake of Como, an English
family named Somerville, father, mother and two
daughters.’ ” The silence thus broken made us
laugh, though our situation was serious enough, for
when we landed the shore was crowded with people
who had fully expected to see the boat go down.
Twice after this we were overtaken by these squalls,
which are very dangerous. I shall never forget the
magni<U+FB01>cence of the lightning and the grandeur of
the thunder, which was echoed by the mountains
during the storms 0n the Lake of Como.
   \Ve saw the <U+FB01>shermen spear the <U+FB01>sh by torch
light, as they did on the Tweed. The <U+FB01>sh were
plenty and the water so clear that they were seen

23%                Mary Somerw'l/e.
at a great depth. There are very large red-<U+FB02>eshed
trout in the lake, and a small very delicious <U+FB01>sh
called agoni, caught in multitudes by <U+FB01>ne silk
nets, to which bells are attached on <U+FB02>oats, that
keep up a constant tinkling to let the <U+FB01>shermen
know where to <U+FB01>nd their nets when <U+FB02>oated away
by the wind.
   [We now crossed the Alps, by the St. Gothard, to Basle
and Baden Baden, where we passed the summer, intend
ing to return to England in autumn, but as soon as the
rains began my father had so serious 9. return of his ill
ness that my mother was much alarmed. When he was
well enough to travel, we once more crossed the Alps,
and reached Florence, where we remained for the winter.
My mother resumed her work there.
   Through the kindness of the Grand Duke, I was
allowed to have books at home from his private
library in the Pitti Palace, a favour only granted
to the four Directors. This gave me courage to col
lect materials for my long neglected Physical Geo
graphy, still in embryo. As I took an interest in
every'branch of science I became acquainted with
Professor Amici, whose microscopes were unrivalled
at that time, and as he had made many remarkable
microscopic discoveries in natural history, he took
us to the Museum to see them magni<U+FB01>ed and

                     Tlze Pz'ttz' Palace.          235
modelled in wax. I had the honour of being elected
a member of the Academy of Natural Science at
Florence.
   There were many agreeable people at Florence
that winter and a good deal of gaiety. The Mar
chese Antinori presented Somerville and me to
the Grand Duke, who had expressed a wish to
know me. He received us very graciously, and
converscd with us for more than an hour on
general subjects. He afterwards wrote me a polite
letter, accompanied by a work on the drainage
of the Maremma, and gave directions about our
being invited to a scienti<U+FB01>c meeting which was
to be held at Pisa. \Ve were presented to the
Grand Duchess, who was very civil. \Ve spent
the summer at Siena, and had a cheerful airy
apartment with a <U+FB01>ne view of the hills of Santa
Fiora, and with very pretty arabesques in fresco on
the walls of all the rooms, some so very artistic
that I made sketches of them. In these old cities
many of the palaces and houses are decorated with
that artistic taste which formerly prevailed to such
an extent in Italy, and which has now yielded,
here as elsewhere, to common-place modern furniture.
       i'         I"           I-         I   "
   [While we were at Siena, my mother received the fol
lowing letter from Lord Brougham, who was a frequent

286                 zllary Some; ville.
correspondent of hers, but whose letters are generally too
exclusively mathematical for the general reader. My
mother had described the curious horse-races which are
held at Siena every three years, and other mediteval cus
toms still prevalent.
      FROM LORD BROUGHAM T0 MRS. SOMERYILLE.
                            Com-2 HILL, Ksn‘r, Sept. 28th, 1840.
   MY DEAR. Mas. SOMERVILLE,
        I am much obliged to you for your kind letter
which let me know of your movements. I had not heard
of them since I saw the Fergusons. . . . . . We have
been here since parliament rose, as I am not yet at all
equal to going to Brougham. My health is now quite
restored; but I shall not soon—nor in all probability
ever—recover the losses I have been af<U+FB02>icted with. I
passed the greater part of last winter in Provence,
expecting some relief from change of scene and from
the <U+FB01>ne climate ; but I came back fully worse than when
I went. In fact, I did wrong in struggling at <U+FB01>rst, which
I did to be able to meet parliament in January last. If
I had yielded at once, I would have been better. I hope
and trust they sent you a book I published two years
ago ; I mean the “ Dissertations,” of which one is on the
“Principia,” and designed to try how far it may be
taught to persons having but a very moderate stock of
mathematics; also, if possible, to keep alive the true
taste (as I reckon it) in mathematics, which modern
analysis has a little broken in upon. Assuming you to
have got the book, I must mention that there are some
intolerable errors of the press left, such as . . . . . .
Excuse my troubling you with these errata, and impute it

               Broug/za/Iz's Dissertations.            237
to my wish that you should not suppose me to have
written the nonsense which these pages seem to prove.
By the way, it is a curious proof of university prejudice,
that though the Cambridge men admit my analysis of the
“Principia” to be unexceptionable, and to be well
calculated for teaching the work, yet, not being by a
Cambridge man, it cannot be used ! They are far more
liberal at Paris, where they only are waiting for my
analysis of the second book; but I put off <U+FB01>nishing it,
as I do still more my account of the “Mécanique
Celeste.” The latter I have almost abandoned in
despair after nearly <U+FB01>nishing it; I <U+FB01>nd so much that
cannot be explained elementarily, or anything near it.
So that my account to be complete would be nearly as
hard reading as yours, and not 1000th part as good . . . .
I greatly envy you Siena ; I never was there above a day,
and always desired to stay longer. The language is, as
you say, a real charm; but I was not aware of the
preservation in which you describe the older manners to
be.   I fear I shall not be able to visit Provence, as I
should have wished this winter . . . . . . but my plans
are not quite <U+FB01>xed. The judicial business in Parliament
and the Privy Council will also make my going abroad
after January dif<U+FB01>cult. I don't write you any news, nor
is there any but what you see in the papers. The Tory
restoration approaches very steadily, tho’ not very
rapidly; and I only hope that the \Vhigs, having con
trived to destroy the Liberal party in the country—I fear
past all hope of recovery—may not have a war abroad
also to mourn for. . . . . . .
                         Believe me,
                                Yours ever,
                                       H. Bnouemm.

238              <U+FB01>lmy Somerville.
   On going to Rome I required a good many books
for continuing my work on “ Physical Geography,”
and had got “ Transactions of the Geographical
Society” and other works sent from London.
The Hon. Mountstuart Elphinstone who was then at
Rome, was an old acquaintance of ours. He was
one of the most amiable men I ever met with,
and quite won my heart one day at table when
they were talking of the number of singing
birds that were eaten in Italy—nightingales, gold
<U+FB01>nches, and robins—-he called out, “ What! robinsl
our household birds! I would as soon eat a
child I ” He was so kind as to write to the Direc
tors of the East India Company requesting that I
might have the use of the library and papers that
were in the India House. This was readily granted
me; and I had a letter in consequence from Mr.
Wilson, the Orientalist, giving me a list of the works
they had on the geography of Eastern Asia and the
most recent travels in the Himalaya, Thibet, and
China, with much useful information from himself. I
was indebted to Sir Henry Pottinger, then at Rome,
for information relating to Scinde, for he had been
for some years British Envoy at Beloochistan.
Thus provided, Iwcnt on with my work. We lived
several winters in an apartment on the second <U+FB02>oor
of Palazzo Lepri, Via dei Condotti, where we passed

    __ _       - - _  _   . ---_a_.,-;.-ii_-.. _"__, .- a“
                 A Flood in Rome.                       239
many happy days. When we <U+FB01>rst lived in Via
Condotti, the waste-pipes to carry off the rain-water
from the roofs projected far into the street, and when
there was a violent thunderstorm, one might have
thought a waterspout had broken over Rome, the
water poured in such cascades from the houses on
each side of the street. On 'one occasion the rain
continued in torrents for thirty-six hours, and the
Tiber came down in heavy <U+FB02>ood, inundating the
Ghetto and all the low parts of the city ; the water
was six feet deep in the Pantheon. The people
were driven out of their houses in the middle of
the night and took refuge in the churches, and
boats plied in the streets supplying the inhabitants
with food, which they hauled up in baskets let down
from the windows. The Campagna for miles was
under water; it covered the Ponte Molle so that
the courier could not pass; and seen from the
Pincio it looked like an extensive lake. Much
anxiety was felt for the people who lived in the
farm houses now surrounded with water. Boats
were sent to rescue them, and few lives were lost;
 but many animals perished. The <U+FB02>ood did not
subside till after three days, when it left every
thing covered with yellow mud; the loss of pro-.
perty was very great, and there was much misery
for a long time.

 240               11/!my Samervz'lle.
    Our house was in a very central position, and when
 not engaged I gladly received anyone who liked to
 come to us in the evening, and we had amost agree~
 able society, foreign and English, for we were not
 looked upon as strangers, and the English society
 was much better during the years we spent in Rome
than it was afterwards;
    I had an annual visit of an hour from the astro
 nomer Padre Vico, and Padre Pianciani, Professor of
 Chemistry in the Collegio Romano.      I was invited
 to see the Observatory ; but as I had seen those of
 Greenwich and Paris, I did not think it worth
while accepting the invitation, especially as it re
quired an order from the Pope. I could easily
have obtained leave, for we were presented to
Gregory XVI. by the President of the Scotch
Catholic College. The Pope received me with
marked distinction; notwithstanding I was ‘dis
gusted to see the President prostrate on the
<U+FB02>oor, kissing the Pope’s foot as if he had been
divine. I think it was about this time that I
was elected an honorary associate of the Accademia
Tiberiana.
   I had very great delight in the Campagna of
Rome; the <U+FB01>ne range of Apennines bounding the
plain, over which the <U+FB02>eeting shadows of the passing
clouds fell, ever changing and always beautiful,

              Drove of Camfagna Call/c.               241
whether viewed in the early morning              _-in the
glory of the setting sun, I was never'tiredi‘gof ad
miring; and whenever I drove out, .pr'efo<U+FB02>d a
country drive to the more fashionable -Villa1.Bor—
ghese. One day Somerville and land our daughters
went to drive towards the Tavolata, on the roadrto
Albano. \Ve got out of the carriage, and went into‘
a <U+FB01>eld, tempted by the wild <U+FB02>owers. On one side of;
this <U+FB01>eld ran the aqueduct, on the other a deep and
wide ditch full of water. I had gone towards the
aqueduct, leaving the others in the <U+FB01>eld.v , All at
once we heard a loud shouting, when an enormous
drove of the beautiful Campagna grey cattle with
their wide-spreading horns came rushing wildly
between us with their heads down and their tails
erect, driven by men with long spears mounted on
little spirited horses at full gallop. It was so sudden
and so rapid, that only after it was over did we per
ceive the danger we had run. As there was no
possible escape, there was nothing for it but standing
still, which Somerville and my girls had presence of
mind to do, and the drove dividing, rushed like a
whirlwind to the right and left of them. The
danger was not so much of being gored as of
being run over by the excited and terri<U+FB01>ed animals,
and round the walls of Rome places of refuge are
provided for those who may be passing when the
                                                   B

242               1111031 Somerville.
cattle are driven. Near where this occurred there is
a house with the inscription “Casa Dei Spi'ritz'”; but
I do not think the Italians believe in either ghosts
or witches ; their chief superstition seems to be the
“ Jettatum,” or evil eye, which they have inherited
from the early Romans, and, I believe, Etruscans.
They consider it a bad omen to meet a monk or
priest on <U+FB01>rst going out in the morning. My
daughters were engaged to ride with a large party,
and the meet was at our house.        A Roman, who
happened to go out <U+FB01>rst, saw a friar, and rushed in
again laughing, and waited till he was out of sight.
Soon after they set o<U+FB01>', this gentleman was thrown
from his horse and ducked in a pool; so the
“ Jettatu'ra ” was ful<U+FB01>lled.      But my daughters
thought his bad seat on horseback enough to
account for his fall without the Evil Eye.

                     CHAPTER XV. .
ALBANO—POPULAR SINGING—LETTERS FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE—GIBSON
    —PERUGIA—-COMET 0F 1843-summnn AT vnmcs—mrrnns FROM
    MRS. sonsnvrnuz AND MISS JOANNA BLILLIE—BLECTED assocu'rr.
    or run COLLEGE or RESURGENTI AND R. I. ACADEMY or scmsea
    AT amazzo.
   IN spring we went to Albano, and lived in a villa,
high up on the hill in a beautiful situation not
far from the lake.      The view was most extensive,
commanding the whole of the Campagna as far as
Terracina, &c. In this wide expanse we could see the
thunderclouds forming and rising gradually over the
sky before the storm, and I used to watch the
vapour condensing into a cloud as it rose into the
cool air. I never witnessed anything so violent as
the storms we had about the equinox, when the
weather broke up. Our house being high above the
plain became enveloped in vapour till, at 3 pm,
we could scarcely see the olives which grew below
our windows, and crash followed crash with no
interval between the lightning and the thunder, so
that we felt sure many places must have been struck ;
and we were not mistaken—trees, houses, and even
                                                    11 2

  244                Mary Somcrvz'lle.
  cattle had been struck close to us. Somerville went
  to Florence to attend a scienti<U+FB01>c meeting, and wrote
  to us that the lightning there had stripped the gold
  leaf off the conductors on the powder magazine ; a
  proof of their utility.
     The sunsets were glorious, and I, fascinated by
  the gorgeous colouring, attempted to paint what
' Turner alone could have done justice to. I made
  studies, too, which were signal failures, of the noble
  ilex trees bordering the lake of Albano. Thus
  I wasted a great deal of time, I can hardly say
  in vain, from the pleasure I had in the lovely
  scenery. Somerville sat often by me with his book,
  while I painted from nature, or amused himself
  examining the geological structure of the country.
  Our life was a solitary one, except for the occasional
  visit from some friends who were at Frascati ; but
  we never found it dull; besides, we made many
  expeditions on mules or donkeys to places in the
  neighbourhood. I was very much delighted with
  the <U+FB02>ora on the Campagna and the Alban hills,
  which in spring and early summer are a perfect
  garden of <U+FB02>owers. Many plants we cultivate in
  England here grow wild in profusion, such as
  cyclamens, gum-cistus, both white and purple, many
  rare and beautiful orchideae, the large <U+FB02>owering
  Spanish broom, perfuming the air all around, the

                       A Mano.                      24-5
tall, white—blossomed Mediterranean heath, and the
myrtle. These and many others my girls used to
bring in from their early morning walks. The
<U+FB02>owers only lasted till the end of June, when the
heat began, and the whole country became brown and
parched ; but scarcely had the autumnal rains com
menced, when, like magic, the whole country broke
out once more into verdure, and myriads of cycla
mens covered the ground. Nightingales abounded
in the woods, singing both by night and by day;
and one bright moonlight night my daughters, who
slept with their window open, were startled from
their sleep by the hooting of one of those beautiful
birds, the great-cared    owl—“1e grand due” of
Bu<U+FB01>'on—which had settled on the railing of their
balcony. We constantly came across snakes, gene
rally harmless ones; but there were a good many
vipers, and once, when Somerville and my daughters,
with Mr. Cromek, the artist, had gone from Gen
zano to Nettuno for a couple of days, a small asp
which was crawling among the bent-grass on the
sea-shore, darted at one of the girls, who had irri
tated it by touching it with her parasol. By the
natives they are much dreaded, both on this coast
and in the pine forest of Ravenna, where the cattle
are said to be occasionally poisoned by their bite.
        <U+FB01>        1         l-       l         .

 246              [Mary Somerville.
    We had been acquainted with the Rev. Dr., aftcr~
 wards Cardinal Wiseman at Rome. He was head of
 a college of young men educating for the Catholic
 Church, who had their “villeggiatura ” at Monte
 Porzio. We spent a day with him there, and visited
 Tusculum ; another day we went to Lariccia, where
 there is a palace and park belonging to the Chigi
 family in a most picturesque but dilapidated state.
 \Ve went also to Genzano, Rocca del Papa, and
occasionally to visit friends at Fraseati. There was
a stone threshing-<U+FB02>oor behind our house; During the
 vintage we had it nicely swept and lighted with
torches, and the grape gatherers came and danced
till long after midnight, to the great amusement of
my daughters, who joined in the dance, which was
the Saltarello, a variety of the Tarantella. They
danced to the beating of tambourines. Italy is the
country of music, especially of melody, and the ~
popular airs, especially the Neapolitan, are ex
tremely beautiful and melodious; yet it is a fact,
that the singing of the peasantry, particularly in
the Roman and Neapolitan provinces, is most dis
agreeable and discordant. It is not melody at all,
but a kind of wild chant, meandering through
minor tones, without rhythm of any sort or apparent
rule, and my daughters say it is very dif<U+FB01>cult to
note down; yet there is some kind of method and

                  Ncapolz'lau Music.             217
similarity in it as one hears it shouted out at the
loudest pitch of the voice, the last note dwelt upon
and drawn out to an immeasurable length. The
words are frequently improvised by the singers, who
answer one another from a distance, as they work
in the <U+FB01>elds. I have been told this style of chant
ing—singing it can hardly be called—has been
handed down from the most ancient times, and it is
said, in the southern provinces, to have descended
from the early Greek colonists. The ancient Greeks
are supposed to have chanted their poetry to music,
as do the Italian improvisatori at the present day.
In Tuscany, the words of the songs are often ex
tremely poetical and graceful. Frequently, these
verses, called “stornelli” and “rispetti,” are com
posed by the peasants themselves, women as well as
men ; the language is the purest and most classical
Italian, such as is spoken at the present day in the
provinces of Siena, Pistoja, &c., very much less
corrupted by foreign idioms or adaptations than
what is spoken, even by cultivated persons, in
Florence itself. The picturesque costumes so uni
versal when I <U+FB01>rst came to Italy, in 1817, had
fallen very much into disuse when, at a much later
period, we resided in Rome, and now they are rarely
seen.
   We hired a handsome peasant girl from Al

248                 Mary Somerville.
bane as housemaid, who was much admired by
our English friends in her scarlet cloth bodice,
trimmed with gold lace, and the silver spadone, or
bodkin, fastening her plaits of dark hair; but she
very soon exchanged her picturesque costume for a
bonnet, etc., in which she looked clumsy and
commonplace.
    [The following are extracts from letters written from
Albano by my mother :—
   FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO HER SON W. GREIG, ESQ.
                                    Ammo, 16th June, 1841.
         I was thankful to hear, my dearest Woronzow,
from your last letter that Agnes is recovering so
well. . . . . . . . . . . . . We are very much pleased
with our residence at Albano ; the house, with its high
 sounding name of “ Villa,” is more like a farmhouse, with
 brick <U+FB02>oors and no carpets, and a few chairs and tables,
 but the situation is divine. We are near the top of the
 hill, about half-a-mile above Albano, and have the most
 magni<U+FB01>cent view in every direction, and such a variety
 of delightful walks, that we take a new one every
 evening. For painting it is perfect; every step is a
 picture. At present we have no one near, and lead the
 life of hermits ; but our friends have loaded us with
 books, and with drawing, painting, music, and writing,
 we never have a moment idle. Almost every one has left
 Rome ; but the English have all gone elsewhere, as they
 are not so easily pleased with a house as we are. The

                         Letters.                       249
only gay thing we have done was a donkey ride yesterday
to the top of Monte Cavo, and back by the lake of
Nemi. . . . . . .
   FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE T0 WORONZOW GREIG, ESQ.
                                  Ammo, 29th August, 1841.
        I dare say you think it very long since you have
heard from me, my dearest Woronzow, but the truth is,
I have been writing so hard, that after I had <U+FB01>nished my
day’s work, I was <U+FB01>t for nothing but idleness. The
reason of my hurry is, that the scienti<U+FB01>c meeting takes
place at Florence on the 15th of September, and as I
think it probable that some of our English philosophers
will come to it, I hope to have a safe opportunity of
sending home some MS. which it has cost me hard work
to get ready, as I have undertaken a book more <U+FB01>t for
the combination of a Society than for a single band to
 accomplish. Lord Brougham was most kind when at
 Rome, and took so great an interest in it, that he has
 undertaken to read it over, and give me his opinion
 and criticism, which will be very valuable, as I know
 no one who is a better judge of these matters. He will
 send it to Mr. Murray, and you had better consult with
 him about it, whether he thinks it will succeed or not.
 Both William and Martha like what I have done; but I
 am very nervous about it, and wish you would read it if
 you have time. . . . . . . We have been extremely quiet
 all the summer; we have no neighbours, so that we
 amuse ourselves with our occupations.    I get up between
 six and seven, breakfast at eight, and write till three,
 when we dine; after dinner, I write again till near six,

250                  Mary Somervz'lle.
when we go out and take a long walk; come home to tea
at nine, and go to bed at eleven: the same thing day
after day, so you cannot expect a very amusing letter.
. . . . . . I have another commission I wish you would
do for me ; it is to inquire what discoveries Captain
Ross has made at the South Pole. I saw avery interest
ing account in “ Galignani " of what they have done, but
cannot trust to a newspaper account so as to quote it.
   A new edition of my “ Physical Sciences” was
required, so the “Physical Geography” was laid
aside for the present. On returning to Rome, we
resumed our usual life, and continued to receive our
friends in the evening without ceremony. There
was generally a merry party round the tea table in
a corner of the room. I cannot omit mentioning
one of the most charming and intellectual of our
friends, Don Michelangelo Gaetani, Duke of Ser
moneta, whose brilliant and witty conversation is
unrivalled, and for whom I have had a very sin
cere friendship for many years. I found him lately
as charming as ever, notwithstanding the cruel loss
of his sight. The last time I ever dined out was at
his house at Rome, when I was on my way to Naples
in 1867.
        {1'       I-        'i         'l        ‘l’
   John Gibson, the sculptor, the most guileless and
amiable of men, was now a dear friend.         His style

              Yo/m Gz'éson, t/ze Sculptor.          251
was the purest Grecian, and had some of his works
been found among the ruins, multitudes would have
come to Rome to admire them. He was now in
the height of his fame; yet he was so kind and
encouraging to young people that he allowed my
girls to go and draw in his studio, and one
of my daughters, with a friend, modelled there
for some time.     His drawings for has-reliefs were
most beautiful.    He drew very slowly, but a line
once drawn was never changed; He ignored
India-rubber or bread-crumbs, so perfect was his
knowledge of anatomy, and so decided the character
and expression he meant to give.                      '
   \Ve had charades one evening in a small theatre
in our house, which went off very well. There was
much beauty at Rome at that time ; no one who was
there can have forgotten the beautiful and brilliant
Sheridans. I recollect Lady Du<U+FB01>'erin at the Easter
ceremonies at St. Peter’s, in her widow’s cap, with a
large black crape veil thrown over it, creating quite
a sensation.   \Vith her exquisite features, oval face,
and somewhat fantastical head-dress, anything more
lovely could not be conceived; and the Roman
people crowded round her in undisguiscd admiration
of “la bella monaca Inglese.” Her charm of manner
and her brilliant conversation will never be forgotten
by those who knew her. To my mind, Mrs. Norton

252               Mary Somerville.
was the most beautiful of the three sisters. Hers is
a grand countenance, such as artists love to study.
Gibson, whom I asked, after his return from England,
which he had revisited after twenty-seven years’
absence, what he thought of Englishwomen, replied,
he had seen many handsome women, but no such
sculptural beauty as Mrs. Norton’s. I might add
the Marchioness of Waterford, whose bust at Mac
donald’s I took at <U+FB01>rst for an ideal head, till I
recognised the likeness.
   Lady Davy used to live a great deal at Rome, and
took an active part in society. She talked a great
deal, and talked well when she spoke English, but
like many of us had more pretension with regard to
the things she could not do well than to those she
really could.   She was a Latin scholar, and as far as
reading and knowing the literature of modern
languages went she was very accomplished, but un
fortunately, she fancied she spoke them perfectly,
and was never happier than when she had people of
different nations dining with her, each of whom she
addressed in his own language. Many amusing mis
takes of hers in speaking Italian were current in
both Roman and English circles.
       i         i         'I'      i         'I'
   A few months were very pleasantly spent one
summer at Perugia, where there is so much that is

                       Perugz'a.                    253
interesting to be seen. The neighbouring country is
very beautiful, and the city being on the top of a
hill is very cool during the hot weather. \Ve had
an apartment in the Casa Oddi-Baglioni—a name
well known in Italian history—and I recollect spend
ing some very pleasant days with the Conte Oddi
Baglioni, at a villa called Colle del Cardinale, some
ten or twelve miles from the town. The house was
large and handsomely decorated, with a profusion
of the <U+FB01>nest Chinese vases. On our toilet tables
were placed perfumes, scented soap, and very
elaborately embroidered nightdresses were laid out
for use. I remember especially admiring the basins,
jugs, &c., which were all of the <U+FB01>nest japan enamel.
There was a subterranean apartment where we
dined, which was delightfully cool and pleasant, and
at a large and profusely served dinner-table, while
we and the guests with the owner of the house
dined at the upper end, at the lower end and below
the salt there were the superintendent of the Count’s
 farms, a house decorator and others of that rank. It
 is not the only instance we met with of this very
 ancient custom. The <U+FB01>rst time Somerville and I
 came to Italy, years before this, while dining at a
 very noble house, the wetnurse took her place, as a
 matter of course, at the foot of the dinner-table.
    On the morning after our arrival and at a very

   254                  Mary Somerm'l/e.
   early hour there was a very <U+FB01>ne eclipse of the sun,
   though not total at Perugia or the neighbourhood;
   the chill and unnatural gloom were very striking.
      Perugia is one of the places in which the ancient
   athletic game of pallone is played with spirit. It is
   so graceful when well played that I wonder our
   active young men have not adopted it. A large
   leather ball <U+FB01>lled with condensed air is struck and
   returned again by the opponent with the whole
   force of their right arms, covered to the elbow with
   a spiked wooden case. The promptness and activity
   required to keep up the ball is very great, and the
  impetus with which it strikes is such, that the boxes
- for spectators in the amphitheatres dedicated to this
  game are protected by strong netting. It is a very
  complicated game, and, I am told, somewhat re
  sembles tennis.
         1'         ‘<U+FB01>'       ¥        1‘        ¥
     On leaving Perugia we went for a few days to
  Asissi, spent a day at Chiusi, and then returned to
  Rome, which we found in a great state of excitement
  on account of three steamers which had just ar
  rived from England to ply on the Tiber. The Pope
  and Cardinals made a solemn procession to bless
  them. N0 doubt they would have thought our
  method of dashing a bottle of wine on a vessel on
  naming her highly profane.
                            l

                        T{11012, Vez'z', 697.                      255
   We constantly made expeditions to the country, to
Tivoli, Veii, Ostia, &e., and my daughters rode on the
Campagna. One day they rode to Albano, and on
returning after dark they told me they had seen a
most curious cloud which never altered its position ;
it was a very long narrow stripe reaching from the
horizon till nearly over head—it was the tail of the
magni<U+FB01>cent comet of 1843.
   We met with a great temptation in an'invitation
from Lady Stratford Canning, to go ant irisit them
at Buyukdéré, near Constantinople, but 'res arcta
prevented us from accepting what would have been
so desirable in every respect. At this time I sat to
our good friend Mr. Macdonald for my bust, which
was much liked.*
      ‘ i             i            i-          “i            #
   One early summer we went to Loreto and Ancona,
where we embarked for Trieste ; the weather seemed
<U+FB01>ne when we set off, but a storm came on, with
thunder and lightning, very high sea and several
waterspouts. The vessel rolled and pitched, and we
were carried far out of our course to the Dalmatian
coast. I was obliged to remain a couple of days at
Trieste to rest, and was very glad when we arrived
  * The vessel on board which this bust was shipped for England ran
on a shoal and sank, but as the accident happened in shallow water, the
bust was recovered, none the worse for its immersion in salt water.

256               [Wary Sbmerm'lle.
at Venice. The summer passed most delightfully
at Venice, and we had ample time to see everything
without hurry. I wrote very little this summer,
for the scenery was so beautiful that I painted all
day; my daughters drew in the Belle Arti, and
Somerville had plenty of books to amuse him,
besides sight-seeing, which occupied much of our
time. In the Armenian convent we met with
Joseph Warten, an excellent mathematician and
astronomer; he was pastor at Neusatz, near Peter
wardein in Hungary, and he was making a tour
through Europe. He asked me to give him a
copy of the “ Mechanism of the Heavens,” and
afterwards wrote in Latin to Somerville and sent
me some errors of the press he had met with in my
book, but they were of no use, as I never published
a second edition. We returned to Home by Ravenna,
where we stayed a couple of days, then travelled
slowly along the Adriatic Coast. From thence
we went by Gubbio and Perugia to Orvieto, one
of the most interesting towns in Italy, and one
seldom visited at that time; now the railway will
bring it into the regular track of travellers.
        *        i         l-        ‘I'       i
   [A few extracts from letters, written and received
during this summer by my mother, may not be without
interest. Also parts of twofrom my mother’s old and

                          Venice.                         257
valued friend Miss Joanna Baillie. The second letter
was written several years later, and is nearly the last she
ever wrote to my mother.
  FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE T0 WORONZOW GREIG, ESQ.
                                    VENICE, 21st July, 1843.
        I most sincerely rejoice to hear that Agnes and
you have gone to the Rhine, as I am con<U+FB01>dent a little
change of air and scene will be of the greatest service to
you both. . . . . We are quite enchanted with Venice;
no one can form an idea of its in<U+FB01>nite loveliness who has
not seen it in summer and in moonlight. I often doubt
my senses, and almost fear it may be a dream. \Ve are
lodged to perfection, the weather has been charming, no
oppressive heat, though the thermometer ranges from 75c
to 80°, accompanied by a good deal of scirocco; there are
neither <U+FB02>ies nor <U+FB02>eas, and as yet the mosquitoes have not
molested us. We owe much of our comfort to the house
we are in, for there are scarcely any furnished lodgings,
and the hotels are bad and dear, besides situation is
everything at this season, when the smaller canals be
come o<U+FB01>'ensive at low water, for, though there is little
tide in the Mediterranean, there are four feet at new and
full moon here, which is a great blessing. We have now
seen everything, and have become acquainted with every
body, and met with kindness and attention beyond all
description. Many of the great ducal families still
exist, and live handsomely in their splendid palaces;
indeed, the decay of Venice, so much talked of, is
quite a mistake; certainly it is very different from
what it was in its palmy days, but there is a good
deal of activity and trade. The abolition of the law
                                                      5

_--?::'-:c:.
              258               Mary Somerville.
              of primogeniture has injured the noble families more
              than anything else. We rise early, and are busy indoors
             all morning, except the girls, who go to the Academy of
              the Belle Arti, and paint from ten till three. \Ve dine at
              four, and embark in our gondola at six or seven, and row
              about on the glassy sea till nine, when we go to the
             Piazza of San Marco, listen to a very <U+FB01>ne military band,
             and sit gossiping till eleven or twelve, and then row home
             by the Grand Canal, or make a visit in one of the various
             houses that are open to us. One of the most remarkable
             of these is that of the Cormtess Mocenigo’s, who has in
             one of her drawing-rooms the portraits of six doges of the
             Mocenigo name. I was presented by her to the Due de
             Bordeaux, the other evening, a fat good-natured looking
             person. I was presented also to the Archduke—I forget
             what—son of the Archduke Charles, and admiral of the
             <U+FB02>eet here; a nice youth, but not clever. \Ve meet him
             everywhere, and Somerville dined with him a few days
             ago. The only strangers of note are the Prince of Tour
             and Taxis, and Marshal Marmont.         The Venetian ladies
             are very ladylike and agreeable, and speak beautifully.
             we have received uncommon kindness from Mr. Rawdon
             Brown; he has made us acquainted with everybody, as
             he is quite at home here, having been settled in Venice
             for several years, and has got a most beautiful house
             <U+FB01>tted up, in rococo style, with great taste ; he is an adept
             at Venetian history. He supplies us with books, which
             are a great comfort. . . . . The other evening we Were
             surprised by a perfect <U+FB02>eet of gondolas stopping under
             our windows, from one of which we had the most beau
             tiful serenade ; the moonlight was like day, and the effect
             was admirable. There was a festa the other night in a
             church on the water’s edge; the shore was illuminated

                          Letters.                          259
and hundreds of gondolas were darting along like swal
lows, the gondoliers rowing as if they had been mad,
till the water was as much agitated as if there had been
a gale of wind: nothing could be more animated. You
will perceive from what I have said that the evening, till
a late hour, is the time for amusement, in consequence of
which I follow the Italian custom of sleeping after dinner,
and am much the better for it. This place agrees par
ticularly well with all of us, and is well suited for old
people, who require air without fatigue. . . . .
                       Most affectionately,
                                      MARY Sonmnvmnn.
    FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE T0 WORONZOW GREIG, ESQ.
                                    VENICE, 27th Auyuxt, 1843.
   MY DEAR \Vonoszow,
        Your excellent letter, giving an account of your
agreeable expedition up the Rhine, did not arrive till
nearly a month after it was written. . . . . I regret ex
ceedingly you could not stay longer, and still more that
you could not come on and pay us a visit, and enjoy the
charm of summer in Venice, so totally unlike every other
place in every respect. I wished for you last night par
ticularly. As we were leaving the Piazza San Marco,
about eleven, a boat came up, burning blue lights, with a
piano, violins, <U+FB02>utes, and about twenty men on board,
who sang choruses in the most delightful manner, and
sometimes solos. They were followed by an immense
number of gondolas, and we joined the corte'ge, and all
went under the Bridge of Sighs, where the effect was
beautiful beyond description. We then all turned and
entered the Grand Canal, which was entirely <U+FB01>lled with
                                                       B 2

-~ _~'_a=:_ in                 ‘“my,    L', *2?       ‘
                                                ‘ ‘MM~—r'—-wwv-
                                                           ~          -  .
             260                 Mary Somervz'lle.
             gondolas from one side to the other, jammed together, so
             that we moved en masse, and stopped every now and then
             to burn blue or red Bengal lights before the principal
             palaces, singing going on all the while. We saw num
             bers of our Venetian friends in their gondolas, enjoying
             the scene as much as we did, to whom it was almost new.
             I never saw people who enjoyed life more, and they
             have much the advantage of us in their delicious climate
             and aquatic amusements, so much more picturesque than
             what can be done on land.           However, we have had no
             less than three dances lately. The Grand Duke of Mo
             dena, with his son and daughter-in-law, were here, and to
             them aféte was given by the Countess de Thurn. The
             palace was brilliant with lights; it is on the grand canal,
             and immediately under the balcony was a boat from
             which <U+FB01>reworks were let off, and then a couple of boats
             succeeded them, in which choruses were sung. The view
             from the balcony is one of the <U+FB01>nest in Venice, and the
             night was charming, and there I was while the dancing
             went on. . . . . I never saw Somerville so well; this
             place suits us to the life, constant air and no fatigue; I
             never once have had a headache. . . . . Now, my dear
             W., tell me your tale ; my tale is done.
                                     Yours affectionately,
                                                        MARY Somnnvmns.
                FROM MRS. SOMERYILLE TO WORONZOW GREIG, ESQ.
                  Roma, Parazzo Lnrm, VIA DEI CONDOTTI, 2717i October, 1843.
                Mr nnmnsr Wonouzow,
                     . . . . . We had a beautiful journey to Rome,
             with <U+FB01>ne weather and no annoyance, notwithstanding the
             disturbed state of the country. At Padua we only re

                         Ferrara.                       261
mained long enough to see the churches, and it was
impossible to pass within a. few miles of Arqu<U+FB01>. without
paying a visit to the house of Petrarch. At Ferrara we
had a letter to the Cardinal Legate, who was very civil.
His palace is the ancient abode of the house of Este.
. . . . We had a long visit from him in the evening, and
found him most agreeable; he regretted that there was
no opera, as he would have been happy to offer us his
box. Fourteen of those unfortunate men who have been
making an attempt to raise an insurrection were arrested
the day before; and the night before we slept at Lugo,
the Carabineers had searched the inn during the night,
entering the rooms where the people were sleeping. \Ve
should have been more than surprised to have been
wakened by armed men at midnight. In travelling
through Italy the reliques and history of the early Chris
tians and of the Middle Ages have a greater attraction for
me than those of either the Romans or Etruscans, interest
ing though these latter be, and in this journey my taste was
amply grati<U+FB01>ed, especially at Ravenna, where the church
of San Vitale and the Basilica of St. Apollinare in Chassis,
 both built early in the 6th century, are the most magni<U+FB01>
 cent specimens imaginable. Here also is the tomb of
 Theodore, a most wonderful building; the remains of his
 palace and numberless other objects of interest, too
 tedious to mention. Every church is full of them, and
 most valuable MSS. abound in the libraries. I like the
 history of the Middle Ages, because one feels that there is
 something in common between them and us; their names
 still exist in their descendants, who often inhabit the
 very palaces they dwelt in, and their very portraits, by
 the great masters, still hang in their halls; whereas we
 know nothing about the Greeks and Romans except their

262                Mary Somerville.
public deeds—their private life is a blank to us. Our
journey through the Apennines was most beautiful, pass
ing for days under the shade of magni<U+FB01>cent oak forests
or valleys rich in wine, oil, grain, and silk. We deviated
from the main road for a short distance to Gubbio, to see
the celebrated Eugubian tables, which are as sharp as if
they had been engraved yesterday, but in a lost language.
We stopped to rest at Perugia, but all our friends were at
their country seats, which we regretted. The country
round Perugia is unrivalled for richness and beauty, but
it rained the morning we resumed our journey. It signi
<U+FB01>ed the less as we had been previously at Citta della
Pieve and Chiusi; so we proceeded to Orvieto in <U+FB01>ne
weather, still through oak forests. Orvieto is situated on
the top of an escarped hill, very like the hill forts of
India, and apparently as inaccessible; yet, by dint of
numberless turns and windings, we did get up, but only
in time for bed. Next morning we saw the sun rise on
the most glorious cathedral. After all we had seen we
were completely taken by surprise, and were <U+FB01>lled with
the highest admiration at the extreme beauty and <U+FB01>ne
taste of this remarkable building. . . . .
                    Your a<U+FB02>‘ectionate mother,
                                      MARY SOMERVILLE.
   ‘FBOM MISS JOANNA BAILLIE T0 MRS. SOMEBVILLE.
                               Hamrsrmn, Drvl'mbm' 27th, 1843.
    MY DEAR Mas. Somnavmma,
        Besides being proud of receiving a letter from you,
 I was much pleased to know that I am, though at such
a distance, sometimes in your thoughts.        I was much

                       ~Yoanna Bazllz'e.                 263
  pleased, too, with what you have said of the health and
  other grati<U+FB01>cations you enjoy in Italy. I should gladly
  have thanked you at the time, had I known how to
  address my letter; and after receiving your proper
  direction from our friend Miss Montgomery, I have
  been prevented from using it by various things . . . .
  But though so long silent I have not been ungrateful,
  and thank you with all my heart. The account you
  give of Venice is very interesting. There is something
  a<U+FB01>'ecting in still seeing the descendants of the former
  Doges holding a diminished state in their remaining
  palaces with so much courtesy. I am sure you have found
  yourself a guest in their saloons, hung with paintings
   of their ancestors, with very mixed feelings. However,
  Venice to the eye, as you describe it, is Venice still;
  and with its lights at night gleaming upon the waters
   makes a very vivid picture to my fancy. You no doubt
  have <U+FB01>xed it on canvas, and can carry it about with you
  for the delight of you friends who may never see the
   original.
      In return to your kind inquiries after us, I have, all
  things considered, a very good account to give. Ladies
  of four score and upwards cannot expect to be robust,
   and need not be gay. We sit by the <U+FB01>re-side with
   our books (except when those plaguy notes are to be
  written) and receive the visits of our friendly neighbours
  very contentedly, and, I ought to say, and trust I
   may say, very thankfully. . . . . This morning brought
   one in whom I feel sure that you and your daughters
‘ take some interest, Maria Edgeworth. She has been
   dangerously ill, but is now nearly recovered, and is
   come from Ireland to pass the 'winter months with
   her sisters in London: weak in body, but the mind

   26%               Mary Somerville.
  as clear and the spirits as buoyant as ever. You will
  be glad to hear that she even has it in her thoughts
  to write a new work, and has the plan of it nearly
  arranged. There will be nothing new in the story
  itself, but the purpose and treating of it will be new,
  which is, perhaps, a better thing. In our retired way of
  living, we know little of what goes on in the literary
  world. . . . . I was, however, in town for a few hours
 the other day, and called upon a lady of rank who has
 fashionach learned folks coming about her, and she in
 formed me that there are new ideas regarding philosophy
 entertained in the world, and that Sir John Herschel
 was now considered as a slight, second-rate man, or
 person. Who are the <U+FB01>rst-rate she did not say, and, I
 suppose, you will not be much morti<U+FB01>ed to hear that your
 name was not mentioned at all. So much for on learning.
 My sister was much disappointed the other day when, in
 expectation of a ghost story from Mr. Dickens, she only
 got a grotesque moral allegory; now, as she delights in
 a ghost and hates an allegory, this was very provoking.
                  Believe me,
            My dear Mrs. Somerville,
                  Yours with
                          I   admiration andJ.esteem,
                                                 BAILLIE.
    FROM MISS JOANNA BAILLIE T0 MRS. SOMERVILIJ—l.
                               Hanps'rnsn, January 9th, 1851.
    My DEAR FRIEND,
         My dear Mary Somerville, whom I am proud to
call my friend, and that she so calls me. I could say
much on this point, but I dare not. I received your

                   Sir Yo/m Hersc/zel.                    265
 letter from Mr. Greig last night, and thank you very
 gratefully. If my head were less confused I should do it
 better, but the pride I have in thinking of you as philoso
 pher and a woman cannot be exceeded. I shall read your
 letter many times over. My sister and myself at so great
 an age are waiting to be called away in mercy by an
 Almighty Father, and we part with our earthly friends as
 those whom we shall meet again. My great monster
 book is now published, and your copy I shall send to your
 son who will peep into it, and then forward it to your
 self. I beg to be kindly and respectfully remembered to
 your husband ; I offer my best wishes to your daugh
ters. . . . .
                    Yoru's, my dear Friend,
                                Very faithfully,
                                       JOANNA BAiLLm.
    My sister begs of you and all your family to accept her
best wishes.
     FROM SIR JOHN HERSCHEL T0 MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                                           18th March, 1844.
    My DEAR Mas. Somanvnmz,
      To have received a letter from you so long ago, and
not yet to have thanked you for it, is what I could hardly
have believed myself—if the rapid lapse of time in the
uniform retirement in which we live were not pressed upon
me in a variety of ways which convince me that as a man
grows older, his sand, as the grains get low in the glass,
slips through more glibly, and steals away with accele
rated speed. I wish I could either send you a copy of
my Cape observations, or tell you they are published

266                 Mary Somerville.
or even in the press. Far from it—I do not expect to
“go to press" before another year has elapsed, for
though I have got my catalogues of Southern nebulae
and Double stars reduced and arranged, yet there is a
great deal of other matter still to be worked through, and
I have every description of reduction entirely to execute
myself. These are very tedious, and I am a very slow
computer, and have been continually taken off the sub
ject by other matter, forced upon me by “ pressure from
without." \Vhat I am now engaged on is the monograph
of the principal southern Nebula, the object of which is
to put on record every ascertainable particular of their
actual appearance and the stars visible in them, so as to
satisfy future observers whether new stars have appeared,
or changes taken place in the nebulosity. To what an
extent this work may go you may judge from the fact
that the catalogue of visible stars actually mapped down
in their places within the space of less than a square
degree in the nebula about 11 Argus which I have just
completed comprises between 1300 and 1400 stars.
This is indeed a stupendous object. It is a vastly ex
tensive branching and looped nebula, in the centre of the
 densest part of which is 11 Argus, itself a most remark
 able star, seeing that from the fourth magnitude which it
had in Ptolemy’s time, it has risen (by sudden starts, and
 not gradually) to such a degree of brilliancy as now
 actually to surpass Canopus, and to be second only to
 Sirius. One of these leaps I myself witnessed when in
 the interval of ceasing to observe it in one year, and re
 suming its observation in two or three months after in
 the next, it had sprung over the heads of all the stars of
 the <U+FB01>rst magnitude, from Fomalhaut and Regulus (the
 two least of them) to a Centauri, which it then just

                    Planetary Neéula’.                  267
equalled, and which is the brightest of all but Canopus
and Sirius! It has since made a fresh jump—and who
can say it will be the last?
    One of the most beautiful objects in the southern
hemisphere is a pretty large, perfectly round, and very
well-de<U+FB01>ned planetary nebula, of a <U+FB01>ne, full independent
blue colour—the only object I have ever seen in the
heavens fairly entitled to be called independently blue,
'i.e., not by contrast. Another superb and most striking
object is Lacaille’s 30 Doradus, a nebula of great size in
the larger nubicula, of which it is impossible to give a
better idea than to compare it to a “ true lover’s knot,”
or assemblage of nearly circular nebulous loops uniting
in a centre, in or near which is an exactly circular round
dark hole. Neither this nor the nebula about n Argus
have any, the slightest, resemblance to the representations
given ofthem by Dunlop. . . . . As you are so kind as to
o<U+FB01>'er to obtain information on any points interesting to
me at Rome, here is one on which I earnestly desire to
obtain the means of forming a correct opinion, i.e., the
real powers and merits of De Vico’s great refractor at the
Collegio Romano. De Vico’s accounts of it appear to
me to have not a little of the extra-marvellous in them.
Saturn’s two close satellites regularly observed—eight
stars in the trapezium of Orion! a Aquila; (as Schuma
cher inquirineg writes to me) divided into three! the
supernumerary divisions of Saturn’s ring well seen, &c.,
&c. And all by a Cauchoix refractor of eight inches ‘2 I
fear me that these wonders are not for female eyes, the
good monks are too well aware of the penetrating quali
ties of such optics to allow them entry within the seven
fold walls of their Collegio. Has Somerville ever looked
through it? On his report I know I could quite rely. As

268               Many Somerville.
for Lord Rosse's great re<U+FB02>ector, I can only tell you whatI
hear, having never seen it, or even his three feet one.
The great one is not yet completed. Of the other,
those who have looked through it speak in raptures. I
met not long since an of<U+FB01>cer who, at Halifax in Nova
Scotia, saw the comet at noon close to the sun, and very
conspicuous the day after the perihelion passage.
   Your account of the pictures and other deliciw of
Venice makes our mouths water; but it is of no use, so
we can only congratulate those who are in the full enjoy
ment of such things.
                          Ever yours most truly,
                                          J. Hanscnsn.
   On returning to Home I was elected Associate of
the College of Risurgenti, and in the following April
I became an honorary member of the Imperial and
Royal Academy of Science, Literature and Art at
Arezzo. I <U+FB01>nished an edition of the Physical
 Sdienccs, at which I had been working, and in
 spring Somerville hired a small house belonging
 to the Duca Sforza Cesarini, at Genzano, close to
 and with a beautiful view of the Lake of Nemi;
 but as I had not seen my son for some time, I
 now availed myself of the opportunity of travelling
 with our friend Sir Frederick Adam to England.
 We crossed the Channel at Ostend, and at the
 mouth of the Thames lay the old “ Venerable,”
in which my father was <U+FB02>ag-captain at the

                  Visits in England.               269
battle of Camperdown.       I had a joyful :mecting
with my son and his wife, and we went to see
many things that were new to me. One of our
<U+FB01>rst expeditions was to the British Museum. I had
already seen the Elgin marbles, and the antiquities
collected at Babylon by Mr. Rich, when he was
Consul at Bagdad, but now the Museum had been
enriched by the marbles from Halicarnassus, and
by the marvellous remains excavated by Mr. Layard
from the ruins of Nineveh, the very site of which
had been for ages unknown.
   I frequently went to Turner’s studio, and was
always welcomed. No one could imagine that so
much poetical feeling existed in so rough an exterior.
The water-colour exhibitions were very good; my
countrymen still maintained their superiority in that
style of art, and the drawings of some English ladies
were scarcely inferior to those of <U+FB01>rst-rate artists,
especially those of my friend, Miss Blake, of
Danesbury.
   While in England I made several visits; the <U+FB01>rst
was to my dear friends Sir John and Lady Herschel,
at Collingwood, who received me with the warmest
affection. I cannot express the pleasure it gave me
to feel myself at home in a family where not only
the highest branches of science were freely discussed,
but where the accomplishments and graces of life

  270                 Many Somervz'lle.
 were cultivated. I was highly grati<U+FB01>ed and proud
 of being godmother to Rosa, the daughter of Sir
 John and Lady Herschel. Among other places near
 Collingwood I was taken to see an excellent observa
 tory formed by Mr. Dawes, a gentleman of inde
 pendent fortune; and here I must remark, to the
 honour of my countrymen, that at the time I am
 writing, there are twenty-six private observatories in
 Great Britain and Ireland, furnished with <U+FB01>rst-rate
 instruments, with which some of the most important
 astronomical discoveries have been made.
     [I received the following letter from my mother while
 we were at Genzano. It is one of several which record
in her natural and unaffected words my mother’s profound
 admiration for Sir John Herschel.
           MRS. SOMERVILLE TO MISS SOMERYILLE.
                                 SYDENKAM, In September, 1344.
                                         Sunday Night.
   My DEAR MARTHA,
    . . . \Ve go to the Herschels’ to-morrow, and there I
shall <U+FB01>nish this letter, as it is impossible to get it in
time for Tuesday’s post, but I have so much to do now
that you must not expect a letter every post, and I had
no time to begin this before, and I am too tired to sit up
later to-night. . . . .
                                       COLLINGWOOD, Monday.
   This appears to be a remarkably beautiful place, with
abundance of <U+FB01>ne timber. . . . W. brought your dear nice

                        A Godc<U+FB01>z'ld.                     271
letter; it makes me long to be with you, and, please God,
I shall he so before long, as I set 05 this day fortnight. .
                                                 Wednesday.
   Yesterday I had a great deal of scienti<U+FB01>c talk with
Sir John, and a long walk in the grounds which are
extensive, and very pretty. Then the Airys arrived, and
we had a large party at dinner. . . . . . I think, now,
as I always have done, that Sir John is by much the
highest and <U+FB01>nest character I have ever met with; the
most gentlemanly and polished mind, combined with the
most exalted morality, and the utmost of human attain
ment. His view of everything is philosophic, and at the
same time highly poetical, in short, he combines every
quality that is admirable and excellent with the most
 charming modesty, and Lady Herschel is quite worthy of
such a husband, which is the greatest praise I can give
 her. Their kindness and affection for me has been un
 bounded. Lady H. told me she heard such praises of you
 two that she is anxious to know you, and she hopes you
 will always look upon her and her family as friends. The
 christening went off as well as possible. Mr. Airy was
 godfather, and Mrs.         and I godmothers, but I had
 the naming of the child—Matilda Rose, after Lady
 Herschel’s sister. I assure you I was quite adroit in
 taking the baby from the nurse and giving her to the
 clergyman. Sir John took Mrs. Airy and me a drive to see
 a very <U+FB01>ne picturesque castle a few miles off. . . . I have
 got loads of things for experiments on light from Sir John
 with a variety of papers, and you may believe that I have
 pro<U+FB01>ted not a little by his conversation, and have a thou
 sand projects for study and writing, so I think painting
 will be at a standstill, only that I have promised to paint

-_%|-, n'<U+FB01>vF1' 1 raw-~1- lx___-1“
                                  m
                 272                Mary Somerville.
                 something for Lady Herschel. Sir John computes four
                 or <U+FB01>ve hom's every day, and yet his Cape observations
                 will not be <U+FB01>nished for two years. I have seen every
                 thing he is or has been doing.
                                     Your a<U+FB01>'ectionate mother,
                                                     MARY Sonnnvnmn.
                    [My mother continues her recollections of this journey.
                    My next visit was to Lord and Lady Charles Percy,
                 at Guy’s Cli<U+FB02>', in 'Warwickshire, a. pretty picturesque
                 place of historical and romantic memory. The
                 society was pleasant, and I was taken to Kenilworth
                 and Warwick Castle, on the banks of the Avon, a
                 noble place, still bearing marks of the \Vars 0f the
                 Roses. I never saw such magni<U+FB01>cent oak-trees as
                 those on the Leigh estate, near Guy’s Cli<U+FB01>'.
                    I then visited my maiden namesake, Mrs.
                 Fairfax, of Gilling Castle, Yorkshire. She was a
                 highly cultivated person, had been much abroad,
                 and was a warm-hearted friend. I was much inte
                 rested in the principal room, for a deep frieze sur
                 rounds the wall, on which are painted the coats of
                 arms of all the families with whom the Fairfaxes
                 have intermarried, ascending to very great antiquity;
                 besides, every pane of glass in a very large bay
                 window in the same room is stained with one of
                 these coats of arms. Every morning after breakfast

                    Yedéurg/z A May.                9.78
 a. prodigious <U+FB02>ock of pea-fowl came from the woods
 around to be fed.
    I now went to the vicinity of Kelso to visit my
brother and sister-in-law, General and Mrs. Elliot,
who lived on the banks of the Tweed. We went to
Jedburgh, the place of my birth. After many years
 I still thought the valley of the Jed very beautiful ;
 I fear the pretty stream has been invaded by manu
factories : there is a perpetual war between civiliza—
tion and the beauty of nature. I went to see the spot
from whence I once took a sketch of Jedburgh Abbey
and the manse in which I was born, which does not
 exist, I believe, now. \Vhen I was a very young girl
I made a painting from this sketch. Our next
 excursion was to a lonely village called Yetholm, in
the hills, some miles from Kelso, belonging to the
gipsies. The “ king ” and the other men were absent,
but the women were civil, and some of them very
pretty. Our principal object in going there was to
see a stone in the wall of a small and very ancient
church at Linton, nearly in ruins, on which is carved
in relief the wyvern and wheel, the crest of the
Somervilles.
    From Kelso I went to Edinburgh to spend a few
days with Lord Je<U+FB02>'rcy and his family. No one who
had seen his gentle kindness in domestic life, and
the warmth of his attachment to his friends, could
                                                'I'

 274              Mary Somervz'lle.
 have supposed he possessed that power of ridicule
 and severity which made him the terror of authors.
 His total ignorance of science may perhaps excuse
 him for having admitted into the “ Review ”
 Brougham’s intemperate article on the undulatory
theory of light, a discovery which has immortalized
the name of Dr. Young.      I found Edinburgh, the
city of my early recollections, picturesque and
beautiful as ever, but enormously increased both to
the north and to the south. Queen Street, which in
my youth was open to the north and commanded a
view of the Forth and the mountains beyond, was
now in the middle of the new town. All those I
had formerly known were gone—a new generation
had sprung up, living in all the luxury of modern
times. On returning to London I spent a pleasant
time with my son and his wife, who invited all those
to meet me whom they thought I should like to see.
   [My mother returned to Rome in autumn in com
pany with an old friend and her daughter.
   The winter passed without any marked event, but
always agreeably; new people came, making a plea
sant variety in the society, which, though still
re<U+FB01>ned, was beginning to be very mixed, as was
amusineg seen at Torlonia’s balls and tableaux

                     Pas/Ling Peaple.                      275
where many of the guests formed a singular contrast
with the beautiful Princess, who was of the historical
family of the Colonnas. I was often ashamed of
my countrymen, who, all the while speaking of
the Italians with contempt, tried to force themselves
into their houses. Prince Borghese refused the
same person an invitation to a. ball <U+FB01>ve times. I
was particularly scrupulous about invitations, and
never asked for one in my life ; nor did I ever seek
to make acquaintances with the view of being in
vited to their houses.
        *         '<U+FB01>         '1'        i            i
   [The following letters give a sketch of life during the
summer months at Rome :—
            MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.
                                      ROME, 3rd August, 1845.
   MY DEAR Wonoszow,              ‘
         . . . .          I am glad you are so much pleased
with my bust, and that it is so little injured after having -
 been at the bottom of the sea. You will <U+FB01>nd Macdonald
 a very agreeable and original person. As to spending the
 summer in Rome, you may make yourself quite easy, for
 the heat is very bearable, the thermometer varying
 between 75° and 80° in our rooms during the day, which
 are kept in darkness, and at night it always becomes
 cooler. Thank God, we are all quite well, and Somerville
 particularly so; he goes out during the day to amuse
                                                      'r 2

276                   Mary Somerville.
himself, and the girls paint in the Borghesc gallery. As
for myself I have always plenty to do till half past three,
when we dine, and after dimier I sleep for an hour or
more, and when the sun is set we go out to wander a little,
for a long walk is too fatiguing at this season. \Ve have
very little society, the only variety we have had was a
very pretty supper party given by Signore Rossi, the
French minister to the Prince and Princess de Broglie,
son and daughter-in-law of the duke. The young lady
is extremely beautiful, and as I knew the late Duchesse
de Broglie (Madame de Staiil’s daughter) we soon got
acquainted. They are newly married, and have come to
spend part of the summer in Rome, so you see people
are not so much alarmed as the English. . . We went
yesterday evening to see the Piazza Navona fqu of water;
it is <U+FB02>ooded every Saturday and Sunday at this season ;
there is music, and the whole population of Rome is
collected round it, carts and carriages splashing through
it in all directions. Ithink it must be about three feet deep.
It was there the ancient Romans had their naval games;
and the custom of <U+FB01>lling it with water in srunmer has
lasted ever since. The fountain is one of the most
beautiful in Rome, which is saying a great deal; indeed
the immense gush of the purest water from innumerable
fountains in every street and every villa is one of the
peculiarities of Rome. I fear from what I have heard of
those in Trafalgar Square that the quantity of water will
be very miserable.
   The papers (I mean the Times), are full of abuse of
Mr. Sedgwick and Dr. Buckland, but their adversaries
write such nonsense that it matters little. I do not
think I have anything to add to my new edition. If
you hear of anything of moment let me know. Perhaps

                      Lz<U+FB01> at Rome.                        277
something may have transpired at the British Asso
ciation. . .
                          Your affectionate mother,
                                     Many Sonnnvmuz.
           MRS. SOMERVILLE T0 W. GREIG, ESQ.
                                       Roma, May 28th, 1845.
   MY DEAR Wonoszow,
        I don’t know why I have so long delayed writing
to you. I rather think it is because we have been living
so quiet a life, one day so precisely similar to the pre
ceding, that there has been nothing worth writing about.
This is our <U+FB01>rst really srunmer-like day, and splendid it is ;
but we are sitting in a kind of twilight. The only means
of keeping the rooms cool is by keeping the house dark
and shutting out the external air, and then in the evening
we have a delightful walk; the country is splendid, the
Campagna one sheet of deep verdure and <U+FB02>owers of every
kind in abundance. We generally have six or seven large
nosegays in the room ; we have only to go to some of the
neighbouring villas and gather them. Most of the
English are gone; people make a great mistake in not
remaining during the hot weather, this is the time for en
joyment. \Ve are busy all the morning, and in the after
noon we take our book or drawing materials and sit on
the grass in some of the lovely villas for hours; then we
come home to tea, and are glad to see anyone who will
come in for an hour or two. \Ve have had a son of
Mr. Babbage here. He is employed in making the
railway that is to go from Genoa to Milan, and he was
travelling with eight other Englishmen who came to make

 278                 Mary Somer ville.
 arrangements for covering Italy with a network of these
 iron roads, connecting all the great cities and also the
 two seas from Venice to Milan and Genoa and from
 Ancona by Rome to Civita Vecchia. However the Pope is
 opposed to the latter part, but they say the cardinals and
 people wish it so much that he will at last consent . . . .
 Many thanks for the Vestiges, &c. I think it a powerful
 production, and was highly pleased with it, but I can easily
 see that it will o<U+FB01>'end in some quarters ; however it
 should be remembered that there has been as much
 opposition to the true system of astronomy and to geo
 logical facts as there can be to this. At all events free
 and open discussion of all natural and moral phenomena
 must lead to truth at last. Is Babbage the author? I
 rather think he would not be so careful in concealing his
 name. . . . .
    [My mother made some curious experiments upon the
 effect of the solar spectrum on juices of plants and other
 substances, of which she sent an account to Sir John
 Herschel, who answered telling her that he had com~
 municated her account of her experiments to the Royal
 Society.]
         SIR. JOHN HERSCHEL T0 MRS. SOMERYILLE.
                             Coancwoon, November 2m, 1845.
    Mr nmn Mas. Sosmavmnn,
          I cannot express to you the pleasure I experi
enced from the receipt of your letter and the perusal of
the elegant experiments it relates, which appear to me of
the highest interest and show (what I always suspected),
that there is a world of wonders awaiting disclosure in

             Mrs. Somerm'l/e’s Experiments.              279
 the solar spectrum, and that in<U+FB02>uences widely differing
 from either light, heat or colour are transmitted to us
 from our central luminary, which are mainly instrumental
 in evolving and maturing the splendid hues of the
 vegetable creation and elaborating the juices to which
 they ’owe their beauty and their vitality. I think it
 certain that heat goes for something in evaporating your
 liquids and thereby causing some of your phenomena;
 but there is a difference of quality as well as of quantity
 of heat brought into view which renders it susceptible of
 analysis by the coloured juices so that in certain parts
 of the spectrum it is retained and <U+FB01>xed, in others re<U+FB02>ected
 according as the natm'e of the tint favours the one or the
 other. Pray go on with these delightful experiments. I
 wish you could save yourself the fatigue of watching and
 directing your sunbeam by a clock work. If I were at
 your elbow I could rig you out a heliotrope quite
 suf<U+FB01>cient with the aid of any common wooden clock.
 . . . . . . Now I am going to take a liberty (but not till
 after duly consulting Mr. Greig with whose approbation
 I act, and you are not to gainsay our proceedings) and
 that is to communicate your results in the form of
 “ an extract of a letter” to myself—to the Royal Society.
 You may be very sure that I would not do this if I
 thought that the experiments were not intrinsically quite
 deserving to be recorded in the pages of the Phil. Trans.
 and if I were not sure that they will lead to a vast <U+FB01>eld
 of curious and beautiful research; and as you have
 already once contributed to the Society, (on a subject
 connected with the spectrum and the sunbeam) this will,
 I trust, not appear in your eyes in a formidable or a
 repulsive light, and it will be a great matter of congratu
  lation to us all to know that these subjects continue to
M~==::W‘ —_~ __ --~~~ \ >¥.m A

280                Mary Sonzerm'llc.
engage your attention, and that you can turn your
residence in that sunny clime to such admirable account.
So do not call upon me to retract (for before you get this
the papers will be in the secretary’s hands).
   I am here nearly as much out of the full stream of
scienti<U+FB01>c matters as you at Rome. \Ve had a full and
very satisfactory meeting at Cambridge of the British
Association, with a full attendance of continental magne
tists and meteorologists, and within these few days I
have learned that our Government meant to grant all our
requests and continue the magnetic and meteorological
observations. Humboldt has sent me his Cosmos (Vol. I.),
which is good, all but the <U+FB01>rst 60 pages, which are
occupied in telling his readers what his book is not to be.
Dr. Whewell has just published another book on the
Principles of Morals, and also another on education, in
which he cries up the geometrical processes in preference
to analysis. . . . . .
                              Yours very faithfully,
                                          J. HERSCHEL.
    The Prince and Princesse de Broglie came to
Rome in 1845, and Signore Pellegrino Rossi, at this
 time French Minister at the Vatican, gave them a
 supper party, to which we were invited.          We had
 met with him long before at Geneva, where he had
taken refuge after the insurrection of 1821. He was
greatly esteemed there and admired for his eloquence
in the lectures he gave in the University. It was

                         Rossz'.                      281
a curious circumstance, that he, who was a Roman
subject, and was exiled, and, if I am not mis
taken, condemned to death, should return to Rome
as French Minister.       He had a remarkably <U+FB01>ne
countenance, resembling some ancient Roman bust.
M. Thiers had brought in a law in the French
Chambers to check the audacity of the Jesuits, and
Rossi was sent to negotiate with the Pope. \Ve had
seen much of him at Rome, and were horri<U+FB01>ed, in
1848, to hear that he had been assassinated on the
steps of the Cancelleria, at Rome, where the Legisla
tive Assembly met, and whither he was proceeding
to attend its <U+FB01>rst meeting.      No one offered to assist
him, nor to arrest the murderers except Dr. Panta
leone, a much esteemed Roman physician, and mem
ber of the Chamber, who did what he could to save
him, but in vain ; he was a great loss to the Liberal
cause.
   Towards the end of summer we spent a month
most agreeably at Subiaco, receiving much civility
from the Benedictine monks of the Sacro Speco, and
visiting all the neighbouring towns, each one perched
on some hill—top, and one more romantically pictur
esque than the other. It was in this part of the
country that Claude Lorraine and Poussin studied
and painted. I never saw more beautiful country,
or one which a<U+FB02>'orded so many exquisite subjects for
                                         \. -_—v\~_~___‘_ ,

282               Mmy Somerville.
a landscape painter. We went all over the country
on mules—to some of the towns, such as Cervara, up
steep <U+FB02>ights of steps out in the rock. The people,
too, were extremely picturesque, and the women
still wore their costumes, which probably now they
have laid aside for tweeds and Manchester cottons.
    I often during my winters in Rome went to paint
from nature in the Campagna, either with Somer- ~
ville or with Lady Susan Percy, who drew very
prettily. Once we set out a little later than usual,
when, driving through the Piazza of the Bocea della
Verita, we both called out, “Did you see that?
How horrible l ” It was the guillotine ; an execution
had just taken place, and had we been a quarter of an
hour earlier we should have passed at the fatal
moment. Under Gregory XVI. everything was
conducted in the most profound secrecy; arrests
were made ahnost at our very door, of which we
knew nothing; Mazzini was busily at work on one
side, the Je'suitical party actively intriguing, accord
ing to their wont, on the other; and in the mean
time society went on gaily at the surface, ignorant
of and mdi<U+FB01>ereiit to the course of events. \Ve
were preparing to leave Rome when Gregory died.
\Ve put off our journey to see his funeral, and
the Conclave, which terminated, in the course
of scarcely two days, in the election of Pius IX.

                        P20 [X.                   283
IVc also saw the new Pope’s coronation, and
witnessed the beginning of that popularity which
lasted so short a time. Much was expected
from him, and in the beginning of his reign
the moderate liberals fondly hoped that Italy
would unite in one great federation, with Pius IX.
at the head of it; entirely forgetting how incom
patible a theocracy or government by priests ever
must be with all progress and with liberal institu
tions. Their hopes were soon blighted, and after all
the welLknown events of 1848 and 1849, a reaction
set in all over Italy, except in gallant little Pied
mont, where the        constitution was maintained,
thanks to Victor Emmanuel, and especially to that
great genius, Camillo Cavour, and in spite of the
disastrous reverses at Novara.     Once more in 1859
Piedmont went to war with Austria, this time with
success, and with the not disinterested help of
France. One province after another joined her,
and Italy, freed from all the little petty princes,
and last, not least, from the Bourbons, has become
that one great kingdom which was the dream of
some of her greatest men in times of old.
   \Ve went to Bologna. for a short time, and there
the enthusiasm for the new Pope was absolutely
intolerable.   “ Viva Pio Nono !” was shouted night
and day.     There was no repose; bands of music

284              Mary Somerw'l/e.
went about the streets, playing airs composed for
the occasion, and in the theatres it was even worse,
for the acting was interrupted, and the orchestra
called upon to play the national tunes in vogue,
and repeat them again and again, amid the deafen
ing shouts and applause of the excited audience.
We found the Bolognese very sociable, and it was
by far the most musical society I ever was in.
Rossini was living in Bologna, and received in the
evening, and there was always music, amateur and
professional, at his house. Frequently there was
part-singing or choruses, and after the music was
over the evening ended with a dance. We fre
quently saw Rossini some years later, when we
resided at Florence. He was clever and amusing in
conversation, but satirical. He was very bitter
against the modern style of opera-singing, and con
sidered the singers of the present day, with some
exceptions, as wanting in study and <U+FB01>nish. He
objected to much of the modern music, as dwelling
too constantly on the highest notes of the voice,
whereby it is very soon deteriorated, and the singer
forced to scream ; besides which, he considered the
orchestral accompaniments too loud.     I, who recol
lected Pasta, Malibran, Grisi, Rubini, and others of
 that epoch, could not help agreeing with him when
 I compared them to the singers I heard at the

                   Assassination.               285
Pergola and elsewhere.   The theatre, too, was good
at Bologna, and we frequently went to it.
   One evening we were sitting on the balcony of
the hotel, when we saw a man stab another in the
back of the neck, and then run away.     The victim
staggered along for a minute, and then fell down in
a pool of blood. He had been a spy of the police
under Gregory XVI., and one of the principal
agents of his cruel government. He was so ob—
noxious to the people that his assassin has never
been discovered.
   From Bologna we went for a few weeks to
Recoaro, where I drank the waters, after which we
travelled to England by the St. Gothard pass.

                       CHAPTER XVI.
  PUBLISHES “PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY"—LETTEB FROM HUMBOLDT—CHRIST
      MAS AT COLLINGWOOD—LETTER FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE—FARADAY
      —-LETTER FROM FARADAY—KEITH JOHNSTONE’S MAPS—“’INTER AT
      MUNICH—SALZBURG—LAKE     OF  OARDA— MINISCALCHI—POEM BY
      CATERINA BRENIDXl—LRTTER FROM BRENZONI—LETTER FROM MRS.
      SOMERVILLE—ELOGE BY MINISCALCHI—“FINTER AT TURIN~BARON
      PLANA—CAMILLO CAVOUR—~COLLINE NEAR TURIS—GENOA—TERESA
      DOVIA—FLORENCE—MISS F. P. COBBE—VIVISECTION—EXCURSIONS IN
      THE  NEIGHBOURHOOD—CHOLERA—MISERICORDIA—PIO       NONO 1K
      TUSCANY -— COMET—TUSCAN   REVOLUTION — \VAR. IN LOMBARDY—
      ENTRY 0F VICTOR EMMANUEL INTO FLORENCE—LETTERS FROM MRS.
      SOMERVILLE—MY FATHER‘S DEATH—LETTER FROM MISS COBB!!
     \VE spent the autumn in visiting my relations on
  the banks of the Tweed. I was much out of health
  at the time. As winter came on I got better, and
  was preparing to print my “ Physical Geography "
  when “ Cosmos ” appeared. I at once determined to
  put my manuscript in the <U+FB01>re when Somerville said,
  “ Do not be rash—consult some of our friends—
  Hersehel for instance.” So I sent the MS. to Sir
  John Herschel, who advised me by all means to
  publish it. It was very favourably reviewed by Sir
‘ Hem-y Holland in the “ Quarterly,” which tended

                    Humôola’t ’s Letler.                       287
much to its success.       I afterwards sent a. copy of a
later edition to Baron Humboldt, who wrote me a
very kind letter in return.
          BARON HUMBOLDT T0 MRS. SOMERVILLE
                               A SANS SOUCI, ce 12 Juillet, 1849.
    MADAME,
         C’est un devoir bien doux à remplir, Madame,
que de vous offrir l’hommage renouvellé de mon dévoue
ment et de ma respectueuse admiration. Ces sentimens
 datent de bien loin chez l’homme autidiluvien auquel
 vous avez daigné adresser des lignes si aimables et la
 nouvelle édition de ce bel ouvrage qui m’a charmé et
 instruit dès qu’il avait paru pour la première fois. A cette
 grande supériorité que vous possedez et qui a si noble
 ment illustré votre nom, dans les hautes régions de
 l’analyse mathématique, vous joignez, Madame, une
 variété de connaissances dans toutes les parties de la
 physique et de l’histoire naturelle descriptive. Après
 votre “Mechanism of the Heavens,” le philosophique
 ouvrage “Connexion of the Physical Sciences ” avait
 été l’objet de ma constante admiration. Je l’ai lu en entier
 et puis relu dans la septième édition qui a paru en 1846
 dans les tems où nous étions plus calme, où l’orage
 politique ne grondait que de loin. L’auteur de l'im
 prudent “ Cosmos ” devoit saluer plus que tout autre la
  “Géographie Physique” de Mary Somerville. J’ai su
  me la procurer dès les premières semaines par les soins
  de notre ami commun le Chev. Bunsen. Je ne connais
  dans aucune langue un ouvrage de Géographie physique

  288               [Vary Somerzzille.
 que l’on pourrait_ comparer au votre. Je l‘ai de nouveau
 étudié dans la dernière édition que je dois à votre
 gracieuse bienveillance. Le sentiment de précision que
 vos habitudes de “ Géomètre ” vous ont si profondement
 imprimé, pénètre tous vos travaux, Madame. Aucun
 fait, aucune des grandes vues de la nature vous échap
 pent. Vous avez profité et des livres et des conversa
 tions des voyageurs dans cette malheureuse Italie où
 passe la grande route de l’Orient et de l’Inde. J’ai été
 surpris de la justice de vos aperçus sur la Géographie
 des plantes et des animaux. Vous dominez dans ces
 régions comme en astronomie, en météorologie, en ma
 gnétisme. Que n'ajoutez-vous pas la sphère céleste,
 l’uranologie, votre patrimoine, à la sphère terrestre?
 C'est vous seule qui pourriez donner à votre belle litéra
 ture un ouvrage cosmologique original, un ouvrage écrit
 avec cette lucidité et ce goût que distingue tout ce qui
 est emané de votre plume. On a, je le sais, beaucoup de
bienveillance pour mon Cosmos dans votre patrie; mais il
 en est desformes de composition littéraires, comme de la
variété des races et de la différence primitive des langues.
Un ouvrage traduit manque de vie; ce que plait surles bords
du Rhin doit paraître bizarre sur les bords de la Tamise
et de la Seine. Mon ouvrage est une production essen
tiellement allemande, et ce caractère même, j’en suis sûr,
loin de m’en plaindre lui donne le goût du terroir. Je
jouis d’une bonne fortune à laquelle (à cause de mon
long séjour en France, de mes prédilections personnelles,
de mes hérésies politiques) le Léopard ne m’avait pas
trop accoutumé. Je demande à l’illustre auteur du
volume sur la Mécanique Céleste d’avoir le courage
d’aggrandir sa Géographie Physique. Je suis sûr que le
grand homme que nous aimons le plus, vous et moi, Sir

                   Discovery qf Neptzme.                  289
John Herschel, serait de mon opinion. Le MONDE, je
 me sers du titre que Descartes voulait donner à un livre
 dont nous n’avons que de pauvres fragmens; le Monde
 doit être écrit pour les Anglais par un auteur de race pure.
 Il n’y a pas de sève, pas de vitalité dans les traductions
 les mieux faites. Ma santé s’est conservé miraculeuse
 ment a l’âge de quatre-vingts ans, de mon ardeur pour
 le travail nocturne au milieu des agitations d’une position
 que je n’ai pas besoin de vous depeindre puisque l’excel
lente Mademoiselle de           vous l’a fait connaître. J’ai
bouleversé, changé mes deux volumes des “Ansichten.”
Il n’en est resté que }. C'est comme un nouvel ouvrage
que j’aurai bientôt le bonheur de vous adresser si
M. Cotta pense pouvoir hasarder une publication dans
ces tems où la force physique croit guérir un mal moral
et vacciner le contentement à. l’Allemagne unitaire! ! Le
troisième volume de mon Cosmos avance, mais la sérénité
manque aux âmes moins crédules.
    Agréez, je vous supplie, l'hommage de mon a<U+FB02>‘ectueuse
et respectueuse reconnaissance,
                              ALEXANDRE DE HUMBOLDT.
    Somerville and I spent the Christmas at Colling
wood with our friends the Herschels. The party
consisted of Mr. Airy, Astronomer-Royal, and Mr.
Adams, who had taken high honours at Cambridge.
This young man and M. Leverrier, the celebrated
French astronomer, had separately calculated the
orbit of Neptune and announced it so nearly at the
                                                       U

290                Mary Somerm'lle.
same time, that each country claims the honour of
the discovery. Mr. Adams told Somerville that the
following sentence in the sixth edition of the “ Con
nexion of the Physical Sciences,” published in the year
1842, put it into his head to calculate the orbit of
Neptune. “If after the lapse of years the tables
formed from a combination of numerous observa
tions should be still inadequate to represent the
motions of Uranus, the discrepancies may reveal
the existence, nay, even the mass and orbit of a
body placed for ever beyond the sphere of vision.”
That prediction was ful<U+FB01>lled in 1846, by the dis
covery of Neptune revolving at the distance of
3,000,000,000 of miles from the sun.           The mass of
Neptune, the size and position of his orbit in space,
and his periodic time, were determined from his dis
turbing action on Uranus before the planet itself had
been seen.
   We left Collingwood as ever with regret.
   [The following is an extract from a letter written by my
mother during this visit :—
       FROM MR8. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.
                            UOLLLNGWOQD, 1st January, 1848.
   . . . . You can more easily conceive than I can
describe the great kindness and affection which we have
received from both Sir John and Lady Herschel; I feel

                         Faraday.                        291
 a pride and pleasure beyond what I can express in having
 such friends. Colliugwood is a house by itself in the
 World, there certainly is nothing like it for all that is
 great and good.   The charm of the conversation is only
 equalled by its variety—every subject Sir John touches
 turns to doubly re<U+FB01>ned gold ; profound, brilliant, amiable,
 and highly poetical, I could never end admiring and
 praising him. Then the children are so nice and he so
 kind and amusing to them, making them quite his friends
 and companions.
             Yours, my dearest \Voronzow,
                             Most affectionately,
                                        M. Sonsnvmnn.
    We had formed such a friendship with Mr. Fara
 day that while we lived abroad he sent me a copy
 of everything he published, and on returning to
 England we renewed our friendship with that illus
 trious philosopher, and attended his lectures at the
 Royal Institution. He had already magnetized a
 ray of polarised light, but was still lecturing on the
 magnetic and diamagnetic properties of matter.          At
'the last lecture we attended he showed the diamag
 netism of <U+FB02>ame, which had been proved by a foreign
 philosopher. Mr. Faraday never would accept of
 any honour ; he lived in a circle of friends to whom
 he was deeply attached. A touching and beautiful
 memoir was published of him by his friend and
                                                    U2

292                Mary Somerw'lle.
successor, Professor Tyndall, an experimental phi
losopher of the very highest genius.
   [The following letter was the last my mother received
from Faraday :—
    FROM PROFESSOR FARADAY T0 MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                       ROYAL INSTITUTION, 17th January, 1859.
   MY DEAR Mas. SOMEBVILLE,
         So you have remembered me again, and I
have the delight of receiving from you a new copy of
 that work which has so       often instructed me; and
 I may well say, cheered me in my simple homely course
through life in this house. It was most kind to think
 of me ; but ah! how sweet it is to believe that I have
 your approval in matters where kindness would be
 nothing, where judgment alone must rule. I almost
 doubt myself when I think I have your approbation,
 to some degree at least, in what I may have thought
 or said about gravitation, the forces of nature, their
 conservation, &c. As it is, I cannot go back from these
 thoughts; on the contrary, I feel encouraged to go on
 by way of experiment, but am not so able as I was
 formerly; for when I try to hold the necessary group
 of thoughts in'mind at one time, with the judgment
 suspended on almost all of them, then my head becomes
 giddy, and I am obliged to lay all aside for a while.
 I am trying for time in magnetic action, and do not
 despair of reaching it, even though it may be only that
 of light. Nous rerrons.
    I have been putting into one volume various papers

                   Faraday’s Letler.                      293
of mine on experimental branches in chemistry and
physics. The index and title-page has gone to the
printer, and I expect soon to receive copies from him.
I shall ask Mr. Murray to help me in sending one to
you which I hope you will honour by acceptance. There
is nothing new in it, except a few additional pages about
“regelation,” and also “gravity.” It is useful to get
one’s scattered papers together with an index, and
society seems to like the collection su<U+FB01>iciently to pay
the expenses. . . . . Pray remember me most kindly
to all with whom I may take that privilege, and believe
me to be most truly,
                       Your admirer and
                                 faithful servant,
                                            M. FARADAY.
    [My mother wrote of this letter :—
                               FLOBENCE, 8th February, 1859.
   . .          I have had the most charming and
gratifying letter from Faraday; I cannot tell you
how I value such a mark of approbation and friend
ship from the greatest experimental philosopher and
discoverer next to Newton. C                    ‘
   We returned to the continent in autumn, so I
could not superintcnd the publication of my “Phy
sical Geography,”but Mr. Pentland kindly undertook
to carry it through the press. Though I never was
personally acquainted with Mr. Keith Johnston, of

 294                Mary Somervzlle.
Edinburgh, that eminent geographer gave me copies
of both the <U+FB01>rst and second editions of his splendid
“ Atlas of Physical Geography,” which were of the
greatest use to me. Besides, he published some time
afterwards a small “ School Atlas of Ancient, Modern,
and Physical Geography,” intended to accompanymy
work; obligations which I gratefully acknowledge.
No one has attempted to copy my “ Connexion 0f
the Physical Sciences,” the subjects are too dif<U+FB01>cult;
but soon after the publication of the “Physical‘
Geography ” anumber of cheap books appeared, just
keeping within the letter of the law, on which ac
count it has only gone through <U+FB01>ve editions. How
ever a sixth is now required.
        i        ‘1'       'I'       i         i'
   The moment was unfavourable for going into
Italy, as war was raging between Charles Albert and
the Austrians, so we resolved to remain at Munich,
and wait the course of events. \Ve got a very pretty
little apartment, well furnished with stoves, and 0p
posite the house of the Marchese Fabio Pallavicini,
formerly Sardinian minister at Munich. We spent
most of our evenings very pleasantly at their house.
We attended the concerts at the Odeon of classical
music : the execution was perfect, but the music
was so re<U+FB01>ned and profound that it passed my com~
prehension, and I thought it tedious. The hours at
                                       __»-___ _..     .4 =5_‘

                      Salzéurg.                        295
Munich were so early that the opera ended almost at
the time it began in London.
   In the spring we went to Salzburg, where we re
mained all summer. We had an apartment in a
dilapidated old chateau, about an hour’s walk from
the town, called Leopold’s Krone. The picturesque
situation of the town reminded me of the Castle and
Old Town of Edinburgh. The view from our windows
was alpine, and the trees bordering the roads were
such as I have rarely seen out of England. We made
many excursions to Berchtesgaden, where King
Louis and his court were then living, and went to
the upper end of the Konigsee. I have repeatedly
been at sea in very stormy weather Without the
smallest idea of fear; but the black, deep water of
this lake, under the shadow of the precipitous
mountains, made a disagreeable impression on me.
I thought if I were to be drowned I should prefer
the blue sea to that cold, black pool. The <U+FB02>ora
was lovely, and on returning from our expeditions
in the evening, the damp, mossy banks were
luminous with glowworms: I never saw so many,
either before or since. \Ve never fail to make ac
quaintances wherever we go, and our friends at
Munich had given us letters to various people who
were passing the summer there, many of whom
had evening receptions once a week.                 At the
                                  L~ __~__n r_,‘ rang

296              Mary Somerville.
Countess Irene Arco’s beautiful Gothic chziteau of
Anif, which rises out of a small pellucid lake, and
is reached by a bridge, we spent many pleasant
evenings, as well as at Countess Bellegarde’s, and at
Aigen, which belonged to the Cardinal Schwartzen
berg. We never saw him, but went to visit his
niece, with whom we were intimate.
   The war being over, we went by Innsbruck
and the Brenner to Cola, on the Lago di Garda,
within <U+FB01>ve miles of Peschiera, where we spent a
month with Count and Countess Erizzo Minis
calchi, who had been our intimate friends for
many years. The devastation of the country
was frightful. Peschiera and its forti<U+FB01>cations
were in ruins; the villages around had been
burnt down, and the wretched inhabitants were
beginning to repair their     roo<U+FB02>ess  houses.   Our
friends themselves had but recently returned to
Cola, which, from its commanding situation, was
always the head-quarters of whatever army was
in possession of the country around.         On this
account, the family had to <U+FB02>y more than once at
the approach of the enemy. In 1848 the Countess
had <U+FB02>ed to Milan, and was con<U+FB01>ned at the very
time the Austrians under Radetsky were besieging
the town, which was defended by Charles Albert.
Fearing what might occur when the city was sur

                 Countess Bon-Brenzonz'.                  297
rendered, the lady, together with her new-born
infant and the rest of her family, escaped the next
day with considerable dif<U+FB01>culty, and travelled to
Genoa.
    Although not acquainted with quite so many lan
guages asMezzofanti, Count Miniscalchi is a remark
able linguist‘, especially with regard to Arabic and
other oriental tongues. He has availed himselfof his
talent, and published several works, the most interest
ing of which is a translation of the Gospel of St.
John from Syro-Chaldaic (the language probably
spoken by our Saviour) into Latin. The manuscript,
from which this translation is made, is preserved in
the Vatican.
   [While we were at can my mother received a visit
from a very distinguished and gifted lady, the Countess
Bon-Brenzoni. As an instance of the feelings enter
tained by an Italian woman towards my mother, I insert
a letter written by the Countess some time afterwards,
and also an extract from her poems :—
      FROM THE COUNTESS BOX-BRENZONI TO MRS.
                       SOMERVILLE.
                                    Venous, 28 Maggio, 1853.
   ILLUSTRE SIGNORA,
        Fui molto contenta udendo che <U+FB01>nalmente 1e sia
giunto l’ involto contenente 1e copie stampate del Carme,

298                Mary Somcrw'l/e.
ch’ ebbi l’ onore di poterle o<U+FB01>'erire, mentre io era in gran
pensiero non forse fossero insorte dif<U+FB01>coltà, o ritardi,
in causa della posta. Ma, ben più che per questo 1:1
sua graziosissima lettera mi fù di vera consolazione, per
l’ accoglienza tutta benevola e generosa ch’ Ella fece
a’ miei versi. La ringrazio delle parole piene di bontà
ch’ Ella mi scrive, e di aversi preso la gentil cura di
farlo in italiano; così potess’ io ricambiarla scrivendo a
Lei in inglese! Pur mi conforta la certezza che il
linguaggio delle anime sia uno solo; mentre io non so
s’ io debba chiamar presunzione, o ispirazione questa, che
mi fa credere, che esista fra la sua e la mia una
qualche intelligenza, e quantunque i suoi meriti e la
sua bontà me ne spieghino in gran parte il mistero,
pure trovo essere cosa non comune questo pensiero,
che al mio cuore parla di Lei incessantemente, da
quel giorno ch’ io 1’ ho veduta per la prima e 1’ unica
volta!
    Ah se è vero che fra i sentimenti di compiacenza
 ch’ Ella provò per gli elogi ottenuti de’ suoi lavori, abbia
 saputo trovar luogo fra i più cari quello che le destò
 nell’ animo 1’ espressione viva e sincera della mia ammi
 razione e del mio umile a<U+FB02>'etto, io raggiunsi un punto
 a cui certo non avea osato aspirare!                        _
    Il trovarmi con Lei a Colà, od altrove che fosse,
 è uno de’ miei più cari desideri, e son lieta delle sue
 parole che me ne danno qualche speranza.
    Voglia presentare i miei distinti doveri all’ eccelente
 suo Sig" marito ed alle amabili <U+FB01>glie; e mentre
 io le prego da Dio le più desiderabili benedizioni,
 Ella si ricordi di me siccome di una persona,
 che sebbene lontana <U+FB01>sicamente, le è sempre vicina.

                              “ I Cieli."                   299
 coll’ animo, nei sentimenti della più a<U+FB01>'etuosn. venera
 zione.
    Incoraggiata dalla sun bontà, mi onoro segnarmi
                     amica a<U+FB02>‘ezionatissima.
                                       CATERINA Box-BRENZONI.
    The “ Carme” spoken of in the above letter form a
long poem on modern astronomy, entitled “ I Cieli,"
 (published by Vallardi. Milan: 1853). The opening
lines contain the following address to Mrs. Somerville,—
doubtless a. genuine description of the author‘s feelings
on <U+FB01>rst meeting the simple-mannered lady whose intel
lectual greatness she had long learned to appreciate :—
            Donna, quel giorno ch’io ti vidi in prima,
             Dimmi, hai Tu scòrto sul mio volto i segni
            Dell' anima commossa ?-Hai Tu veduto
            Come trepida innanzi io ti venia,
            E come rcverenza. e meraviglia.
            Tenean sospesa. sull’ indocil labbro
            La parola. mal certa. Î-Ah l dimmi, hai scorto
            Come fur vinte dall’ affetto allora
            Che t’udii favellar sonve e piana,
            Coll’ angelica. voce e l’ umiltade,
            Che s’ suoi più cari sapienza insegna. ?
            Questa, io dioea tra me, questa è Colei,
            Di che le mille volte udito ho il nome
            Venerato suona: tra. i più famosi ?
            Questa è Colei che negli eterei spazj
            Segue il cammin degli astri, e ne misura
            Peso, moto, distanza, orbita e luoe ?
        a            ai             s            as
   Another record of our visit to Colà. is in a letter of my
mother to my brother.

300                Mary Somervz'lle.
            MRS. SOMERVILLE T0 W. GREIG, ESQ.
                                        Tum, 4th Dm, 1849.
   MY DEAREST Wononzow,
         \Ve arrived here all well the day before yester
day, after a fair but bitterly cold journey, bright sun
shine and keen frost, and to-day we have a fall of snow.
. . . . . It was a great disappointment not <U+FB01>nding letters
here, and I fear many have been lost on both sides,
though we took care not to touch on political events, as
all letters are opened by the Austrian police in Lom
bardy. \Ve spent <U+FB01>ve weeks with our friends the Minis
calchis very agreeably, and received every mark of
kindness and hospitality. They only live at Verona
during the winter, and we found them in their country
house at Gold. situated on a height overlooking the
Lago di Garda, with the snowy Alps on the opposite
side of the lake. The view from their grounds is so <U+FB01>ne
that I was tempted to paint once more. They took us
to see all the places in the neighbourhood; often a sad
 sight, from having been the seat of war and siege. The
villages are burnt and the churches in ruin. But the
people are repairing the mischief as fast as possible, and
 the <U+FB01>elds are ah'eady well cultivated. The Count is a man
 of great learning and is occupied in the comparison of
languages, especially the Eastern; he knows twent Y-four
 and speaks Arabic as <U+FB02>uently as Italian. He is in the
 habit of speaking both Arabic and Chaldee every day,
 as there is a most learned Chaldean priest living with
 them, whose conversation gave me great pleasure and
 much information. The Count has moreover a black
 servant who speaks these languages, having been bought

                     Baron Plana.                   301
by the Count during his long residence in the East, and
is now treated like one of the family. I obtained much
information which will be useful in my next edition of
the Physical Geography . . . . . .
               Your affectionate mother,
                                    MARY SOMERVILLE.
   [After my mother’s death, our old friend Count Minis
calchi made a beautiful and touching “ éloge” on her
at a meeting of the Royal Italian Geographical Society,
to a numerous audience assembled in the great hall of
the Collegio Romano at Rome.
   My mother was an honorary member of this Society,
besides which the <U+FB01>rst gold medal granted by them was
voted by acclamation to her. Her Recollections con
 tinue as follows :—
    From Cola we went to Turin, where I became
 personally acquainted with Baron Plana, Director
 of the Observatory. He had married a niece of the
 illustrious mathematician La Grange, who proved
 the stability of the solar system. Plana, himself,
 was a very great analyst ; his volume on the Lunar
 Perturbations is a work of enormous labour. He
 gave me a copy of it and of all his works; for I
 continued to have friendly intercourse with him as
 long as he lived. As soon as he heard of our arrival,
 he came to take us out to drive. I never shall
 forget the beauty of the Alps, and the broad valley

  302               zllary Sommz'lle.
  of the Po and Dora, deeply covered with snow, and
  sparkling in bright sunshine. Another day the
  Baron took us to a church, from the cupola of which
  a very long pendulum was swinging, that we might
  see the rotation of the earth visibly proved by its
  action on the pendulum, according to M. Foucault's
  experiment. He devoted his time to get us esta
 blished, and we found a handsome apartment in
 Casa Cavour, and became acquainted with both
 the brothers to whom it belonged. Count Camillo
 Cavour, then Minister of the Interior, was the
 only great statesman Italy ever produced in modern
 times. His premature death is deplorably felt
 at the present day. He was a real genius, and
 the most masterly act of his administration was
 that of sending an army to act in concert with the
 French and English in the Crimean war. By it
he at once gave Italy the rank of an independent
European power, which was the <U+FB01>rst step towards
Italian unity. He was delightful and cheerful in
society, and extremely beloved by his family and
friends.
       i         I'         'l'      'I'     Q
    In spring we hired a villa on the Colline
above Turin. The house was in a garden, with
a terrace, whence the ground sank rapidly to
the plain; low hills, clothed with chestnut
                                      Mu-k _ ‘ in

           A n A {wasp/writ Pkenomenon.            303
forests, abounding in lilies of the valley, sur
rounded us behind. The summer had been stormy,
and one evening we walked on the terrace to look
at the lightning, which was very <U+FB01>ne, illuminating
the chain of Alps. By-and-by it ceased, and the
darkness was intense; but we continued to walk,
when,to our surprise, a pale bluish light rose in the
Val di Susa, which gradually spread along the
summit of the Alps, and the tops of the hills behind
our house ; then a column of the same pale blue
light, actually within our reach, came curling up
from the slope close to the terrace, exactly as if wet
weeds had been burning. In about ten minutes the
whole vanished; but in less than a quarter of an
hour the phenomena were repeated exactly as de
scribed, and were followed by a dark night and
torrents of rain. It was a very unusual instance of
what is known as electric glow; that is, electricity
without tension.
   On our road to Genoa, we went to see some kind
Piedmontese friends, who have a chateau in the
Monfermt, not'many miles from Asti, where we left
the railroad. \Ve had not gone many miles when
the carriage we had hired was upset, and, although
nobody had broken bones, I got so severe a blow on
my forehead that I was con<U+FB01>ned to bed for nearly a.
month, and my face was black and blue for a much

 304                 Mary Somervz'lle.
 longer time. Nothing could equal the unwearied
 kindness of our friends during my illness.
    When I was able to travel, we went to Genoa for
 the winter, and lived on the second <U+FB02>oor of a large
 house on the Acqua Sola, and overlooking the sea.
 Here <U+FB01>rst began our friendship with the Marchesa
 Teresa Doria, whose maiden name was Durazzo ; in
her youth one of the handsomest women in Genoa,
a lady distinguished for her generous character and
cultivated mind, and who fearlessly avowed her
opinions at a time when it was a kind of disgrace to
be called a Liberal. Her youngest son, Giacomo,
has devoted his life to the study of natural history,
and his mother used all her in<U+FB02>uence to encourage
and help him in a pursuit so unusual amongst
people of rank in this country. Later, he travelled
in Persia for two years, to make collections, and
since then resided for a long time in Borneo, and is
now arranging a museum in his native city. The
Marchesa has always been a warm and devoted
friend to me and mine.
   It was here that we got our dear old parrot Lory,
who is still alive and merry.
       ¥          <U+FB01>-       *           Q     *
   Our next move was to Florence, where we already
knew many people. We had a lease of a house in
Via del Mandorlo, which had a small garden and a

                         Gibson.                    305)
  balcony, where we often sat and received in the
  warm summer evenings. My daughters had adorned
  it and the garden with rare creepers, shrubs, and
  <U+FB02>owers.
     \Ve had a visit from our friend Gibson, as he
  passed through Florence on his way to Switzerland.
  He told us the history of his early life, as given in
  his biography, and much that is not mentioned there.
  He was devotedly attached to the Queen, and spoke
  of her in his simple manner as a charming lady.
     Miss Hosmer was travelling with Gibson, an
  American young lady, who was his pupil, and
  of whose works he was very proud. He looked
  upon her as if she had been his daughter, and
  she took care of him; for he was careless and
  forgetful when travelling. I have the sincerest
  pleasure in expressing my admiration for Miss
  Hosmer, who has proved by her works that our
. sex possesses both genius and originality in the
  highest branches of art.
     It was at Florence that I <U+FB01>rst met my dear friend
  and constant correspondent, Frances Power Cobbe.
  She is the cleverest and most agreeable woman I
  ever met with, and one of the best.   There is a dis
  tant connection between us, as one of her ancestors
  married a niece of Lord Fairfax, the Parliamentary
  general, many of whose letters are in the posses
                                                  x

306                 Mary Somerville.
sion of her family. A German professor of physio
logy at Florence roused public indignation by his
barbarous vivisections, and there was a canvass
for a Memorial against this cruel practice.            Miss
Cobbc took a leading part in this movement, and I
heartin joined, and wrote to all my acquaintances,
requesting their votes; among others, to a certain
Marchese, who had published something on agricul
ture. He refused his vote, saying, “ Perhaps I was
not aware that the present state of science was one
of induction.” Then he went on explaining to me what
“induction” meant, &c., &c., which amused me not a
little. It made my family very indignant, as they
thought it eminently presumptuous, addressed to me
by a man who, though a good patriot and agricul
turist, knew nothing whatever about science, past or
present. A good deal of political party spirit was
brought into play in this instance, as is too often the
case here. It is not complimentary to the state of
civilisation in Italy, that in Russia and Poland, both
 of them very far behind her in many respects, there
 should exist societies for the prevention of cruelty to
 animals, to which all the most distinguished people
 have given their names.
    [I rejoice to say that this stain on Italian civilisation
 is now wiped away. My mother just lived to hail the
 formation of the Societa Protettrice dein Animali.—-En.

                     La Veruza.                   307
   In summer we sometimes made excursions to avoid
the heat of Florence. One year we went to Valom
brosa and the convents of La Vernia, and Camaldoli,
which are now suppressed. \Ve travelled on mules
or ponies, as the mountain paths are impracticable
to carriages. I was disappointed in Valombrosa itself,
but the road to it is beautiful. La Vernia is highly
picturesque, there we reinainedtwodays, which I spent
in drawing. The trees round the convent formed a
striking contrast to the arid cliffs we had passed on
the road. The monks were naturally delighted to
see strangers. They belonged to the order of St.
Francis, and each in his turn wandered over the
country begging and living on the industry of others.
We did not pay for our food and lodging, but left
much more than an equivalent in the poor-box.
Somerville slept in the convent, and we ladies were
lodged in the so-called Foresteria outside ; but even
Somerville was not admitted into the clausura at
Camaldoli, for the monks make a vow of perpetual
silence and solitude. Each had his little separate
but and garden, and some distance above the con
vent, on the slopes of the Apennines, they had an
establishment called the Ere'mo, for those who sought
for even greater solitude. The people told us that
in winter, when deep snow covers the whole place,
wolves are often seen prowling about.    Not far from

 _    WI——M                   -_
                              _‘ ___
    '
   808                Mary Somervz'lle.
   the Eremo there is a place from whence both the
   Mediterranean and the Adriatic can be seen.
      \Ve occasionally went for sea-bathing to Viareggio,
   which is built on a <U+FB02>at sandy beach. The loose
   sand is drifted by the wind into low hillocks, and
   bound together by coarse grass thickly coated with
   silex. Among this and other plants a lovely white
   amaryllis, the Pancratium Maratimum,with a sweet
   and powerful perfume, springs up. We often tried
- to get the bulb, but it lay too deep under the sand.
   One evening we, had gone a long way in search of
   these <U+FB02>owers, and sat down to rest, though it was
   beginning to be dark. We had not sat many
   minutes when we were surrounded by a number of
   what we supposed to be bats trying to get at the
   <U+FB02>owers we had gathered, but at length we discovered
   that they were enormous moths, which followed us
   home, and actually <U+FB02>ew into the room to soar over
   the <U+FB02>owers and suck the honey with their long
   probosces. They were beautiful creatures with large
   red eyes on their wings.
          <U+FB01>          'I'       1'       i'        *
      Our life at Florence went on pretty much as usual
   when all at once cholera broke out of the most viru
   lent kind.    Multitudes <U+FB02>ed from Florence; often in
   vain, for it prevailed all through Tuscany to a great
   extent. The terri<U+FB01>ed people were kneeling to the

                    T/ze C/zolera.                 309
Madonna and making processions, after which it
was remarked that the number of cases was in
variably increased. The Misericordia went about
in their fearful costume, indefatigable in carrying
the sick to the hospitals. The devotion of that
society was beyond all praise; the young and the
old, the artisan and the nobleman, went night and
day in detachments carrying aid to the sufferers, not
in Florence only, but to Fiesole and the villages
round. We never were afraid, but we consulted
Professor Zanetti, our medical adviser, whether we
should leave the town, which we were unwilling to
do, as we thought we should be far from medical
assistance, and he said, “ By no means; live as
usual, drive out as you have always done, and make
not the smallest change.” \Vc followed his advice,
and drove out every afternoon till near dark, and
then passed the rest of the evening with those friends
who, like ourselves, had remained in town. None of
us took the disease except one of our servants, who
recovered from instant help being given.
   The Marquis of Normanby was British minister
at that time, and Lady Normanby and he were
always kind and hospitable to us. At her house we
became acquainted with Signora Barbieri-Nini, the
celebrated opera-singer, who had retired from the
stage, and lived with her husband, a Siencse gentle

  310               [Mary Somervz'lle.
  man, in a villa not far from Villa Normanby. She
  gave a musical party, to which she invited us. The
  music, which was entirely artistic, was excellent,
  the entertainment very handsome, and it was alto
  gether very enjoyable. As we were driving home
  afterwards, late at night, going down the hill, our
  carriage ran against one of the dead carts which was
  carrying those _who had died that day to the burying—
  ground at Trespiano. It was horribly ghastly—one
  could distinguish the forms of the limbs under the
  canvas thrown over the heap of dead. The burial
  of the poor and rich in Italy is in singular contrast ;
  the poor are thrown into the grave without a cof<U+FB01>n,
  the rich are placed in co<U+FB02>ins, and in full dress,
  which, especially in the case of youth and infancy,
  leaves a pleasant impression. An intimate friend of
  ours lost an infant, and asked me to go and see it
  laid out. The cof<U+FB01>n, lined with white silk, was on
  a table, covered with a white cloth, strewed with
  <U+FB02>owers, and with a row of wax lights on either side.
  The baby was clothed in a white satin frock, leaving
' the neck and arms bare ; a rose-bud was in each
  hand, and a wreath of rose-buds surrounded the
  head, which rested on a pillow. Nothing could be
  prettier; it was like a sleeping angel.
         -I        i         i         'i        il
     Pio None had lost his popularity before he came

                        Donali.                    311
to visit the Grand Duke of Tuscany. The people re—
ceived him respectfully, but without enthusiasm;
nevertheless, Florence was illuminated in his honour.
The Duomo, Campanile, and the old tower in the
Piazza dei Signori were very <U+FB01>ne, but the Lung’
Arno was beautiful beyond description; the river was
full, and re<U+FB02>ected the whole with dazzling splendour.
    I made the acquaintance of Signore Donati, after—
wards celebrated for the discovery of one of the
most brilliant comets of this century, whose course
and changes I watched with the greatest interest.
On one occasion I was accompanied by my valued
friend Sir Henry Holland, who had come to Florence
during one of his annual journeys. I had much
pleasure in seeing him again.
    Political parties ran very high in Florence; we
sympathise'd with the Liberals, living on intimate
terms with the chief of them. As soon as the proba
bility of war between Piedmont and Austria became
 known, many young men of every rank, some even
 of the highest families, hastened to join as volun
 teers. The most sanguine long hoped that the Grand
 Duke might remember that he was an Italian prince
 rather than an Austrian archduke, and would send
 his troops to join the Italian cause; but his dynasty
 was doomed, and he blindly chose the losing side.
 At last the Austrians crossed the Mincio, and the

 312                diary ,Somerw'lle.
  war fairly broke out, France coming to the assistance
  of Piedmont. The enthusiasm of the Tuscans could
  then no longer be restrained, and on the 27th April
  1859, crowds of people assembled on the Piazza
  dell’ Indipendenza, and raised the tri-coloured <U+FB02>ag.
  The government, who, the day before, had warning of
  what was impending, had sent sealed orders to the
  forts   of Belvedere and del Basso, which, when
  opened on the eventful morning, were found to con
  tain orders for the bombardment of the town. This
  the of<U+FB01>cers refused to do, after which the troops
  joined the popular cause. When this order became
  generally known, as it soon did, it proved the last
  blow to the dynasty, although the most eminent and
  respected Liberals used their best efforts during the
  whole of the 27th to restore harmony between the
  Grand Duke and the people. They advised his im
  mediate abdication in favour of his son, the Archduke
  Ferdinand, the proclamation of the Constitution, and
  of course insisted on the immediate alliance with
  Piedmont as their principal condition. It was already
  too late!    All was of no avail, and in the evening,
' whilst we were as usual at the Cascine, the whole
   Imperial family, accompanied by the Austrian
   minister, and escorted by several of the Corps Diplo—
   matique, drove round the walls from Palazzo Pitti to
   Porta San Gallo unmolested amid a silent crowd, and

                       Revolution.                 818
crossing the frontier on the Bologna road, bade fare
well for ever to Tuscany. The obnoxious ministers
were also permitted to retire unnoticed to their
country houses.
   Thus    ended this bloodless revolution ; there
was no disorder of any kind, which was due to the
young men belonging to the principal families of
Florence, such as Corsini, Incontri, Farinola, and
others, using their in<U+FB02>uence with the people to calm
and direct them. Indeed, so quiet was everything
that my daughters walked about the streets, as did
most ladies, to see what was going on; the only
visible signs of the revolution throughout the whole
day were bands of young men with tri-coloured
<U+FB02>ags and cockades shouting national songs at the top
of their voices. As I have said already, we took
our usual drive to the Cascine after dinner, and went
to the theatre in the evening ; the streets were per
fectly quiet, and next morning the people were at
work as usual. Sir James Scarlett was our minister,
and had a reception the evening after these events,
Where we heard many predictions of evil which
never were ful<U+FB01>lled. The least of these was the
occupation of Florence by a victorious Austrian army.
The Tuscan arehdukes precluded all chance of a
restoration by joining the Austrian army, and being
present at the battle of Solferino. At Florence a

  314              [Mary Somervzlle.
  provisional government was formed with Bettino
  Ricasoli at its head; a parliament assembled three
  times in the Sala dei Cinquccento, in the Palazzo
  Vecchio, and voted with unanimity the expulsion of
  the House of Lorraine, and the annexation of
  Tuscany to the kingdom of Italy. In the meantime
  the French and Italian arms were victorious in
  Lombardy. As, however, it is not my intention to
  give an historical account of the revolution of 1859,
  but merely to jot down such circumstances as came
  under my own immediate notice, I shall not enter
  into any particulars regarding the well-known
  campaign which ended in the cession of Milan and
  Lombardy to Italy.
     We were keenly interested in the alliance between
  the Emperor Napoleon and the King of Italy, in
  hopes the Quadrilateral would be taken, and Venice
  added to the Italian States. We had a map of
  Northern Italy spread on a table, and from clay to
  day we marked the positions of the different head
  quarters with coloured-headed pins. I can hardly
I describe our indignation when all at once peace was
  signed at Villafranca, and Napoleon received Nice
   and Savoy in recompense for his aid, which were
  given up to him without regard to the will of the
  people. then the peace was announced in Tuscany
  it caused great consternation and disgust; the people

                       Rz'msolz'.                  315
were in the greatest excitement, fearing that those
rulers so obnoxious to them might by this treaty be
again forced upon them; and it required the <U+FB01>rm
hand of Ricasoli to calm the people, and induce the
King to accept the annexation which had been voted
without one dissentient voice.
   Baron Ricasoli had naturally many enemies
amongst the Codini, or retrograde party. Hand
grenades were thrown against the door of his house,
as also at those of other ministers, but without doing
harm. One evening my daughters were dressing to
go to a ball that was to take place at the Palazzo
delle Crocelle, close to us, in a street parallel to
ours, when we were startled by a loud explosion.
An attempt had been made to throw a shell into the
ball-room, which had happily failed. The streets
were immediately lined with soldiers, and the ball,
which was given by the Ministers, as far as I recol
lect, took place.
   When the war broke out, a large body of French
troops, commanded by Prince Jerome Napoleon,
came to Florence, and were bivouacked in the
Caseine. The people in the streets welcomed them
as deliverers from the Austrians, whose occupation
of Tuscany, when <U+FB01>rst we came to reside in Florence,
was such a bitter morti<U+FB01>cation to them, and one of
the causes of the unpopularity of the Grand Duke,

316                Mmy Somerville.
whom they never forgave for calling in the Austrian
troops after 1848. The French camp was a very
pretty sight; some of the soldiers playing at games,
some mending their clothes, or else cooking. They            -
were not very particular as to what they ate, for one
of my daughters saw a soldier skin a rat and put it
into his soup-kettle.
    \Ve were invited by the Marchesa Lajatico, with
whom we were very intimate, to go and see the
entry of Victor Emmanuel into Florence from the
balcony of the Casa Corsini in the Piazza del Prato,
where she resides. The King was received with
                                                            .\p_
acclamation : never was anything like the enthu
siasm. Flowers were showered down from every
window, and the streets were decorated with a taste
peculiar to the Italians.
    [I think the following extracts from letters written by
my mother during the year 1859 and the following, ever
memorable in Italian history, may not be unwelcome to
the reader. My mother took the keenest interest in all
that occurred. Owing to the liberal opinions she had         .p_4
held from her youth, and to which she was ever constant,
 all her sympathies were with the Italian cause, and she
 rejoiced at every step which tended to unite all Italy in
 one kingdom. She lived to see this great revolution
accomplished by the entry of Victor Emmanuel into
 Rome as King of Italy; a consummation believed by
most politicians to be a wild dream of poets and hot
headed patriots, but now realised and accepted as a

                  Letter to Mr. Grezg.                    317
matter of course. My mother had always <U+FB01>rm faith
in this result, and it was with inexpressible pleasure
she watched its completion. Our intimacy with the lead
ing politicians both in Tuscany and Piedmont naturally
added to our interest. Ricasoli, Menabrea, Peruzzi,
Minghetti, &c., we knew intimately, as well as Camille
Cavour, the greatest statesman Italy ever produced. No
one who did not witness it can imagine the grief and con
sternation his death occasioned, and of which my mother
writes in a letter dated June 19th, 1861.
       FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.
                                    FLORENCE, May 5th, 1859.
   MY DEAREST W.,
        Your letter of the 28th would have made me
laugh heartily were we not annoyed that you should
have suffered: such uneasiness on our account; the panic
in England is ridiculous and most unfounded. The
whole affair has been conducted with perfect unanimity
and tranquillity, so that there has been no one to <U+FB01>ght
with. The Austrians are concentrated in Lombardy,
and not in Tuscany, nor is there any one thing to
disturb the perfect peace and quietness which prevail
over the whole country; not a soul thinks of leaving
Florence. You do the greatest injustice to the Tuscans.
From <U+FB01>rst to last not a person has been insulted, not a
cry raised against anyone ;" even the obnoxious ministers
were allowed to go to their country houses without a
word of insult, and troops were sent with the Grand
Duke to escort him and his family to the frontier.
Martha and Mary went all through the town the morning
of the revolution, which was exactly like a common festa,

818                 Mary Somemz'llc.
and we found the tranquillity as great when we drove
through the streets in the afternoon. The same quiet still
prevails, the people are at their usual employments, the
theatres and private receptions go on as usual, and the
provisional government is excellent. Everyone knew of
the revolution long before it took place and the quiet
ness with which it was to be conducted. I am grieved
at the tone of English politics, and trust, for the honour
of the country and humanity, that we do not intend to
make war upon France and Sardinia. It would be a
disgrace and everlasting stigma to make a crusade
against the oppressed, being ourselves free. The people
here have behaved splendidly, and we rejoice that we
have been here to witness such noble conduct. No
nation ever made such progress as the Tuscans have
done since the year ’48. Not a word of republieanism, it
has never been named. All they want is a constitutional
government, and this they are quietly settling . . . . .
        FROM MRS. SOMEIWILLE T0 W. GREIG, ESQ.
                                   FLORENCE, 29th May, 1859.
          . . . . . Everything is perfectly quiet here;
the Tuscans are giving money liberally for carrying on
the war. IVe have bought quantities of old linen, and
your sisters and I spend the day in making lint and
bandages for the wounded soldiers ; great quantities have
already been sent to Piedmont. Hitherto the war has
been favourable to the allied army. God grant that
England may not enter into the contest till the Austrians
are driven out of Italy! After that point has been gained,

                      Pre-lzz'storz'c Ram:                319
  our honour would be safe. To take part with the
  oppressors and maintain despotism in Italy would be in
  famous. Tuscany is to be occupied by a large body of
  troops under the command of Prince Napoleon. A great
  many are already encamped on the meadows at the
  Cascine—<U+FB01>ne, spirited, merry young men; many of
  them have the Victoria medal. They are a thorough
  protection against any attack by the Austrians, of which,
  however, there is little chance, as they have enough to
  do in Lombardy. There is to be a great a<U+FB02>'air this
  morning at nine o’clock ; an altar is raised in the middle
  of the camp, and the tricolour (Italian) flag is to be
  blessed amidst salvoes of cannon. Your friend, Bettino
  Ricasoli, is thought by far the most able and states
  manlike person in Tuscany; he is highly respected.
  Martha and I dined with Mr. Scarlett, and met . . .
  who said if the Grand Duke had not been the most
  foolish and obstinater weak man in the world, he might
   still have been on the throne of Tuscany; but that
   now he has made that impossible by going to Vienna and
   allowing his two sons to enter the Austrian army. . . . .
   We have had a visit from Dr. Falkner, his two nieces
   and brother. They had been spending the winter in
   Sicily, where he discovered rude implements formed
   by man mixed with the bones of prehistoric animals in a
‘ cave, so hermetically shut up that not a doubt is left of
   a race of men having lived at a period far anterior to that
   assigned as the origin of mankind. Similar discoveries
   have recently been made elsewhere. Dr. Falkner had
    travelled much in the Himalayas, and lived two years on
   the great plain of Tibet; the account he gave me of it
   was most interesting. His brother had spent <U+FB01>fteen
    years in Australia, so the conversation delighted me; I

 320                Mary Somerm'l/e.
 learnt so much that was new.      I am glad to hear that
 the Queen has been so kind to my friend Faraday; it
 seems she has given him an apartment at Hampton
 Court nicely <U+FB01>tted up. She went to see it herself, and
 having consulted scienti<U+FB01>c men as to the instruments
 that were necessary for his pursuits, she had a laboratory
 <U+FB01>tted up with them, and made him a present of the whole.
 That is doing things handsomely, and no once since
 Newton has deserved it so much.
         FROM MRS. SOMERYILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ
                                     FLORENCE, 5th June, 1859.
        . . . . . . All is perfectly quiet; a large body of
 French troops are now in Tuscany, and many more are
 expected probably to make a diversion on this side of the
Austrian army through Modena ; but nothing is known;
 the most profound secrecy is maintained as to all military
movements. Success has hitherto attended the allied
army, and the greatest bravery has been shown. The
enthusiasm among the men engaged is excessive, the
 King of Sardinia himself the bravest of the brave, but
exposes himself so much that the people are making
petitions to him to be more careful. The Zouaves called
out in the midst of the battle, “ Le roi est un Zouave! ”
Prince Napoleon keeps very quiet, and avoids shewing
himself as much as possible. The French troops are
very <U+FB01>ne indeed—young, gay, extremely civil and well
bred. The secrecy is quite curious; even the colonels
of the regiments do not know where they may be snet
tillthe order comes: so all is conjecture. . . . . . . The

  Maw, ,( __ V___         H_
                     Puélz'c A<U+FB02>az'rs.                       321
young King of Naples seems to follow the footsteps of
his father ; I hope in God that we may not protect and
defend him. How anxious we are to know what the
House of Commons will do! Let us hope they will take
the liberal side ; but the conservative party seems to be
increasing.
         FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE.T0 W. GREIG, ESQ.
                                 FLORENCE, 22ml Auglu't, 1859.
        . . . . . . Public a<U+FB01>‘airs go on admirably. A
few weeks ago the elections took place of the members
of the Tuscan parliament with a calm and tranquillity of
which you have no idea. Every proprietor who pays
15 pauls of taxes (75 pence) has a vote. There are 180
members, consisting of the most ancient nobility, the
richest proprietors, the most distinguished physicians
and lawyers, and the most respectable merchants. They
hold their meetings in the magni<U+FB01>cent hall of the
Palazzo Vecchio—-the Sala Dei Cinquecento. The <U+FB01>rst
two or three days were employed in choosing a president
&c., &c. ; then a day was named to determine the fate of
the house of Lorraine. I could not go, but Martha went
with a Tuscan friend. There was no speaking ; the vote
was by ballot, and each member separately went up to a
table before the president, and silently put his ball into
a large vase. Two members poured the balls into a tray,
and on examination, said, “No division is necessary;
they are all black,”—which was followed by long and
loud cheering. They have been equally unanimous in the
Legations in Farms and Modena ; and the wish of the
people is to form one kingdom of these four states under
                                                        Y

322                Mary Somerz/z'lle.
an Italian prince, excluding all Austrians for ever.     The
union is perfect, and the determination quiet but deep
and unalterable. If the Archduke is forced upon them,
it must be by armed force, which the French emperor
will not likely permit, after the Archduke was fool
enough to <U+FB01>ght against him at Solferino. All the four
states have unanimously voted union with Piedmont;
but they do not expect it to be granted. The destinies of
Europe are now dependent on the two emperors. . . . .
        FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO W. GREIG, ESQ.
                                 FLORENCE, 28rd April, 1860.
        You would have had this letter sooner, my dearest
Woronzow, if I had not been prevented from writing to
you yesterday evening. . . . . . . The weather has been
atrocious; deluges of rain night and day, and so cold
that I have been obliged to lay in a second supply of
wood. The only good day, and the only one I have been
out, was that on which the king arrived. It fortunately
was <U+FB01>ne, and the sight was magni<U+FB01>cent; quite worthy of
so great an historical event. No carriages were allowed
after the guns <U+FB01>red announcing that the king had left
Leghorn ; so we should have been ill o<U+FB02>', had it not been
for the kindness of our friend the Marchesa Lajatico,
who invited us to her balcony, which is now very large,
as they have built an addition to their house for the
eldest son and his pretty wife. We were there some.
hours before the king arrived ; but as all the Florentine
society was there, and many of our friends from Turin
and Genoa, we found it very agreeable. The house is in

             Entry of Victor Emmanuel.                  323
the Prato, very near the gate the king was to enter. On
each side of it stages were raised like steps in an amphi
theatre, which were densely crowded, every window
_decorated with gaily-coloured hangings and the Italian
<U+FB02>ag; the streets were lined with “ guardie civiche,” and
bands of music played from time to time. The people
shouted “ Evviva! ” every time a gun was <U+FB01>red. In the
midst of this joy, there appeared what resembled a
 fimeral procession—about a hundred emigrants following
the Venetian, Roman, and Neapolitan colours, all hung
 with black crape; they were warmly applauded, and
many people shed tears. They went to the railway
 station just without the gate to meet the King, and when
 they hailed him as “ R1} d’Italia !" he was much affected.
 At last he appeared riding a <U+FB01>ne English horse, Prince
 Carignan on one hand and Baron Ricasoli on his left,
followed by a numerous “troupe dorée " of generals and
of his suite in gay uniforms and well mounted. The
King rides well; so the effect was extremely brilliant.
 Then followed several carriages ; in the <U+FB01>rst were Count
Cavour, Buoncompagni, and the Marchese Bartolommei.
You cannot form the slightest idea of the excitement ; it
was a burst of enthusiasm, and the reception of Cavour
was as warm. \Ve threw a perfect shower of <U+FB02>owers
over him, which the Marchesa had provided for the
occasion; and her youngest son Gino, a nice lad, went
himself to present his bouquet to the King, who seemed
quite pleased with the boy. I felt so much for Madame
de Lajatico herself. . . . . . . I said to her how kind I
thought it in her to open her house ; she burst into tears,
and said, though she was in deep af<U+FB02>iction, she could not
be so sel<U+FB01>sh as not offer her friends the best position
in Florence for seeing what to many of them was the
                                                   r 2

 324                Mmy Somervz'lle.
 most important event in their lives, as it was to her even
 in her grief. The true Italian taste appeared to per
 fection in every street through which the procession
 passed to the Duomo, and thence to the Palazzo Pitti.
 Those who saw it declare nothing could surpass the
 splendour of the cathedral when illuminated; but that
 we could not see, nor did we see the procession again; it
 was impossible to penetrate the crowd. They say there
 are 40,000 strangers inFlorence. . . . . . . I was much
 too tired to go out again to see the illuminations and the
 <U+FB01>reworks on the Ponte Carraja; your sisters saw it all,
 so I leave them to tell you all about it. The King and
 Prince are terribly early; they and Bicasoli are on horse
 back by<U+FB01>ve in the morning; the King dines at twelve,
 and never touches food afterwards, though he has a
 dinner party of 60 or 80 every day at six. . . . . . .
 Now, my dearest \Voronzow, I must end, for I do not
 wish to miss another post.    I am really wonderfully well
for my age.
                          Your devoted mother,
                                     MARY SOMERVILLE.
        I FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE_TO W. GREIG, ESQ,
     I                             Fromcz, 19th June, 1861.
   . .             Italy has been thrown into the deepest
a<U+FB02>liction by the death of Cavour. In my long life I never
knew any event whatever which caused so universal and
deep sorrow. There is not a village or town throughout
the whole peninsula which has not had a funeral service,
and the very poorest people, who had hardly clothes on
their backs, had black crape tied round their arm or neck.

                     Deal]: of Cavour.                 325
It was a state of consternation, and no wonder! Every one
felt that the greatest and best man of this century has
been taken away before he had completely emancipated
his country. All the progress is due to him, and to him
alone; the revolution has called forth men of much
talent, yet the whole are immeasurably his inferior in
every respect—even your friend, Ricasoli, who is most
able, and the best successor that can be found, is, com
pared with Cavour, as Tuscany to Europe. Happily the sad
loss did not occiu' sooner. Now things are so far advanced
that they cannot go back, and I trust that Rieasoli, who is
not wanting in <U+FB01>rmness and moral courage, will complete
what has been so happily begun. I am sorry to say he
is not in very good health, but I trust he will not fall
into the hands of the physician who attended Cavour,
and who mistook his disease, reduced him by loss of
blood, and then <U+FB01>nding out his real illness, tried to
strengthen him when too late. There was a most ex
cellent article in the “ Times ” on the two statesmen.
   [My mother’s recollections continue thus :—
   One night the moon shone so bright that we
sent the carriage away, and walked home from
a reception at the Marehesa Ginori’s. In crossing
the Piazza San Marco, an acquaintance, who accom
panied us, took us to the Maglio, which is close
by, to hear an echo. I like an echo; yet there
is something so unearthly in the aerial voice,
that it never fails to raise a superstitious chill

-- ~u_--_._    .. --..._- i..__-__  _     -_- -.
       826                   rllary Somerville.
       in me, such as I have felt more than once
       as I read “ Ossian” while travelling among our
       Highland hills in my early youth. In one of the
       grand passes of the Oberland, when we were in
       Switzerland, we were enveloped in a mist, through
       which peaks were dimly seen. We stopped to hear
       an echo; the response came clear and distinct from
       a great distance, and I felt as if the Spirit of the
       Mountain had spoken. The impression depends on
       accessory circumstances; for the roar of a railway
       train passing over a viaduct has no such effect.
                §           {-        i          U'       i“
           I lost my husband in Florence on the 26th June,
       1860. . . . . From the preceding narrative may be
       seen the sympathy, affection, and con<U+FB01>dence, which
       always existed between us. . .
           [After what has already been said of the happiness my
       mother enjoyed during the long years of their married
       life, it may be imagined what grief was her’s at my
       father’s death after only three days' illness. My mother’s
       dear friend and correspondent, Miss F. P. Cobbe, wrote
       to her as follows on this occasion :—
          “ I have just learned from a letter from Captain Fairfax
       to my brother the great a<U+FB02>liction which has befallen you.
       I cannot express to you how it has grieved me to think
       that such a sorrow should have fallen on you, and that
       the dear, kind old man, whose welcome so often touched
       and grati<U+FB01>ed me, should have passed away so soon after

                   Second Widow/100d.                           327
I had seen you both, as I often thought, the most beauti
ful instance of united old age. His love and pride in you,
breaking out as it did at every instant when you happened
to be absent, gives me the measure of what his loss must
be to your warm heart.”
   The following letter from my mother, dated April,
1861, addressed to her sister-in-law, was written after
reading my grandfather’s “ Life and Times," the publi
cation of which my father did not live to see.
FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE TO MRS. ELLIOT, OF ROSEBANK,
                       ROXBURGHSHIRE.
                                       FLoRsxcs, 28th April, 1861.
   MY DEAR JANET,—
        I received the precious volume*‘ you have so
kindly sent to me some days ago, but I have delayed
thanking you for it till now because we all wished to
read it <U+FB01>rst. We are highly pleased, and have been
deeply interested in it. The whole tone of the book
is characteristic of your dear father; the benevolence,
warm-heartedness, and Christian charity which appeared
in the whole course of his life and ministry. That
which has struck us all most forcibly is the liberality of
his sentiments, both religious and political, at a time
when narrow views and bigotry made it even dangerous
to avow them, and it required no small courage to do so.
He was far in advance of the age in which he lived;
           ' The Rev. P. Somerville's “Life and Times.”
szr                          v“, “.L'l‘f' ’.

328                Mary Somer'ville.
his political opinions are those of the present day, his
religious opinions still before it. There are many parts
of the book which will please the general reader from
the graphic description of the manners and customs
of the time, as well as the narrative of his inter
course with many of the eminent men of his day.
Your most dear father’s affectionate remembrance of me
touches me deeply. I have but one regret, dear Jenny,
and that is that our dear William did not live to see
the accomplishment of what was his.dying wish; but
God’s will be done. . . . . We areallmuch as usual: Iam
every day. Iwell,
wonderftu               able Itofeel
                   andthink
               do not             write, which I doinfor
                                     any difference      a time i
                                                      capacity,
but I become soon tired, and then I read the news~
papers, some amusing book, or work. . . . Everything is
<U+FB02>ourishing in Italy, and the people happy and contented,
except those who were employed and dependent on the
former sovereigns, but they are few in comparison; and
now there is a <U+FB01>ne army of 200,000 men to defend the
country, even if Austria should make an attack, but
that is not likely at present. Rome is still the difficulty,
but the Pope must and soon will lose his temporal
power, for the people are determined it shall be so. . . .
                I am, dear sister,
                        Most affectionately yours,
                                         MARY SOMERVILLE.
  To Mas. ELLIOT, of Rosebank, Roxburghshire.

                     CHAPTER XVII.
SPIZIA—GEXOA—BEGINS MOLECULAR AND MICROSCOPIC SCIENCE—TURIN
    -—SPEZIA-—BRITISH   FLEET—LETTERS  FROM   MRS.  SOMERVILLE—
    GARIBALDI-QQIVERE ILLNI'LQS—PLORENCE—MY BROTHER‘B DEATH—
    NAPL<U+FB01>—ERUP’I'IOX OI \‘ESUVIUS—J. S. MILL—CHANGE IN PUBLIC
    OPINION ON WOMEN’S ZDUCATION—EIGHTY-NIX'I‘II YEAR—~DESCRIBES
    HER OWN CHARACTER—THOUGHTS ON A FUTURE LIFE—PROGRESS
    IN KNOWLEDGE OF GEOGRAPHY—VICTORIA MEDAL—MEDAL FROM
    ROYAL ITALIAN GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY~—LE'ITER FROM MENABREA
    —-ROME, CAPITAL OI" ITALY—AURORA BOREALIS.
   SOON after my dear husband’s death, we went
to Spezia, as my health required change, and
for some time we made it our headquarters,
spending one winter at Florence, another at Genoa,
where my son and his. wife came to meet
us, and where I had very great delight in the
beautiful singing of our old friend Clara Novello,
now Countess Gigliucci, who used to come to my
house, and sing Handel to me. It was a real
pleasure, and her voice was as pure and silvery
as when I <U+FB01>rst heard her, years before.               Another
winter we spent at Turin.          On returning to Spezia
in the summer of 1861, the beautiful comet visible

380               Mary Somerville.
that year appeared for the <U+FB01>rst time the very
evening we arrived. On the following, and during
many evenings while it was visible, we used to row
in a small boat a little way from shore, in order to
see it to greater advantage. Nothing could be more
poetical than the clear starlit heavens with this
beautiful comet re<U+FB02>ected, nay, almost repeated, in
the eahn glassy water of the gulf. The perfect
silence and stillness of the scene was very impres
sive.
   I was now unoccupied, and felt the necessity of
having something to do, desultory reading being in
suf<U+FB01>cient to interest me ; and as I had always con
sidered the section on chemistry the weakest part of
the connection of the “Physical Sciences,” I resolved
to write it anew. My daughters strongly opposed this,
saying, “ Why not write a new book '? ” They were
right; it would have been lost time: so I followed
their advice, though it was a formidable undertaking
at my age, considering that the general character of
science had greatly changed. By the improved
state of the microscope, an invisible creation in the
air, the earth, and the water, had been brought
within the limits of human vision ; the microscopic
structure of plants and animals had been minutely
studied, and by synthesis many substances had been
formed of the elementary atoms similar to those

                                                         -- ~- _.-_~ “
                  zllz'croscopz'c Science.         3:51v
 produced by nature. Dr. Tyndall’s experiments had
proved the inconceivable minuteness of the atoms
 of matter; M. Gassiot and Professor Pliicher had
 published their experiments on the strati<U+FB01>cation of
 the electric light; and that series of discoveries by
 scienti<U+FB01>c men abroad, but chie<U+FB02>y by our own
 philosophers at home, which had been in progress
 for a course of years, prepared the way for Bunsen
and Kirchhof's marvellous consummation.
    Such was the <U+FB01>eld opened to me ; but instead of
 being discouraged by its magnitude, I seemed to
 have resumed the perseverance and energy of my
youth, and began to write with courage, though I
 did not think I should live to <U+FB01>nish even the sketch
 I had made, and which I intended to publish under
the name of “ Molecular and Microscopic Science,”
and assumed as my motto, “ Deus magnus in mag
nis, maximus in minimis,” from Saint Augustin.
   My manuscript notes on Science were now of the
greatest use ; and we went for the winter to Turin
(1861—1862), where I could get books from the
public libraries, and much information on subjects of
natural history from Professor De Filippi, who has
recently died, much regretted, while on a scienti<U+FB01>c
mission to Japan and China, as well as from other
sources. I subscribed to various periodicals on
chemical and other branches of science; the transac

332               Mary Somerm'lle.
tions of several of our societies were sent to me, and
I began to write. I was now an old woman, very
deaf and with shaking hands; but I could still see
to thread the <U+FB01>nest needle, and read the <U+FB01>nest print,
but I got sooner tired when writing than I used to
do. I wrote regularly every morning from eight till
twelve or one o’clock before rising. I was not
alone, for Ihad a mountain sparrow, a great pet,
which sat, and indeed is sitting on my arm as I write
these lines.
   The Marchese Doria has a large property at Spczia,
and my dear friend Teresa Doria generally spent the
evening with us, when she and I chatted and played
Bézique together. Her sons also came frequently,
and some of the of<U+FB01>cers of the Italian navy. One
who became our very good friend is Captain William
Acton, now Admiral, and for two years Minister of
Marine ; he is very handsome, and, what is better, a
most agreeable, accomplished gentleman, who has
interested himself in many branches of natural his—
tory, besides being a good linguist. In summer the
British squadron, commanded by Admiral Smart,
came for <U+FB01>ve weeks to Spezia.       My nephew, Henry
Fairfax, was commander on board the            ironclad
“Resistance.” Notwithstanding my age, I was so
curious to see an ironclad that I went all over the
“Resistance,” even to the. engine-room and screw

               On Board a Flag-Slap.                        333
alley.   I also went to luncheon on board the <U+FB02>ag
ship “Victoria,” a three-decker, which put me in
mind of olden times.
   [The following extracts are from letters of my mother's,
written in 1863 and 1865 :—
        FROM MRS. SOMERYILLE TO w. GREIG, ESQ.
                                     SPEZIA, 12th .llay, 1863.
        How happy {your last letter has made me, my
dearest Woronzow, to hear that you are making real pro
gress, and that you begin to feel better from the Bath
waters . . . . . Of your general health I had the very
best account this morning from your friend Colonel
Gordon. I was most agreeably surprised and grati<U+FB01>ed
by a very kind and interesting letter from him, enclosing
his photograph, and giving me an account of his great
works at Portsmouth with reference to the defence by
iron as well as stone . . . . . .               _
   I wish I could show you the baskets full of <U+FB02>owers
which Martha and Mary bring to me from the mountains.
They are wonderfully beautiful; it is one of my greatest
amusements putting them in water. I quite regret
when they cannot go for them. The orchises and the
gladioles are the chief <U+FB02>owers now, but such a variety
and such colours! You see we have our quiet plea
sures. I often think of more than “ 60 years ago,” when
I used to scramble over the Bin at Burntisland after
our tods-tails and leddies-<U+FB01>ngers, but I fear there is
hardly a wild spot existing now in the lowlands of
Scotland . . . . . .
   God bless you, my dearest Woronzow.

 334                    Mary Somervz'lle.
           FROM MRS. SOMERVILLE T0 W. GREIG, ESQ.
                                               Sruzu, 27th Sept" 1865.
     MY DEARES'I‘ Woaoxzow,
          I fear Agnes and you must have thought your
 old mother had gone mad when you read M.’s letter.
 In my sober senses, however, though suf<U+FB01>ciently excited
 to give me strength for the time, I went over every part
 of the Resistance,* and examined everything in detail
 except the stokehole! I was not even hoisted on board,
 but mounted the companion-ladder bravely. It was a
 glorious sight, the perfection of structure in every part
 astonished me. A ship like that is the triumph of human
 talent and of British talent, for all confess our supe
 rioty in this respect to every other nation, and I am
 happy to see that no jealousy has arisen from the meet
 ing of the French and English <U+FB02>eets. I was proud that
 our “young admiral "’r had the command of so <U+FB01>ne a
 vessel . . . . I also spent a most agreeable day on board
 the Victoria, three-decker, and saw every part of the three
 decks, which are very different from what they were in
 my father’s time ; everything on a much larger scale, more
 elegant and convenient. But the greatest change is in the
men; I never saw a <U+FB01>ner set, so gentlemanly-looking
 and well-behaved; almost all can read and write, and
they have an excellent library and reading-room in all
the ships. No sooner was the <U+FB02>eet gone than the
Italian Society of Natural History held their annual
   " The Iksistance, ironclad, commanded by Captain Chayberlayne,
then absent on sick leave.
  1' Captain Henry Fairfax, my mother's nephew, then Commander on
board the Reaistanrr, senior of<U+FB01>cer in the absence of the captain.

                            Garibaldi.                       385
meeting here, Capellini* being president in the absence (in
Borneo) of Giacomo Doria. There were altogether seventy
members, Italian, French, and German.            I was chosen an
Associate by acclamation, and had to write a few lines of
thanks. The weather was beautiful and the whole party
dined every day on the terrace below our windows, which
was very amusing to Miss Campbell and your sisters,
who distinctly heard the speeches. I was invited to dinner
and the wife of the celebrated Professor Vogt was asked
to meet me; I declined dining, as it lasted so long that
I should have been too tired, but I went down to the
dessert. Capellini came for me, and all rose as I came
in, and every attention was shown me, my health was
drank, &c. Jae.    It lasted few days, and we had many
evening visits, and I received a quantity of papers on all
subjects. I am working very hard (for me at least), but
I cannot hurry, nor do I see the need for it. I write
so slowly on account of the shaking of my hand that
although my head is clear I make little but steady
progress . . . . . .
               Your a<U+FB01>'ectionate mother,
                                         MARY Sousavmnn.
   After the battle of Aspromonte, Garibaldi arrived
a prisoner on board a man-of-war, and was placed at
Varignano under surveillance. His wound had not
been properly dressed, and he was in a state of great
suffering. Manysurgeons came from all parts of Italy,
and one even from England, to attend him, but the
               ' Professor of Geology at Bologna.

336              diary Somerville.
eminent Professor Nélaton saved him from amputa.
tion, with which he was threatened, by extracting
the bullet from his ankle.   I never saw Garibaldi
during his three months’ residence at Varignano and
Spezia; I had no previous acquaintance with him ;
consequently, asI'couldbe of no use to him, I did
not consider myself entitled to intrude upon him
merely to gratify my own curiosity, although no
one admired his noble and disinterested character
more than I did.     Not so, many of my country.
men, and countrywomen too, as well as ladies of
other nations, who worried the poor man out of
his life, and made themseIVes eminently ridicu_
lous One lady went so far as to collect the hairs
from his comb,-—others showered tracts upon him,
   I had hitherto been very healthy; but in the
beginning of winter I was seized with a severe
illness which, though not immediately dangerous,
lasted so long, that it was doubtful whether I
should have stamina to recover. It was a painful
and fatiguing time to my daughteis. They were
quite worn out with nursing me ; our maid was ill,
and our man-servant, Luigi Lucchesi, watched me
with such devotion that he sat up twenty-four nights
with me.    He has been with us eighteen years, and
now that I am old and feeble, he attends me with
unceasing kindness.   It is but justice to say that

                      Italian Servants,                 337
we never were so faithfully or well served as by
Italians; and none are more ingenious in turning
their hands to anything, and in never objecting to
do this or that, as not what they were hired for,—a
great quality for people who, like ourselves, keep
few servants. After a time they identify them
selves with the family they serve, as my faithful
Luigi has done with all his heart I am sincerely
attached to him.
         ‘         1‘         i“         I        '1'
    In the spring, when I had recovered, my son and
his wife came to Spczia, and we all went to Flo
rence, where we had the pleasure of seeing many old
friends. We returned to Spezia, and my son and
his wife left us to go back to England, intending to
meet us again somewhere the following spring. I
 little thought we never should meet again. . . . . .
 My son sent his sisters a beautiful little cutter, built
 by Mr. Forrest in London, which has been a great
resource to them. I always insist on their taking a
good sailor with them, although I am not in the
 least nervous for their safety. Indeed, small as the
“Frolic” is—and she is only about twenty-eight
feet from stem to stern—she has weathered some
sti<U+FB01>' gales gallantly, as, for instance, when our friend,
Mr. Montague Brown, British consul at Genoa,
sailed her from Genoa to Spezia in very bad
                                                      Z

338                 Mary Somemille.
weather; and in a very dangerous squall my daugh
ters were caught in, coming from Amal<U+FB01> to Sorrento.
The “ Frolic ” had only just arrived at Spezia, when
we hard of the sudden death of my dear son, Oct,
1865.
   l'l‘his event, which took from my mother’s  last years
one of her chief delights, she bore with       her usual
calm courage, looking forward con<U+FB01>dently to    a reunion
at no distant date with one who had been        the most
dutiful of sons and beloved of friends.   She never per
mitted herself, in writing her Recollections, to refer to
her feelings under these great sorrows.
   Some time after this, my widowed daughter-in-law
spent a. few months with us. On her return to London,
I sent the manuscript of the “ Molecular and Micro
scopic Science ” with her for publication. In writing
this book I made a great mistake, and repent it.
Mathematics are the natural bent of my mind. If
I had devoted myself exclusively to that study,l
might probably have written something useful, as a.
new era had begun in that science. Although I got
“Chalcs on the Higher Geometry,” it could be but
a secondary object while I was engaged in writing
a popular book. Subsequently, it became a source
of deep interest and occupation to me.

                        Spezz'a.                  339
   Spezia is very much spoilt by the works in
progress for the arsenal, though nothing can change
the beauty of the gulf as seen from our windows,
especially the group of the Carrara mountains, with
<U+FB01>ne peaks and ranges of hills, becoming more and
more verdant down to the water's edge. The effect
of the setting-sun on this group is varied and
brilliant beyond belief. Even I, in spite of my
shaking hand, resumed the brush, and painted a
view of the ruined Castle of Ostia, at the mouth of
the Tiber, from a sketch of my own, for my dear
friend Teresa Doria.
    “'0 now came to live at Naples; and on leaving
 Spezia, I spent a fortnight with Count and Countess
 Usedom at the Villa Capponi, near Florence, where,
though unable to visit, I had the 'pleasure of seeing
my Florentine friends again.
    We spent two days in Rome, and dined with our
 friends the Duca and Duchesa di Sermoneta. We
 were grieved at his blindness, but found him as
 agreeable as ever.
    Through our friend, Admiral Acton, I became
 acquainted    with   Professor   Panceri,  Professor
 of Comparative Anatomy; Signore de Gasparis,
 who has discovered nine of the minor planets,
 and is an excellent mathematician, and some
 others. To these gentlemen I am indebted for being
                                              1 2

  340             411(1):)! Somcrz/z'Z/e.
 elected an honorary member of the Accademia
 Pontoniana.
    We were much interested in Vesuvius, which, for
 several months, was in a state of great activity.
 At <U+FB01>rst, there were only volumes of smoke and
 some small streams of lava, but these were followed
 by the most magni<U+FB01>cent projections of red hot
 stones and rocks rising 2,000 feet above the top of
 the mountain. Many fell back again into the crater,
 but a large portion were thrown in <U+FB01>ery showers
 down the sides of the cone. At length, these
 beautiful eruptions of lapilli ceased, and the lava
 <U+FB02>owed more abundantly, though, being intermittent
 and always issuing from the summit, it was quite
harmless; volumes of smoke and vapour rose from
the crater, and were carried by the wind to a great
distance.   In sunshine the contrast was beautiful,
between the jet-black smoke and the silvery-white
clouds of vapour. At length, the mountain re
turned to apparent tranquillity, though the violent
detonations occasionally heard gave Warning that
the calm might not last long. At last, one evening,
in November, 1868, when one of my daughters and
I were observing the mountain through a very
good telescope, lent us by afriend, we distinctly saw
a new crater burst out at the foot of the cone in the
Atrio del Cavallo, and buists of red-hot lapilli and

               Eruption qf Vesuvius.               341
red smoke pouring forth in volumes. Early next
morning we saw a great stream of lava pouring
down to the north of the Observatory, and a column
of black smoke issuing from the new craters, be
cause there were two, and assuming the well-known
appearance of a pine-tree. The trees on the northern
edge of the lava were already on <U+FB01>re. The stream
of lava very soon reached the plain, where it
overwhelmed <U+FB01>elds, vineyards, and houses. It was
more than a mile in width and thirty feet deep.
My daughters went up the mountain the evening
after the new craters were formed; as for me, I
could not risk the fatigue of such an excursion, but
I saw it admirably from our own windows. During
this year the volcanic forces in the interior of the
earth were in unusual activity, for a series of earth
quakes shook the west coast of South America for
more than 2,500 miles, by which many thousands of
the inhabitants perished, and many more were
rendered homeless. Slight shocks were felt in many
parts of Europe, and even in England. Vesuvius
was our safety-valve. The pressure must have been
very great which opened two new craters in the Atrio
del Cavallo and forced out such a mass of matter.
There is no'evidence that water had been concerned
in the late eruption of Vesuvius; but during the
whole of the preceding autumn, the fall of rain had

342              Mary Samara/ills.
been unusually great and continuous. There were
frequent thunder-storms ; and, on one occasion, the
quantity of rain that fell was so great, as to cause
a land-slip in Pizzifalcone, by which several houses
were overwhelmed; and, on another occasion, the
torrent of rain was so violent, that the Riviera di
Chiaja was covered, to the depth of half a metre,
with mud, and stones brought down by the water
from the heights above. This enormous quantity of
water pouring on the slopes of Vesuvius, and per
colating through the crust of the earth into the
<U+FB01>ery caverns, where volcanic forces are generated,
being resolved into steam, and possibly aided by the
expansion of volcanic gases, may have been a partial
agent in propelling the formidable stream of lava
which has caused such destruction.     \Ve observed,
that when lava abounded, the projection of rocks
and lapilli either ceased altogether, or became of
small amount. The whole eruption ended in a
shower of impalpable ashes, which hid the moun
tain for many days, and which were carried to a
great distance by the wind. - Sometimes the ashes
were pure white, giving the mountain the appear
ance of being covered with snow. Vapour con
tinued to rise from Vesuvius in beautiful silvery
clouds, which ceased and left the edge of the crater
white with sublimations. I owe to Vesuvius the
                              ’ W<U+FB02>r~w~<U+FB01>    *      V~___-__ .

                 Hzlg/z Temperalure.              31-3
great pleasure of making the acquaintance of Mr.
Phillips, Professor of Geology in the University of
Oxford; and, afterwards, that of Sir John Lubbock,
and Professor Tyndall, who had come to Naples on
purpose to see the eruption. Unfortunately, Sir
John Lubbock and Professor Tyndall were so
limited for time, that they could only spend one
evening with us ; butI enjoyedadelightful evening,
and had much scienti<U+FB01>c conversation. '
   Notwithstanding the progress meteorology has
made since it became a subject of exact observation,
yet no explanation has been given of the almost un
precedented high summer temperature of 1868 in
Great Britain, and even in the Arctic regions.      In
England, the grass and heather were dried up, and
extensive areas were set on <U+FB01>re by sparks from rail
way locomotives, the con<U+FB02>agrations spreading so
rapidly, that they could only be arrested by cutting
trenches to intercept their course. The Whalers
found open water to a higher latitude than usual ;
but, although the British Government did not avail
themselves of this opportimity for further Arctic dis
covery, Sweden, Germany, France, and especially
the United States, have taken up the subject with
 great energy. Eight expeditions sailed for the North
 Polar region between the years 1868 and 1870;
several for the express purpose of reaching the

 344               Mary Semen/ills.
 Polar Sea, which, I have no doubt, will be attained,
 now that steam has given such power to penetrate
 the <U+FB01>elds of <U+FB02>oating ice. It would be more than a
 dashing exploit to make a cruise on that unknown
 sea; it Would be a discovery of vast scienti<U+FB01>c im‘
portance with regard to geography, magnetism, tem—
perature, the general circulation of the atmosphere
 and Oceans, as well as to natural history. I cannot
but regret that I shall not live to hear the result of
these voyages.
       'l        i          i         Q         i
   The British laws are adverse to women; and we
are deeply indebted to Mr. Stuart Mill for daring
to show their iniquity and injustice. The law in the
United States is in some respects even worse, in*
sulting the sex, by granting su<U+FB02>'rage to the newly
emancipated slaves, and refusing it to the most
highly-educated women of the Republic.
   [For the noble character and transcendent intellect of
Mr. J. S. Mill my mother had the greatest admiration.
She had some correspondence with him on the subject of
the petition to Parliament for the extension of the suf
frage to women, which she signed; and she also wrote to
thank him warme for his book on the “ Subjection of
\Vomen.” In Mr. Mill’s reply to the latter he says :—

                   Letter from Mill.                     8423
 FROM JOHN STUART MILL, ESQ, T0 MRS. SOMERYILLE.
                          BLACKHEATH PARK, July 12th, 1869.
   Drum MADAM,
        Such a letter as yours is a suf<U+FB01>cient reward
for the trouble of writing the little book. I could have
desired no better proof that it was adapted to its purpose
than such an encouraging opinion from you. I thank
you heartin for taking the trouble to express, in such
kind terms, your approbation of the book,——-the approba
tion of one who has rendered such inestimable service to
the cause of women by affording in her own person so
high an example of their intellectual capabilities, and,
<U+FB01>nally, by giving to the protest in the great Petition of
last year the weight and importance derived from the
signature which headed it.
                    I am,
                      Dear Madam,
               Most sincerely and respectfully yom‘s,
                                           J. S. MILL.
   Age has not abated my zeal for the emancipation
of my sex from the unreasonable prejudice too
prevalent in Great Britain against a literary and
scienti<U+FB01>c education for women. The French are
more civilized in this respect, for they have taken
the lead, and have given the <U+FB01>rst example in modern
times of encouragement to the high intellectual
culture of the sex.      Madame Emma Chenu, who
had received the. degree of Master of Arts from

  346               Mary Somerville.
_ the Academy of Sciences in Paris, has more re
  cently received the diploma of Licentiate in Mathe
  matical Sciences from the same illustrious Society,
  after a successful examination in algebra, trigo
  nometry, analytical geometry, the differential and
  integral calculi, and astronomy. A Russian lady
  has also taken a degree; and a lady of my ac
  quaintance has received a gold medal from the same
  Institution.
     I joined in a petition to the Senate of London
  University, praying that degrees might be granted
  to women; but it was rejected.           I have also fre
  quently signed petitions to Parliament for the
  Female Suffrage, and have the honour now to be a
  member of the General Committee for \Vomau
  Suffrage in London.
         ‘1'        i          it          5         'II'
     [My mother, in alluding to the great changes in public
  opinion which she had lived to see, used to remark that
  a commonly well-informed woman of the present day
  would have been looked upon as a prodigy of learning in
  her youth, and that even till quite lately many considered
  that if women were to receive the solid education men
  enjoy, they would forfeit much of their feminine grace
  and become un<U+FB01>t to perform their domestic duties. My
  mother herself was one of the brightest examples of the
  fallacy of this old-world theory, for no one was more
  thoroughly and gracefully feminine than she was, both in

                      Claims of PVomen.                34-7
manner and appearance; and, as I have already men
tioned, no amount of scienti<U+FB01>c labour ever induced her to
neglect her home duties. She took the liveliest interest in
all that has been done of late years to extend high class
education to women, both classical and scienti<U+FB01>c, and
hailed the establishment of the Ladies" College at Girton
as a great step in the true direction, and one which could
not fail to obtain most important results. Her scienti<U+FB01>c
library, as already stated, has been presented to this
College as the best ful<U+FB01>lment of her wishes.
        i          1r         ‘-         i        *
    Ihavc lately entered my 89th year, grateful to
God for the innumerable blessings He has bestowed
on me and my chilrh'en; at peace with all on earth,
and I trust that I may be at peace with my Maker
when my last hour comes, which cannot now be far
distant.
   Although I have been tried by many severe
af<U+FB02>ictions, my life upon the whole has been
happy. In my youth I had to contend with
prejudice and illiberality; yet I was of a quiet
temper, and easy to live with, and I never
interfered with or prycd into other people’s
affairs. However, if irritated by what I considered
unjust criticism or interference with myself, or any
one I loved, I could resent it <U+FB01>ercely. I was not
good at argument ; I was apt to lose my temper ; but
I never bore ill will to any one, or forgot the manners

348              Mary Somerm'lle.
of a gentlewoman, however angry I may haVe been
at the time. But I must say that no one ever met
with such kindness as I have done. I never had an
enemy. I have never been of a melancholy dis
position; though depressed sometimes by circum
stances, I always rallied again ; and although I
seldom laugh, I can laugh heartily at wit or on <U+FB01>t
occasion. The short time I have to live naturally
occupies my thoughts. In the blessed hope of meet—
ing again with my beloved children, and those who
were and are dear to me on earth, I think of death
with composure and perfect con<U+FB01>dence in the mercy
of God. Yet to me, who am afraid to sleep alone
on a stormy night, or even to sleep comfortably any
night unless some one is near, it is a fearful thought,
that my spirit must enter that new state of existd
ence quite alone. We are told of the in<U+FB01>nite
glories of that state, and I believe in them, though
it is incomprehensible to us; but as I do compre
hend, in some degree at least, the exquisite loveli
ness of the visible world, I confess I shall be sorry
to leave it. I shall regret the sky, the sea, with all
the changes of their beautiful colouring ; the earth,
with its verdure and <U+FB02>owers : but far more shall I
grieve to leave animals who have followed our steps
affectionately for years, without knowing for cer—
tainty their ultimate fate, though I <U+FB01>rmly believe

                      Geography.                    349
that the living principle is never extinguished. Since
the atoms of matter are indestructible, as far as We
know, it is dif<U+FB01>cult to believe that the spark which
gives to their union life, memory, affection, intelli
gence, and <U+FB01>delity, is evanescent.        Every atom in
the human frame, as well as in that of animals,
undergoes a periodical change by continual waste
and renovation; the abode is changed, not its in-v
habitant. If animals have 'no future, the existence
of many is most wretched ; multitudes are starved,
cruelly beaten, and loaded during life; many die
under a barbarous viviseetion. I cannot believe that
any creature was created for uncompensated misery;
it would be contrary to the attributes of God’s
mercy and justice. I am sincerely happy to <U+FB01>nd
that I am not the only believer in the immortality
of the lower animals,
       i“        <U+FB02>"         'K'       ‘X'        ‘
   I'Vhen I was taught geography by the village
schoolmaster at Burntisland, it seemed to me that
half the world Was term 'i‘zzcogn'ita; and now that a
new edition of my “Physical Geography ” is re
quired, it will be a work of great labour to bring it
up to the present time. The discoveries in South
Africa alone would <U+FB01>ll a. volume. Japan and China
have been, opened to Europeans since my last
edition. The great continent of Australia was an

  350               Mary Somemz'lle.
  entirely unknown country, except part of the coast.
  Now telegrams have been sent and answers received
  in the course of a few hours, from our countrymen
  throughout that mighty empire, and even from
  New Zealand, round half the globe. The inhabitants
  of the United States are our offspring ; so whatever
 may happen to Great Britain in the course of events,
 it still will have the honour of colonizing, and con—
 sequently civilizing, half the world.
     In all recent geographical discoveries, our Royal
 Geographical Society has borne the most important
 part, and none of its members have done more than
 my highly-gifted friend the President, Sir Roderick
 Murchison, geologist of Russia, and founder and
 author of the colossal “ Silurian System” To the
 affection Of this friend, sanctioned by the unanimous
 approval of the council of that illustrious Society, I
 owe the honour of being awarded the Victoria Medal
 for my “ Physical Geography.” An honour so un
expected, and so far beyond my merit, surprised and
a<U+FB02>'ected me more deeply than I can <U+FB01>nd words to
express.
    In the events of my life it may be seen howr
much I have been honoured by the scienti<U+FB01>c
societies and universities of Italy, many of whom
have elected me an honorary member or associate ;
but the greatest honour I have received in Italy has

                  Letter from Menaérea.                     351
been the gift of the <U+FB01>rst gold medal hitherto
awarded by the Geographical Society at Florence,
and which was coined on purpose, with my name
on the reverse. I received it the other day, accom
panied by the following letter from General Mena—
brea, President of the Council, himself a distin
guished mathematician and philosopher :—
      FROM GENERAL MENABREA TO MRS. SOMERVILLE.
                                      FLORENCE, 80 Juin, 1869.
   MADAME,                                       '
       J’ai pris connaissance avec le plus grand intérêt de
la belle édition de votre dernier ouvrage sur la Géographie
Physique, et je désire vous donner un témoignage d’haute
estime pour vos travaux. Je vous prie donc, Madame,
d’accepter une médaille d’or à. l’ef<U+FB01>gie du Roi Victor
Emmanuel, mon auguste souverain. C’est un souvenir
de mon pays dans lequel vous comptez, comme chez
toutes les nations où la science est honoré, de nombreux
 amis et admirateurs.      Veuillez croire, Madame, que je
 ne cesserai d’être l’un et. l’autre en même temps que je
 suis,
                  Votre très dévoué Serviteur,
                                                MENABREA.
    At a general assemny of the Italian Geographical
 Society, at Florence, on the 14th March, 1870, I
 was elected by acclamation an Honorary Associate of
 that distinguished society. I am indebted to the
 President, the Commendatore Negri, for having pro—

352                Mary Somervz'lle.
posed my name, and for a very kind letter, in
forming me of the honour conferred upon me.
         '        ¥        ‘U          ‘I-      1'
   I have still (in 1869) the habit of studying in
bed from eight in the morning till twelve or one
o’clock ; but, I am left solitary ; for I have lost my
little bird who was my constant companion for eight
years. It had both memory and intelligence, and
such con<U+FB01>dence in me as to sleep upon my arm
while I was writing. My daughter, to whom it
was much attached, coming into my room early,
was alarmed at its not <U+FB02>ying to meet her, as it
generally did, and at last, after a long search, the
poor little creature was found drowned in the jug.
   On the 4th October, while at dinner, we had a.
shock of earthquake.      The vibrations were nearly
north and south; it lasted but a few seconds, and
was very slight ; but in Calabria, &c., many villages
and towns were overthrown, and very many people
perished. The shocks were repeated again and
again ; only one was felt at Naples; but as it
occurred in the night, we were unconscious of it.
At Naples, it was believed there would be an
eruption of Vesuvius; for the smoke was particu
larly dense and black, and some of the wells were
dried up.
       I-        i                   ar        *

                        A urorw.                   353
   I can scarcely believe that Rome, where I have
spent so many happy years, is now the capital of
united Italy. I heartily rejoice in that glorious ter
mination to the vicissitudes the country has under
gone, and only regret that age and in<U+FB01>rmity prevent
me from going to see Victor Emmanuel triumphantly
enter the capital of his kingdom. The Pope’s reliance
on foreign troops for his safety was an unpardon
able insult to his countrymen.
       *          '*        “<U+FB01>'      1'       I
   The month of October this year (1870), seems to
have been remarkable for displays of the Aurora
Borealis. It seriously interfered with the working
of the telegraphs, particularly in the north of Eng
land and Ireland. On the night of the 24th Oe
tober, it was seen over the greater part of Europe.
At Florence, the common people were greatly
alarmed, and at Naples, the peasantry were on their
knees to the Madonna to avert the evil. Unfortu
nately, neither I nor any of my family saw the
Aurora; for most of our windows have a southern
aspect. The frequent occurrence of the Aurora in
1870 con<U+FB01>rms the already known period of maxi
mum intensity and frequency, every ten or twelve
years, since the last maximum occurred in 1859.

                    CHAPTER XVIII.
ECLIPSE—VISITS 0F SCIENTIFIC KEN—LIFE AT NAPLES—DARWIN’S BOOKS
    ~—R.EHAB.KS ON CIVILIZATION—FINE AURORA BOREALIS—DEATH OP
    BERSCHEL—SUMMER.      AT   SORRENTO—BILL  FOR   PROTECTION OI"
    ANIHALS—NINETY-SECOND YEAR—LETTER FROM PROFESSOR SEDG'
    WICK—GR-AND     BRUP'I'ION   0F  VIZSUVIUS—LAST   SUMMER   A'l‘
    SORRENTO, PLANTS FOUND THERE—CONCLUSION.
   THE summer of 1870 was unusually cool ; but
the winter has been extremely gloomy, with torrents
of rain, and occasionally such thick fogs, that I
could see neither to read nor to write. We had no
storms during the hot weather; but on the after
noon of the 21st December, there was one of the
<U+FB01>nest thunderstorms I ever saw ; the lightning was
intensely vivid, and took the strangest forms, dart
ing in all directions through the air before it struck,
and sometimes darting from the ground or the sea
to the clouds. It ended in a deluge of rain, which
lasted all night, and made us augur ill for the solar
 eclipse next day; and, sure enough, whenI awoke
next morning, the sky was darkened by clouds and
rain. Fortunately, it cleared up just as the eclipse

                  T/ze Eclipse of I870.             355
began ; we were all prepared for observing it, and we
followed its progress through the opening in the clouds
till at last there was only a very slender crescent of
the sun’s disc left ; its convexity was turned upwards,
and its horns were nearly horizontal. It was then
hidden by a dense mass of clouds ; but after a time
they opened, and I saw the edge of the moon leaVc
the limb of the sun. The appearance of the land
scape was very liu'id, but by no means very dark.
The common people and children had a very good
view of the eclipse, re<U+FB02>ected by the pools of water
in the streets.
    Many of the astronomers who had been in Sicily
observing the eclipse came to see me as they passed
through Naples. One of their principal objects was
to ascertain the nature of the corona, or bright white
rays which surround the dark lunar disc at the
time of the greatest obscurity. The spectroscope
showed that it was decidedly auroral, but as the
aurora was seen on the dark disc of the moon it
must have been due to the earth’s atmosphere. Part
of the corona was polarized, and consequently must
have been material; the question is, Can it be the
etherial medium ? A question of immense impor
 tance, since the whole theory of light and colours
 and the resistance of Encke’s comet depends upon
 that hypothesis. The question is still in abeyance,
                                               AA2

856               Mary Somemz'lle.
but I have no doubt that it will be decided in the
affirmative, and that even the cause of gravitation
will be known eventually.
   At this time I had the pleasure of a visit from
Mr. Peirce, Professor of Mathematics and Astronomy,
in the Harvard University, US, and Superintendent
of the US. Coast Survey, who had come to Europe
to observe the eclipse. On returning to America
he kindly sent me a beautiful lithographed copy of
a very profound memoir in linear and associative
algebra. Although in writing my popular books I
had somewhat neglected the higher algebra, I have
read a great part of the work; but as I met with
some dif<U+FB01>culties Iwrote to Mr. Spottiswoode, asking
his advice as to the books that would be of use, and
he sent me Serret’s “ Cours d’Algebre Supérieure,”
Salmon’s “ Higher Algebra,” and Tait on “Quater
11ions ; ” so now I got exactly what I wanted, and I
am very busy for a few hours every morning; de—
lighted to have an occupation so entirely to my
mind. I thank God that my intellect is still
unimpaired. I am grateful to Professor Peirce
for giving me an opportunity of exercising it so
agreeably. During the rest of the day I have
recourse to Shakespeare, Dante, and more modern
light reading, besides the newspapers, which always
interested me much. I have resumed my habit

rue:      WY"         *   *~_       "     '     "f‘      "   “'— " l
                                                                   l
                                                                   l
                                                                   l
                           Darwinism.                      357
   of working, and can count the threads of a <U+FB01>ne
   canvas without spectacles. I receive every one who
   comes to see me, and often have the pleasure of a
   visit from old friends very unexpectedly. In the
   evening I read a novel, but my tragic days are
   over ; I prefer a cheerful conversational novel to
   the sentimental ones. I have recently been
   reading \Valter Scott’s novels again, and enjoyed
    the broad Scotch in them. I play a few games
   at Bézique with one of my daughters, for honour
    and glory, and so our evenings pass pleasantly
    enough.
       It is our habit to be separately occupied during
    the morning, and spend the rest of the day together.
    We are fond of birds and have several, all very
    tame.      Our tame nightingales sing very beautifully,
    but, strange to say, not at night.         We have also
    some solitary sparrows, which are, in fact, a variety
    of the thrush (Turdus cyaneus), and some birds
    which we rescued from destruction in spring, when
    caught and ill-used by the boys in the streets;
    besides, we have our dogs ; all of which a<U+FB01>'ord me
    amusement and interest.
            1'          §       '1'         l'       ‘I'
       Mr. Murray has kindly sent me a copy of Darwin’s
    recent work on the “ Descent of Man.” Mr. Darwin
    maintains his theory with great talent and with

358               Mary Somemz'lle.
profound research. His knowledge of the characters
and habits of animals of all kinds is very great, and
his kindly feelings charming. It is chie<U+FB02>y by the
feathered race that he has established his law of
selection relative to sex. The males of many birds
are among the most beautiful objects in nature ;
but that the beauty of nature is altogether inelative
to man’s admiration or appreciation, is strikingly
proved by the admirable sculpture on Diatoms and
Foraminifera ; beings whose very existence was un
known prior to the invention of the microscope.
The Duke of Argyll has illustrated this in the
“ Reign of Law,” by the variety, graceful forms and
beautiful colouring of the humming birds in forests
which man has never entered.
   In Mr. Darwin's book it is amusing to see how
conscious the male birds are of their beauty; they have
reason to be so, but we scorn the vanity of the savage
who decks himself in their spoils. Many women
without remorse allow the life of a pretty bird to be
extinguished in order that they may deck themselves
with its corpse. In fact, humming birds and other
foreign birds have become an article of commerce.
Our king<U+FB01>shers and many of our other birds are
on the eve of extinction on account of a cruel
fashion.
   I have just received from Frances Power Cobbe

                  Tylor’s Researches.                   359
an essay, in which she controverts Darwin’s theoryf“
so far as the origin of the moral sense is concerned.
It is written with all the energy of her vigorous
intellect as a moral philosopher, yet with a kindly
tribute to Mr. Darwin’s genius. I repeat no one
admires Frances Cobbe more“ than I do. I have
ever found her a brilliant, charming companion,
and a warm, affectionate friend.              She is one of
the few with whom I keep up a correspondence.
    To Mr. Murray I am indebted for a copy of
Tyler’s “ Researches on the Early History of Man
kind, and the Development of Civilization”—a very
remarkable work for extent of research, original
views, and happy illustrations. The gradual pro
gress of the pre-historic races of mankind has laid a
foundation from which Mr. Tylor proves that after
 the lapse of ages the barbarous races now existing
 are decidedly in a state of progress towards civiliza
 tion. Yet one cannot conceive human beings in a
 more degraded state than some of them are still; their
 women are treated worse than their dogs. Sad to say,
 no savages are more gross than the lowest ranks in
 England, or treat their wives with more cruelty.
        a         a!         a             it        s
    In the course of my life Paris has been twice
 occupied by foreign troops, and still oftener has
                i “Darwinism in Morals," 6w.

360                  Mary Somerw'lle.
it been in a state of anarchy. I regret to
see that La Place’s house at Arcoeuil has been
broken into, and his manuscripts thrown into the
river, from which some one has fortunately rescued
that of the “Mécanique Celeste," which is in his
own handwriting. It is greatly to the honour of
French men of science that during the siege they
met as usual in the hall of the Institute, and read
their papers as in the time of peace. The celebrated
astronomer Janssen even escaped in a balloon, that
he might arrive in time to observe the eclipse of the
22nd November, 1870.
          i       l'       *          i'      *
   WVe had a most brilliant display of the Aurora on
the evening of Sunday, the 4th Febru. , 1871,
which lasted several hours. The whole sky from
east to west was of the most brilliant <U+FB02>ickering
white light, from which streamers of red darted up to
the zenith. There was also a lunar rainbow. The
common people were greatly alarmed, for there had
been a prediction that the world was coming to an
end, and they thought the bright part of the Aurora
was a piece of the moon that had already tumbled
down! This Aurora was seen in Turkey and in
Egypt.
          ‘i-     Q        '1'        Q“      i
   I am deeply grieved and shaken by the death of
   ..._ a, _ . _~__._-Wr-._._,_______W

                   Hersc/zel’s Deal/2.            361
Sir John Heischel, who, though ten years younger
 than I am, has gone before me. In him I have lost
 a dear and affectionate friend, whose advice was in
valuable, and his society a charm. None but those
 who have lived in his home can imagine the bright
 ness and happiness of his domestic life. He never
presumed upon that superiority of intellect or the
great discoveries which made him one of the most
illustrious men of the age ; but converscd cheerftu
 and even playfully on any subject, though ever
ready to give information on any of the various
branches of science to which he so largely contri
buted, and which to him were a source of constant
happiness. Few of my early friends now remain—I
am nearly left alone.
        ¥         '1'        'l'       i“     “i
   We went to pass the summer and autumn
at Sorrento, where we led a very quiet but
happy life. The villa we lived in was at a short
distance from and above the town, quite buried in
groves of oranges and lemons, beyond which lay the
sea, generally calm and blue, sometimes stormy; to
our left the islands of Ischia and Procida, the Capo
Miseno, with Baia, Pozzuoli, and Posilipo ; exactly
opposite to us, Naples, then Vesuvius, and all the
little towns on that coast, and lastly, to our right,
this wonderful panorama was bounded by the <U+FB01>ne

86:2              Mary Sommz'lle.
cliffs of the Monte Santangelo.      It was beautiful
always, but most beautiful when the sun, setting be—
hind Ischia, sent a perfect glory over the rippling
sea, and tinged the Monte Santangelo and the chili;
which bound the Piano di Sorrento literally with
purple and gold. I spent the whole day on a
charming terrace sheltered from the sun, and there
we dined and passed the evening watching the lights
of Naples re<U+FB02>ected in the water and the revolving
lights of the different lighthouses. I often drove to
Massa till after sunset, for from that road I could see
the island of Capri, and I scarcely know a more
lovely drive. Besides the books we took with us we
had newspapers, reviews, and other periodicals, so
that we were never dull. On one occasion my
daughters and I made an expedition up the hills to
the Deserto, from whence one can see the Gulf of
Salerno and the <U+FB01>ne mountains of Calabria. My
daughters rode and l was carried in a poll-tanti'na.
It was <U+FB01>ne, clear, autumnal weather, and I enjoyed
my expedition immensely, nor was I fatigued.
       5         i          I        i         'I'
    In November we returned to Naples, where I
resumed my usual life. Ihad received a copy of
Hamilton’s Lectures on Quaternions from the Rev.
\Vhitewell Elwin.     I am not acquainted with that

             Law to Protect Animals.              363
gentleman, and am the more grateful to him. I have
now a valuable library of scienti<U+FB01>c books and trans
actions of scienti<U+FB01>c societies, the greater part gifts
from the authors.
   Foreigners were so much shocked at the atrocious
cruelty to animals in Italy, that an attempt was
made about eight years ago to induce the Italian
Parliament to pass a law for their protection, but it
failed. As Italy is the only civilized country in
Europe in which animals are not protected by law,
another attempt is now being made ; Ihave willingly
given my name, and I received a kind letter from
the Marchioness of Ely, from Rome, to whom I
had spoken upon the subject at Naples, telling
me that the Princess Margaret, Crown Princess
of Italy, had been induced to head. the petition.
Unless the educated classes take up the cause one
cannot hope for much change for a long time. Our
friend, Mr. Robert Hay, who resided at Rome for
many years, had an old horse of which he was very
fond, and on leaving Rome asked a Roman prince,
who had very large possessions in the Campagna, if
he would allow his old horse to end his days on his
grassy meadows. “ Certainly,” replied the prince,
“ but how can you care what becomes of an animal
when he is no longer of use '4” \Ve English cannot
boast of humanity, however, as long as our sportsmen

364               Mary Somerwlle.
<U+FB01>nd pleasure in shooting down tame pigeons as they
<U+FB02>y terri<U+FB01>ed out of a cage.
                                            A
       i         'l         X»        i          i
   I am now in my 92nd year (1872), still able to
drive out for several hours; I am extremely deaf,
and my memory of ordinary events, and especially
of the names of people, is failing, but not for mathe
matical and scienti<U+FB01>c subjects. I am still able to
read books on the higher algebra for four or <U+FB01>ve
hours in the morning, and even to solve the pro
blems. Sometimes I <U+FB01>nd them di<U+FB02>icult, but my old
obstinacy remains, for if I do not succeed to-day, I
attack them again on the morrow. I also enjoy
reading about all the new discoveries and theories in
the scienti<U+FB01>c world, and on all branches of science.
   Sir Roderick Murchison has passed away,honoured
by all, and of undying fame ; and my amiable friend,
almost my contemporary, Professor Sedgwick, has
been obliged to resign his chair of geology at Cam
bridge, from age, which he had <U+FB01>lled with honour
during a long life.
   [The following letter from her valued friend Professor
 Sedgwick, in 1869, is the last my mother received from
him:—

                Prafessor Sedng'ck.                         365
   FROM PROFESSOR SEDGWICK T0 MRS. SOMERYILLE.
                                  CAMBRIDGE, April 2lst, 1869.
   MY DEAR Mas. SOMERVILLE,
        I heard, when I was in London, that you were
still in good bodily health, and in full fruition of your
great intellectual strength, while breathing the sweet air
of Naples. I had been a close prisoner to my college
rooms through the past winter and spring; but I broke
from my prison-house at the beginning of this month,
that I might consult my oculist, and meet my niece on
her way to Italy. . . . . . . My niece has for many
years (ever since 1840) been my loving companion
during my annual turn of residence as canon of Nor
wich; and she is, and from her childhood has, been to
me as a dear daughter. I know you will forgive me for
my anxiety to hear from a living witness that you are
well and happy in the closing days of your honoured life;
and for my longing desire that my beloved daughter (for
such I ever regard her) should speak to you face to face,
and see (for however short an interview) the Mrs. Somer
ville, of whom I have so often talked with her in terms
 of honest admiration and deep regard. The time for
 the Italian tour is, alas! far too short.  But it will be a
 great gain to each of the party to be allowed, even for a
 short time, to gaze upon the earthly paradise that is
 round about you, and to cast one look over its natural
 wonders and historic monuments. . . . . . . Since you
 were here, my dear and honoured guest, Cambridge is
 greatly changed. I am left here like a vessel on its beam
 ends, to mark the distance to which the current has
 been drifting during a good many bygone years. I have

     . a .._._._. _’§ _  .__ A       . ._
366                      [Mary Some; ville.
outlived nearly all my early friends. Whewell, Master of
Trinity, was the last of the old stock who was living here.
Herschel has not been here for several years. Babbage
was here for a day 01' two during the year before last.
The Astronomer-Royal belongs to a more recent
generation. For many years long attacks of suppressed
gout have made my life very unproductive. I yesterday
dined in Hall. It was the <U+FB01>rst time I was able to meet.
my brother Fellows since last Christmas day. A long
attack of bronchitis, followed by a distressing in<U+FB02>amma
tion of my eyes, had made me a close prisoner for nearly
four months. But, thank God, I am again beginning to be
cheery, and with many in<U+FB01>rmities (the inevitable results
of old age, for I have entered on my 85th year) I am still
strong in general health, and capable of enjoying, I think
as much as ever, the society of those whom I love, be
they young or old. May God preserve and bless you;
and whensoever it may be His will to call you away to
Himself, may your mind be without a cloud and your
heart full of joyful Christian hope !
                       I remain,
                               My dear Friend,
                   Ii‘aithfully and gratefully yom's,
                                             ADAM SEDGWICK.
   After all the violence and bloodshed of the
preceding year, the Thanksgiving of Queen Victoria
and the British nation for the recovery of the Prince
of Wales will form a striking event in European
history. For it was not the congregation in St.

                         Vesuvius.                 367
Paul’s alone, it was the spontaneous gratitude of all
ranks and all faiths throughout the three kingdoms
that were offered up to God that morning; the
people sympathized with their Queen, and no
sovereign more deserves sympathy.
        i'        'I'         'I'     *        <U+FB01>'
   Vesuvius has exhibited a considerable activity
during the winter and early spring, and frequent
streams of lava <U+FB02>owed from the crater, and especially
from the small cone to the north, a little way below
the principal crater. But these streams were small
and intermittent, and no great outbreak was ex
pected. On the 24th April a stream of lava induced
us to drive in the evening to Santa Lucia. The
next night, Thursday, 25th April, my daughter
 Martha, who had been to the theatre, wakened me
that I might see Vesuvius in splendid eruption. This
was at about 1 o’clock on Friday morning. Early
in the morning I was disturbed by what I thought
loud thunder, and when my maid came at 7 am. I
 remarked that there was a thunder storm, but Sllu
 said, “ No, no ; it is the mountain roaring.” It must
 have been very loud for me to hear, considering my
 deafness, and the distance Vesuvius is from Naples,
 yet it was nothing compared to the noise later in
 the day, and for many days after. My daughter,
 who had gone to Santa Lucia to see the eruption

 368              ' Mzry Samara/ilk.
better, soon came to fetch me with our friend Mr.
James Swinton, and we passed the whole day at
windows in an hotel at Santa Lucia, immediately
opposite the mountain. Vesuvius was now in the
<U+FB01>ercest eruption, such as has not occurred in the
memory of this generation, lava over<U+FB02>owing the
principal crater and running in all directions. The
<U+FB01>ery glow of lava is not very visible by daylight _;
smoke and steam is sent off which rises white as
snow, or rather as frosted silver, and the mouth of
the great crater was white with the lava pouring
over it. New craters had burst out the preceding
night, at the very time I was admiring the beauty
of the eruption, little dreaming that, of many people
who had gone up that night to the Atrio del Cavallo
to see the lava (as my daughters had done repeatedly
and especially during the great eruption of 1868),
some forty or <U+FB01>fty had been on the very spot where
the new crater burst out, and perished, scorched to
death by the <U+FB01>ery vapours which eddied from the
fearful chasm. Some were rescued who had been
less near to the chasm, but of these none eventually
recovered.
   Behind the cone rose an immense column of dense
black smoke to more than four times the height of
the mountain, and spread out at the summit hori
zontally, like a pine tree, above the silvery stream

                   Great Eruplz'on.                  369
which poured forth in volumes. There were constant
bursts of <U+FB01>ery projectiles, shooting to an immense
height into the black column of smoke, and tinging
it with a lurid red colour. The fearful rearing and
thundering never ceased for one moment, and the
house shook with the concussion of the air.         One
stream of lava <U+FB02>owed towards Torre del Greco, but
luckily stopped before it reached the cultivated <U+FB01>elds;
others, and the most dangerous ones, since some of
them came from the new craters, poured down the
Atrio del Cavallo, and dividing before reaching the
Observatory <U+FB02>owed to the right and to the left—the
stream which <U+FB02>owed to the north very soon reached
the plain, and before night came on had partially
destroyed the small town of Massa di Somma. One
of the peculiarities of this eruption was the great
<U+FB02>uidity of the lava ; another was the never-ceasing
thundering of the mountain. During that day we ob
served several violent explosions in the great stream
of lava : we thought from the enormous volumes of
black smoke emitted on these occasions that new
craters had burst out—some below the level of the
Observatory ; but that can hardly have been the
case. My daughters at night drove to Portiei,
and went up to the top of a house, where the noise
seems to have been appalling ; but they told me they
did not gain anything by going to Portici. nor
                                               II B

370               Mary Somervz'llc.
did they see the eruption better than I did who
remained at Santa Lucia, for you get too much be
low the mountain on going near. On Sunday, 28th,
I was surprised at the extreme darkness, and on
looking out of window saw men walking with
umbrellas ; Vesuvius was emitting such an enormous
quantity of ashes, or rather <U+FB01>ne black sand, that
neither land, sea, nor sky was visible ; the fall was
a little less dense during the day, but at night
it was worse than ever. Strangers seemed to be
more alarmed at this than at the eruption, and
certainly the constant loud roaring of Vesuvius
was appalling enough amidst the darkness and
gloom of the falling ashes. The railroad was
crowded with both natives and foreigners, escaping ;
on the other hand, crowds came from Rome to see
the eruption. \Ve were not at all afraid, for we con
sidered that the danger was past when so great an
eruption had acted as a kind of safety-valve to the
pent-up vapours. But a silly report got about
that an earthquake was to take place, and many
persons passed the night in driving or walking
about the town, avoiding narrow streets.          The
mountain was quite veiled for some days by vapour
and ashes, but I could see the black smoke and
silvery mass above it. While looking at this, a.
magni<U+FB01>cent column, black as jet, darted with incon

                       .171 .- _-_' 1*:3':             .»w7u=T;-r~<
               E<U+FB02>cts of Ike Eruption.             371
ceivable violence and velocity to an immense height ;
it gave a grand idea of the power that was still in
action in the <U+FB01>ery caverns below.
    Immense injury has been done by this eruption,
and much more would have been done had not the
lava <U+FB02>owed to a great extent over that of 1868.
Still the streams ran through Massa di Somma, San
Sebastiano, and other villt ves scattered about the
country, overwhelming <U+FB01>elds, woods, vineyards, and
houses. The ashes, too, have not only destroyed
this year’s crops, but killed both vines and fruit
trees, so that altogether it has been most disastrous.
Vesuvius was involved in vapour and ashes till far
on in May, and one afternoon at sunset, when all
below was in shade, and only a few silvery threads of
steam were visible, a column of the most beautiful
crimson colour rose from the crater, and <U+FB02>oated in
the air. Many of the small craters still smoked,
one quite at the base of the cone, which is a good
deal changed—it is lower, the small northern cone
has disappeared, and part of the walls of the crater
have fallen in, and there is a <U+FB01>ssure in them through
which smoke or vapour is occasionally emitted.
        I         l            l'          i   I'
    On the 1st J11110 we returned to Sorrento, this
 time to a pretty and cheerful apartment close to the
 sea, where I led very much the same pleasant life as

372               Mary Samervz'l/c.
the year before—busy in the morning with my own
studies, and passing the rest of the day on the
terrace with my daughters, who brought me beauti
ful wild <U+FB02>owers from their excursions over the
country. Many of the <U+FB02>owers they brought were
new to me, and it is a curious fact that some plants
which did not grow in this part of the country a
few years ago are now quite common.          Amongst
others, the Trachelium eoeruleum, a pretty wall-plant,
native of Calabria, and formerly unknown here,
now clothes many an old wall near Naples, and at
Sorrento. The ferns are extremely beautiful here,
Besides those common to England, the Pteris cretica
grows luxuriantly in the damp ravines, as well as
that most beautiful of European ferns, the \Vood—
wardia radicans, whose fronds are often more than
six feet long. The inhabitants of Sorrento are very
superior to the Neapolitans, both in looks and
character; they are cleanly, honest, less cruel to
animals, and have pleasant manners—neither too
familiar nor clinging.    As the road between Sor—
rento and Castellamare was impassable, owing to
the fall of immense masses of rock from the cliffs
above it, we crossed over in the steamer with
our servants and our pet birds, for I now have
a beautiful long-tailed parroquet called Smeraldo,
who is my constant companion and is very familiar

<U+FB02>...,      ._-~..__*._~     .. '..  A. ..__;;_.. .    _
                     Prolea‘z'ou of Birds.              373
 And here I must mention how much I was pleased
 to hear that Mr. Herbert, M.P., has brought in a
 bill to protect land birds, which has been passed in
 Parliament; but I am grieved to <U+FB01>nd that “The
 lark which at Heaven’s gate sings” is thought un
 worthy of man’s protection. Among the numerous
 plans for the education of the young, let us hope
 that mercy may be taught as a part of religion.
         i“           i          i       f!        1
     Though far advanced in years, I take as lively an
 interest as ever in passing events. Iregret that I
 shall not live to know the result of the expedition to
 determine the currents of the ocean, the distance of
 the earth from the sun determined by the transits of
 Venus, and the source of the most renowned of
 rivers, the discovery of which will immortalise the
 name of Dr. Livingstone. But I regret most of all
‘that I shall not see the suppression of the most
 atrocious system of slavery that ever disgraced
 humanity—that made known to the world by Dr.
  Livingstone and by Mr. Stanley, and which Sir
 Bartle Frere has gone to suppress by order of the
  British Government.
         1'          ¥          ‘I       l'        I'
    The Blue Peter has been long <U+FB02>ying at my fore
  mast, and now that I am in my ninety-second year
  Imust soon expect the signal for sailing. It is a

374'               Mary Somerz'z'l/e.
solemn voyage, but it does not disturb my tran
quillity. Deeply sensible of my utter unworthiness,
and profoundly grateful for the irmumerable bless
ings I have received, I trust in the in<U+FB01>nite mercy of
my Almighty Creator. Ihave every reason to be
thankful that my intellect is still unimpaired, and,
although my strength is weakness, my daughters
support my tottering steps, and, by incessant care
and help, make the in<U+FB01>rmities of age so light to me
that I am perfectly happy.
   I HAVE very little more to add to these last words of
my Mother’s Recollections. The preceding pages will
have given the reader some idea—albeit perhaps a very
imperfect one—0f her character and opinions. Only
regarding her feelings on the most sacred of themes, is it '
needful for me to say a few words. My mother was pro
formdly and sincerely religious ; hers was not a religion
of mere forms and doctrines, but a solemn deep-rooted
faith which in<U+FB02>uenced every thought, and regulated every
action of her life. Great love and reverence towards God
was the foundation of this pure faith, which accompanied
her from youth to extreme old age, indeed to her last
moments, which gave her strength to endure many sor
rows, and was the mainspring of that extreme humility
which was so remarkable a feature of her character.
   At a very early age she dared to think for herself, fear

                    Rclégzbus Feclz'qgs.                 37 5
lessly shaking off those doctrines of her early creed which
seemed to her incompatible with the inlutterable goodness
and greatness of God; and through life she adhered to
her simple faith, holding quietly and resolutely to the
ultimate truths of religion, regardless alike of the censure
of bigots or the smiles of sceptics. The theories of
modern science she welcomed as quite in accordance
with her religious opinions. She rejected the notion
of occasional interference by the Creator with His
work, and believed that from the <U+FB01>rst and invariably
He has acted according to a system of harmonious laws,
some of which we are beginning faintly to recognise,
others of which will be discovered in course of time, while
many must remain a mystery to man while he inhabits this
world. It was in her early life that the controversy
raged respecting the incompatibility of the Mosaic ac
count of Creation, the Deluge, &c., with the revelations
of geology. My mother very soon accepted the modern
theories, seeing in them nothing in any way hostile to
true religious belief. It is singular to recall that her
candid avowal of views now so common, caused her
to be publicly censured by name from the pulpit of
York Cathedral. She foresaw the great modi<U+FB01>cations
in opinion which fm-ther discoveries will inevitably
produce; but she foresaw them without doubt or fear.
Her constant prayer was for light and truth, and
its full accomplishment she looked for con<U+FB01>dently in
the life beyond the grave. My mother never discussed
religious subjects in general society; she considered them
far too solemn to be talked of lightly; but with those
near and dear to her, and with very intimate friends,
whose opinion agreed with her own, she spoke freely
and willingly.   Her mind was constantly occupied with

   376                Mary Somervz'lle.
   thoughts on religion; and in her last years especially she
   re<U+FB02>ected much on that future world which she expected
   soon to enter, and lifted her heart still more frequently
   to that good Father whom she had loved so fervently
   all her life, and in whose merciful care she fearlessly
   trusted in her last hour.
      My mother’s old age was a thoroughly happy one. She
   often said that not even in the joyous spring of life had
   she been more truly happy. Serene and cheerful, full
   of life and activity, as far as her physical strength
  permitted, she had none of the in<U+FB01>rmities of age, except
  dif<U+FB01>culty in hearing, which prevented her from joining
  in general conversation. She had always been near
  sighted, but could read small print with the greatest
  ease without glasses, even by lamp-light. To the last her
  intellect remained perfectly unclouded; her a<U+FB01>'ection for
 those she loved, and her sympathy for all living beings,
 as fervent as ever; nor did her ardent desire for and
 belief in the ultimate religious and moral improvement
 of mankind diminish. She always retained her habit of
 study, and that pursuit, inwhich she had attained such ex
 cellence and which was always the most congenial to her,
 —Mathematics——de1ighted and amused her to the end.
 Her last occupations, continued to the actual day of her
 death, were the revision and completion of a treatise,
which she had written years before, on the “ Theory
of Differences” (with diagrams exquisitely drawn), and
the study of a book on Quaternions. Though too
religious to fear death, she dreaded outliving her intel
lectual powers, and it was with intense delight that she
pursued her intricate calculations after her ninetieth
and ninety-<U+FB01>rst years, and repeatedly told me how she
rejoiced to <U+FB01>nd that she had the same readiness and

                          Her Deaf/z.                       377
facility in comprehending and developing these ex
tremely dif<U+FB01>cult formulae which she possessed when young.
Often, also, she said how grateful she was to the
Almighty Father who had allowed her to retain her
faculties unimpaired to so great an age. God was indeed
loving and merciful to her; not only did He spare her
this calamity, but also the weary trial of long-continued
illness. In health of body and vigour of mind, having
lived far beyond the usual span of human life, He called
her to Himself. For her Death lost all its terrors. Her
pure spirit passed away so gently that those around her
scarcely perceived when she left them. It was the beauti
ful and painless close of a noble and a happy life.
   My mother died in sleep on the morning of the 29th
Nov., 1872. Her remains rest in the English Campo
 Santo of Naples.
                             THE END.
            BRADIIURY, AGNEW, & CO,l PRINTERS, WBX‘IIYRIAB.


                                                                          AannAnLr: Srmzer,
                                                                            November, 1873.
                         MR. MURRAY’S
    FORTHCOMING WORKS.
THE NATIONAL MEMORIAL TO THE PRINCE
                   GONSORT AT KENSINGTON.
   ILLUSTRATED by <U+FB01>rst-class Engravings in Line, Mezzotint, Colours, and Wood, of the
Monument, its Architecture, Decorations; Sculptured Groups, Statues, Mosaics, Metal
work, 80., designed and executed by the most eminent British artists; engraved undci'
direction of- LEWIS GRUN ER. With Descriptive Text.
  24 Plates. Folio. 12 Gnincils, half bound. Large Paper (only 50 printed), £15 15s.,
                 half bound ; or Special Copies in full morocco, £18 188.
LIFE AND DEATH OF JOHN OF BARNEVELD.
          INCLUDING THE HISTORY OF THE PRIMARY CAUSES AND
                  MOVEMENTS OF “THE THIRTY YEARS’ \VAR."
                     BY JOHN LOTH ROP MOTLEY, D.C.L.,
                        Author 0! the “ Rise of the Dutch Republic," the.
                            \\'itlilllustmtions.      2vols.    Svo.
THE ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE FIRST OR
    GRENADIER REGIMENT OF FOOT GUARDS,
Fmm Original Documents in the State Paper Otlice, Rolls' Records, War Of<U+FB01>ce, Home
                Guards, Contemporary Histories, and Regimental Records.
        BY    LIEUT.-GEN.      SIR    FREDERICK W.              HAMILTON.       K.C.B.,
                                    Late Grenndler Guards.
                         With many Illustrations.        3 vols.   SW.
                                       ———0
                          A BRIEF MEMOIR OF
       THE PRINCESS CHARLOTTE OF WALES.
     WITH SELECTIONS FROM HER CORRESPONDENCE AND OTHER
                               UNPUBLISHED PAPERS.
                            BY LADY ROSE WEIGALL.
          With an Original Portrait from a Miniature by Stewart.             Post Sve
                                               .—
                 SHADOWS OF A SICK ROOM.
                              Small 8m.       23. (Ed.   (Ready)

2                  MR. MURRA Y’S FOR THCOAIIKG                            WORKS.
                                                 THE
    SPEAKER’S COMMENTARY ON THE BIBLE.
         BY BISHOPS AND CLERGY OF THE ANGLICAN CHURCH.
                              EDITED       BY F. C. COOK,             M.A.,
                                            Canon of Exeter.
   VOL. lV.—JOB, PSALMS, PROVERBS, ECCLESIASTES, SONG OF SOLOMON.
By G. H. S. JOHNSON, M.A., F.R.S., Dean of Wells ;—F. C. COOK, M.A., Canon of
Exeter ;—0. J. ELLIOT, Vicar of Wink<U+FB01>eld ;—-E. H. PLUMVI‘Rl-I, M.A., Prebendary of
St. Paul's ;—W. T. BULLOCK, 1\I.A., Queen's Chaplain at Kensington Palaee;—and.
T. KISGsBL'RY, M.A., Trinity College, Cambridge.
                                       Medium 8vo. (Ready.)
                                                   4——
LECTURES ON THE GEOGRAPHY OF GREECE.
                            BY H. F. TOZER, M.A., F.R.G.S..
             lixclcr 0011., Oxford ; Author of “ Researches in the Highlands of Turkey."
                                          Post 8vo.    (Brady)                           1       ._
       UNIVERSITY SERMONS AT CAMBRIDGE.
                      PREACHED          DURING THE YEARS                 1845—51.
                           BY THE        LATE J. J.          BLUNT,      B.D.,
                                     Margaret Professor of Divinity.
                                      Post SW.      60.    (Ready)
NEW JAPAN; THE LAND OF THE RISING SUN:
    Irs Axmns minim THE PAST Twaxrr Yams; nzconmxo 'rss REMARKABLE
                 PROGRESS or run Jarennsr: IN Wrsrnnn CIVILIZATION.
                                   BY SAMUEL MOSSMAN.
                           Author of “China; its History, Inhabitants, &0."
                                           With Map.       8v0.
                                        THE MOON.
        CONSIDERED AS A PLANET, A WORLD, AND A SATELLITE.
                                BY JAMES NASMYTH, C.E.,
                                                  AND
                               JAMES CARPENTER. F.R.A.S.,
                                 Late of Royal Observatory, Greenwich.
                                   Numerous Illustrations.       4t0.
    A CONCISE DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH
                                        LANGUAGE.
                   8vo. Uniform with “Dr. Wm. Smith’s Dictionaries."
   “ lt is desirable that the present needs of i pact precise information from the best sources.
the average Englishman should be gromditly              and always ready to keep him straight and
Mipplied. He should be provided wit a on-               tirm in handling the most copious, versatile.
vise Dictionary in a single volume, neither too l and powerful language of the modern world."
hoav 'nor too costly, close shorn of super<U+FB02>qu           -—Quarferly Review.
detai and speculative fancy, registenng com- 1
 ’3," A STUDENTS AND SCHOOL-ROOM ENGLISH DICTIONARY.                                         121110.

                  MR. M URRA Y’S FORTHCOMING IVORKS.                                             3
          LITERARY REMAINS OF THE LATE
                     EMANUEL DEUTSOH, D.G.L.
                                              Coxrnnrs.
 The Talmud.                          Semitic Pal-.eography.               Semitic Languages.
 Lectures on the Talmud.              Renan’s “ Les Apdtres."              Samaritan Pentateuch.
 lilam-      '                        Worship of Baalim in Israel.         The angums.
 Egypt, Ancient and Modern.           The CEcumeuicnl Council.             Book of Jasher.
 Hermes Trismefgistus.               Apostolicze Sedis.                    Arabic Poetry.
 Jndeo-Arabic II etaphysics.          Roman Passion Drama.
                                                 8vo.
     THE MINOR WORKS OF GEORGE GROTE.
    WITH CRITICAL REMARKS ON HIS INTELLECTUAL CHARACTER,
                               WRITINGS, AND SPEECHES.
                   BY PROFESSOR ALEXANDER BAIN, LL.D.
                             \Vith Portrait. 8vo. 12s. (Really)
        MEMOIR OF WM. ELLIS, MISSIONARY
                IN THE SOUTH SEAS AND IN MADAGASCAR.
                                         BY HIS SON.
Wm! .w Es'murr: or ms Crunacrsn axn Woax BY Rav. HENRY ALLON, D.D.
                                \Vith Portrait.      8vo.  (Ready)
                                           -—-——0
 ’ PERSONAL REGOLLEGTIONS, FROM EARLY
                            LIFE TO OLD AGE.
                                BY MARY SOMERVILLE.
             WITH SELECTIONS FROM HER CORRESPONDENCE.
                        BY man Darren-ran, MARTHA SOMERVILLE.
                           \I'ith Portrait.    Crown 8vo.      (Ready)
                                                  Q” i.“
     THE EARLY HISTORY OF INSTITUTIONS,
MORE PARTICULARLY AS ILLUSTRATED BY THE IRISH BREl-ION LAW.
                BY    SIR     H. SUMNER           MAINE, K.C.S.I., D.C.L.,
      Corpus Professor oI'Juriapi-udcncc in the University of Oxford, and formerly Reader in
                         Jurisprudcucc and Civil Law at Middle Temple.
                                                8vo.
           scaoomonsr<U+FB01>m THE PEOPLE.
   DIRECTIONS FOR ARRANGING AND BUILDING SCHOOLROOMS, &c.
                                   BY    E. R. ROBSON.
                              Architect to the London School Board.
            CUPIOUSIY illustrated with Plans drawn to scale, 810.          Post 8vu.

4          MR. M URRA Y’S FORTHCOMING WORKS.
SIGNS AND WONDERS IN THE LAND OF HAM.
  A Drscnmrox or THE Tax Pmcrss or Em-rr, \vmr ANCIEST A.\’D Monanx
                       PARALLELB AND ILLUSTRATIONS.
                     BY THOMAS S. MILLI NGTON,
                     Vicar of “'oodhuuse Eaves, Loughborough.
                    With Woodeuts.       Post 8vo.    (Ready)
                                      i._ 7‘4
           THE SECOND AND CONCLUDING VOLUME 0F
     HISTORY OF THE ROYAL ARTILLERY.
                     Compiled from the Original Records.
             BY CAPT.      FRANCIS       DUNCAN,        R.A.,    LL.D.,
                   Superintendent of the Regimental Records.
             “'ith Frontispiece and Index.      SW.    158.   Maddy.)
                                  _-40
                            THE MOSEL :
                 A SERIES OF TWENTY ETCHINGS.
                        “'ith Descriptive Letterpress.
               BY ERNEST GEORGE, ARCHITECT.
                                  Imperial 4m.
     THE MAINTENANCE OF THE CHURCH
OF ENGLAND AS AN ESTABLISHED CHURCH.
    BY REV. CHARLES HOLEY B.A.—REV. R. W. DIXON. M.A.—~
                  AND REV. JULIUS LLOYD, M.A.
               THREE ESSAYS, TO WHICH THE PRIZES
       OFFERED BY HENRY W. PEEK, M.P., WERE AWARDED.
                                       8vo.
                                        ,_
             A SMALL DUUNTRY HOUSE.
A BRIEF PRACTICAL DISCOURSE ON THE PLANNING OF A RESIDENCE
                   TO COST FROM £2000 TO £5000.
                  BY ROBERT KERR. ARCHITECT.
                   Author of “ The English Gentleman‘s Home."
                                      12mo.
                                         .1__
                     A CABINET EDITION OF
    CANON ROBERTSON’S HISTORY OF THE
                    CHRISTIAN CHURCH,
      FROM THE Al'OSTOLIC AGE TO THE IIEFORMATION, 1517.
         To be completed in 8 vols.    Post 8vo.    Vol. 1., Ga.   (Ready)

              MR. MURRA Y’S FORTH COMINC                       IVORKS.            5
      ENGLAND AND RUSSIA IN THE EAST.
  A SERIES OF PAPERS ON THE POLITICAL AND GEOGRAPHICAL
                       CONDITION OF CENTRAL ASIA.
     BY   MAJOR-GEN.        SIR     HENRY        RAWLINSON,       K.C.B.,  F.R.S.
                              Member of the Council of India.
                                   With Map.       8vo.
 PROVERBS OR WORDS OF HUMAN WISDOM.
                 COLLECTED AND ARRANGED BY E. S.
  Wrm A PREFACE BY 'rnc REV. H. P. LIDDON, D.D., Canon of St. Paul's.
                                 Fcap. 8vo.     (Ready)
             PERILS OF THE POLAR SEAS.
          STORIES 0F ARCTIC ADVENTURE FOR CHILDREN.
                              BY MRS. CHISHOLM.
                               Illustrations.   Small 8V0.
         THE NATURALIST IN NICARAGUA.
NARRATIVE or A RESIDENCE AT THE GOLD IIIXE-s‘ or Onoxmuas; Jounssvs IN
    run SAVANNAHS AND Fonss'rs; WIT" Onssuvxrloss 0x AxnlALs AND PLAX'I's
    1x REFEREon TO THE Tnsoav or Evoumoss or LIVING Forms.
                          BY THOMAS BELT, F.G.S.
                            With Illustrations.      Post 8vo.
      MISSIONARY WORK IN EAST AFRICA.
A LETTER To THE ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY.
            BY SIR BARTLE FRERE, G.C.S.I., K.C.B., D.C.L.
                                       Small 8vo.
                                     ._._4_.._
             THE GEOLOGY OF YORKSHIRE.
                               VOL. l.—THE COAST.
                         BY JOHN PHILLIPS, D.C.L.,
                             Professor of Geology at Oxford.
      Ite-cmwtrzwtcd and rc-writtcn.   With many additional Illustrations.  4to.
A DICTIONARY OF CHRISTIAN ANTIQUITIES
                          AND BIOGRAPHY.
FROM THE TIMES OF THE APOSTLES TO THE AGE OF CHARLEMAGNE.
   EDITED BY WM. SMITH, D.C.L., 85 REV. S. CHEETHAM, M.A.
      Medium 8vo.    Uniform with “Dr. Wm. Smith‘s Dictionary of the Bible."

6               MR. MURRAY'S FORTHCOMING WORKS.
                               HORSE-SHOEING ;
                 AS IT IS, AND AS IT SHOULD BE.
                               BY WILLIAM          DOUGLAS,
                                     Late of 10th Hussars.
               With Coloured Plates and Woodcuts.          Post 8vo.   (Ready.)
    The object of this book is to show that Horse-Shoeing is no mystery, and that masters
and owners of horses and grooms may effectually avert injury to the orse and suilering
to the animal, by knowledge of a few simple rules.                                               4\.
             THE TRAVELS or MARCO POLO.
 A new English Version. Illustrated by the Light of Oriental Writers and Modern Travels.
                        BY COLONEL H EN RY YU LE, 0.8.
            Second Edition. With Maps and Plates. 2 Vols. Medium Bvo.
                                         _)~-o
 BRICK AND MARBLE ARCHITECTURE OF THE
                                 MIDDLE AGES.
                      BY GEORGE EDMUND STREET, R.A.
Sncoxn Enmon, wrrn Norns or Teens NORTH or "run Arr-:erxns, mchrch
  Aorrurr, Unlsn, Vrcssza, Fannana, Bonooxa, PIACENZA, Momma, an!) Vn<U+FB01>gznu.
                                                                                      /      7..
                              With Illustrations. Royal 8vo.                         I    _. a
                  Uniform with Street's “ Gothic Architecture of Spain."               " ' ' '
         PRINCIPLES OF GREEK ETYMOLOGY.
             BY PROFESSOR GEORGE CURTIUS, OF LEIPZIG.
                                Translated from the German
           BY A.     S. WILKINS. M.A., AND              E.   B.  ENGLAND, B.A.,
                            Professor: at Owens College, Manchester.
                                              8vo.
                                        —.§__._
                      THE FRENCH PRINCIPIA.
     A Fursr chn Connsa ron SCHOOLS, com-ammo Gunman, DELECTUS,
                             Exzncrsns, Aim Vocannunnas.
                 0n the plan of Dr. William Smith‘s " Principia Latina. "
                                             12mo.
                                         —~ —0
           A MEDIZEVAL LATIN DICTIONARY.
                             Based on the Work of DUCANGE.
       Translated into English and Edited, with many Additions and Corrections,
                              BY E. A.        DAYMAN,        B.D.,
            Prebendary of Snrum, formerly Fellow and Tutor of Exeter College, Oxford.
                                           Small 4to.
               ‘," A Specimen Sheet may he obtained from any Bookseller.
                                                                                   Lg,

                  MR. M URRA Y’S FORTHCOMING                             WORKS.                 7
         HISTORY OF THE MODERN STYLES OF
                                   ARCHITECTURE.
                     BY JAMES           FERGUSSON.            D.C.L.,    F.R.S.,
                         Fellow of the Royal Institute of British Architects.
Forming the Fourth Volume of the New Edition of the “ History of Architecture."
       Second and 1311211300! Edition. With 330 Illustrations. Medium 8vo. (Ready)
       POETIOAL WORKS ORE—LORD HOUGHTON.
                                New Edition.      2 vols.    Fcap. 8vo.
                                 THE THIRD PART OF
           DR. WM. SMITH’S ANCIENT ATLAS.
                                             Com-ems:
'l‘ur. WORLD as KNOWN T0 run Asoins'rs.               His'romcu. MAI-s or Asm Mmon.
IIISPANIA.                                            'l‘nr. Hoar LAsn (Southern Division).
Nonrusnx GREECE.                                      MAP or ASIA, to Illustrate the Old Testa
CENTRAL GREECE.                                             ment and Classical Authors.
                                      Folio. 21s. \Rcady.)
                                           __¢__n
    A MANUAL OF EOCLESIASTICAL HISTORY.
                                  BY PHILIP        SMITH,       B.A.,
                  Author of “The Student’s Old and New Testament Histories."
                                              Post 8vo.
                                           _..__.‘
        MURRAY’S EUROPEAN HANDBOOK FOR
                                      TRAVELLERS.
A CONDENSED GUIDE TO THE CHIEF ROUTES AND MOST IMPORTANT
                              PLACE ON THE CONTINENT.
                                  With Map. 1 Vol. Post 8vo.
THE NATURALIST ON THE RIVER AMAZONS;
     A RECORD OF ADVENTURES, HABITS OF ANIMALS, SKETCHES OF
BRAZILIAN AND INDIAN LIFE, DURING ELEVEN YEARS OF TRAVEL.
                          BY     H E N RY       W.    BAT ES,        F.L.$.,
                           Assistant Secretary Royal Geographical Society.
       A New and Popular Edition, with Illustrations.           Post 8vo.     7.9. 6d. (Really)
           Forming a New Volume of Mr. Murray's Series of “ Choice Travels."
                                           .___°.—_
              MAETZNER’S ENGLISH GRAMMAR.
   A )IE'I‘IIODICAL, ANALYTICAL, AND HISTORICAL TREATISE ON THE ORTIIOGRAI‘IH',
             PROSODY, INFLECTIONS, AND SYNTAX 01“ THE ENGLISH 'I‘ONGUFL
                                TRANSLA'I‘ED FROM THE GERMAN
                           BY     CLAIR        J.   GREOE,         LL.B.,
                                 Member of the Philological Society.
                                           3 Vols.    8vo.

8             MR. M URRA Y’S FORTHCOMING WORKS.
A WORD-BOOK OF THE ROMANY, OR ENGLISH
                        GYPSY LANGUAGE;
With many pieces in GYPSY illustrative of the way of speaking and thinking of the
Excusn GYPSIES;     also SI'ECIMENS of their Pon'rm', and an Account of certain
(insulin, or places inhabited by them, kc.
                             BY GEORGE BORROW.
                          Author of " The Gypsies of Spain," L'c.
                                        Post 8vo.
      A DICTIONARY OF BRITISH HISTORY.
                                      Medium 8vo.
                                     —*~~ o -——
    HUME’S HISTORY OF ENGLAND TO THE
                      REVOLUTION OF 1688.
              NEW EDITION, Analolatal and RCL‘iSCd.               7 Vols.  8vo.
                               METALLURGY ;
                       BY JOHN         PERCY,       M.D.,   F.R.S.,
                 Lecturer on Metallurgy at. the Government School of Mines.
            VOL. I.-—FUEL, WOOD, COAL, COPPER, ZINC, &c.
                       New Edition.     With Illustrations.       8vo.
              BOSWELL'S LIFE OF JOHNSON.
             EDITED BY THE RIGHT HON. J. W. CROKER.
  Wml NOTES BY LonD STOWELL, Sm Wurrm'. Scorr, Sm JAMES MAcxix-rosu 7
                       DIBRAELI, MAnKLAsn, Lou-mum, &c.
                          A new and ravisul Library Edition.
     Prepared by ALEXANDER. NAPIER, M.A., Editor of “ Isaac Barrow’s “'orks,"
                             With Portraits.      4 vols.  8vo.
                                      _-__
               THE HARVEST OF THE SEA.
    INCLUDING SKETCHES OF FISHERIES AND OF FISHER FOLK.
                            BY JAMES G. BERTRAM.
           Third Edition.   With 50 Illustrations. Post 8vo.           9s. (Baldy)
      -ALL_                                        _                        Haws—f

                                                                    ALBEMARLE STREET,
                                                                        November, 1873.
                   MR.            MURRAY’S
NEW WORKS NOW READY.
                                        THE
 SPEAKER’S COMMENTARY ON THE BIBLE.
                      EXPLANATORY AND CRITICAL,
                    WITH A REVISION 0!" THE TRANSLATION
BY BISHOPS AND CLERGY or THE ANGLICAN CHURCH.
           EDITED BY F. C. COOK, M.A., CANON or Exnrsa
                Von. 1.                                       Veis. 2 8a 3.
GENESIS—Eisner or Wmeurs'rsa.                  JOSHUA—Cums Esrm.
“033", s-     .      c °°K “D . REv.           JUDGES, RUTH, SALIUEL—Blsnor or
                                                    BArn AND Warns.
LEVITICUS—an. SAnusr. CLARK.
NUMBERS—CANON Esrm a Rev. J. F.                KINGS, CHRONICLES, EZRA, NEHE.
   Tanurr.                                          MIAH, AND ESTHER—Cues RAw
DEUTERONOMY—CANON Esrm.                             leson.
                                     Medium 8vo.
                     THE LAND OF MOAB.
  TRAVELS AND DISCOVERIES ON THE EAST SIDE OF THE DEAD SEA
                               AND THE JORDAN.
              BY H. B. TRISTRAM, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S.,
             Author of “ The Land of Israel," “ Natural History of the Bible."
      AND A CHAPTER ON THE PERSIAN PALACE OF MASHITA.
                         Br JAMES FERGUSSON, F.R.S.
                     With Map and 40 Plates.        Post 8vo.    15s.
  THE PERSONAL LIFE OF GEORGE GROTE,
                         HISTORIAN OF GREECE.
    Compiled from Family Documents, Private Mcmomndn, and Original Letters
                           to and from Various Friends.
                               BY MRS. GROTE.
                        Second Edition.     Portrait.   8vo.   12a.

10          MR. MURRAY’S NEW WORKS NOW READY.
     THE GEOLOGICAL EVIDENCES OF THE
                        ANTIQUITY OF MAN.
   \VITH AN OUTLINE OF GLACIAL POST-TERTIARY GEOLOGY, AND
                  REMARKS ON THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES,
      WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO MAN’S FIRST APPEARANCE ON THE EARTH.
                       BY SIR CHARLES LYELL, F.R.S.
                  Fan.th Edi/ion, Rcrz'scd.      Illustrations.    Svo.    14s.
    MONOGRAPHS—PERSONAL AND SOCIAL.
                               BY LORD HOUGHTON.
SULEIMAN PASIIA—ALEX. v. Hemaomr—Cannrxm. WissnAx—WALTEI: SAVAGE
    Lassen—Tun BERKYS.—I'I.\ltRIET, LADY Asununrox-Rav. Srnssv Sun-n—
    HEINRICH Hnmn.
                   Sccmld Edition.     Portraits.      Crown 8vo.     10s. 6d.
   THE EASTERN CAUCASUS, THE CASPIAN
                           AND BLACK SEAS.
    DAGHFSTAN, AND THE FRONTIER-S or PERSIA AXE TURKEY I.\' 1871.
       BY LIEUT.-GEN. SIR ARTHUR CUNYNGHAME, K.C.B.
                             Map and Illustrations.        8vo.  188.
THE TONGUE NOT ESSENTIAL TO SPEECH.
         WITH ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE POWER OF SPEECH IN
                THE CASE OF THE AFRICAN CONFESSORS.
                   BY THE HON. EDWARD T\VISLETON.
                                        Post 8vo.      6s.
       LETTERS, LECTURES, AND REVIEWS.
   Incu'mxo THE PHRONTISTERION, on OXFORD 1x THE 19TH CENTURY.
                             BY H. L. MANSEL, D.D.,
      Late Dean of St. Paul's, and Author of “ The Limits of Religious Thought Examined."
                        EDITED nr HENRY W. CHANDLER, M.A.,
                                  Pembroke College, Oxford.
                                          8vo.    1 2.9.

          MR. MURRAY’S NEW WORKS NOW READY.                                              11
               RECORDS OF THE ROCKS;
                                A SERIES OF NOTES ON
 THE GEOLOGY, NATURAL HISTORY, AND ANTIQUITIFS OF NORTH
            AND SOUTH WALES, DEVON, AND CORNWALL.
                     BY REV. W. S. SYMONDS, F.G.S.
                  With numerous Illustrations.         Crown 8vo.       12s.
HISTORY OF THE REIGN OF QUEEN ANNE
 UNTIL THE PEACE OF UTRECHT, 1701—13.
                             BY EARL STANHOPE.
      Cabinet Edition, with Portrait of the Author.         2 Vols.     Post Svo.  10.9.
                       SOCIETY IN FRANCE
    BEFORE THE REVOLUTION OF 1789,
        AND ON THE CAUSES WHICH LED TO THAT EVENT.
                     BY ALEXIS DE TOCQUEVILLE,
                              Member of the French Academy.
                 TRANSLATED Br HENRY REEVE, D.C.L.
            New Edition, containing Additional Chapters.               8ro.   14s.
                        ANCIENT HISTORY,
  FROM THE EARLIEST RECORDS TO THE FALL OF THE WESTERN
                                  EMPIRE, A.D. 1455.
                           BY PHILIP SMITH, B.A.,
           Author of “ Student's Manuals 0! the Old and New Testament History."
                       Fourth Edition.     3 Vols.     8vo.    81.9. 6d.
   HISTORY OF THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH.
                          VOL. 1V., Conrurrrxo 'rua WORK.
    Fno.“ run Dnrrn or Bonn-awe VIII. TO THE Rnronnxnox, 1303—1517.
                   BY J. CRAIGIE ROBERTSON, M.A.,
        Canon of Canterbury, Professor of Ecclealimtieal Hlstory, King‘s COIL, London.
                                         Svo.    18:.

I2           MR. MURRAY’S NEW WORKS NOW READY.
                                                                                         I?
THE LONGEVITY OF MAN; ITS FACTS AND
                               ITS FICTIONS.
  Ixcummu AN ENQUIRY 11m) soul: OF THE mom: REMABKABLE Insuxcm, AXD
     Srunmnoxs FOR. TESTING REI'UTED Cums, ILLUSTRATED BY EXAMPLES.
                      BY WILLIAM J. THOMS, F.S.A.
                              Deputy Lihmrlm, House of Lords.
                                    Post 8vo.    103. 6d.
                 ETRUSCAN INSCRII’TIONS.
            ANALYZED, TRANSLATED, AND COMMENTED UPON.
       BY THE EARL OF CRAWFORD AND BALCARRES,
            Author of “ Lives of the Lindauys,” “ Progression by Antagonism," kc.
                                         8vo.    12s.
                                                       "3?:
AN HISTORICAL ATLAS OF ANCIENT GEO
       GRAPHY—BIBLICAL AND CLASSICAL.
                          Compiled under the snperintendence of
            DR. “’1 LLIAM SMITH and MR. GEORGE GROVE.
                                         Comm:
               PART I.                                            PART II.
THE HOLY LAND. (Northern Division.)              JERL'sALEM. (Ancient and Modern.)
His'romclu.    MAPS      0F    rm:     HOLY      Mn. To Illustrate the New Testament.
    LAxn.                                        Panoroxxnsvs.       With Plan of Spam.
GREEK Axn PllG-INICIAN Commas.                   Snonas AND     ISLANDS or THE dicmx Sm.
GALLIA.                                          Gunmen AT      THE TIME or TIIE Plenum»
ITALIA Summon.                                        xnsmx    WAR.               [LEAfo
ITALIA Isnmon.                                   Gmmca AT       “rm: Tum or THE Acnsux
GREECE AFTER THE Dome chnxnox.                   Humans or nus BABYLONIANS, LYmAxs,
GREECE AT Tm: Tun: or 'mn Pnnsnm                      Manna AND Prnsuxs.
    ‘VAIIS.                                      Enran 0F Amxn'nan 'mz Gin-tn.
       To be completed in Five Parts, with Imch of Reference, Folio, 21;. each.
        RUDE STONE MONUMENTS OF ALL
                                  COUNTRIES:
                               THEIR AGE AND USES.
                 BY JAMES FERCYSSON, D.C.L., F.R.S.,
                           Author of " Tho mm of Ardxibecturc."
                      With 230 Illustrations.      Medium 8vo.      24s.

            MR. MURRAY’S NEW WORKS NOW READY.                                        15}
  A CHARGE DELIVERED TO THE CLERGY
                    AND CHURCHWARDENS
                  A'r rm: GENERAL VISITATION, mm: m 1878.
    BY ARTHUR CHARLES, BISHOP OF BATH AND WELLS.
                                Second b'dz'lion.   8vo.    10.
YARKAND, KASHGAR, AND—THE KARAKORUM
                                         PASS.
           A NARRATIVE OF A JOURNEY TO HIGH TARTARY.
                                BY ROBERT SHAW,
                              British Commissioner In Ladnk.
                       With Maps and Illustrations.         8vo.   16:.
THE LETTERS AND JOURNALS OF THE LATE
                           EARL 0F ELGIN,
                 EDITED BY THEODORE WALROND, GB.
              WITH A PREFACE BY THE DEAN OF WESTMINSTER.
                               Second Edition.    8vo.     14s.
                                  ARISTOTLE.
                         BY GEORGE GROTE, F.R.S.
  Edited by ALEXANDER BAIN, LL.D., and G. CROOM ROBERTSON, MA.
                                    2 Vols.   8vo.    32s.
              MOTTOES FOR MONUMENTS.
A SELECTION OF EPITAPHS FOR GENERAL STUDY AND APPLICATION.
                           BY F. A: M. A. PALLISER.
                Wrrn ILLUSTRATIONS rnou FLAXMAN AND onums.
                                   Crown 8vo.      7s. 6d.
    HISTORY OF THE GALLICAN CHURCH;
  FROM THE CONCORDAT OF BOLOGNA, 1516, TO THE REVOLUTlON.
                                WITH AN INTRODUCTION.
                       BY W. HENLEY JERVIS, 1\I.A.,
         Prebondnry o! Hoyteabury, and Author of tho " Student's History of France."
                          With Portraits.    2Vols.      8vo.   28a.

14           MR. MURRAY’S NEW IVORKS NOW READY.
                                                                               I
     THE EXPRESSION OF THE EMOTIONS
                    IN MAN AND ANIMALS.                                        I
                        BY CHARLES DARWIN, F.R.S.
              Eighth Thousaml.      \Vith Illustrations.    Crown 8vo.   12s.
                   THE HISTORY OF SICILY
  DOWN TO THE ATHENIAN WAR, WITH ELUCIDATIONS OF THE
                           SICILIAN ODES OF PINDAR.
                           BY W. WATKISS LLOYD.
                                 With Map.      8vo.   14s.
                      NOTES OF THOUGHT.
                   BY THE LATE CHARLES BUXTON, M.I’.
   Preceded by a. Biographical Sketch.    By REV. LLEWELLYN DAVIES, M.A.
                            Portrait.   Crown 8vo.      10s. 6d.
     HISTORY OF THE ROYAL ARTILLERY.
               COMPILED FROM THE ORIGINAL RECORDS.
                    BY CAPT. FRANCIS DUNCAN, R.A.,
                         Superintendent of the Regimental Records.
                       With Frontispiece.      Von. I.     8vo.  15s.
     THE HISTORY OF ANCIENT POTTERY,
        EGYPTIAN, ASSYRIAN, GREEK, ETRUSCAN, AND ROMAN.
                     BY SAMUEL BIRCH, LL.D., F.S.A.
         New and Revised Edition.     With coloured Plates and 200 Woodcuts.
                                   Medium 8vo.      42s.
                     Uniform with “Mal'ryat's Modem Pottery."
     AT HOME WITH THE PATAGONIANS.
 A YEAR’S WANDERINGS OVER UNTRODDEN GROUND FROM THE
              STRAITS OF MAGELLAN TO THE RIO NEGRO.
             BY CAPT. G. CHAVVORTH MUSTERS, RN.
           New Edition.    \Vith Map and Illustrations.      Post 8vo. 70. 6d.

        '    MR. MURRAY’S NEW WORKS NOW READY.                                          15
   A
THE INSCRIPTION OF PIANCHI MERAMON,
       KING OF EGYPT IN THE EIGHTH CENTURY no.
                      TRANSLATED Dr F. C. COOK, M.A.,
           Canon of Exctcr, and Editor of the “ Speaker's Commentary on the Bible.“
                                        8vo.     25. 6d.
 HANDBOOK TO THE WELSH CATHEDRALS.
            LLANDAFF, ST. DAVID'S, BANGOR, AND ST. ASAPH.
                                 BY R. J. KING, EA.
                           With Illustrations.       Crown 8vo.     15s.
THE ADMINISTRATIONIOII‘ IIUSTICE UNDER
 '          MILITARY AND MARTIAL LAW.
                             Br CHARLES M. CLODE,
         0f the Inner Temple, Barrister-nt-Law, and Solicitor to the “ War Department."
                                           8vo.    12.9.        ,
HANDBOOK FOR TRAVELLERS IN ALGERIA,
        ALGIERS—CONSTANTINA, ORAN, &c.
    WITH SOME ACCOUNT OF THE CLIMATE, AND ITS FITNESS FOR
                       WINTER RESIDENTS AND INVALIDS.
                              Maps and Plans. Post 8vo. 6s“.
THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON’S CIVIL AND
               POLITICAL CORRESPONDENCE.
                      (IN CONTINUATION or TIII-z FORMER SERIES.)
                   V0L. V.      SEPTEMBER, 1828, to Jose, 1829.
                                  EDITED BY ms SON.
                                            8vo.    20.x.
                        NOTES ON BANKING.
      IN GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND, SWEDEN, DENMARK, AND
                                          HAMBURG,
    WITH SOME REMARKS ON THE AMOUNT OF BILL-'4 IN CIRCULATION, BOTH ISLAND
                                         AND FOREIGN.
                          BY R. H. IN GLIS PALGRAVE,
                    Member of the Council of the Statistical Society 0! London.
                                             8vo.    6s.

 16           MB. MURRAY’S NEW WORKS NOW READY.
 HANDBOOK FOR TRAVELLERS IN SCOTLAND, ' ‘
 EDINBURGH. MELROSE, ABBOTSFORD, GLASGOW, DUMFRIES, GALLO\VAY,
     AYR, STIRLING, ARRAN, THE CLYDE, OBAN, INVERARY, LOCH LO
     MOND, LOCH KATRINE A: TROSACHS, CALEDONIAN CANAL, INVER
     NFSS, PERTH, DUNDEE, ABERDEEN, BRAEMAR, SKYE, CAITHNFSS,
     ROSS, AND SUTHERLAND.
           New and cntirely revised Edz'timz.     Maps and Plans.        Post 8vo.   98.
RESULTS OF CHRISTIAN MISSIONS IN INDIA.
            BY SIR BARTLE FRERE, G.C.S.I., K.C.B., D.C.L.,
         Member of the Council of India, and President of the Royal Geographical Society.
                           Sede Edilz'on.       Small Eve.     2!. 6d.
THE CONSTITUTION AND THE PRACTICE OF
                           COURTS MARTIAL,
   With a. Suunnary of the Law of Evidence, and some Notice of the Criminal Law of
                  England with reference to the Trial of Civil Offences.
                      BY CAPT. T. F. SIMMONS, B.A.,
                               Formerly Deputy Judgo Advocate.
                        Sith Editimz, revised to 1873.       SW.     16s.
     HANDBOOK FOR TRAVELLERS ON THE
                                   CONTINENT.
PART I.—HOLLAND, BELGIUM, RHENISH PRUSSIA, AND THE RHINE UP
                                       TO MAYENCE.
  Portable Edilion, Revised. On thin paper. With Maps and Plans.                Post 8vo.  68.
THE HANDBOOK FOR TRAVELLERS ON THE
                                   CONTINENT.
PART II.-—NORTH GERMANY, PRUSSIA, SAXONY, HANOVER, AND THE
                RHINE FROM MAYENGE TO SWITZERLAND.
      Portable Edition.   With Maps and Plans.         Post 8vo.     6s.   (Nearly rchdy.)
                       IRADBURY, onnw, & co., PRIN‘I‘ERS, wan-"mum.




                                                                                    V   .
                               ‘                . \,                                        D                 (n
                                                      -    a     ‘    ‘           '                   ‘
                                                       \                                          "
                                                                                                             “
                                      '.               2° .                 A                         ,         u
                           ' ‘        ' " 'u        -                   ' “I                  .'u   .    v
                                                                                                      —~ _ hi!
                                 |
                    .‘ H "kg-ilk,»          v                  0          :   'IV                   <U+FB01>r:    ‘      ‘
                                                                                                  l
                                                                                                                      , i. 1.‘TIWIW
                                                                                    \
                                                                                  h r
                                                                    ‘. L .‘W'             '
' ;.' 'a'm— "WI- r<ms4wdw<U+FB02>l=ni “‘2.” \rn‘nnqulnwn-hh-<U+FB01>-MW-M                                                         “
             . ,x"'    mm
                         1%“              “1'
                                                      am?v
                                                          .7
                                                                 l"“‘
                        ‘ Qw- Mj. . "
            W_<U+FB02>lMiu-
                                         ¢,,1¥4,‘j‘¢’q;';.h '
                                              I»      w .-;
                                   ’      ‘     I            l   .‘V                  '
                                     °$§<U+FB01>§1'm;-‘:v W ..
                                                  .   .3“      >"-“I?~‘“|

