Life and letters of James David Forbes, F.R.S., D.C.L., LL. D., late
principal of the United college in the University of St. Andrews ...
By John Campbell Shairp ... Peter Guthrie Tait ... and A. Adams-Reilly
...

Shairp, J. C. (J. Campbell)
London, Macmillan and co., 1873.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.b3613878

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
                   I

.> _ i ; ) -.  :.'.»              <:>.

                       \'

                              i»
1~t.t·'..*i'/.-C .I''- 'fr-*1*X*71·
                LIFE AND LETTERS OF

JAMES DAVID FORBES, F.R

                                                                                    D.C.L., LL.D.,
                            LATE PRINCIPAL OF THE UNITED COLLEGE IN THE UNIVERSITY OF IT. ANDREW*,
                 SOMETIME PROFfSSOR OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBlltOH,

                                                                      FORMERLY SECRETARY R.R.E.,
                                              CORRESPONDING MEMBER OF THE INSTITUTE OF FRANCE,

                                                                                    ETC. ETC. ETC.

            By JOHN CAMPBELL SHAIRP, LL.D.,

                                 Principal of the United College of the University of St. Andrews,

                   PETER GUTHRIE TAIT, M.A.,

                             Pro/essot of Natural Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh,
                                                                               AND

                    A. ADAMS-REILLY, F.R.G.S.

                      WITH PORTRAITS, MAP, AND ILLUSTRATIONS.

                                                  Hon&on :

                  MACMILLAN AND CO.

                                                            1873.

                            [The Right of Translation and Reproduction is reserved.]
                                      Q

                                                        143

                    PREFACE.

This biography is the work of three writers, each
working separately and, in a great measure, inde
pendently of the other two. This subdivision of labour

has, I am aware, serious drawbacks, and would not

have been resorted to, had any one person been found
who could have undertaken adequately to describe the
various aspects of Forbes' life and work. But, in

default of a writer who could do this, it was thought

better to portion out the work to three writers>

than to have it inadequately done by one. No doubt
the book has in this way lost something in symmetry,
but it is hoped that it may have gained more in

thoroughness and completeness.

   In thinking over Forbes' life and work, these natu

rally appeared in several aspects, all harmoniously com
bined, yet each distinct in itself. There was his work
as a scientific investigator and discoverer ; his work

                                                               b
vi PREFACE

as an Alpine explorer, and, as far as Britain is con
cerned, the father of Alpine adventure ; his work as a
professor and a university reformer ; lastly, his character
as a man. In this last aspect he was no less worthy of
regard than in his other and more public capacities.

    1. The description and estimate of Forbes in the first
of these aspects has been undertaken by one who was
his student, and is his successor in the Natural Phi
losophy chair of Edinburgh University, Professor P. G.
Tait. The chapters headed ' Forbes' Scientific Work '
are from his pen. Before writing them, however, he
had the advantage of discussing the whole subject fully
and frequently with his friend and Forbes' friend, Sir
 William Thomson of Glasgow University, who has also,
 after these chapters were in proof, carefully gone over
 them and weighed their contents. Every statement
 which they contain may therefore be regarded as not
 merely proceeding from Professor Tait, but as en
 dorsed by Sir William Thomson -- a double guarantee
 for accuracy, which in delicate matters of discovery is
 of high value.

     2. The description of Forbes' travels and labours
 among the Alps is written by Mr. A. Adams-Reilly,
 himself a well-known Alpine traveller, whose conver
 sation and letters on his favourite subjects were to
 Forbes, in his later years, like a renewal of his own
PUE FACE.                                                            vii

youth, and to whose achievements, as an explorer and
surveyor of the Alps, Forbes in his letters bears so
strong a testimony. Mr. Reilly has, with much toil
and ingenuity, made Forbes' journal, letters, and
jottings in a great measure tell their own story. The
map of the Mer de Glace here given has been done
under Mr. Reilly's eye and guidance.

   3. It has fallen to my share to give some account of

Forbes' early life, his professoriate, and his later years

at St. Andrews. It would have been well, if this

could have been done by some one whose friendship with
Forbes dated from at least his vigorous prime, for my
acquaintance with him began only with his arrival in
St. Andrews. Once begun, however, it soon became

intimate and friendly. Though this late beginning of

Iintercourse has been, no doubt, a disadvantage, yet do
not feel as if I had been a stranger to him even before

our acquaintance commenced : so familiar to me were

the scenes and some of the persons that surrounded

Forbes' earlier years.

   Of this tripartite work Chapters XIV. and XV. have
been written by Professor Tait; Chapters VIII. , IX.,
and X. by Mr. Adams-Reilly ; and Chapters II., III.,
IV., V., VI., VII., XL, XII., and XIII. by me. Each

writer responsible for that part which he himself has
is
                                                                I.,

written or put together, and for that alone.
 viii PREFACE.,

  As far as possible, I have tried to carry on the narra

tive by means of the copious letters and journals which
Forbes left. And here let me state how large a share of
the necessary labour Mrs. Forbes has taken on herself.
She has selected, extracted, copied, and in many cases
re-copied, all those portions which are here given from
her husband's vast and methodically-preserved corre
spondence. Indeed, but for her untiring exertions in

this way, I could never have overtaken my part of the

 task.

    Our best thanks are due to those pupils and friends of
 Forbes who have furnished letters conveying their recol
 lections of him, or have forwarded letters of his which

Ithey had preserved. Among these would offer special

 thanks to the Rev. Professor Kelland for the full account
 which he kindly supplied of Forbes' work in Edin
 burgh University.

     With these remarks this Preface might have ended.

 It had been our hope that we might have been allowed to

 tell our story, without reverting to controversies which,
 we had thought, had been long since extinguished.
 But after most of these sheets were in the press, a book
 appeared, in which many of the old charges against

 Principal Forbes in the matter of the glaciers, were, if

  not openly repeated, at least not obscurely indicated.
 Neither the interests of truth, nor justice to the dead,
                                              PREFACE.

 could suffer such remarks to pass unchallenged. How

it has been thought best for the present to meet them I

 must leave my friend and fellow-labourer Professor Tait
 to tell. Without pretending to judge of the details of
 controverted questions which belong to a field of study

I Iwith which am unfamiliar, desire here to express the

absolute faith which I, in common with all who really
knew Forbes, have in his scrupulous and chivalrous
honour, as well in every other matter, as in doing justice
to the claims of previous discoverers. Since the subject
has been re-opened, it is well that it should be sifted to
the bottom. The claims of Forbes we will gladly leave
to the verdict of those who are competent and impartial
judges, in fall confidence that --

                            ' Whatever record leap to light,
                              He never shall be shamed.'

                                                J. C. SHAIRP.

   St. Salvatok's College, St. Andrews,
                      February Slh, 1873.
                      CONTENTS.

                      CHAPTER I.

ARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD                                                                       PA«R
                                                                                                  1
YOUTHFUL TRAVELS      CHAPTER II.
COLLEGE COURSE                                                                     20
                      CHAPTER IIL
                                                 ....... 37
                                    CHAPTER IV.
                                                                                        54
CHOICE OP A PROFESSION, 1830
                                                                                        !)3
                      CHAPTER V.
                                                                                      112
PROFESSORIAL LIFE
                                                                    .' . . 160
                                    CHAPTER VI.
professorial life (continued)

...MARRIED LIFE       CHAPTER VII.
xii CONTENTS.

                         CHAPTER VIII.                                           paob

travels, 1826--1839                                                              209
                                                                                 256
                                    CHAPTER IX.
                                                                                  296
ALPINE TRAvELS, 1841--1842                                                       353
                                                                                 394
                                    CHAPTER X.                                  438
                                                                                457
ALPINE TRAvELS, 1843--1851                                                    . 492

                         CHAPTER XL

FAILURE OF HEALTh

                         CHAPTER XII.

LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS

                         CHAPTER XIII.

ThE CLOSE

                         CHAPTER XIV.

FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK                          _

FORBES' CONTRIBUTIONS       CHAPTER XV.

                       TO OCR KNOWLEDGE OF GLACIERS

                         APPENDIX A.

REPLY TO PROFESSOR     TYNDALL'S REMARKS,        IN hIS   WO' TRhKe"o' ROINE  ThE
     GLACIERS OF ThE   ALPS,' RELATING TO        RENDU'S
      GLACIERS '                                                              DES

                                                                                   521

                         APPENDIX B.

hISTORICAL REMARKS ON ThE FIRST DISCOvERY OK THE REAL STRUC
TURE OF GLACIER ICE
                                                                                   64
                      LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.                      xiii

                         APPENDIX C.                              rial

Al'OUSTE BALHAT                                                    562

                                    APPENDIX D.                    667

LIST OF PRINCIPAL FORBES' SCIKNTIFIC WRITINGS

                 LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

PORTRAIT OF J. D. FORBES              ....                          MOB
      ,, ,, ,, (aged two years)
                                                    Front.

                                                 Vignette.

PORTRAIT OF LADY FORBES                                           4

PORTRAIT OF SIR WILLIAM FOKDK-)                                   3b

THE MER DE OLACE DE C1IAMOUNIX                                    274

ThE "DIRT BANDS" OF ThE MER DE GLACE                              284

DTSART COTTAGE, PITI.OCHRIE                                       364

ChArEL AND SPIRE OF ST. SALvATOR's COLLEOE, ST. ANDREWS  . . 404

MAr. -- MER DE GLACE                                     At end.
                                 ERRATA.

Page 143,   line   5,   for   ' Albyne' read ' Altyre.'
                    2,        ' Collinton ' read ' Colinton.'
  ,, 224,    ,,   35,    ,,   '  less ' read '
  ,, 243,     ,,  19,            Switzerland    more.'                    read  '  Switzer
   ,, 258,   ,,           ,,  '                  elsewhere,'
                         ,,
                                 thlraonudghoorute)l,sefwohre'reV.o' ght
,,,,        ,,    29 (and                                                 ' read
                                   <Vogt.'
,, 259, last line (and thr' oAubgshcohuwtu),ng'.'Abswung ' read
,, 376, line 29, for ' Pelroux ' read ' Pelvoux.'
THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.
                 THE LIFE OF

JAMES DAVID FORBES.

                 CHAPTER I.

                 PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD.

James David Forbes, the youngest child of Sir William
Forbes of Pitsligo and Willianiina Belches or Stuart,
was born in his father's town-house, 86, George Street,
Edinburgh, on the 20th April, 1809.

Each of his parents belonged to an ancient Scottish race.
The Forbeses of Monymusk and Pitsligo, in Aberdeen
shire, of whom his father was the lineal representative,
are an offshoot from the Lords Forbes, the chiefs of the
                                                                      ' Baronage,'
House   oBfurFkoer,beIs.findOnthatturtnheingsectoonDd ouBgalraosn's  Forbes, who
and to

died about 1460, had a second son, Duncan Forbes of

Corsindie, who was the ancestor of the Forbeses of
Monymusk and Pitsligo. A grandson of this Duncan,
also named Duncan, was the first of his name who got

a charter of the Lnds of Monymusk, from which his
descendants for generations took their designation.
William, the son and heir of Duncan, the first laird

of Monymusk, married Lady Margaret Douglas, a
daughter of the powerful House of Angus ; and. their
son and heir, William, was in 1626 created a Nova

Scotia Baronet.

                 B
                          4
2  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

   The great-great-grandson of the first Baronet of Mony-
musk, John Forbes, married Mary Forbes, daughter of
Alexander Lord Pitsligo, through whom, on the failure of
the male line of Pitsligo in 1781, her descendants became
nearest heirs and representatives of that noble and

attainted House.

   John Forbes, however, died before his father, and

therefore never succeeded to the Baronetcy ; but the

grandson of John was the Sir William Forbes, who

by his energy and character raised the family to an

eminence which it had never before attained. Sir
William was the grandfather of James David Forbes,
whose life the following pages will attempt to describe.

   The father of Sir William had married a lady of
his own kindred and name, and died early, leaving
his family young and poor. Left thus, while still a
boy, the young Sir William migrated with his widowed
mother from Aberdeenshire to Edinburgh, and there took

to banking ; in which business he showed such energy
and enterprise, that he in time founded the well-known
banking-house in Parliament Square, which long bore
his name. His birth and circumstances combined the

conditions of the two extremes of society-- the high
bearing of an old race with that discipline of poverty
and thrifty training which belong to the humblest. And

perhaps no circumstances are more fitted to form an
energetic and noble character. Sir William not only
succeeded in restoring the decayed fortunes of his family,
but was known as one of the most influential and bene
ficent men of Scotland in his day. His high character
and well-used influence are not even yet forgotten in
Edinburgh and in the South of Scotland.

   His paternal grandmother was, as has been said, a
daughter of one of the attainted Lords of Pitsligo, famous
for the part they took and the sufferings they endured in the
'15 and the '45. On the failure of the male line of Pitsligo
in 1781, Sir William, as we have seen, in right of his
grandmother became representative of that ancient Jacobite
House, and was henceforth known as Sir William Forbes
        PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD.                                             3

of Pitsligo. The Jacobite blood in their veins was visi
ble in Sir William and every one of his descendants, and
coloured all their views and feelings on matters of Church
and State. Old Tory and strong Episcopalian principles
were part of the family inheritance. These old-world

views, however, did not interfere either with Sir
William's business talent, the fascination of his manners,
or the warmth of his heart.

Sir Walter Scott makes feeling allusion to Sir William,
immediately after his death, in the Introductory Epistle to
the  Fourth Canto of '
one  of his sons-in-law.  MaTrhmeiopna,'ssawgheicbhegwinasninagdd--ressed  to

     '  Far may            we search, before we  find

        A heart           so manly and so kind   '--

is by no means in Scott's most finished style, but it
contains a fine tribute of gratitude and affection. In
the Notes he speaks of Sir William Forbes as a man
'unequalled, perhaps, in the degree of individual affec
tion entertained for him by his friends, as well as in the
general respect and esteem of Scotland at large. His
"Life of Beattie," whom he befriended and patronized
in life, as well as celebrated after his decease, was not

long published before the benevolent and affectionate
biographer was called to follow the subject of his
narrative.'

    The second Sir William was like the first in all but

this : that the father had made by his own exertions the
fortune and position which the son worthily upheld and
used. Of this gentleman, much as he was beloved and
looked up to by the more intimate circle of relatives

and friends, that which the world will now most care to
remember is his lifelong friendship with Sir Walter Scott,
and the strange way in which their fortunes were inter
twined. Walter Scott and William Forbes had known
each other in boyhood ; in opening manhood they had,
with a number of other comrades, helped to raise a corps
of volunteer cavalry, and both served together in what,
from Scott's record of must have been very jovial
                          it,

                              B
                                   2

                                                                a

                                                                               S
4       TEE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                       [chap.

company. But just before this the paths of these two
had crossed in a more delicate and tender region. Most
readers of Lockhart's ' Life of Scott ' will remember the
allusions it contains to a ' first love,' which ended un

fortunately for the poet. It is there told how the
acquaintance began in the Greyfriars Churchyard, where
rain happening to fall one Sunday after church-time,
Scott offered his umbrella to a young lady, and the tender

having been accepted, escorted her to her home, which
proved to be at no great distance from his own. To
return from church together had, it seems,                 into
something like a custom, before they met in       grown
                                                 society.    It
then appeared that the mothers of the two young people,
Lady Jane Stuart and Mrs. Scott, had been companions
in their youth, though, both living secludedly, they had

scarcely seen each other for many years. The two ma
trons now renewed their former intercourse. For long
years Scott nourished this dream, but it was doomed
        in disappointment.       ' The lady/ we        taoldri,va' lp, r--e
to end  a friend of Scott's,  who was in this    are
ferred                                           also

a gentleman of the highest character, to whom some
affectionate allusions occur in one of the greatest of the
poet's works, and who lived to act the part of a most

generous friend to Scott throughout the anxieties and
distresses of 1826 and 1827.' That lady was Williamina
Belches, sole child and heir of a gentleman, who was a
cadet of the ancient family of Invermay, and who after
wards became Sir John Stuart of Fettercairn. The more

fortunate rival was Sir William Forbes, who married the

lady whom Scott so loved. The youngest child of this mar
riage was James David, whose life is here to be recorded.
Lockhart adds that he has no doubt that this deep dis
appointment had a powerful influence in nerving Scott's

mind to face steadily and perseveringly those legal studies
which were to fit him for being called to the bar. Perhaps
it may have had this effect. More subtle observers have
traced to it another result deeper and more lasting.
Keble in a beautiful easay on Scott more than hints a
belief that it was this imaginative regret haunting Scott
. -t--, 1.-1-, .. » i,, .(-. ·-.. _*, .,.·

          PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD.                                           5

all his life long which became the true well-spring of
his inspiration in all his minstrelsy and romance. And

there is evidence to prove that Keble divined aright.
Certainly there is a purity and elevation in Scott's con
ceptions of female character which would well accord
with such an experience idealized. One instance more of
the old truth that poets

          ' Learn in suffering what they teach in song.'

However this may have been, it is certain that the suc
cess of his rival made no break in Scott's friendship with
Forbes. Immediately after Sir William's marriage with
Miss Belches Stuart, we find him serving along with Scott
in that band of mounted volunteers which counted on its

roll most of Scott's most intimate friends. This was in

1797, when Scott was yet an unknown man. About thirty
years afterwards, when Scott's fame was at the full and his

pdcaoalerlekt'ds,d--adyitashrehya:ds--amb1ee8g2u6kn,i,ndJt,ahnehuofaonrleylostw2ifn0rg,ien'SdeniratrsieWesvileloirac, c--murwFiintohrbtahelesl

offers of assistance..' Again, January 26, ' Sir William

Forbes took the chair, and behaved as he has ever done,

with the generosity  oSfiranWciiellniatmfaiathndanI dnoetarblyornfreienadsshhaipre.
In what scenes have
tdoegeepthedr,ri--nkdinegspemraattechaens,d--alamnodstfinbalololyd,y
                                                                       affrays, rivalries,
                                                                      with the kindest

feelings on both sides, somewhat separated by his retiring
much within the bosom of his family and T moving little
beyond mine ! It is fated our planets should
                                                                           crDososw, na--nd
that  at  the periods most    interesting  for                        me.
down      a hundred thoughts
      --                          '

                                !

Farther on in Lockhart's Life we read : ' Sir William

Forbes, whose banking-house was one of Ballantyne's

chief creditors, crowned his generous efforts for Scott's
relief by privately paying the whole of Abud's demand
(nearly £2,000) out of his own pocket, ranking as an

ordinary creditor for the amount, and taking care at

the same time that his old friend should be allowed to

believe that the affair had merged quietly in the general
6             THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                         [chap.

affairs of the trustees. It was not until some time after
Sir William's death that Sir Walter learned, what he had

done on this occasion.'

   In a letter dated Abbotsford, October 28, 1828, Scott

on hearing of the death of his early friend thus writes :
' Your letter brought me the afflicting intelligence
Iof the death of our early and beloved friend Sir William.

   had little else to expect from the state of health in
         thdheoaetswIanssohtwahldleimnneinvIiesrhlassetethsheaiwmpahiminmore;w. ibtuhtHwethhaiwctahsciIarcmnuomawn
which
stance
reflect

who from his habits could not be intimately known to
many, although everything which he did partook of

that high feeling and generosity which               belongs       pIefrehealpsI
to a better age than that we live in.
                                                     In him

have sustained   aanlodssifwIhiclohoknobaacftkertoyetahres  of my life can
fill up to me ;                                             gay and happy
hours of youth, they must be filled with recollections of
our departed friend. In the whole course of life our

friendship has been uninterrupted, as his kindness has
been unwearied. Even the last time I
changed from what I knew him), he came                      saw him (so
                                                            to town when

he was fitter to have kept his room, merely because he

could be of use to some affairs of mine. It is most
melancholy to reflect that the life of a man whose

principles were so excellent, and his heart so affectionate,
should have in                   of external prosperity been
                 the      midst   say shortened, by domestic
darkened, and I  fear
                          I may
affliction. But those whom He loveth He chasteneth.'

And then follow some reflections on the thought of

meeting departed friends hereafter, more serious than

Scott generally indulged in.     as far       as  I         know,  made  by
   There is but one allusion,

Sir Walter Scott to the lady who became Lady Forbes.
It occurs in his diary about a year before the above letter
regarding Sir William was written. In July 1827, Sir
Walter, while on a visit in the neighbourhood, drove
over  to St.  Andrews,    not                 seen it for many years.
And   thus    he notices  it :  h' aIvdinidg
                                              not go up to St. Rule's
i.]          PARENTAGE AND BOTHOOD.                                        a7

Tower, as on former occasions this                       falling off, for
             I                                        is
                                                          a
                              ?                                   a

                           II :
...when before did remain sitting below when there was
steeple to be ascended         sat down on gravestone
and recollected the first visit made to St. Andrews,

now thirty years ago.   What changes in               !m--ysofemeelinfgosr and
my fortunes have since  then taken place                                   the

better, many for the worse.       remembered the name
             it                                                            I

                               I
then carved in Runic characters beside the castle gate, and
             should still agitate my heart. But my
asked why

friends came down from the tower, and the foolish idea

was chased away.' What name that was may easily be

divined. An old sexton still lives who remembers that

day, and points to the spot within the roofless Tower
of St. Rule where Sir Walter sat on stone, with
             a
                                           a

                                                                      a

                                                                                                             '

                                                                                            a
rough hairy cap on his head.'
   The above extracts contain incidents and allusions of

so private nature that scruples might have been felt
about noticing them here, had they not already been

made public, in so famous biography.
   The marriage of Sir William Forbes with Williamina

Belches or Stuart took place on 19th January, 1797.
Their family consisted of four sons and two daughters,
and of these James David was the youngest child. The
following pleasing record of his childhood and early
years was written by Miss Forbes, the last survivor of

the family.

Miss Forbes's Sketch         her Brother's early Life.
                        of

                                                   ;
   He was born 20th April, 1809, at 86, George Street,
Edinburgh. Though Colinton House, within four miles
of Edinburgh, was the usual home of the family, his
mother had been recommended to remove into town for
the winter, on account of her health and before the end
of the year she was ordered by her physician to Lymp-
stone near Exeter, and was accompanied by Sir William
and their infant son, the rest of the family being left
at home. They took with them from Scotland two
faithful attendants, for whom their young charge ever
8  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

retained the most tender regard,--his mother's favourite

maid and his own nurse, Lizzie Jervis, a remarkable

woman in her way ; of the old Scotch type, stately and
reserved, strict and conscientious, one who never went
out to walk without her small, well-worn Bible in her

pocket.

   Writing to her daughter, his mother says : 'Dear James
is a sweet, thriving, merry pet ;' and again : ' He is

really the dearest and the best baby you ever saw.'
    But he was never to be conscious of the blessing of

such a mother's love and care. She died 5th December,

1810, when he was little more than a year and a half
old. But though too young to know his irreparable
loss, or to retain the slightest recollection of that
lovely spot where his mother died, he never ceased
to regard it with a sacred and almost romantic vene
ration. Witness the pilgrimage made to Lympstone
in his twenty-sixth year, so touchingly described in
a letter to his sister, which few could read unmoved.
An intense sensibility to the associations of the past, a
clinging fondness for the scenes of his youth and the
memories of his early days, were among his most
amiable and abiding qualities. Little relics, which many
men would have despised as childish, were preserved by
him with a loving appreciation of the value once attached
to them. And this taste for the simplest and most
innocent pleasures he retained unimpaired to the last.

    The return to Colinton House was melancholy in the
extreme to the bereaved husband, and such of his family
as could sympathise, young as they were, in the over
 whelming sorrow that clouded his life even to its last

 day.
    Under these circumstances, that fair young face and

joyous spirit seemed sent to brighten the nursery like a
 sunbeam. His father idolized him as the last precious
 legacy of a beloved wife ; while his two sisters and three
 elder brothers welcomed him home as the cherished
 Benjamin of the family : no shade of jealousy was ever
 awakened by the peculiar place he held in his father's
                  PAREiSTAGE AND BOYHOOD.
I.]                                                         ; it 9

               it
                              by
                            it
affections; was his acknowledged right, and was secured

to him by the gentle sweetness of disposition that re

mained unspoiled                  all.

After this sad year Colinton, charming residence as

was, was rather endured than enjoyed by its owner
endured for the sake of his children, who found health

and freedom in its airy situation, and endless amusement
among the beautiful wooded banks of the water of Leith.

Never were these days forgotten.
   Sir William's health suffered at this time so severely

from the painful associations connected with his home,
that his friends anxiously pressed the necessity of
                                        a
                                                   a

                                                                      a
change of scene, and his sister Mrs. Skene at length
succeeded in persuading him to spend few weeks of the
summer with his children at Invercanny, quiet spot
in lovely country near Inverye on Deeside, where his
a
               a
sister and her husband then resided with their family.
This led to visit to his own paternal property, Pitsligo,
in Aberdeenshire, where the natural tone of feeling was
in some degree restored, by the interest awakened in the
wants of his tenants, and the improvements on the estate.
   This summer (1811) was rendered memorable by the
appearance of the far-famed comet, which no one who
ever saw can forget. Its sojourn was long, and night

after night was the infant philosopher danced at the
window, in full view of the glorious phenomenon, its
splendid tail seeming to sweep across quarter of the
heavens. His brothers and sisters pleased themselves ina
after years with the fanciful imagination, that some
                                                        ;
secret inspiration was thus communicated which never
                                                         a
lost its influence, but continued ever after to lend an

irresistible attraction to the study of the heavens.

These visits to Pitsligo were repeated for many suc

cessive summers with the best effects on the whole

family, and among its moors and mosses and simple
rural population the younger branches enjoyed liberty

admirably calculated to promote health and indepen
dence. Nor did young James fall behind his elder
brothers, in the feats of those happy holidays creating
10  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

miniature waterfalls, damming burns, and leaping drains,
little less formidable in proportion to bis size than the
glacier crevasses in after years. Meanwhile his early
education was carried on along with that of his brother
Charles (nearly three years older) in the school-room at
Colinton, under the care of their sisters' governess, who
had acted a mother's part by them all, ever since the
loss of their own ; and when arrived at the age of man

hood he never forgot what he owed her. A keen sense

of gratitude and a tenacious memory of past kindnesses
were marked features in his character. And there was
little in the recollection of his childhood to mar those

pleasing impressions. Gentle and docile, he was seldom
in fault ; and that inborn love of truth, perhaps his most
distinguishing moral characteristic through life, was con
spicuous from earliest infancy. No childish excuse or
prevarication ever passed his lips ; in the minutest
detail he was accuracy itself; James's word was never

questioned.

   His brother Charles and he shared the same lessons

and the same sports. They were not brothers only, but
bosom friends, scarcely ever parted for a day, till the
marriage of the elder of the two ; and even then the tie
remained unbroken till severed by death. They both
acquired the rudiments of their classical education from
the village schoolmaster, Mr. Hunter, the simple warm
hearted tutor, who afterwards gloried in having had the
smallest share in the instruction of such a pupil.

   Many were the early indications of the bent of his
future genius, such as keeping, while quite a child, a
constant watch over the variations of the thermometer
and barometer, with such a singular delight in the study
of the almanack, that it went in the family by the
appellation of ' James's red brother.'

   In order to beguile the long winter evenings, and to
afford his children a rational amusement at home, Sir
William had fitted up a room with chemical apparatus,

an air-pump, and an electrical machine, which no doubt
must have had considerable effect in stimulating the
PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD.  11

latent taste for natural science ; but with James it could
not long remain a latent taste, it soon became a passion,
though no one suspected how strong. The village
schoolmaster, although amply endowed for his then
position, was no genius ; so, when the brothers had
gone through their English education, and were suffi
ciently advanced in Latin, they were transferred to the
College of Edinburgh ; and it may be imagined with
what zest the lectures of Professors Leslie, Jamieson,

and Hope would be listened to. But other classes

besides these had to be attended. James was designed
for the Bar as a profession, and in deference to his
father's wishes he applied himself to it accordingly ;
went through the usual routine of study, and in due time
passed as advocate. But his heart was not there, and he
contrived all the while to promote his favourite studies
at the same time with indefatigable diligence, though
always 'under the rose.' For in those days law was

considered so dry a study, and so often prescribed merely
as the most eligible mode of securing an independence,
that parents looked with jealousy on any tastes that
might prove too attractive, either in art or science, and
so interfere with the chance of success in a profession

generally acknowledged to be a hard struggle at best. A

simple incident may be mentioned in illustration, related

many years after by an attached old servant, who
happened to be in the nursery when Sir William came
in, and asked all his children what he should bring
them from London. The youngest instantly replied :
' Bring me a telescope, Papa.' ' Ah, Jemmy,' was the reply,
' you'll never make salt to your porridge.' ' But he has
made salt to his porridge ' was the triumphant comment,
for he was the pride and darling of the whole household.

   He had therefore to labour against every discourage
ment and disadvantage in his own field of study, and
must have worked double tides to secure time for both

objects, since the proficiency in mathematics, which he

considered so important, must have been entirely the
result of self-education.

                                                             
12            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                      [chap.

at  All this accounts  esvuefrficmieinxtilnygfowritthhehirsecfalumseilyl,if--e  he led.
                                                                                unlike
    this time, hardly
as it seemed to his natural disposition and earlier habits,
which were cheerful and sociable to a degree. He had
a keen sense of humour, and as a boy, when anything
tickled his fancy, it was joyous to hear his ringing laugh.
You might have heard
upstairs, two steps at a    him, too, whistling, as he rushed
                          time, -- a favourite accomplishment
of his, even in after-life, and resorted to occasionally as a
pleasant method of throwing off the impression of any
little contretemps. During the hard battle between law

and philosophy, however, all this light-heartedness seemed
to forsake him, and frequent fits of abstraction surprised

his sisters and disturbed his father. He had been indulged
with a separate study of his own, apart from his brothers,
and no one but Charles knew or guessed one-half of
what was going on there. On account of his early classes
he breakfasted there alone, before the early ride into town.
After dinner he returned to his study, and declined
appearing at supper, in those days the most cheerful and
sociable of all the family meals. He required a good
deal of sleep, and on principle did not indulge like many
other hard students in sitting up at night, but generally

went to bed early.

   Such was the ordinary tenor of his winter life, till the
memorable visit to Italy, 1826-7, which brought things

to a climax.

    The results are before the world, and the steps of his

progress from that time, clearly recorded by himself.
    His father died in 1828.

   To this interesting record little need be added. It

will be supplemented by some early recollections which
James Forbes wrote in his later years.

   The high quality of his race was conspicuous in him
from the first. Strong and sterling fibre, and a lofty
bearing, were combined with tender and delicate feel
ings not often found in so vigorous a character. But
whatever may have been the hereditary basis of his
                  PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD.             13
is I.]
    a

                         it
                                                 it
energetic nature, was no doubt intensified by the pecu
liar surroundings of his childhood and youth. Seldom

        boy of his birth brought up in more complete
domestic seclusion. The widowed, and heart-broken

father, after his wife's early death, withdrew to almost
                                                     was congenial to
absolute retirement, which, while

his own feelings, enabled him to devote himself more
entirely to the rearing of his children. This devotion
was especially concentrated on the youngest, who be

came his father's idol as the last legacy bequeathed to
him by her whom he had lost. His home at Colinton

House enabled him to seclude himself more completely

than most places so near great capital. Lying not faraa
from the base of the Pentlands, approached by tree-
shaded lanes and by-roads, itself shut within its own
park by old trees, with garden screened by still older
holly hedges wonderful for their size, with an ivy-mantled
ruin in the grounds said to have been rent in pieces

     Cromwell's cannon, and with retired background
which sloped to the water of Leith, as yet undisturbed
a by                               a
               aby the railway whistle, would be hard to find in soa
                      it

peopled neighbourhood so solitary retirement. The

boy's not too strong health and the father's anxious
watchfulness secluded him still farther, and made school

   thing not to be thought of. The family at Colinton
were their own society, the visits even of relations were
rare, and there was little or no contact with the world

beyond. Such      a  mode of life, acting on a nature

itself strong and intense, could not but increase and
concentrate still more that intensity which was ever

afterwards its most marked characteristic. The stream,

confined from the very first within high and strong
embankments, channelled still deeper the groove in
which naturally ran.
a it
James Forbes never went to any school, but was
entirely home-trained boy. Up to the time he entered
College at the age of 16, his only teachers had been
his sisters' governess and the village schoolmaster,
Mr. Hunter, of Colinton Parish School. Fear for his
14  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.             [chap.

boy's health made his father nervously anxious lest he

should overwork himself. In this easy and desultory

home teaching he picked up the necessary reading,
writing, arithmetic, and the first elements of Latin.
What more was needed he was able to teach himself.

Equipped with these necessary elements, his mind was
free to follow its own bent, and to turn his small acquire
ments to the uses which his own nature prompted. By
his twelfth year that bent had clearly declared itself in
favour of physical science, although from deference to
the known wishes of his father he was obliged long to
conceal it.

   The first dawnings of his scientific bias are well
described in a retrospect of his early years, which he
drew up at St. Andrews, in 1861.

Portion of Journal written in St. Andrews in 1861.

                 [1821--1824.]

    It is a very curious occupation to reflect how the tastes
and destinies of after-life are foreshadowed in the ten

dencies of childhood and youth. Some of my most

childish and immature occupations and fancies have a

close relation to the serious occupations to which nearly
the whole of my middle and after-life has been devoted.
And any success which has attended these efforts is in a

measure probably due to my having been suffered to
follow the strong bent of a natural predisposition for

certain employments.

   A love of collecting curiosities is too commonplace to
deserve mention. A love of mechanical contrivance is

also common, and was not earlier developed in me than
perhaps in most boys with equal advantages.
                                             The

wright's shop at Colinton was from (I suppose) my
ninth or tenth   cyiaensatriwnghasicshoIuIsrcutecocoeokefdepgdarertaiinct uplmaleraaksduinereglig;htrtaa. nindsAbonyf
the aid of lead

toothed wheels,

apparatus of this kind intended to be applied to measure

the distance moved over by a velocipede was an occu
I.]I              PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD.                                         15

    pation for long period. At later time, perhaps whena
                                                    a
      was thirteen or fourteen, pasteboard semicircle, with
      I
               aa
                       a
sights, clamp, and tripod support, for measuring vertical
angles, was source of great delight to me and at later
                                                       I                 a
                                                                      ;
    period made more elaborate metal quadrant for astro
                                   keep the semicircle still as one of
nomical purposes.                  I
the relics of my youth.
                                            a
                                              a
      About the same and at later time took great pleasure

in organizing and conducting societies, partly composed
of imaginary members, certain number of names being
apportioned to myself and to my kind brother Charles,

for debates and reading papers on literary and scientific
subjects, with occasional experiments, and all the for
malities of meetings and constitutions, &c. This taste
found its full development when became member and
                                      I
                                            I
secretary of the Royal Society.
   Another early habit was that of imagining and deliver

ing lectures. These took their rise in the circumstance
that for winter or two rode alone regularly from
        a

George Street to Colinton and back, taking lessons of
Mr. Hunter. To amuse the tedium of the way, de
                                                                         I
livered aloud on horseback, to an entirely imaginary                          I
auditory, a regular, pre-arranged course of lectures on
certain topics, in short, extemporized essays. This must
have been about 1824, or earlier. As far as recollect,

these were conducted very methodically, and no doubt
contributed to give me some facility of composition and
expression. Within less than ten years after (little did
    then anticipate                   was lecturing, not in sport, in
I                                a

the University.                   : it

                                     !)I

                                                      aa a
                                                                a

                                                        I
      Another amusement of about the same time was

wthreitiTneglespceorpieo,d--icals     at first         sort of newspaper, called
                                   miserable
                                                 thing.            was then about

twelve    (in  H1eb8d2o1m-2a).distL, a--ter                  weekly       essay-paper,
called  the                                            good deal
                                                                         composed of

attempts at Science. Also                              magazine (with Charles),

called the Adelphi Magazine, and others which have
still preserved.                                                         a
      In February 1823,
                                      commenced keeping                    I
                                   I                                     register
16          THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                       [chap.

of barometer and thermometer, and took an interest in
meteorology, which has been continued till now.
   All these employments occupied no small share of my
time and thoughts between my twelfth and sixteenth
                                                                                        of
years, and served to give habits               of    industry,                facility
writing, and of recollecting what                                                        I
                                                I   read. Of                  sermons

Iwrote plenty : but that is too ordinary to deserve notice.
gEfsrhonooommgdulaildsydihteahfCloebhrlyleeouawrmcrmlhyieetrnhaf)asteitIoahnwepprrar'ootssfhfeeaesesxtssnpiiotorfhnern,usossmeaoiadnfsdt1iwt8cIh2aiews1lhlayBs (aiabonrtun.ttlay1c8phw2Ire4iodt,bhmadttabhroyalaywtthbneeaI
                                                                           Had I
allowed  to say  tChaamt bmridygfea,thIershwoausld  wrong.                         been
brought  up at                                       have               done well   : as

it turned out, a kind Providence provided for me well.
But it is another instance that it is usually well to allow
a boy to follow his bent, when it takes any steady

direction.

   The  --fol1lo8w18in, glirveimnigniscaetncCeoslinotcocnurHinouosnee.  --of  his journals :
'1817                                                                         Began Latin
early in 1817. In September was reading Phsedrus with
my father. April 1818, began lessons with Mr. Hunter,
                                                    Caesar. My brother
schoolmaster at   Colinton,             reading
Charles was also  instructed            by him.     I remained sincerely
                                               till his death, which took
attached to this worthy                  man
                                               I think.' Ideas of Inven
place   --som' 2enwdheJurene,ab1o8u2t5  1840,
tions.                                         reason in making this little
                                         : My

        is,

                    I
book        that so many more ideas (chiefly mechanical)

occur to me than can properly execute, that, in order
to keep them accurately in memory, shall write them
                                               AI

                                                                            a
down here, taking the most special care to distinguish

which are truly original,               and    wfohlalot wpasrutsggaersetiobnos rrofwore--d,
and from what sources.'                 Here
'A Pluviometer or Rain Gauge.
                                                    Universal Balance.
    Velocipedometer. A Machine for finding
A                                                                                  hea

venly Body by its Arc of Bight Ascension and Declina
tion. Barometer by compression. Anemometer.'

    The above extracts clearly exhibit the two dominant
                      PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD.
I.]                                                                                  17

                                                            is
tendencies of his nature. The one seen in the wish,

thus early formed, to take orders in the Church of Eng
land, in which he was brought up, and to which he
remained ever strongly attached. From this aim he was
not without reluctance turned by the express desire of
his father that he should study for the Scottish Bar. This

accordingly from his fifteenth to his twenty-first year
was his ostensible purpose in life. But under this profes

sional surface was working all the while the other and
                      coofnthriivsanncaetsu,r--e.       His head was busy
deeper tendency       it                                new velocipedometer,
with mechanical
                             a
                                                     a
an anemometer, and metal quadrant made by himself

for astronomical purposes. At the same time he was

devouring every scientific book he could lay hands on,

from the Nautical Almanac to Woodhouse's Astronomy.
But all this devotion to Science was kept strictly secret
                                                                a
                                                                                                      ;
he laboured at         in private and said nothing. His

father would have objected to these pursuits as too great
a strain on his young brain, too severe tax on his
health, and as likely to divert him from the dry studies
of the Bar for which he was destined. Amid his con

trivances and his reading, his pen was not idle. He had

begun to keep for himself                               meteorological journal,
                      a
                                                     a
another journal of observations in astronomy and
geodesy, and record of ideas and inventions.
                                                                                    of
   One more extract     from  his autobiographic memoir
1861, illustrative of  these  things, may here find place                          --
                                                                a

                                                                                  :
With 1825 commences personal record of peculiar
'                      if
       a                    it a
kind, journal of observations astronomy and geodesy,
continued with scarcely any interruption for seven yearsin
to the end of 1831, and extending to 651 pages, 8vo.
On looking carefully over now (December 1861), after
  lapse of exactly thirty years from its close, during which
a                                                               find in a
                                                                iIt,
    I
                                                                                 it
                   a
time have scarcely ever opened
curious record of the development of my mind and
tastes, by process of the most purely individual and
unaided study, which has sort of interest of its own,
                              a

independently of the charm of personal recollection with
18                THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                                            [chap.

Iwhich of course I regard it.        first commenced a rude

meteorological register, which      I Ibelieve is preserved,

think in February 1823; and from this time scientific
pursuits occupied much of my private thoughts, though
they were carefully concealed from the members of my
family. Astronomy presently became a passion with me,

Iand, having exhausted some          trifling children's and school

books to which had access,          I read Ferguson's Astronomy,
of which my father gratified me by presenting me with
a handsome copy, and also a small orrery, in 1825.

The astronomical journal to which I have referred opens
with the mention of a visit to the Edinburgh Observatory.

The first year's record (1825), containing a great deal
of puerility and showing much inexperience, is marked

at the same time by a devotion to the subject and an
ardour for learning which is sometimes touching. My
calculations and observations (with a good achromatic of
my father's, two and three-quarters inch aperture) were
pursued at late hours, and also on journeys. Many of
the pages are filled with elaborate (though often very
                  arithmetical calculations of the positions of
inaccurate)                         planisphere I was
planets and       satellites for a                     constructing.
T"hWeondboeorsks                    were Ferguson's      Astronomy,
                   I consulted
                  of the Telescope," Ewing's Astronomy, with
tables for calculation of planetary places (this book
was lent me by Mr. Hunter, schoolmaster, Colinton),
Keith on
Dictionary  t;heandGlIobseeesm(Mtor.haHvuentveern'st)u,reCdhaonmabnerosc'scas(fioonliaol)
consultation of Woodhouse's         18A2s5tronI ocmoym,mteoncwedhichreaI dhinagd

access at home. In July
through the astronomical papers in Hutton's abridgment

Iof the Philosophical Transactions. In September 1825
became possessed (by Miss Ballingall's kindness) of a
wsNtarhu'uiImctnihceanIOtlsc.ytAeoltmbveIanrivnia1Ddc8le,y2c5ewrmehmIibceehbmrebgg1eaa8rnv.2e5mmaIekminaagdtehruraidlnle  of pleasure

                                                                                                                          angular in
                                                                                                                          observation

on a peculiarity of oblique vision in apparently in
creasing the number of the stars, which in 1826
PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD.                                                  19

became my first published communication to Brewster's
IJournal.
  'In January 1826          began  Ito make a more elaborate

quadrant of copper.     In May        pgroetvihooulsdlyofI  the tables  in
Vince's Astronomy.      For long                            had been    in

the habit of picking up scientific information in Jameson
and Brewster's Philosophical Journals, which lay regularly

on my father's table.'
                       CHAPTER II.

   YOUTHFUL TRAVELS.

   Till he had completed his sixteenth year Forbes was

   entirely home-trained and self-educated.  The home

   training was such as belonged to a Scottish patrician
   house, whose head was not only highly honourable and

   refined, but more tender-hearted and serious than most

'  men of his own order  at that day.    The early death of
   his mother, and the   secluded life   which he led from
   childhood till manhood, were influences which entered

   deeply into James Forbes's character, and were apparent
   to the last. Pure, truthful, tender-hearted to all within

   his own immediate circle ; not diffusive of sympathy,
   nor given to fraternize with those beyond it ; serious,
   scrupulous in all
   whatever he had on  duty,    intense    and concentrated on
                       hand,             qualities, which in after
                              -- these

   life distinguished him, grew naturally in such a home as

   his. In boyhood he had no jostling with his fellows and

   no schoolboy friends ; and when he went to College, the
   daily ride home to Colinton left small time for College

   acquaintanceship.
   For his intellectual training he was indebted mainly to
   the processes he has himself described in his journal.
   His real and early educators, more than the home gover

   ness and the village schoolmaster, were his meteoro
   logical and astronomical records and his 'Ideas of
   Inventions.' By these, continued some of them for

   years, he trained himself to be the patient and accurate
chap. II.]   YOUTHFUL TRAVELS, 1826-27.                                                            SI

observer of nature and the cautious and correct reasoner

which he afterwards became.
   In November 1825 he for the first time entered College
in the University of Edinburgh, and joined the classes
of Latin and of Chemistry. The latter class was then
         by Dr. Hope ; and Sir William
taught                                       Forbes attended
         session along with his son. It is   noteworthy that
it that

only three months before this entrance at College, viz. in
August 1825, the entry in his journal 'Began Euclid'

occurs.

    So the young physicist had been for years groping his
way into all the wonders of nature and astronomy by
self-prompted experiments and self-taught calculations
without any knowledge of regular geometry. Nothing
can show more how strong was the native bias,
how deep the craving to pry into the secrets of the
physical world. Of his first session at College no record
remains. Two things only are noteworthy : first, that in

attending during this winter a private Greek class he
made his first friendship beyond his own family circle ;
the other, that he must have made good use of his winter
in the Latin class, as is proved by the familiarity with
which he turned to the pages of Virgil and Horace when
            winter found him in
the next    the close of his first  Italy.   College-- that                                        in
   About                            year at
It

               a
                                                    a

                                                      is
                                                          A

                                                                                              is,
the spring of 1826 -- he entered on another stage of his

self-education, which was destined to have important
results. He commenced an anonymous correspondence,
unknown to all his friends, on scientific matters with

the late Sir David Brewster. That celebrated man of

science, then in the full swing of his long and untiring

energy, was at this time among other works carrying

on his well-known Philosophical Journal. The young
enthusiast of seventeen ventured to offer him a paper for
insertion in the Journal, and was warmly welcomed by
the Editor.
'On the 29th May, 1826, recorded my first com
munication under the signature of to Sir D. Brewster.
    was calculation of conjunction of Jupiter and
.2-2            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                         [chap.

Venus on July 31st, but owing to an accident it was
not printed. All my subsequent communications were

printed, and the titles and copies of most of my corre
spondence with Sir D. Brewster are duly recorded in the
Journal. My letters are mostly very puerile in expres
sion, and altogether unworthy of preservation. Dr.
Brewster's on the contrary show great kindness, thought-
                        estimation of my   enthusiasm for
fulness,  and a warm                        preserved the
science.                I have rigorously
             Of course

originals of these.'
      This interesting correspondence, once begun, went on
                  yeianrs.JulyTwo182m6 o--ntJhasm, ehsowFeovrebre,s  after it
for successive  is,
                                                                      started
began -- that             it
with his father and family on journey to the Conti
nent. Foreign travel did nothing to interrupt the cora
                                   a
respondence. Rather increased in young Forbes the
desire to record in so well-known journal some of the
marvels of nature and art which opened before him.
A journey abroad was not then the common or easy

affair  it  has nowadays become. Very few Scottish

youths at that time had such an opportunity of self-

improvement. James Forbes was not one to let the

opportunity pass unused. The journey lay by Paris,

Strasburg, Innspriick, on through Venice, Padua,
Bologna, Florence, to Rome.

    On Rome he looked with young and unsophisticated
eyes. Learned people may smile at the entry in his
journal as trite and puerile, yet breathes fine boyish
ardour, which those who make that visit later in life
                              it

                                                  a

might well envy. When men see those famous places
for the first time in ripe manhood, learned and fastidious

criticism often will not let their feelings go freely forth.

They are so repelled by the uncertainty of the old sites,
by the present social degradation, and by the effects of

long priestly domination, that they have no heart for
the ancient glories. Not so the ardent and intelligent
youth of seventeen, alive through all his pores, to see,
think, and feel.
      'We are now in Rome, which
                                      it      has been my
II.] YOUTHFUL TRAVELS, 1826-27.                                   23

Ianxiety to see ever since set out from home : all that
surrounds me is interesting, from 2,000 years of antiquity.
We may walk with Horace, and frequent imperial resi
dences, or stray with Virgil into his pastoral shades.
They are for centuries dead, but seem to live again in

Itheir works when we at the same time behold the objects

they describe. Could drink the Sabine wine with

indifference which        tghreew"  where   Horace   "dreswtillhirsunfavyoeullroitwe
beverage ? or see                   flavus  Tiberis

"inCliittsumanniqcuieent   bed ? or could Virgil in vain    sing  the
                                                            eyes  the
                          greges," while we have under our
                             '
verdant  pastures         ?
   In November he twice visited
account of his second ascent :--            Vesuvius.  Here is the

   ' At half-past two we reached the bottom of the cone.
At the top the scene was quite different from last day,

the whole of the large crater being full of smoke and
fumes, while the strong sulphurous smells prevailed. We
rested and refreshed ourselves on a hot crevice for some

time, where Ave left several eggs to roast. Advancing
now by the south edge of the crater, we had a tolerably
easy walk about half-way round, during which we heard
occasionally noises like thunder proceeding from rocks
every now and then giving way from the side in great
masses, whose fall is reverberated and renewed by the

echoes of the vast cavern. At length the edge of the

crater grew much lower ; and here we not only went
down that descent, but in towards the crater all at once,

to the extent of 1.000 feet, exceedingly steep, but passable

in walking. In this abyss Nature presented herself in a

new form ; all was unlike the common state of things ;
we were in truth in the bowels of the earth, where her
internal riches were displayed in their wildest form : the
steep we descended was composed of minerals of the
most singular yet beautiful description.

   ' After retracing our steps in this descent, which proved
rather laborious, we visited a crevasse some way down on
24              THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                           [chap.

the outside of the hill, opened within the last forty days,
whence very hot air rushes with great rapidity and in

such a degree as to make ferns blaze, though they were
quite damp. Resuming the edge on the summit, we
returned as we had come, to the top of the descending

path ; and having eaten our roasted eggs, which were

excellent, we went down to the hermitage, where we took
the cold dinner we had brought with us. Vesuvius is
now about 3,400 feet high ; formerly it was 4,250, but
in the prodigious eruption of 1822 more than 800 feet of

the cone were thrown off. At eruptions in general, and
that of 1822 in particular, the most tremendous thunder

and lightning ever remembered by Salvatore, or his father

before him, attended to give more force to the scene ; the
sea retires from its troubled bed, while shells in masses

are thrown from the volcano. The weight of the air
diminishes by whole inches of mercury. There is a vast
unison and sympathy of all the powers residing in the

earth, and of those most especially affecting the constitution
of our globe derived from the heavens. Electricity, and
consequently magnetism, the equilibrium of the atmo
sphere, the level of the ocean, the effects of weather, the
reservoirs of internal fire in all parts of the globe, the
influence of the moon itself, are all employed, affected
by, or brought to the aid of this vast production of the
mechanism of nature. Surely it is not too much to

say that some indissoluble bond unites these various
                                     it is the lot  of this
agencies,  Iwfhicchonnpeecrhtiaopns                 should   age to dis
cover.                               exists, and             the latent
principle be discovered, it is impossible to foresee how
great may be the extension of human intellect, how
deep our insight into the physical economy of all that

surrounds us.'

    On November 29th he watched and recorded the

appearance  of an eclipse of the sun                at   Naples,  and  De
cember 2nd  has the following record
                                                    :--
11.] YOUTHFUL TRAVELS, 1826-27.

                  Temple of Jupiter Serapis.

   'Dec. 2nd, 1826. --Being very fine, we set out to Sol-
faterra. . . . We then went to the Temple of Jupiter

Serapis, a most interesting specimen of antiquity.
Three pillars only stand, but the groundwork of the

temple is beautifully distinct. It is a very singular

fact that the sea-water stands in the court, and actually
raises tides in the building now about half-way up the
standing pillars : the sea has at one time worn circular
holes, where even now shells seem to lie ; the lower
part exhibits no such friction, but a pillar which lies
on its sides in the bottom has its whole surface
bored in the same fashion, and full of sand and frag
ments of shells ; the present tide does not nearly go to
the level of this fallen pillar. There are three totally
different levels of the sea at different times, not a little
singular in the physical history of our globe ; and to these
we may add the fact of the sea having retired from the
lighthouses now in the heart of Naples, and of its
having encroached (apparently very considerably) on
some ancient buildings near Sorrento. By a careful
combination of the different levels with the several an
tiquities of the edifices, we may form some idea whether
the sea has regularly encroached and retired on the parts
of the shore elevated and depressed by earthquakes.'

                    'Astroni, December 7th, 1826.

' We returned to the road along the side of the lake, and,
          a         went up steep hill to gateway entering
continuing          a
               it,
                      I

                                         a
                                              a
the Royal Hunting Park of Astroni, the crater of an
extinct volcano. We immediately and suddenly de
scended steep riding road, and one of the most interest

ing and romantic scenes ever  beheld was presented
                                  volcanic crater, as
to our view. It was indeed

"the precipitous sides of overhanging rocks sufficiently
testified but, instead of the horrid bare chasm which
;

the summit of Vesuvius presents, the cliffs are wooded in
20              THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                            |>uap.

the richest manner with the evergreen olive, which at
this season shines to the utmost advantage; and only
here and there were disclosed the towering and romantic
crags which had originally been the barrier of this

convulsed spot.
   ' We were just entering the more gloomy and sunless
portion of the path, when a scene shot across us so rural, so
enchanted, that it seemed one of the fond images of fancy

while contemplating the bliss of Paradise. A lake placid
and lovely was before us, the one of whose banks, less

interesting than the other, was dimmed by the mountain

shadow ; while on the opposite side, where the over
hanging branches kissed the water, with small verdant
banks between, the sun shot down his full enlivening

beams. All around is rich, lonely, romantic. While we
gazed on the scene with rapture, each feature was

rendered more appropriate by the majestic eagle, which,

flapping his extended pinions across the lake, alighted
with that grand and solemn motion peculiar to the royal

bird. The scene was one which cannot be described,

scarcely imagined; which Milton might have infused

with effect into his Eden or Dante into his Paradise. It
                      of                           in
irnem"inTdheed    me  of  the  Ldaeksecr"ip--tion      the  minstrel's  lay
                          the
                Lady

                ' " Where shall he find . . .

                    So lone a lake, so sweet a strand 1

                    There is no breeze upon the fern,

                        "No ripple on the lake,
                    Upon her eyrie nods the erne,

                         The deer has sought the brake,
                    The little birds scarce sing aloud,

                        The springing trout lies still."'

                       Tomb of Virgil, 1826.
   'Dec. 8th. --Visited to-day the small humble edifice
which the general voice of the most learned men has
pronounced to be the tomb of Virgil. Hallowed spot,
let reverence be paid to thy humble remains! 'Twere pity

that moderns should cast off every interesting association
I..J YOUTHFUL TRAVELS, 1626-27.            27

by doubting its authenticity. The building is a square
chamber, at the side of the entrance to the grotto of
Pausilippo ; it is surrounded with niches for urns rising
upwards straight to a fiat roof, though most of the
exterior stones have been removed. In the interior are
ten niches for urns, and in the centre was one containing
the ashes of the poet, supported by nine small pillars, as
some believe ; on it was the inscription dictated by

*******Virgil immediately before his death, and so well known.
' Dec. \0th. -- I shall add one or two remarks as to the
authenticity of this famous spot. In the first place,
tradition is unanimous in marking this place, which on
such a point is of no small importance ; but the most
distinct                    of antiquity   is that of Silius
Italicus,  written account  spot actually   belonged ;-- that
            to whom the

...passage is in his obscure style, and has been well dis
cussed by Eustace.          On the whole, it is my clear

opinion that we may not only frequent the place now
pointed out with the fond credulity of imagination, but
that there are sufficient grounds for recognizing it on an

unprejudiced consideration.'

                                                     'Pompeii, March 22nd, 1827.

   'March 22nd. -- In Pompeii we see what could not
have been presented to us without some very peculiar
deviation from ordinary events, such as an eruption of
Vesuvius overwhelming a city not with lava but with
ashes. In Rome, as in other cities of Italy and those of
Greece, we see the remains of antiquity as Time has left
them, destroying all the mean or individual houses,
preserving only the finest fragments of the noblest
edifices. What would Pompeii have been under such
a fate ? Nothing probably might have remained, as it
contains nothing of singular notice in an architectural
view, and all might now have been levelled with the
ground. But in Pome what light have we into the
manners of the ancients 1 What we know of their
28  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

private customs, inventions, and civilization is only from
their works, which often must mislead from a change

of terms. And is it not most extraordinary to find all
that ancient writers mention as the custom of their time
realized in an actual Roman city laid open to our senses ?
Who could have been so sanguine as to expect to see the
chalked advertisements, the titles of the shops, the tickets
of the theatre, the gentlemen's names on their houses,

the loaves, honeycomb, soap, grain, raisins, plums, nay,
the very fresh olives which the ancients had. Pompeii
differs from all other towns, inasmuch as we see the

smallest houses, the meanest shops, and the most trifling
manners and customs of a nation of two thousand years
since, of which we are ignorant and whose name carries
no charm in its sound, but of a people whose history has
fortunately been handed down to us, and which we are
taught from our infancy as that of one of the most
extraordinary and powerful nations that ever existed.
These ideas struck me particularly on a second visit. The
views of the streets of Pompeii are such as to our almost
certain knowledge are unique, with the exception of one
other city, which from its peculiar situation may probably
never be excavated in the same manner.'

                                      'Rome, Good Friday, April 15<A, 1826.

   ' In the afternoon heard the service of Vespers in the

Sistine. The whole, as well as last night, was in mourning,
viz. purple ; the canopy and covering removed from the
Pope's throne, which was plain wood with purple
cushions ; the tapers on the altar and above the great rail
which divides the chapel were dull red, and the Cardinals'
seats entirely deprived of their rich carpets ; the Pope
himself in red and the Cardinals in purple robes. When

the Tenebrae begins (I allude to all three days), all the
candles were lighted, including fifteen small ones on a
branched candlestick, which are extinguished one by one

as the chanting proceeds, which is varied every day
with suitable Psalms and Lessons chiefly from the
II.] YOUTHFUL TRAVELS, 1826-27.                         29

Lamentations of Jeremiah. It is very interesting to
accompany the service with a book. At the same time
that artificial darkness is spreading by the extinction of
the candles, the twilight increases into the shades of
night, and the effect of the sun's parting rays over the
frescoes of the chapel is very fine ; and by the time that

the Benedicitus begins, and the fifteen candles are all out

but one, the sun is probably set. At this moment two
persons with extinguishers commence putting out the
corresponding tapers on the altar and rail of the chapel,
one at each verse of this beautiful Psalm ; and when all

are gone, the      fifteenth candle, which still remains, is
removed from       its place --probably as a symbol that our

Saviour, though apparently dead, after all the desertion
of His friends and the darkness which overspread His
soul, still lived, though unseen. At this juncture the Pope
descends from his throne, and kneels before the altar,

the Cardinals and the whole court doing the same at
their stations. The chapel is in perfect darkness, except
some lights from the music gallery, the last shades of

twilight gleaming most softly through the northern

windows, and the single taper throws a faint glow from

behind the deserted altar on the priests who kneel before

it. At such a crisis how does the first thrilling swell
of Allegri's Miserere burst upon you ! how silent the
moment, when the finest piece of vocal music ever
composed, and performed by the best vocal choir in the
world, seems to draw to earth the notes of the angelic

chorus,     and    exalt   y"ouTruntchoimugphotnsentto    higher spheres !
         the last  words,                               super altare tuum
When

vitulas," have died on the ear, the Pope in a low tone
reads a short prayer, still kneeling ; a rumbling noise is

then heard, which represents the confusion attendant on

the Redeemer's death ; after which the flambeaux are

introduced, and all depart in silence.'

   These descriptions of scenes so often before and since
described will show what opportunities James Forbes
had presented to him, and how he profited by them. For
30  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                                       [chap.

a boy of seventeen his mind leapt out with very remark
able force to meet whatever he saw that was wonderful
in nature or great in history. That one so keenly
appreciated day at Pompeii a3 a lesson in Roman manners
and customs was to an eye observant as his worth several
winters poring over Roman antiquities. And on one
more or less familiar with the Roman poets the days he
wandered over the Sabine hills and Vale of Horace, or

visited first the. tomb, then the birthplace of Virgil,
impressed the spirit of their poetry more powerfully
than several sessions in the best taught Latin class in
any University would have done. Nor was he, as his
journals show, less open to impressions from the
mediaeval and modern aspect of Italy. On the home

ward route there are some very characteristic entries.

                                                                                                       ' Mantua, June Oth.

    * The town has a fine appearance on entrance, yet

nothing which can exactly satisfy the poet or gratify the
Iwcuhrreoioguirmestmtteroadrvtteahllliaezter dIfuohlvliesorlfboiorretkhcepodllalevcciest,iiot--innsg"  of the master mind
                                                                                                       Mantua me genuit."
                                                                                                       the ancient head of

Virgil, fondly cherished as original, which has been
restored by the French, and is here preserved. With
regard to the place of his birth, universal tradition has
assigned it to the modern Pictole, and Dante, who from
his early date ought to have been well informed, counte
nances this opinion. But Eustace is disposed from a con
sideration of localities to give the honour to Vallagio. In
such a state of uncertainty as to what concerns the great
man, we find little which can be called tangible to rouse
our recollections. The most pleasing way of supplying
them is by the perusal of his works, that monument
which will endure as long as any work of human fancy,
or while a spark of civilization remains to be cultivated.
I, who have lately perused his works and recited his last
verses over the moss-grown ruins of his tomb, now over

his favourite plains and among his hallowed groves,
II.] YOUTHFUL TRAVELS, 1826-27.                                          31

hail his shade where it may still be supposed to delight

to roam.'

   It could not be that one so youug and enthusiastic

could then feel the full force of Virgil's ' single words
and phrases, his pathetic half-lines, giving utterance, as

the voice of Nature herself, to that pain and weariness,
                                            is the experience of her
yet hope   of  better  things,       which  only one who has seen
children   in  every   time.'
                                     It is
much of life, and felt it deeply, who finds such meaning
in his words. But in the purity and gentleness of

the Roman poet there was that which came home to the
tender nature of this youth of seventeen.

    When   Gtheenyevhaad: --crossed  the   Alps,  we find   he    made   this
entry at

' Went to Ferney, a beautiful drive of about a league ;
               as it is well known,
two rooms,                                   are preserved as the
philosopher    Voltaire left them. I
                                            took little pleasure in
seeing the recollections of this detestable man, of whom
perhaps one may say, the sooner he is forgot it will be
the better for his character and the peace of the world

in general.'

Here is an anticipatory glance of what was to be :--

' July 1st. -- Reached Chamouni, this most interest
ing spot, which was unknown even to the natives of
Geneva, though distant only eighteen leagues, till dis
covered in 1741 by two English travellers, Pococke and

Wyndham. .      --.     .  set off from     the        inn  (the  H6tel  de

   ' July 2nd.       We

I'Union,   a very    comfortable          house) at half-past nine to
visit the  Mer de    Glace. We            were furnished with excel
                                                       guides -- viz.
lent mules, spiked     "pLoelesG, éaanndt  "thfrroeem                  Michel
Cachet, surnamed                                       having spent
                                                                       seven

teen days with Saussure on the tremendous ridge of the Col

de Geant, where more than 10,000 feet above the sea he

made a long series of experiments. He ascended Mont
Blanc with Saussure three times since. The second guide
32            THE LIFE OF JAMES 1). FORRES.                                                [chap.

was Simond, who is called " Des Dames ;" and he has once

gone to the top of Mont Blanc. The third was Jean
...Marie Coutet, son of the famous Coutet, lately dead. We
had a delightful ride up to the Montanvert.                                                In one

instant we were presented with the singular view of the
Mer de Glace. Its surface has much the appearance of
tempestuous waves frozen ; but the wonders of its form
have been too much spoken of. . . . We walked some
...distance on the Mer de Glace, which appeared much
rougher on a near                       approach.  In       the course of our
                                                            guide " Le Geant."
walk I conversed                        with the memorable
I considered his information as peculiarly valuable, for

when he and one or two others are dead (and he is nearly
70), all living record of some of the most daring and in
teresting adventures that have ever been made will be
gone. He was of the second party that ever reached the
summit of the highest European Alp, and accompanied
Saussure in thirty or forty other excursions. He took four
days to the expedition of Mont Blanc, while most others
take three. He said he did not suffer much from the
rarefaction of the air, but that Saussure felt it consider

ably, especially in using his instruments. He said that
on the Col de Geant they really saw red snow, in patches
about two miles in length but very narrow ; but the philo
sopher could not find the cause of the phenomenon. In

that expedition he described the scenery to have been the
very horror of nature, a wild fortnight abode for human

beings. Saussure (he said) when he visited Monte Rosa
believed the highest summit to be quite practicable, but
did not care to perform as he had view of the peaks
                                        it,

                                                          ;

                                                                a
from one of the lower ones and as he had already
succeeded in attaining the highest point of Europe, and
                                        he" LdeidGnéoatntca"retotosaayccwohmapt lihseh
proveda I it to be so,                                                                  one less
lofty.      requested                                                                   thought
of the practicability of the ascent of Mont Blanc, and
                                                                                         it. He
sawadhiddee,tdh,"er"MAevmneacvnadroyuf  ordinary strength might achieve                   but he
                                                                                         un bon
                                        so much,   not easy to say
                                                  it

                                                      is
                                                                               le

                                                                                       ;"
                                        beau temps, des bonnes jambes,

tete pour passer les fentes, et surtout avec bon plaisir
....ii.] YOUTHFUL TRAVELS, 1826-27.                                        33

du Dieu, on peut le fairo."                         We did not leave Cha-

mouni   Itilflelht atlhf-aptasitt  six,  and as we  drove slowly down the
valley                             was
                                         with more  regret that I left this

interesting spot than any town or any scene that we had
visited in our travels.'

The following is the record of arrival at home :--

' We left Dunbar at twelve ; we proceeded at a rapid
pace with happy hearts towards home. Before reaching
Musselburgh our eyes were greeted with the sight of
Edinburgh, Arthur Seat, the Calton Hill, and Inch Keith,
                                         can be mistaken. Without
pnroebjluedicoebjecIts   which never      Edinburgh combines more
                        consider that

beauty and    ompbuastjeerstvotiygnegathsheora.wtogwIranct,eafntuhnlaontI  any five cities we
have visited                                                               conclude this jour
                                                                           felt for this happy
nal without

return to home and all its peaceful joys, and how much

more grateful for that protection and guidance from hour
to hour bestowed upon us in every change of time and
circumstance, to which during our long absence we have

been subjected.'

   A year of finer, more varied, and impressive education

than the one thus passed, could hardly be conceived.

Forbes was at the very age when impressions come most
quickly, and stamp themselves most deeply into the

imagination and character. The above extracts show
how open his mind lay to influences from every side,

how it enriched itself by imagery, gathered from every
quarter, classical, mediaeval, and romantic. But while

he was thus alive through all his being, the one master

bias was never forgotten ; the undercurrent of his
thoughts kept flowing strongly and steadily in that
one direction in which it had long since set. The
first sight of Chamouni, as we have seen, called
forth that scientific interest combined with love of

adventure which was so deeply rooted in him. But
a more definite record of the fixed purpose of his life
is found in                                 entry in his astronomical
                        the  following
journal :--

                                         D
34     THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.               [chap.

                                       'Rome, 31a« December, 1826.

    ' These two months have passed over my head without

abating one jot those charms, or rather endearments,
which the noble study of astronomy holds out to me.
IMy utmost earthly wish for my own happiness, as far as

  am personally concerned in it, is to devote my days to
the study of my beloved pursuit. My imagination is
not heated, nor are         fancies distended or
                      my    my earnest wish and   distorted,
while I write this.                               prayer in
                     It is
Imy soberest moments.       shall be more sensible of
Iadvantage when return                                 my
                            home, than I was when I    left
Iit. have opened a source of great satisfaction, and
what one day may be most advantageous to my advance
ment, in my anonymous communications to Brewster's
Journal, which, to my almost inconceivable pleasure and
                                                    This opens
surprise, appear to  have been well    received.  have looked
a vista before me,                      scarcely
                     which I would
Ifor in my time of life and situation.
                                        have kept this a
Isecret to the present time from every one.
                                                  am now

preparing a packet of   wphaipcehrs,I  chiefly on meteorological
subjects about Naples,                 shall soon send.

    * My labours recorded in the past pages have chiefly
been directed to the calculation of the conjunction of
Jupiter and Venus, the eclipse of the moon in November,
Ithe eclipses of                                   of my quad
rant.  have       the sun, and  the    formation  the apparent
                  also written  an     essay on

number of the stars, ascribing their immensity to the
effect of oblique vision.'

   The scientific correspondence with Dr. Brewster alluded
to above, which had commenced before James Forbes
left Scotland, and which formed so important a stage in
his scientific education, was never lost sight of during
his Italian sojourn. The ascent of Vesuvius, the solar
eclipse at Naples, and other sights or events presented
during his travels, were recorded almost on the spot, and
speedily despatched to Dr. Brewster, to appear in his
Journal. On the return of the family to Scotland,
among the first things that attracted the eyes of James
II.] YOUTHFUL TRAVELS, 1826-27.                                                     35

Forbes were successive copies of the Journal lying on his
father's table, with his own papers inserted in them.
How he was affected by seeing these first products of
     pMeenteionrolporginictalapapnedarAs stbroyntohme icfaollloJwouinrngalesxtirnac1t8s27fro: --m
his
his

                                               'Colinton, August 22nd, 1827.

  'I had yesterday the pleasure of seeing Brewster's

Journal and reading the two articles of mine he inserted
in October last, on the apparent number of the stars, the
heats and colds of last year, and elements of the lunar

eclipse among the celestial   phenomena, together                             with all
the other papers inserted    or favourably noticed
                                                                           I  which I

have   since  s:e"ntW. e  Annexed    to the first paper                       sent  are
these  words              should be   glad to hear again                      from  the
faoultl'ohAowurginuogsf titsh2ias6mthao,rntig1c8le2t,h7e.a--nndoIntiifceBpsroeswtsoisbtcleeorr'rsleesaAprponnrdihleisnJotsaudrdn:rae"slsW.t"hee
have received A's very excellent set of observations

made at Rorne on the 15th January, and also his inter

esting Observations on the Climate of Najrtes and his
Remarks on Mount Vesuvius, which will appear in the
next number. We shall be glad to hear from him as

often as convenient." Accordingly                              my paper on Vesuvius
eapxppreeasrsedtheinsathteisfaJuctliyonnuI mfebeel ra. t  It   would be difficult to

                                                          the  success attending my
Ifirst published essays. I have communicated the secret

to Charles, but to no one else. am now busily preparing
a paper on the horary oscillations of the barometer at
Rome, and reducing about 500 observations made there,
which is rather laborious, but in about ten days I hope it
will be ready.
    'September  8th. --Finished this                           morning  a     complete

memoir on the horary oscillations of the barometer at

Bome, which I sent to Brewster's Journal. It amounted

to twenty-three large quarto pages, and contained the
three preceding tables at length.

   'October 4th.- --To-day saw the new number of
Brewster's Journal: it contains my remarks on the cli

                             D2
36              THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                 [chap. ii.

mate of Naples. The notices to correspondents stated
that the paper on the horary oscillations of the barometer
                b1u%tthw. --illBarpepwesatreri'sn
came too late,                                     the next  number.   pub
    'December                                      Journal   has been

lished to-day : only half of my paper on the horary

oscillations has been published, owing to a small error
in the table of final results, and the remainder postponed
till next month, together with my paper on Monte
Testaccio, which is approved and will be inserted.'
CHAPTER III.

                                   COLLEGE COURSE.

When the Edinburgh University session of 1827-8
opened, James Forbes, after an absence of one whole
year from College, re-entered it as a student in the Moral
Philosophy and Natural History classes. The former
class was then taught by Professor Wilson, the latter by
Dr. Jamieson. These two teachers were both eminent in

their way, but very different from each other. Professor

Wilson discoursed at large on his subject, if with no

vast learning or keen edge of subtlety, yet with a flow
of fervid and poetic eloquence, which fired youthful ima
ginations, and helped to let loose over Scotland those
floods of turbid rhetoric, which from pulpit and platform
haabvaetingde--luigfedinditeefdor
                                    a generation, and  are only now
                                   they are abating.   Dr. Jamieson,

plain, practical, not to say prosaic, but accurate, pains

taking, and diligent as an observer, so rarely ventured
on figures of speech that the one or two metaphors in
which during the whole session he indulged were well

known and waited for, and when produced were wel
comed with annual rounds of applause. To both of these
so different men James Forbes had a side of affinity.
To the work of the Moral Philosophy he gave himself
in earnest, but he contrived to weave into the subjects

proper to it some of his own favourite knowledge. We
find him recording in his astronomical journal, December
31st, 1827:--

  I' One considerable astronomical work I have been

engaged in which have not yet recorded, an essay for
38        THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                [chap.

Professor Wilson on the influence and advantage of the
study of astronomy on the mind, with scientific illus

trations and notes at the end. It is almost finished, and

will amount to sixty large quarto pages.'
   The sixty quarto pages must, if the poetic Professor

took time to read them, have conveyed to him a mass of

useful information, which was probably new to him At

the close of the session James Forbes stood first and

obtained the medal in Professor Wilson's class, and the

acquaintance thus begun ripened, I believe, into a life

long friendship. At the close of the session he thus

records  what was     :p--robably  a reward                 for  his  winter's
labours  and success
    'May lith. -- To-day Papa made me a present of a
splendid theodolite, just come down from Troughton, with
                                                                               It
five  inches' arcs divided  oenvesriylveprarat,ndansdingI lehompeinutoteps.ut  it
is a  splendid instrument

to some astronomical as well as trigonometrical purposes.
Dr. Troughton himself said this theodolite was packed as

the best of three, and it was made by the best workman
he ever had, who is now dead. It is therefore probably
as fine an instrument as ever came from the hands of a

maker.'

    The father whose kindness is here recorded was not

long to be spared to his family. For some time the
health of Sir William Forbes had been declining, so that

even friends and acquaintances observed the change.
We have seen how Sir Walter Scott amid his own

calamity  thhaedjobuerennalstoruf chkisbsyonse:e--ing  it.  The end is thus
noted in

of  '2ith October,  I1828, 1-2  p.m. -- By the grace and power
    God Almighty       resolve  that the firstfruits of this tre

mendous blow shall be a determination to keep steadily
in view, as a tone of mind, the existence of a future
state, where my beloved father is now gone -- a con
                  abnedarsofinwhitischcoInspeqreuseenncetly
sideration which                                                 on every iota
of our actions,                                                   acknowledge
myself wickedly forgetful. I make the resolution under
Hi.] COLLEGE COURSE, 1827-28.                                      39

a thrilling impression of mind, yet am not insensible to
its real difficulty in general life, though now so appall
Iingly thrust upon me. Yet with the aid of the Omni

potent nothing is impossible ; and crave His power to
         me to  perform this matter,
enable          die the death of the     so that when my time
comes    I may                           righteous and my last

end be like his, who but an hour ago since left me his

example as a legacy.                     'James D. Forbes.

'Sunday, November 22nd, 1828. --This day I had the
satisfaction of receiving the Holy Communion with our
whole remaining family, being the first time of our being

at chapel since our father's death. Such a judgment, if
Ianything, was fit to prepare me for the due reception of

that sacrament, and took it with contrition and sub

sequent satisfaction. I proposed to myself the following
resolutions, the first  of   which  took its origin  in
of my father's death                                     the  hour
                        :--
  I' 1st. To keep stedfastly in view, as a tone
                                                         of mind,
that am created for a future and eternal life.
' 2nd. What naturally flows from the former : to curb
pride and over-anxiety in the pursuit of worldly objects,

especially fame.
   ' 3rd. To be diligent in the pursuit of my winter
studies.'
                             'Colinton, Sunday, November 1Gth, 1828.

I' FeeHng myself now also on my own footing, have
prepared a letter to my excellent brother Charles, my
best friend in our present state, as to the disposal of my
property in     event of                    In looking to
                           my    death.                      future
arrangements,    I mean   not  here to   express the pangs   which

parting from the members of our family and leaving the
         so long our paradise  fix  on my mind.
spo' tI  am anxious to carry        my literary career   in  such  a
                                on

way as may possibly one day make me independent of
Ia profession, which is undoubtedly a matter rather of
necessity than satisfaction.        have commenced my law

studies, and am not without hopes that that Power which
40    THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                              [chap.

sees my smallest griefs will give me steadiness to pursue
them  inwitlhosinagdvamnytagfeatheanr dI  with             Be this as it
may,                                             honour.
                                           have   lost my  principal aim

Iin the concealment of my name from Dr. Brewster. But

an ambition has come over me, hope not a criminal
Ione, to be early a member of the Royal Society, which

would be of advantage to my future fame, which look
to principally as the means of acquiring a name in the
Iliterary world, of which every one knows the advantage.
This is one point.   But another use                 think of making of
my incognito before                              is  in a lucrative view,
                      I part with it
as I propose writing letters to the conductors of each of
the foreign Reviews, offering to write.'

   The winter duties of this session (1828-9) consisted in
attendance on the classes of Natural Philosophy and
Civil Law in Edinburgh University. Sir John Leslie
still taught the Natural Philosophy class, though now
somewhat past his prime. This was the class in which

were handled all those subjects on which almost from his

tenth year Forbes' thoughts had mostly dwelt. All these

years he had clung to them with wonderful pertinacity.
   His meteorological and astronomical journals, as well

as other observations, had been carried on almost from

childhood w^th unflagging zeal.
    That a student, entering the class of Natural Philosophy
with such a natural genius for the subject, so well pre
                                                                        of
pared, and so persevering,  should succeed, was            a: --matter
course. Here is his own     record of the results
    I' Regarding my past winter's studies at Civil Law,
Ihave got on better than expected, nor can it be said to
Ibe very repulsive. expect to pass my trial at the begin
Ining of the session in May. At Leslie's class got on
Iwell, and
I shall get
      easily got the        first         prize, for   which    believe
        a gold medal.                     have also   attended
                               I                                Jamie-

son's very pleasantly.'
    But this session contained one event more important
and interesting to the young votary of science than the

attendance on any class in College.
in.] COLLEGE COURSE, 1828-29.                                                 41

   During the middle of the session Forbes resolved to
throw off the disguise he had so long worn, and to reveal
to Dr. Brewster whose was the real countenance concealed

under the mask of A.
   In the following letter he introduces himself to Dr.

Brewster in his own name :--

                                                        'December 1st, 1828.
' Sir, --Many causes may have combined to inform you
oI fnemedy               .and circumstances ; and if it has been so,
             name
which                    Iapologize for the long anonymous character
            Ihahradvlye
                          adopted. When commenced my com
munications to the Journal,           Iaenxdpetchteeyd
tion so much warmer than                                experienced a   rIecheapd
                                                          or deserved,

just completed my seventeenth year, and at present am
                                that  it can scarcely
in my twentieth          ; so                                 surprise you
that sooner than               I did  not choose my           name should
                         this

be brought before the public. So strong was my feeling,
that at this moment no one is accpiainted with my
correspondence but yourself and one of my brothers.
My youth you must have well known by innumerable

Imarks of internal evidence in my compositions, and
gladly seize this opportunity of thanking you in the
most heartfelt manner for your continued attention, and
the many marks of kindness you have shown me, -- not
the least so unqualified a recommendation as your last

contained.
' With regard to the Royal Society, I should not wish to
be balloted for till the       IfirsshtouFledbrpuraerfyer             and till
                                                           meeting,
my name is proposed            not be brought               that my    aInhoanvye
mous character should
                                                           to light.
tmhaonulgyhtbeithafvaiior,urhoawsevIerh,avaefteerxpseurciehncecda,ndtidhatanfdromgenytoleu

my real name should no longer be concealed.
                         'Very sincerely yours,
                                      'James D. Forbes.'

   The elder of the two               tceorrmress:p--ondents  welcomed  the
revelation in the following
42                     THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                   [chap.

                                                                       'December 19^, 1828.

    ' Dear Sir, -- I did not know who A was till your letter
Iinformed me. Various circumstances rendered it probable

that you were under the mask, and once asked your uncle,

Mr. George Forbes, if he knew any person who used a
seal such as yours. But he did not. The transmission
of your packet from Rome through Sir A. Wood and

some other circumstances were strongly against you, but

these were always overpowered by the belief that A must

be older than you could be.
   ' Many circumstances conspired to make your letter
                                                           like
more    tihtanhadagrietseaballeloytoofmseo,rrtohwo.ughI,t   was  all  our plea
sures,                                                            a   matter of

real satisfaction to me that Scotland possessed a young
man capable of pursuing science with the ardour and
        of A            Iand that he should have belonged to a
talent              ;
        from           whom received much kindness, and for
family  I feel the most sincere affection, was a ground of
whom

'Ithe most unfeigned satisfaction.

       trust you will not allow any professional pursuits to

interrupt your studies and researches. The cultivation
of science is a luxury of no common kind amid the
bustle and vexation of life, and is quite compatible with
the most active professional duties. Your education and

the example you have had to copy will, I am sure, guard

you against those presumptuous and sceptical opinions

which scientific knowledge too often engeuders. In the
ardour of pursuit and under the intoxication of success

scientific men are apt to forget that they are the instru

ment by which Providence is gradually revealing the
wonders of creation, and that they ought to exercise
their functions with the same humility as those who are
I Ieng' agehdopein              the mysteries of His             revealed will.
                    unfolding    have the pleasure of            being person
                    shall soon
ally acquainted with you, and it will at all times give me
                                      to be of any
the truest pleasure to be       able  am, my dear          service    to  you
in your scientific studies.                                Sir,
                                --I
                                ' Ever most faithfully yours,
                                                           ' D. Brewster'
in.] COLLEGE COURSE, 1828-29.                                              43

   It is  thus that James          hFiosrabneosnynmoteosusincohrriesspaosntrdoennocemic:--al
          the conclusion of
journal
' My anonymous correspondence with Dr. Brewster is

now ended, and a happy termination as well as continu

ance it has had. In the beginning of March I hope to
Ifind myself a member of the Royal Society, a sort of

consummation have long looked to with faint hope.
And     here it                                                  list of every
thing             may be proper to give a                       for publication   ;
        I have   transmitted to Dr. Brewster

any particular account of my transactions being unne

cessary.         1826. -- On       the       Apparent           Number of the
    ' October

Stars.

    ''1Ju82ly6.--182H7e.a--t  and Cold.  Vesuvius.
                              On Mount
    ''JOacntuobaerry18182278.--. --OOnnthteheCliHmoartaeryofONscaipllaletsio.ns of the
            1a8t28R.o--meC,avPesarMt oI.untETcelisptsaeccioo.f
Barometer                                                       the Sun.   Oscil
                                                                   Horary
   ' April
lations, Part II.
    'July 1828. -- Materials and Styles of Buildings in

Italy. Meteorology, 1826-7. Notices in Astronomy and
Meteorology. Solar Spots. Radiation.
    ' October 1828.-- Physical Notices of the Bay
--  No. I. On Mount Vesuvius. Self-registering                  of Naples.
                                                                 Thermo

meters.
Nap'Jlaens,uaIIr.y--B1u82ri9e.d--
                                   Physical  Notices of the Bay of
                                   Cities.   Self-registering Thermo

meters. Notice of Auroral Arch.'

   Shortly after this recognition Dr. Brewster proposed
his newly discovered correspondent for admission to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh. That society is the most
ancient and distinguished scientific society in Scotland,

and has long numbered among its members all that the
country contains of scientific eminence, and not a little
of the literary genius of each age. To become a

member of it is regarded as an honour by men of ripe
age and reputation. But for a youth to be elected before
44             THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                           [chap.

he had completed his twentieth year was very unusual, if

not unprecedented.
   It
        is:--  thus  that  Dr.     Brewster               introduced  James
Forbes
    ' Mr. Forbes has a family claim of an irresistible kind ;
but, even if he were the son of a peasant, his learning,
his intuitive genius, and his absolute devotion to science ,

entitle him to the warmest reception which the Royal
               gI ivmeushtimal.so  He will be one of its greatest
Society can                        assure you that for years he has
ornaments.
been an anonymous correspondent of mine, and that I
pwrhoemnisIeddidsonloetlyknforowmwhheisthetralheentwatso
                                                           recommend him,
                                                          the son of Sir W.
Forbes or of a peasant. He is also a travelled person,
and has                with a scientific
volcanic  surveyed                           eye the classical and
          wonders      of Italy. If you      can find men of his

stamp, you will do well to secure them.'

    'April \9th, 1829.-- This day is the last of another
        It carries   me from my teens, from the
year.                between twelve and twenty.                       imIptorrutsatntI
season  of youth

am indeed entering on a new way of life. May God
                       recollections to my                         '
apply   these serious                                     heart
                                                                 !

    In the same month he notes that he shook hands with
Dr. Brewster for the first time at the Royal Society. In
August of the same year (1829), Forbes visited Dr.
Brewster at his villa of Allerly, a little above Melrose,
and on the opposite bank of the Tweed. Journeys in
those days were not made so easily as now, and therefore
young persons valued them more highly, and were all the

more deeply impressed by them.

   It was his first intercourse with a philosopher of kin
dred talents, and his first sight of the Vale of Tweed

and its ruined abbeys. The conversations he had with
Dr. Brewster and the new sights he saw all round equally

delighted him.
    ' We drove to Abbotsford ; unfortunately did not find

Sir W. Scott at home, but saw      tIhewalosbebxyt,raaoprdeirnfeacritlypicstourrrey
of the wonderful owner's mind.
in.] COLLEGE COURSE, 1829.                                 46

at not seeing Sir Walter, as I knew from his own authority
he would have treated any of the family with more than
usual kindness. And Dr. Brewster wrote me that, having
met Sir Walter at dinner, he expressed his regret at not
being able to see me, as during my stay at Allerly he was
continually occupied with company.'
On turning to the Life of Sir Walter, we find that it
was during this same month that he received a visit from
the historian Hallam with his son Arthur, who not long
afterwards was cut off in the bloom of opening genius,
and whose memory is embalmed for ever in Tennyson's

' In Memoriam.' Sir Walter had, during the preceding
June, suffered from the first symptoms of that disease
which at last proved fatal. Yet in August he was able
to accompany the Hallams to see the sights of his neigh
bourhood. Of their visit together to Melrose an affecting
memorial                  in
beginning,  --remains         the  fine  lines  by  young  Hallam,

            I' lived an hour in fair Melrose.'

Probably this was the company with which Sir Walter

was engaged that day when young Forbes called at
Abbotsford and did not find the poet.
to TBhreewfsotlelorw:i--ng letter contains some notice of this visit

                                   ' Allerly, Melrose, September 1st, 1830.

   ' Dear Sister, --The day I arrived, Dr. Brewster took
                          Mwro.uLldo,ckIhaamrt'ssucreo,tthagite,yowuhricfhanicsyr.eaMllyrsa.
me to Chiefswood,
little paradise, and
Lockhart was not at home, for we had met her driving
her own                     As we were                 a; "pparonadchtoDbre.
Brewster  dsraoidsk, y."  We shall find  going up the
                                         him smoking
sure the first symptoms we saw of the great man were

certain puffs rising above the bushes. He was walking
backward and forward on his little lawn, with a Little table

standing upon with parliamentary papers, proof sheets,
            a it, it,

                           a

                                                                  J
&c. lying upon and glass of something or other.
was very much surprised and unexpectedly pleased with
him. He was much younger and finer-looking man
40             THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                        [chap.

than I expected, strikingly like F. Grant. He has a
tremendous pair of eyes, but his manners were highly
affable and pleasing. He began abusing the plague of
writing on the Greek question, and envying Dr. Brewster's
Life of Newton, whilst the Doctor declared he thought
nothing could be more delightful than to write what every
Ibody would appreciate and admire, and on such inter

esting subjects. You may suppose took Lockhart's

Iside. . . .                                                       I
    ' went yesterday to leave my card at Abbotsford.

saw the great man hobbling up a plantation, apparently
             at a visitor, a class  which indeed he has
...frightened                                             reason
               So I did not see     him, but I dare say
to fly.                                                   that if
he has time he will let me  hear of him.           All his family
are with him just now.
                             I met with            his factotum,
William Laidlaw, who wrote many of the novels to his

dictation, and who seems a remarkable man. . . .'

   The   following are  hsoismevisaitdd:--itional  notes  written  by
young    Forbes during
    'After leaving Abbotsford, drove by the south side of
the Eildon Hills, where the Doctor took me to see a

very interesting quarry, exposing most beautiful pris
matic colours of compact felspar, an uncommonly fine
Jdisplay. Again set off with Dr. Brewster in his gig for
 edburgh at half-past nine o'clock. . . . Left Dr. Brewster
at Dr. Sommerville's, the old minister of the place, rather
a remarkable man    in the literary world, and            now in
                   persuaded the Doctor to let                     hi3
ninetieth year. I                                         me see   the
Ihouse in which he was born, which is near the Roman
bridge.      afterwards returned and sketched the house on
the back of a letter of his to me, dated August 1st, 1829,
marking the window of the room in the roof at which he
tried his telescope.'
   Again, ' Dr. Brewster talked very kindly and freely of
my prospects, and strenuously advised me to direct my

Iefforts to some specific end. He assured me that, if
kept one object in view, I should soon know more about
it than anyone else. I said that I had lately thought
HI.] COLLEGE COURSE, 1829.                               47

the relation of bodies to heat a very fertile subject ;  in
which he perfectly agreed, and commended the idea.
                                                          I
said that experiments touk more time than writing. He
agreed with me, but said that nothing could be more
delightful than the prosecution of successful ones/

   This conversation contains the first hint that young

Forbes's thoughts were already travelling towards that

subject to which he afterwards gave so much attention
and with such good results.

   Thus it was that the intercourse begun by anonymous
correspondence, and maintained so honourably to both
sides for several years, at last passed into personal
acquaintance. And the acquaintance was by this visit
to Allerly cemented into a friendship which stood the
strain of severe trials, and lasted as long as life.
But this friendship, though interesting in itself, and

helpful to his scientific pursuits, could not make him feel
less acutely the change which the last year had brought
to him and his family. Though the brothers and sisters
clung to each other and to their domestic life with the
tenacity that belonged to their race, every one of them felt
that when the head of the house had been removed, an

irreparable change had come. The thought was now
forced on them that the family home must soon be

broken up, that they must soon quit the old house at

Colinton, endeared to them by all the recollections of
childhood and boyhood. He says that 'the idea of
leaving this endeared spot was like a dagger near his
heart.' And though for a while some of them might

live together and make a family home, yet it never could
be with them as it was before. For each one had become

his own master, and must regulate his movements more

or less on his own responsibility, without that advice
and guidance on which they had hitherto in common

leaned.

   No one felt these things more than the youngest and
favourite son. There are many allusions to it in his
gdriaeerinehsoudsuerin:--g this period. Thus he writes in Fettcrcairn
48                THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                   [chap.

    I I' Every succeeding week tells me how changed is my
situation since, this time last year.                believe     have

scarce made any notes this year on my professional views,

but they have much and deeply occupied my attention,
till, having done everything which information and advice
could accomplish, with long and anxioua consideration,
I have taken my general principles of viewing
                                                     :           and

                                                            it,
leave  I if I itin humble confidence to the wise Disposer of

events. My present thoughts are as follows to devote
a moderate but steady share of attention to law, which,

as far as understand, may never occupy nearly all my

time, and at first will leave me very great leisure. It
                                                     a

                                                                         is
my idea not to pass my Scotch law trials till spring 1831.
                things go on well, to go abroad for considerable
Then,            confess my private views in this tour to be to
time.

examine with much more scientific view than last time
                  a

tFhraencseoutahndoIftaEluyr,opaen,d--to  form  scientific connections in
                     I                   have
                                               nmevoeurthbeoforreonhapdapcoeurr--agteo
to record either by word of
       a

            it
write personal narrative like Humboldt, and Travels
in Italy.'
    When the year brought round the anniversary of his

father's death, his grief came back as bitterly as at the
                whole week seems to have been kept as
first
'
      :

        a
              a

                          II
                                                                                                  £
                                                                                               a
solemn season of remembrance and self-examination.

                     'Saturday, October 24, 1829.    past 12.

    With bleeding heart have just come out of my late
                                                     to spend the recur
father's bedroom, where                    resolved  twelve minutes past
rence of the tremendous
                                         moment --

12. Oh that my sufferings, intense as they have been,
might produce some permanent change in my habits of
                  am horror-struck when think how little
thought  !

           I

                                                                                  !

                                     ' II
                                                         II
have done towards the great end proposed to myself
last year; how little habitual the thought of death.
poured out my soul to God upon the bed with an inex
pressible intensity of feeling. Oh may this hour be
deeply engraven in my thoughts
III.] COLLEGE COURSE, 1829.                               49

 .... Evening of the same day.

' 0 that I could indeed have that " habitual
remembrance of the reality and eternal duration of a
                 which    I have
future   state"   but in            prayed for every   morning.
         never,            exalted  moments of love   and hope,
Shall I
         any tolerably practical conviction of the
attain                                                 great
truth   ? I feel it almost presumptuous to resolve    again.
                                                      going
I now   resolve to devote a more divided time before

to bed for reading the Bible, which shall include a short,

Ibut clear, self-examination. And on every Sunday

will, with devout deliberation, turn my thoughts to this
day, to inquire how far its grief and contrition have
worked any good. By the renewed assistance of God's

grace, I trust in almighty power that my efforts may
not continue to be nearly vain.'
For several years the recurrence of this anniversary
fills his journals with the most passionate outpourings of
grief. No abridgment, nothing but the sight of the
journals themselves could give any notion how deep
and how enduring that grief was. Strong as were
his leanings towards scientific discovery, earnest as his
devotion to it was, these his ruling intellectual tenden
cies were weak to sway him compared with his home

affections. The former habits, much as he clung to them,
he could suspend whenever duty or a higher impulse

seemed calling him to do so. Science was an instrument
he could wield, and again lay down ; a garment he could
put off, when the proper time came. These first affections
were himself, his own proper being, and he could no more
lay them aside than he could suspend his own identity
or the beating of his own heart.
   As the sequel of this memoir will be mainly occupied
with his doings as a man of science, it is well that this
should be understood once for all by those who wish to
know what manner of man James Forbes was. In this
respect almost all men fall into one of two kinds. In
the one the intellectual or professional interest is so
paramount that it pervades the man's being to the
                          E
60          THE LIFE OF JAMES 1). FORBES.                            [chap.

very core. Withdraw this, and little else is left. The
domestic feelings occupy but a small niche apart, and

do not really colour and rule the life. In the other kind
of man affection is central and paramount, the mental

and scientific habits, whatever they be, seem external

powers or capacities, clothed as it were upon the deeper
affections which are the truer self. To this latter kind

Forbes belonged.
    Though he had completed the college course at that

time usual for Scottish students, he entered on another
session of attendance in November 1829; a second

course of Natural Philosophy, a second of Chemistry,
and a course of Scottish Law. His professors during

this year were therefore Leslie, Hope, and Bell. But,

while attending these classes, his own private studies and
ypIneuar'rhsD,uiseiatcsanesdmtwriboneenreroremZvcilicossamitn,l ginj1og8tuh2re9nm.afo--ilrfetthThheayinsfedoallirosmwootifrhneegthilniasetsontwtrnpoyirrgkoohmctcIiunorebsfnetcg:--heien.
Ito be sensible that its style has considerably changed.

begin to be sensible that astronomical calculations are,
as Dr. Brewster says, a great absorber of time, every
Ispare moment of which 1 have devoted to original re

searches during the past year ; and the quantity have

written is very great.
   'My diminishing periods of                 must curtail my
                                    leisure    however, always
astronomical calculations, which
                                    I must,

value for   the many happy years    wthheicyhhaIvehoopcecupthieedy,  and
the relief  in periods of distress
                                  I am led                           will

Ilong continue to afford. But      practical  to more original
                                              astronomy with
fields, and hope to prosecute
Imy other pursuits. Having the means of making good

observations in geology, hope to continue those labours
which have occupied                        pBargeews sotefrthI ilsoowkorukpoinn
the two past years.     a good    many
                                   to Dr.
                        My visit
as one of the happiest points in my life, and the account
of which have just read over, as one of the most
    I ' it,

               I
interesting parts of this work.

    shall now as formerly carry on the notes of my
III.] COLLEGE COURSE, 1829-30.                                                                                           51

Iprinted publications, particularly in Brewster's Journal,
tNhae*pAlheipss.tro--irlyNo1o.8f2wI9Ih.I.--ich: PhPayhusasicvilaeiplpaolwNaoaytinscdehseLraeokiefnseArttgheneda. nBo.ay
                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                         On

the Defects of the Sympesometer as applied to the
               of                               No. IV.
Measurement    --  Heights. Physical Notices,   of Schomo's
                   On the Solfaterra. Analysis
  'July 1829.
Spe* cOimcteonbeor f1P8h2y9s.i--calPhGyesoicgaral pNhoyt.ices, No. V. : Temple pf
Jupiter Serapis.
   'January 1830.  --Description  of a  new Anemometer.
Physical Notices, No. VI. : Bay of Naples, &c.
' No. II. of the Physical Notices, or Herculaneum, was
Iin great part translated in the Bibliotheque Universelle

for April, and No. I. has, hear from Prof. Jamieson,
recently appeared in German in a periodical of Leonhard.

In Jamieson's Journal last year appeared an abstract of
observations on the temperature of springs at Colinton :
these have been translated in the Bulletin Universelle for
August 1829. In the same work appeared my paper on
registering thermometers, from Brewster's Journal of last
year. Jamieson published in his Journal for October a
letter of mine to him on a boulder on the Pentlands : a

notice of and also of my paper on Serapis, appeared
ifiSncieI'tnFnhcreeihd,iEsadNymion,e.btJIueaIornIg.ru'ohlaorgJyoicuar\lsntjao, lu1r8on3fa0lN. h--aetutrhnauolswawnerdnitteeGsreot--hgerafpohuicrtahl
                                  I             :
     it,
                                         it            a
                  a

             I
                              is
year of this work, which likely to assume daily more
original character, as intend to make the receptacle of
all my experiments connected with practical meteorology
                                                Ia
                                                               ;
which, my present plan holds good, will occupy good
deal of my attention next summer. The inquiries was

led to make in more close manner than before, when

writing the article "Thermometer" for the Edinburgh
Encyclopaedia, showed me strongly the want of good
observations; many fundamental points, such as the
application of spirits to thermometers, the expansions of

various fluids, hitherto resting on the imperfect experi

                   E
                       2
52            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                    [chap.

merits of Deluc, to which Biot has absurdly applied

Iarbitrary formulae ; the capacities for heat, the disturbing

causes in meteorological observations, of which have
Igiven a sketch in the above-mentioned article, and the

Theory of Hygrometry. The method adopted during
the past year of copying the daily observations of the
barometer into five columns of hours has succeeded to

admiration, and saved me much time and trouble. Since
May 7th, I have likewise
                           daily inserted           myI  miscellaneous
observations in a regular  quarter sheet.                mean, in con

tinuation, to get my rain gauge into better order and
placed on the top of the house, and to observe the

radiating thermometer more frequently.'

    The following extract from his journal expresses the
          with which
feelings  session at  choellecgleose:--d what  was  virtually                 his last
student

                           ' Fbttbrcairn, April 25<A, 1830.

    ' The College session which has now passed, the last

probably which I shall seriously be engaged in, has been
                          the two preceding                                   Lmawuch"
Iless distinguished than   Bell's lectures on            "onSecsot'bsy
excitement.   attended                                                        less than I

ewxipthecteexdt.raordDirn.arHiloypelitItleres-aatttisefnadcetidon,(aelovenng  with John

Buchanan) with renewed pleasure, and Leslie 1 also took
IgcmaI anoicrionnartdinghendetotrootocfholpfoaurhoovrksiebselebpaomarficc,zsoketp,hIyuoapunhoodganf,hdNmaenscywhoIitteCogfonolbyl'telsefaogu"resmePeerfeuidsdnlatucul ciidnpaliaeitasiddoti.n"ryetecbhatuiirsn,tgetIwaimsmaitiemlhyy.
peculiar satisfaction, as comprising the happiest period
of my life.   Towards  IthheavUe niavceqrusiirteydofinEdsinebveurraglh,ofaintds
the valuable  friends
Iprofessors, feel the warmest attachment.                                     Of the pro
fessors, I would particularize especially Mr. Wilson and
IMr. Jamieson ; and as to Professor Leslie, he has been

as kind to me, believe, as his singular nature would

permit ; and I have had frequent, though slight, proofs
of his good opinion. At the Royal Society I have been
                  COLLEGE COURSE, 1829-30.                     53

a regular attender,  and made many   tshcaietnItiffiuc llaycquunadienrt
                     on Monday last
ances. It was only
stood from Mr. Robison that my recommendation as a

member of the society was to be received Ias soon was
Itwenty-one. He said,'When are                                 of age,
                       answered,  y"ouTog-moinorgrotwo  b"e    and it
to come among us V
                                                            ;

was agreed that the recommendation should be presented
at the first meeting of next session,' as that was the last
of the past one.
                       CHAPTER IV.

            CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1830.

During his last session at college, his mind was much
exercised with anxious thoughts about his future. The
            letter to  hthiseseuntchleo,ugLhotrsdweMreedpwoyinn,tinwg il:l--show
following   to which
the course

'My dear Uncle,                     'January 30th, 1830.

'. . . I have in my possession memoranda
Iwritten about four years ago, which contain the very

sentiments still feel, and which you have begun, the
first of my relations, to entertain with almost equal force.
Had circumstances been then what they are now, there is
little doubt the Cambridge plan would have been followed.
IBut now, though all things are permitted me, still all
things are not expedient.  feel that the time has in the
fullest sense passed. Perhaps it may be news to you that
earliest wish towards a
England ; when was         profession was for  the Church
Imy                         eight years old,
                                               I began to
of

compose sermons, and long before my thoughts were
Idirectly turned to science was warm on the scheme of
Ithe Church. In November 1822,
                                    seriously proposed
becoming a clergyman, but was dissuaded from it by my

family ; and the dislike naturally entertained by one so
tenderly nurtured of deserting a beloved home, country,
and friends, added to the strenuous advice of my revered
father, finally determined me to give it up, though with
a gradual struggle of years. Law was the choice of my
father, and, on the principle of extinction of others
chap, iv.]  CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1830.                                                                    . 66

Imerely, my own. My distaste increased instead of

diminishing. . . . Indeed could not have tolerated the
idea of such a struggle of mind, but in the hopes of after
a few years of drudgery reaching a sheriffship, which by
adding 300Z. or 400£. to my income might enable me to
pursue my darling studies at leisure. But my view now
is, that it is better to live upon little, than embitter the
happiness of life by being more independent in fortune.

. . . It is my present object to show that, independent of
ties in some respect at home, it would not be for my real

happiness or advantage now to go from home. 1st, then,
Imy age is decidedly against me, and it would not be for

a long time could be prepared for such a course of
education. 2nd. My attainments are very different from
Ithe Cambridge method. Could it

have been entirely my own master?
                                                      be  otherwise when

                                                      ..  . I should literally

have to begin from the A, B, C of mathematics, and my
preconceived and too advanced ideas must, you will see,
dmisyadvyaonuttahgeoIusneviner                        course of study such as
Ibe                             a regular             advantage of pursuing.
                                 had the
in
3rdly. Mathematics              have little esteem for, except
in their practical application. This is quite otherwise
at Cambridge, and some precious years of my life would
be spent in the acquisition of theoretical knowledge,
instead of practical, which is far more in my line. . . .
s4ctahl.e;MIyhacvlaessnicoaltimleeatroninwgritewaosn  always on                                       a very low
                                                      this subject,                                   but content

myself with saying that from many circumstances, not
ipanellrsfaeatcytil;negasatnthduanttdheIorubgmehliy,evoaeswIntohcaoevnentjoreoyxlm,treiatnctth,eadsI         very im
                                                                                                      been
                                                                                                       have   pleasure
                                                                                                      more   unsullied

delight from the perusal of my favourite Latin authors
than the nicest grammatical knowledge could have given,
yet this is not the point at a University.
    ' From all these causes, and my anxious attachment to
            mhayverecboelelenctdioenssiraobfle,paIst
home, and                                             sacrifice, when such a
step might                                            must dismiss for ever

from my     mind     the  thoughts   of an            Etno gblieshdoUnen.iverIssiteye
education.          You   will ask  what is
              .. .
66                  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                            [chap.

I Ibut two courses : conceive in the first place should

pass advocate, and then either to prepare for the Bar and
race for a sheriffship ; or to set to with a vigour and
entireness of application, which to me at present is as a

Iday-dream, to qualify myself for a professor's chair. . . .
   should return unnumbered           thanks to Heaven on my
                                      unbroken, so delightful a
Iknees could engage in so
...career, even though the attainment of its end should be
distant or uncertain.                 yoI uarssleurtetery;ouformIy   mind   was in
a very fit state to receive                                          daily
                                                                            became
Imore convinced that I
                                                  with
and that, if I regarded
                              could not go    on  life, I            this struggle,
                              my comfort                             ought not to
                                              in

be swayed by the considerations of prudence, which knew
would induce most if not all my friends to set their faces

against        throwing   myself  faucpt oIn   all the  difficulties        of a
limited       income ;   and in               begin to
                                                        see that I          have

hitherto trusted too little to my own judgment, and am
tIemmapytedsatyo tfhoalltowthtehethpreaethfrsioenddisstionnctwlyhsoemt beIfomreomste.fir.m.ly.
rely, and who have done their best to supply the place of
my natural protector, are yourself, Mr. Mackenzie, and

ISir A. Wood. I do not despair of making them all

unanimous, but am resolved to be greatly guided by
the spirited light       in   which   ycoounvhiacvteiontakIehnauvpe
corroborated as it            by the                                 the question,
                          is                                         in the fixed
ness of my resolution, and the little chance I have of
repenting a choice which may go with my heart and
deliberate judgment, after having hved to repent so
deliberately a choice made chiefly upon principles of
duty, which really did violence to my inclinations.                                   '

                                                                            .. .

    A few months later he writes to Mr. Colin Mackenzie,

asking him for arguments with which he may controvert
Dr. Brewster, who alone of all
his giving up the Bar : --            his friends stood              out against

    '      .  .  .  You will enter into my anxiety to change                the

        .

views of the only friend who has opposed them, who, you

Iwill perhaps at first be a little surprised to learn, is Dr.

Brewster. Do not for a moment suppose that want to
iv.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1830.                                                                    57

use the strength    of your opinion to         oavnedrwIeigmherehliys                                 scru
ples ; the fact is   that Dr. Brewster                                                                differ

upon a point of fact, upon which he seems incapable of

Ibeing convinced, unless by those who have had more

experience in legal life than either he or have. . . .
   ' You who know the legal world so well will be amused

Iat the opinions he maintains, and perhaps scarcely think

them worth refutation ; but you will, am sure, enter
into my desire of obtaining the approbation of one to

whom I owe so much, whose advice has ever been so

sound and valuable, at this most important crisis of my
Ilife, which must materially influence the comfort of all
our future connection.        am therefore anxious that you

would write me    awshasttroInkgnoawleyttoeur  as you conscientiously
                                               must feel, the folly of
can, expressing,
a young man laying out his future prospects with the
sole view of gaining, without labour or application to his
profession, a lucrative office, of which the very existence
as a sinecure, before he fillsI,
                                  it,     eminently doubtful.
                                      is
To explain his ideas, in the first place, quote the
''
tfoiollnoe"wdinmsghyofurpolrdmoplioktsheeedtofiprssleatenlseyot--tuermweraitstuerningto:  mea after    men
  I                                                                                      the  boards  of the
                                                                                                 I
Parliament House, taking what routine business came
in the way, and thus fitting yourself for sheriffship.
During those two years you may devote two-thirds of
your time to science, and then you might spend two
years abroad acquiring the modern languages and carry
ing out your scientific pursuits."
     In short, on my return home,              was to find myself
Sheriff of Peebleshire' !
    ;                      !

        if                it !

                              I
                                    I

                                                        I
                                 much to the discomfort,

should think, of the county. wrote to Dr. Brewster to

convince him that sheriffships were not so easily jumped
into but all the effect          produced was the enclosed,

which left me no alternative but to apply for incontro

vertible arguments from those whose experience could
carry weight along with them. He implores me, too, to
pause, as the past five years had not been one long and

anxious pause.'
58                      THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                           [chap.

    But whatever arguments Mr. Mackenzie may have
supplied him with, they seem to have had no weight
with Sir D. Brewster. The following extracts from
Brewster's letters to Forbes at this time are interesting,
in  'tth.hee.iry. obIuenahgraivnepghybbseoietchnistocno:--ntshidisersaubblyjecptuzaznledd
of                                                                                         on other plans
                                                                                           how to advise

you on the subject of the treatise on meteorology. Consi
Idering pecuniary motives

am disposed to dissuade
                                     as entirely out        socfhethmee.queIstwiorno,te
                                     you from your
Ia treatise on optics before was your age, and the prin
Icipal novelty in it was to be the practical part.
Imentioned my scheme to Sir W. Herschel, with whom
had then some correspondence. He advised me against
' it,

      it I

               is
                     a
    and have since congratulated myself that did not
                                                            it

                                                                   is I
print such work. . .

    A first work clings to an author while he lives, and
                      of great consequence that.
hence                                                                                      be an original
                                            a

                                            I
work worthy of the status in science which he destined

to attain.
       ...would object less to system of meteorology than to
I'

an elementary treatise.                        have no scruple in express
ing my convictions that you are destined to do something
important in science, and under this conviction am con
fident that there no object of ambition worthy of your                                     aI
pursuit, but that of original discovery.I
    My conviction that the very first thing scientific
   ' ' 'I

          it

            I
                        is
                                 is
                                is
man regrets that of writing book at the beginning of
                                         a

                                                         ;
his career, however good might be he sees how much
                                     it

Ifbetter would have been had he waited few years.           a

         you should view things in different light, which
                                               a

    dare say would do in your circumstances,                                               I   shall be

most happy to forward your wishes, whatever they may be.
       would strongly advise you to continue your mathe
... Ifmatical studies, but to keep them in due subservience to
your physical inquiries.                       you should have any
spare time, you would oblige me much by short notice
on Vesuvius, and touching very briefly on volcanoes but
if

                                                     it

                                                                           a
                                                                                      a

                                                                                                                                    ;

                                                                                                               .'
    you have not time, do not think of                      second time. . .
iv.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1830.                                          59

Again, on February 11th, 1830, Brewster writes : --

' I cannot entirely approve of the line of life which your

friends have chalked out for you, though their advice
conveys great good sense and great knowledge of the

world.

  ' I would object to your giving up law as a profession,
         if

                         a
                            a

                                  a

                                                it,

                                                                         a

                                                                  is

                                                aI
because by a moderate study of perfectly compatible
with the most ardent prosecution of science, you might
qualify yourself for sheriffship, which you have influ
ence to obtain, and the duties of which in small county
would be an agreeable variation of your pursuits. cannot
tolerate the idea of Professorship being an object of your

ambition, you mean Scotch one. There no profes
sion so incompatible with original inquiry as Scotch
Professorship, where one's income depends on the number
of pupils. To young men at College the Professor appears

to have  reputation, when he                                  not known beyond
;

        a

                                              is

                                            it

                                                         is
the walls of the University. The Professor can obtain no

fame from his teaching powers, and                            only what he

does by original investigation that gives him any cele
brity but all this can be attained without teaching boys
and half-men the elements of Euclid, or the principles of

chemistry, or natural philosophy, which are often all but
the functions of schoolmaster, and much less useful to
it

  I'

                      a
                             a
society.                                                   in

        disapprove also of the idea your first letter, of     I
making up your income by your pen. do not object to                I
your making money by your writings, but am sure that
                                                           a
    would be injurious to your happiness to rely on such a
source for permanent portion of your income. The                            is
moment you do that you become professional author,
following the worst of all professions.

    'You threw out an idea in your first of wishing to remain
   bachelor. This cannot approve of. The married life
more appropriate to man of science than to any other
person and though its unavoidable evils may sometimes
interrupt the even tenor of philosophical life, yet these
evils, even in their worst form, are useful impediments in

our lot, and are incalculably overbalanced, when con
a

                 ;

                  I

                                          a
                                                        a
60       THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                              [coat.

sidered only in their   bit. te. rn. eBssu,tbIywthoeuldhoaudrvlyiseenyjoouymnoetnttso
of domestic happiness.
expect too much happiness, even from the fulfilment of all

your wishes. The moment you have distinguished your
self you become an object of envy and malice ; men whom
you believed to be lovers of knowledge you will then find
to be lovers only of fame, and haters of all knowledge that
has not come from themselves. You will find that a life
of science has in it no superiority to any other, unless it

is pursued from a higher principle than the mere ambi
tion of notoriety, and that demagogue or a philosopher
differ only in the objects of their selfishness. As you will

now have experienced how unsatisfying          heivgehnerthoebjpeucrtss,uitI
of knowledge is when insulated from
hope, if you have not been fortunate enough to begin the
study earlier, that you will devote yourself to the most
extraordinary of all subjects, one which infinitely sur
passes the mechanism of the heavens or the chemistry of
                         the revelation        of
the  material world,    as contained in        the  yBouibr led--uaty                               and
the  destiny of man                                                                                book

which occupied the best hours of the manhood of
Newton, of Locke, and of Euler.'

   By March 1830 Forbes's mind was made up. The
course on which he had now fixed, with the reasons and
'
views                   him  to                are thus recorded by
                :himself

                                          it,
         d--etermining

     On the 30th January my uncle, Lord Medwyn, wrote
that happy letter which produced all the change in my
views from the hopeless slavery of law to the freedom of
scientific pursuit, and the approbation of my friends
sealed the resolutions which my deliberate choice had so
long pointed out. Dr. Brewster alone stands out. The
valuable letters of Lord Medwyn, Mr. C. Mackenzie, Sir
A. Wood, my brothers John and Charles, John Buchanan,
and David Milne, remain in my possession, convincing
body of documents that have not proceeded in this im
portant matter without due weight of advice and while
1

                         I

                                                       a
                                                                              ;a

                                                                                                a
have returned thanks to gracious God for happy
iv.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1830.                                               61

issue of this important crisis, I have earnestly besought

His guidance in the new line of life thus set before me.
My friends have all pressed upon me the propriety of as
suming the gown, and of going abroad for a considerable

Itime. The former am now preparing for, and hope to
Iaccomplish in June. The latter think proper, for many
rferiaes'noIndssa, mwtohondsoeewlaya.pdevrimceitteId,hauvnedemr otshte
                                                                         support of those
                                                                        reason to respect
and esteem, to follow the bent of my mind, to cast law
behind me, and, content with a small competence, to
Ifollow science at leisure.
                                     have not patience to repeat
Iall have thought and said on the subject for the tenth
time here. Suffice it to say that my resolution was con
summated by John's kind letter of the 2nd March, which
greatly affected me. Accepting his splendid offer of

              would  indeed have made me rich for life ;
               much  the tax should be putting on my
I300Z.
but I
    a year
    feel too

friends in order to support me in what the world calls

idleness, to entail upon them other disagreements than

Ithe nature of my choice necessarily carried with it.
shall enjoy at least the comfort of independence.
    ' But  enaonudghthoouf gthhisI.
at                                     God be praised ! my              mind is now
    ease;                            have the preliminary               drudgery of

Ipassing   Iadvocate to go           through,   that is a               trifle.  In June
    hope                             of law    for ever.                  Then
              shall be free                                                      for self-
cultivation ! I mean to study the higher mathematics, and
If Imake some original researches connected with the funda
mentals of meteorology.              things go well, intend to go
abroad the autumn of next year for eighteen months or
two years. But 1 plan for the future with perfect diffi

dence. God only knows how far there may be between

me and misfortune, disease, or death.'

                                           ' Colinton House, April 20<A, 1830.

            ' On Completing my Twenty-first Year.
    ' Most merciful and gracious God, who hast preserved

me unto this hour, I most humbly acknowledge Thee as
62                  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.    [chap.

the guide and companion of my youth. Thou hast
protected me through the dangers of infancy and child
hood, and in my youth Thou didst bless me with the full
enjoyment, the happy intimacy, of the best of fathers. Be
                                          Thou hast hitherto been,
nasowgratchiaotusI  and merciful then as  new stage of existence.
                    am about to enter a   strengthen in my soul
Teach me,
                    I beseech Thee, to
the cultivation of Thy truth, the recollection of the
Iuncertainty of life, the greatness of the objects for which
  was  created.     eRarelyvivdeaytshoIsefeldtemligohretfusl trroenlgiglyiouthsainmnporews ;
sions
       which in

Iand as Thou hast been pleased lately to permit me to
look to  a way of     life to  which      formerly     dared not  to
do, let  the leisure            enjoy      enlarge  my warmth     of
                      I shall
Iheart towards Thee. Make every branch of study which

   may pursue strengthen my confidence in Thy ever-
Iruling providence, that, undeceived by views of false

philosophy, may ever in singleness of heart elevate
my mind from Thy works unto Thy divine essence. Keep
from me a vain and overbearing spirit ; let me ever
have a thorough sense of my own ignorance and weak
ness ; and keep me through all the trials and troubles of
a transitory state in body and soul unto everlasting life,
for Jesus Christ's sake. Amen.'

   The summer of 1830 was spent in preparation for his
legal trials, studying the Calculus, and learning German.

Early in July he passed advocate, and at once bade

adieu to the Bar and its studies for ever.
   The autumn months were spent in various excursions :

first on a visit to his kindred the Macdonells of Glen

garry at Carradale, a beautiful abode on the coast of
Kantyre, looking across Kil-Brannan Sound to the peaks
of Arran ; then with his brother Charles on a tour to
the English Lakes, where they visited Professor Wilson,
who was then living at his beautiful summer home of
Ellery, overlooking Windermere.

   ' We were on the point of leaving Windermere for

ever, when I got a note from the Professor inviting us to
iv.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1830.                                                                63

come to dinner. We made our arrangements to stay.
We found a bachelor party, but the kind Professor was

most hospitable and          aIgtreweaasblea,rraanndgedwethsaptennt exat                  cheerful
and happy evening.                                                                         day an

excursion through a mountainous tract should be made,
and we could not resist so favourable an offer. We

accordingly set out, a party of six on horseback. The
first part of our way was very good, but at length we
came to a mountain pass called Nan-Bild, over which
none of the party, and it was alleged no human being,

had ever taken a horse. At great risk of the animal's
                                                                                                   of
legs we at length disentangled him from a                                      g--reinat   chaos  the
                                                                                          short
l"oobsoegnse,dl,akteasn, gfleends,roccakvse,s,bdoegns,s,anadndtosrhreandetss,
                                                                               of Death," as

Milton has it. However we were not a party to stick

at trifles, headed by so manful a mountain general as
Mr. Wilson ; and we reached Mardale, a sequestered valley
above Hawes Water, in safety, where after a due stay we

returned home another road. All declared that nothing
should induce us to take horse again over Nan-Bild. Our
ride was nearly thirty miles. Next day was to be the
Windermere Regatta ; so of course we were tied down
to remaining to it : but what a day ! We went down to the
ground with the Professor, where the Regatta was agreed
                               and a dinner got up
to be   ptohsetrpeo. nedI ,  had much conversation   among about
twenty                                              with Professor

Wilson, and rode and walked much beside him, and was

certainly anew delighted.    it  He    dotes  upon                              the       country,
and knows every inch of                       very                             glad       to make
                                 ; so  I was

a mountainous excursion with him/
In October Forbes returned to Colinton House ; and

twhhe'icOfhocllthooewbeimnrge2t eittxhhte,raac1pt8sp3r0og.aiv--cehAintlhgmeowsvtiinetwehsrad:a--ntdhisintdeareystpsawssietdh
over my head without a due remembrance. Returned

only yesterday from a tour to England and Wales, and
the accident of being obliged to date a note brought

Ibefore my eyes these deeply associated characters, 24th
October. By a curious enough accident                                          had been
64            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                           [chap.

rBeibadleingconsnoemcetednotwesithofthims ydagyr.andImohtahveer'sgonine                              her old
                                                                                                     through
the whole of the prayers intended for the past week
written last year, and with great advantage, for the
              incident                                                                  had made me
carelessness  of the         duutyponI       travelling                                 kind Protector
forget much                                owed to the

of my often dangerous path. My self-examination

had been degenerating, my serious reading grown more

scanty.                                                                                 House will
pas''NSt ooeovvenenmtosbu--er rpGao1rdtiitnhsgt,refrn1og8mt3h0eC. n--olimnKteionn!d' ,
                                                                                          excellent  be among
                                                                                                     Mr. Mac
kenzie died on the 16th September. How much I owe
to that excellent man ! How sincerely I loved him God
only knows. Eulogy were vain !

  I'Entering now upon another winter, and relaxed by

two months of varied excursion, have commenced

the delightful and engrossing studies which have now,

blessed be God ! become my principal and legitimate

employment, untrammelled by jarring occupations and
con' sIchieanvteioruescosmcrmupelnecse. d
                                           the study of                                 "hiIgnhteergraanlaClyaslcisu,luasn."d
have far advanced with                     Boucharlat's

Feeling the   Inecessity of gaining                                                     a more practical
knowledge of
              what have gone over,                                                      I have commenced
the Differential in Lardner's work.                                                     I have begun ex

periments on heat, which occupy a good deal of my time

and thought ; studying and analysing Leslie on that

subject, and reading Thomson, Prevost, Pictet, Ac., on
the same.

   ' A paper for Brewster's Journal on the sympiesometer
has occupied, and will continue to do so, a good deal of
time and
    ' When  sItuvdieyw.  my  situation     at this moment,                                           it is one of

         comfort and satisfaction, what a year or two ago
frecaotuld not have dreamt of-- relieved from all but the

toils I delight in, receiving frequent assurances of the

goodwill and support of those most in my own line of
study. The fears are for my simplicity and steadiness of
it.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1830.                    66

Icharacter.      am ever too apt to forget that my youth is
the principal cause of the attention and approbation I
receive. I shall soon be admitted to the Royal Society,
with the principal members of which I have the happi
ness of being on good terms. Mr. Robison in particular
                 kind,
has been   very  wish    and  I  in a note   written  this summer
expressed   his         that      should    be some   time in the

Society before an opening occurred in the Secretariat.
But a more remarkable, and
                                 to me      very   swurhpicrihsinIgc, oncofemss
munication reached me the        other      day ;
                                 am afraid lest it should in
astonished me much ; and I

fluence too   strongly my views  and hopes. On Wednes
             went with Charles   to hear Professor Leslie's
day last I
first lecture. He sent for me after the class, and after

apologizing for not answering my letter, said he was glad
to hear T was pursuing my studies, but recommended me
not to give up the Bar. He then very explicitly in
formed me that when he proposed going to the East, last
summer, he had thought of getting me to officiate for
him, but was afraid the public might think me too young.
He then broke off abruptly. Such a declaration was to
me a matter of considerable wonder. That he should

have pitched on me, whom he could have no interest to

Iserve, was equally flattering and unexpected ; especially

as had never done anything to induce him to make

such a declaration, never cringed to his authority or
opinion. Ever since Wednesday my imagination has
been perpetually building castles in the air upon this
declaration of Professor Leslie's.'

   The proposal alluded to in the last sentence brought

out into definite relief a prospect which, though he may

hardly have named it to himself, had probably been slum
bering in his thoughts for long undefined. Notwith

standing Forbes's high promise and congenial interests,

Sir John Leslie does not seem, up to this time, to have
shown him any favour, or invited his confidence. That
he should now suddenly let drop such a hint must

have appeared all the more marked, from his previous
reserve. But whatever thoughts this remark of the
66           THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.             [chap.

Professor's may have awakened in young Forbes, there
was nothing to be done, but to keep working steadily on

the line of self-improvement he had planned. During the
winter, while carrying on his physical researches, making
barometrical measurements, and reducing his barometrical
observations made at Colinton, he attended Dr. Chalmers'

Divinity Lectures and Dr. Reid's class of Practical Che
mewxhips'irctIerhysas.mIesamaWmttiudetchenhldighisnhiasgtteiesdxftapw--ceotrDiieocrnnl.acCes: --sheaoslfmabetorstph'rFeosirefsnttth, Teshweeiotchlolagsbyso,etshanhoedf
IDr. Reid's, Dr. Hope's assistant, Practical Chemistry.
    am strongly of opinion that to hear such masterly
lectures by Chalmers upon Natural Theology and the
Evidences is a most fitting conclusion to a course of

liberal education, and singularly well calculated to pre
vent injury from the sceptical insinuations of Laplace

and other modern philosophers, whose works are likely to
                   with                   the path of exact
become    oracles  Reid  those  treading  equally delighted,
science.                          almost
           With          I am

though in a different way.' Besides this he was con
tinuing his study of German, and taking lessons in

Elocution.

   The month of December 1830 saw the break-up of
the old family home at Colinton. To this he had
looked forward ever since his father's death. And
now, when it came, he had to go through that pain
which has been the experience of so many in every

generation.

            ' We leave the well-beloved place,

                Where first we gazed upon the sky ;
                The roofs that heard our earliest cry

             Will shelter one of stranger race.'

   What his feelings were Forbes thus records :--

   ' We are about to leave this delightful and endeared
spot, endeared by its beauties and comfort, by long habit,
by the associations of childhood and youth, and by the
tenderest recollections of riper years. So deeply and
nr.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1831.                              67

Iheavily has this

saw its necessity,
                     event     pressed upon me ever   since
                               am almost ashamed to   confess
                     that I

the weakness of my feelings connected with inanimate

objects.'

Quitting Colinton he removed with his two sisters and
his brothers," Sir John and Charles, to Greenhill House,

on the south side of Bruntsfield Links, a pleasant abode,
belonging to his family, in which he lived until Sir John's
                                         with
marriage.         Here are the thoughts        which  he  closed
the year      1830 and entered on 1831    :--

                          ' Greenhill, Sunday, January 2nd, 1831.

   ' Farewell to the past year ! momentous in its results.
How my views have changed since this time in 1830 !
How kind were the friends who have left this world of

care and trial since I then wrote. With what utter
blindness can I look towards the characterless scroll of

time stretched out anew before me,        and soon to be im
                                          not how important.
printed with records to me I know
Much, much has there been in 1830 to call forth my
warmest thanks to God ; much to accuse myself of in
              of                                                of
the neglect          my plighted    adherence to   resolutions
amendment.      I      this day   received the    Sacrament.    I

reviewed my resolutions in August, and more particularly
adopted the following as being least fulfilled. 1st, Re
solution for self-examination and religious thought. 2nd,
For dependence in God. 3rd, For social love and confi
dence in my own family. 4th, For humility.'

This winter seems to have been an eminently happy
one, in the enjoyment of newly-won liberty and unim

peded devotion to his favourite pursuits. It is thus he
LspoeradksMeodf whiymnse:--lf at this time in a letter to his uncle,
                               'Colinton, November 28<A, 1830.

'     .    .  Every  day  has  convinced  me   more   strongly

   .

that a distinct election was necessary ; and each day has
lAikeswumisemecroonfvisntceeaddy,maendthIathoipt ewansotpuronpperorlfyitamblaed,e.lab. o.ur.

                               F2
68          THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                      [chap

has only strengthened my ardour of pursuit, and refreshed

by an ample period of relaxation I have renewed with

zeal my studies, which were never wholly interrupted,

and at this moment feel myself so entirely happy, alike
removed from turbid excitement and monotonous dul-
ness, that I should be ungrateful to God and to my kind
...friends, and a traitor to myself, did I not acknowledge
myself so.     I have mastered about two-thirds of

Boucharlat's Differential and Integral Calculus ; and the
study of some          of this
human inquiry  parts    confess,  most amazing     branch of
                                   astonished and   delighted
               has, I

me, and given me new views        of the  Owofnndoetrhfuinl gpoawmersI
which have been confided to
                                  man.

more assured at present than this, that a suitable ac
quaintance with the higher analysis is the strict basis of
real scientific inquiry in the present day ; and when we

see everything as we do reduced to the popular scale,

knowledge ditfused but not deepened, and all severe

mental labour received with disgust, this is the time, if

any, to lay deep the foundations of those acquirements to
which there opens no royal road. Both from inclination

and expediency 1 therefore resolve to pursue my mathe
matical studies, always keeping the application strictly
in view, and acting upon them in the course of my other

pursuits.

   ' It has long been Dr. Brewster's particular desire to
engage me in some field of original research, to which I
might devote my whole attention ; and that which is
every way most agreeable to me, and which seems most
fitted for my exertions, is Heat, in the widest sense of the
word, opening a field of the widest interest.              '
                                               ...

   This winter too saw his entry into the Royal Society
of Edinburgh, from which only his youth had kept him
hitherto, and of which for more than twenty years he
was a main stay.

    With the coming of spring 1831 he left Edinburgh
with his sisters oil a visit to London. Being well
furnished with letters and introductions, he at once
>v.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1831.                                                                                                                        69

made acquaintance with the chief scientific celebrities
of the time, and was by them warmly welcomed. Drs.

Murchison and Babbage, and Mrs. Somerville, he men
tions as having received him with special kindness in

London.
   At Cambridge he spent one of the happiest weeks of
his life in the society of Whewell, Sedgwick, Airy, and

Peacock, from whom he received much sympathy and

kindness. Oxford he visited, and was present at Com
memoration. Buckland did the honours of the place ;
but Oxford of course had fewer intellectual attractions

for a young physicist than Cambridge. With Drs.

Buckland, Conybeare, and Phillips he went to Shotover
to see the upper strata of the lias exposed, and after

wards was present in the theatre when Washington

Irving and others received degrees.

                                                                  'London, May 1831.

    ' Only arrived, when Sir A. Wood came in and told us
that the king was on the point of going down to

prorogue Parliament in person, preparatory to its dissolu
tion. We were from accidental circumstances too late

to see him go down, but saw him leave the door of the
House in state. King looking strange and nervous. Ex

citement in London very great. Turbulence in both
Houses very great. Went into the House of Commons,
and saw the members coming out of
I                                                       many of them

       a'

                                                                                          :
                                                                                                            :
                                                                                                  ;

                                                                   it,

                                                                                                                                                       ;
trembling for their seats. Afterwards saw Lords Grey,

Durham, and Brougham in carriages, and Dan O'Connell

walking.
     Breakfasted with Mr. Lyell. Met Mr. Babbage, whom
    had long wished to see very much interested by
my account of Brewster's analysis of the spectrum, and
with regard to Fraunhofer's rings. Spoke of his machine
             loitfhg.r--eatBraenaxkifeatsyt.e' d
as     work

    'May                                          with  Mr. Babbage                                                                                       much

pleased and interested by him present, Mr. Lyell,
Mr. Harris, Mr. Drinkwater, Captain Drinkwater. Mr.
Babbage showed to me some of his travelling instru-

ments, Rater's circle, horizons, &c. and some curious
70      THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                               [chap.

notes, especially on the temple of Jupiter Serapis. He

has a very fine telescope. Saw his mother and daughter.
Got                                       Whewell of Cambridge.
         a letter to Professor              appointment at one o'clock             to
     '
        June 5th. -- Had an

meet Mr. Babbage at his house. Thence we went to see
his calculating machine with Mr. Harris, at the place

where the machine is making, near the Bethlehem Hospital,

St. George's Road. A man of the name of Clement has
the entire direction of it, and the mechanism is most
splendid : it is almost entirely made by the turning lathe,
which he has in high perfection. . . . Mr. Babbage asked

me to go and dine with him. I had occasion to see a
...good deal of his character, which is very peculiar, and
pdiafrfitcicuultlyartlyhaint tIereessctaepdedmefr.om     It was with the greatest

                                                      him at two in the morning
after a most delightful evening.'

bridT' hgMeeay:f--ol1lo7wthin. --g   are   some    notices of the      visit  to   Cam
                                    Set   off for   Cambridge.        Called   on   Pro

fessors Sedgwick and Whewell, and Mr. Ramsay. Walked
about the charming grounds behind Trinity and King's

College. The day delightful, and the groves looking
truly academic. Under the circumstances could not fail
to muse a little upon the knife edges upon which a man's

fate in life may turn at a critical period.
   ' Strolling through Trinity
went with him to dine in                                Court met  I  Sedgwick, and
                                                      hall, when       met Whewell.

Two very interesting, indeed fascinating men. Took

wine in the Combination room. Had a remarkable proof
of Sedgwick's temper, kind feeling, and personal for
bearance in a miserable juggler's exhibition. Strolled
through King's College by moonlight, and returned with
Sedgwick to his rooms, and with difficulty escaped from

his delightful conversation after midnight some time.
He is a man of great and varied talent, of true self-
estimation, of most liberal spirit to his contemporaries, of
most kind and
               --coBnrceilaiaktfoarsytedmawnnitehrs.Mr.  Peacock,             tutor  of
   'May 18th.
nT.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1831.                    71

Trinity, a very able mathematician : present, Messrs.
Hawkin, late M.P., Sedgwick, Clavering, &c. &c. De
lightful rooms, looking into Trinity grounds. Went with
Mr. Whewell to Mr. Airy's lecture. These lectures by
the Plumian Professor, and at present probably the
ablest man in the University, are in the highest estima
tion. With great talents for perspicuous though un

adorned explanation, he is able to carry his class through
propositions, especially in physical optics, of the highest

profundity, and by his singular ingenuity to illustrate
some of the finest and most delicate experimental truths

on a most magnificent scale. The lecture was upon
mechanics. . . . After it was over he exhibited a mag
nificent series of experiments on polarization with

apparatus which he had taken the trouble to prepare,

hearing that I was to be there. . . . Drank wine with
Professor Whewell in his rooms, and had a most delight
ful party, including Airy, Sedgwick, Jarrett, Challis, and
Bothman. Much delightful and brilliant conversation.
Went at seven to see a boat-race of the University ; a
beautiful sight, great crowds assembled, particularly of
oarsmen. Went with Sedgwick and Whewell. Charm
ing evening, and enjoyed it much. Professor Sedgwick
came and drank tea with me.
' Dined in Trinity Hall. Took wine in Sedgwick's
room : present, Whewell, Thirlwall, Hare, Bothman, &c.
                                                      p--leaHsearnstchteallkinabohuist
Peacock came in  and   had some very
                  &c.    Memorandum
Airy, Herschel,                                       Whewell, 37; Airy
                                                      age of taking degree
fortieth  --yeinairm; itPaebalecomckanth! e    same;
only 30                                      Average

22nd year. Separated pretty late.
'Went to Professor Airy's lecture on mechanics.
Beautiful extempore explanation of the three axes of
rotation and the cause of precession. After lecture

he had the kindness to show me some experiments on
interferences of light. . . . Mr. Airy next showed me
some beautiful experiments with coloured shadows of
bodies thrown from a minute point of light, which he
views with eye-glasses.
72        THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                       [chap.

    'Mr. Airy took me over to the Observatory, where

he lives. Saw a very pretty polarizing apparatus on a

moderate scale. The only considerable instrument is the
transit-- a fine ten- feet, and perhaps the best worked

instrument in Britain. Airy is a wonderful man. His
observations hitherto published have all been made with
this single instrument, and contain a great mass of good
matter, all beautifully reduced. He had the kindness to
present me with the three volumes of his observations

now published.
   ' Dined with Mr. Ramsay at Jesus College ; very plea
sant party, including Peacock, Whewell, Henslow, and

Bowstead. Delighted with Whewell.

    'Professor Whewell sent me his paper on mathematics

applied to Ricardo's political economy, which I employed

myself a good deal in reading/ Breakfasted with Mr.

Ramsay. Saw Jesus College Chapel; pretty Gothic.
Tomb with 1263 on it in Arabic numerals. Whewell

doubts its genuineness.   me,  and  I  went with him         to
    ' Sedgwick called on
morning prayers in Trinity Chapel, being Whit Sunday.
Heard Mr. Blunt preach before the University in St.
Mary's Church. Dined in Trinity Hall, which was in

greater style than usual, being a Feast day. Several

strangers : James Hall and I went to Trinity Chapel in
the evening. Delighted with the service and the appear
ance of the chapel, which was well filled with surpliced

students, and the music excellent. Effect truly grand ;

would on no account have missed spending a Sunday here.
Took tea          --SeGdrgewyick(P, reimn iecro'smspoann)y,
Romilly,    with                                             with Whewell,
          Hon.                                               and Mr. Sheep

shanks, a distinguished man and an eminent member of

the Astronomical Society. Charmed more than ever
with Whewell. His notions of the prosecution of science
liberal, on the scale of his vast attainments.
   ' May 23rd. -- Breakfasted at Prof. Sedgwick's, with

James Hall, Mr. Thorp, a junior Fellow of Trinity, with

whom I only became acquainted on Sunday; and spent half

an hour with Mr. Whewell in his rooms, and saw some of
                          CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1831.                73

his minerals. Astonished at the vast range of his library
in subjects and language. Took a kind farewell of him

asendttinSgedogutw. ickI,t  and  went     to hear Airy's lecture before
                            was  upon     hydrostatics and pneumatics.

Took leave of Mr. Peacock, Mr. Ramsay, and Mr. Thorp,

and proceeded by coach to London more than delighted

by  '  mI yomstitatyedat  Cambridge.           of
                          to mention
                                          one      the  finest  mechanical
illustrations of an abstruse theory that I ever saw, at
the Observatory, contrived by Professor Airy. It was to
explain how, on the theory of undulations, the coinci
dence of two undulations will polarize light in one plane,

the semi-coincidence in a plane at right angles to the
former, and by a difference of a quarter of an undulation
polarize it circularly.
                                  .  ..   introduced    at Cambridge :--
    ' Persons to whom
                                 I   was

Professors Sedgwick, Whewell, Airy, Henslow ; Mr. Pea
cock, Thorp ; Dr. Ramsay, Vice-Master of Trinity ; Mr.
Jarrett, Romilly, Bowstead, Ash, Turner, Bothman,
Thirlwall, Hare, Sheepshanks.'

    A visit to Mr., afterwards Sir John Herschel, is thus
          :--
recorded  27th.           --  Went   by  appointment    to Slough  to  see

   ' May
Mr. Herschel. Met Mr. Beaumont, who is setting up
astronomer. Herschel was engaged most of the afternoon
in putting his twenty-feet reflector in order for the even
ing, in case we
observations.               should have the good fortune to     have   any
                            Mrs. Herschel was unwell, and              not
                                                                I did

see her. We dined, and the sky began to look favour
able after a cloudy day. As soon as it was dark, we went
to the telescope, just furnished with a beautiful new
polished speculum, which had not been used before. We

got hold of Saturn, and, notwithstanding a very indiffer
               him in a              mbauntneinrdwiffheircehntwlyasdevfeinryed.deligI hstafwu,l
ent sky,  saw  body was
to me.
          His

however, distinctly the shadow of his ring and five satel
lites, which is all that have ever been seen with the

twenty-feet telescope. Speedily, alas ! the sky clouded
74  THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                             [chap.

over completely, and we were obliged to give up the night,
wh'iMchayco2n8ttinh.u--edMimr. pHeenrestcrhaebllyshtohwicekd  with an east wind.
                                                              me his apparatus for

...grinding and polishingspeIcusplao,kewhtiochMhr.e           does himself, and
                                                              Herschel about a
with great success.
course of reading in analytics, expressing my conviction
of the necessity of a good foundation in the.highest mathe
matics. He considers Lacroix' Differential and Inte

gral Calculus indispensable, but to be read not through
but with selection             Mr. Herschel drove me down

in his phaeton to Stoke Church, the scene of Gray's
Elegy ; a beautiful and a most sequestered spot it

is. The poet is buried under a black slab elevated
above the ground by brickwork at the east end of the

church. His mother's name is inserted, not his own.'

    On his way northward Forbes stopped at Manches
                                                              memorial of his
Iter, and thisis    the  most  noteworthy

stay here : --
    ' The most extraordinary man met is John Dalton,
whose name is better known in almost any country of
Europe than his own, and in any town than in Manchester.
He is generally styled by continental writers the Father
of Modern Chemistry, and is one of the eight associates
of the Institute. Yet    this man
                         peculiar  between sixty and seventy is
earning, as I had a                satisfaction in seeing with

my own eyes, a penurious existence by teaching boys the
elements of mathematics, with which he is so totally

occupied, that he can hardly snatch a momeut for the pro
secution of discoveries which have already put his name
on a level with the courtly and courted Davy. But the

remarkable thing is that this simple and firm-minded man
preserves all the original simplicity and equanimity of
his mind, and calmly leaves his fame, like Bacon, to other

nations and future ages.'
   The hearty reception he had met with from the scien

tific brotherhood in the south sent him back to Scotland

with spirits braced for new exertions. And well it
might : to be thus welcomed by the chief men of the
scientific world, while still a mere youth, is not the lot
             CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1831.                                           76

of most aspirants. It seemed, as if passing over the long
obscurity through which the early manhood even of the
most gifted has to struggle, he had at one step taken his

place beside the foremost men of the time, if not yet as
their equal, at least as one who was soon to become so.
   This autumn saw the first beginnings of what has since
become a world-wide Institution, the well-known British

Association. In the foundation of it Forbes bore a part
which in a youth of two-and-twenty seems wonderful.
The real father of it was Sir David Brewster. By him the
idea of such a congress was first conceived, and its realiza
tion was mainly due to his enthusiastic and untiring efforts.

Everyone who ever listened to his conversation or read
his more popular writings will remember how unweariedly

he dwelt on the way this country neglects its scientific

benefactors, how earnestly he pleaded their claims to

fuller honours and larger salaries. It occurred to him
that if the scattered scientific intellect of the country were

gathered into one spot, and presented in bodily mass and
weight to the eye and ear of men, the crass public might
be roused to recognize its existence and value, as they

never would do while it appealed only to the pure intellect.

The Association which he originated has grown to a size
and importance which Brewster perhaps little dreamt
     But it  stteilnl dceonmcibeisnesofanBdrerwesptreers'esntslifew--hahtiswelorvee
of.                                                                                  the
two  master                                                                           of

science and his love of sociality.
The first hint of it is contained in the following letter
                                                     York, dated from
from Brewster  to Professor  P1h8i3ll1ip:s--  a'Itt    is proposed to
Allerly, 22nd   February,
establish a British Association of men of science similar to

that which has existed for eight years in Germany, and

which is now patronized by the most powerful sovereigns
of that part of Europe. The arrangements for the first

meeting are in progress ; and it is contemplated that it
shall be held in York, as the most central city of the three

kingdoms.'
   Nineteen years later Sir David, speaking from the Pre
sident's chair to the Association assembled in Edinburgh,
76                   THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

said, 'On the return of the British Association to the
metropolis of Scotland, I am naturally reminded of the
small band of pilgrims who carried the seeds of this Insti
tution into the more genial soil of our sister land. . . .

J.Sir John Robison, Professor Johnston, and Professor
D. Forbes were the earliest friends and promoters of the
British Association. They went to York to assist in its

establishment, and they found there the very men who

were qualified to foster and organize it. The Rev. Vernon

Harcourt, whose name cannot be mentioned here without

gratitude, had provided laws for its government, and
along with Mr. Phillips, the oldest and most valuable of

its office-bearers, had made all those arrangements by
which its success was ensured. Headed by Sir Roderick

Murchison, one of the very earliest and most active advo

cates of the Association, there assembled in York about

two hundred of the friends of science.'
   In this
Sir David       account of the   founders  othf ethcehieInf sntiatmuteio--n
                omits only one,  but that

his own.

  If to these words of Sir David Brewster we add those
of Forbes, when in 1 866 he spoke at St. Andrews in favour
of the Association, then about to meet for the first time at

Dundee, enough will have been said to show with what
feelings that earliest meeting at York in 1831 was long

after remembered     by two who had taken the chief part

in it :--
    '
          .  .  Mr.  James  Johnston,  a chemist of repute
       .

and a friend and correspondent of Sir David Brewster,

communicated to his scientific journal in 1830 details
of the proceedings of the German Association, and
their results. Sir David Brewster warmly took up the
idea of introducing into Great Britain a similar institu

tion, which occurred the more opportunely that about

that time a controversy took place, in which he bore an
active part, as to whether the science of England, as com

pared with that of continental countries, was or was not
in a condition of decline. Sir David, following Mr.
Babbage, espoused the less flattering side of the debate,
it.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1831.              77

and attributing the alleged decline of science to defective
organization and the want of support of the State, he
naturally considered that an annual congress of scientific

men would afford the occasion which he desired of

stimulating their energies in a common pursuit, and of
impressing upon the attention of Government any disad
vantages of a public nature under which the science of
Great Britain might be thought to labour.
    ' Sir David Brewster brought his proposal under the
notice of his scientific friends in London, and being
fortunately in communication with Mr. Phillips of York,
now Professor of Geology at Oxford, the city of York,
the seat of one of the most flourishing of the provincial
societies, was fixed on for what was termed in the original

circular "a meeting of the friends of science," which
should take place in September 1831.
in one respect unfortunately chosen.            The time appeared
                                                The excitement of

public feeling incident to the discussions on the Reform

Bill was so great, that the postponement of the meeting
was at one time contemplated. It however took place
without the smallest infusion' of political bitterness.
   ' In an address, distinguished by thoughtful elabo
ration, Mr. Harcourt propounded to his select auditory
at York a scheme for a British Association for the

Advancement of Science, of which he described the

aims and the working details with a completeness which
took his hearers somewhat by surprise, but in which
they found little to alter or amend ; and the constitution
proposed by Mr. Harcourt remains in all its important
                                   soafidt,he"
d"eItapilrsoptohsee  working code               Association to this day.
                      to you," he               to found an Association

including all the scientific strength of Great Britain, which
shall employ a short time every year in pointing out the
lines of direction in which the researches of science should

move, in indicating the particulars which most imme
diately demand investigation, in stating problems to be
solved and data to be fixed, in assigning to every class
of mind a definite task, and suggesting to the members
that there is here a shore of which the soundings are to
78                   THE LIFE OF JAMES B. FORBES.               [chap.

        definitely taken, and there           a line of
       voyage of discovery should
                                              be made.
...be more                                               coast  aIloanmg

which a
not aware that in executing such a plan we should
intrude on the province of any other institution. Consider
the difference between the limited circle of any of our
scientific councils . . . and a meeting at which all the
science of these kingdoms should be convened, which

should be attended by deputations from every other society,

and in which foreign talent and character should be

tempted to mingle with our own. With what a momen

tum would such an Association urge on its purpose ;
what activity would it be capable of exciting ; how
powerfully would it attract and stimulate those minds
                     th"irst                  or rejoice in the sun
which   either        !       for reputation
shine  of truth
    ' Blended with such stirring appeals
unfold his intended constitution of this      did  M"rP. aHrlaiarmcoeunrtt
                                              new
of Science," as it has since been happily termed. Their
echoes seem still to vibrate through the long interval of
five-and-thirty years, the interval of one entire generation

Iof man. Yes, gentlemen, they still seem to vibrate, for
                     little older than  some of the senior
mwhyosemlf,Ithneonw                      attendant at that  students
                      address, was an                       meeting,

and a profoundly interested auditor of this inaugural
discourse. Year after year without intermission, from
1831 to 1866, has the British Association held on its

course, visiting town after town, university after
university, from Oxford in the south to Aberdeen in
the north, and from Cork in the west to Newcastle in
the east, carrying everywhere with it the prestige due to
its founders and supporters, and developing in compara

tively remote districts local talent and enthusiasm, which
the advent of so renowned and comprehensive an Associa
tion is sure to excite.'

    To this first meeting at York, Scotland sent a

numerous and powerful contingent. Forbes set out in
September 1831, along with Sir D. Brewster, Sir John
Robison, and others. The success of that meeting more
than fulfilled the expectation of its founders. During the
IT.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1832.                     70

immediately following years, while it was still in its infancy,
the Association had to run the gauntlet of not a little

ridicule. It was a butt for the shafts of the ' British
Critic,' the chief organ of the Oxford movement then
beginning, which attacked it with no sparing satire.
And though no doubt the gala days of the savants,

enlivened by good dinners, railway excursions, and abun
dant talk, may still provoke a smile, those who know
best the history of these meetings seem most assured
that they have really been fruitful of solid results. Of

these services to science one of the most tangible is the
establishment and maintenance by the Association of the
Observatory at Kew, for observing the phenomena of
meteorology and terrestrial magnetism. During all his
active life Forbes maintained the same interest in pro
moting the work of the Association which he had shown
in its first foundation.

   The winter of 1832 was spent in Edinburgh, carrying
on the work of self-education in those scientific subjects
to which he had now entirely devoted himself. At

tendance on classes and instruction from others were

now past. It was by private reading and by making
experiments for himself that the work of improvement

must henceforth be carried on.

The following fragments from letters and journals
                 winter was spent, and with
show how this    till in spring he went again  twohLaotntdhoonug: --hts

it was engaged,

To Sir John Robison, February 10, 1832.

'It is my intention, should circumstances permit, on

Professor Leslie's resignation  to offer  mIysaemlf  as a candidate
for the Natural Philosophy      chair.               aware of the
chances of disappointment, and that, if once filled up, it
might not again be open during my life ;             but, if circum
stances should render my chance a good
                                                     one, I mean to
put myself in the way of without at all compromising
                  aa

                                it,

                                                    I
my happiness by sanguine desire of success.            feel the

boldness of such  project, and am humbled by com
80               THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                                        [chap.

SpbcauortitslIoannbdeol--ifevItehsoastyehaiwtt hwuonitdhheaorvuetthfeailnleeydxiesmtthinoatgtioncshtaaotifer   with myself;
                                                                                                               of science in
                                                                                                              vanity -- there

are few who have had the means and inclination combined
           the course which I have
to pursue  the delicacy I feel in                                             done. You must be
aware of
Professor  Robison once occupied ;                                            wburitt,inSgir,o"f               the   chair
                        and I fear                                                                            there  were

giants in those days,"  science in                                            we are now reduced but
to a dwarfish state of
                                                                              Scotland : -- this alone is
the footing on which I can place it.'

    This is his  chronicle of the first                                       half of the year 1 832 :--
                  1832. -- Living at
    'January                                                                   this time with John,

Charles, and my sisters, and Miss Ballingall at Green-
hill. This month made experiments with Dr. Christison
at his house, on comparative readings of Royal Society's
thermometers. Results in my pocket-book of that date.
    ' This winter saw a good deal of the amiable Professor
Lou' FisebN. e--ckMarakoinf gGeneexvpa,erilmiveinngts  in Edinburgh.
                                                         of conducting                                            power
of metals, with Fourier's thermometer of contact. The

notes in pocket-book. Also on magnetic intensity with

Ha'nFsetebe.n2's6.a--ppRaeraatcuhse.d London ; Sir D. Brewster there.

Saw much of him, Babbage, Captain King, Neckar,
and others. Occupied in ordering instruments for

fore' Aigpnriltou4.r--. At Allerly with Sir D. Brewster.
    '
    '  AMObpatryaiiln,1e7Md. --asypA,atrJukCnfaermo.m--briEdmngagega.ngeet.d  with  report                    on  meteor
    '

ology for  --BrAitsissohciAastisoonciamtioenetianngdapt rOepxaforardti.onsRfeoardtoruerp.ort

   'June.

on 'mJuenteeoro7l.o--gyE. lected into Royal Society of London.'

  IThese early years have described more at length, and

illustrated with fuller details from his own journals, than

I shall think it necessary to do in the sequel. I have done
iv.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1832.                      81

so from the conviction that of all men's lives the opening
years most repay close attention, because it is then that

the master tendencies first show themselves, that the

materials are gathered in, which pass most deeply into
the being, that the hues are laid, which colour the

whole life till the end. But if this is true of all men, it

is especially true of strong intense natures which take
their line early, and keep it unfalteringly.

   That saying, ' The child is father of the man,' though

perhaps first uttered by Wordsworth, sounds like a

world-old proverb. In no man was this more distinctly
seen than in James Forbes.
                                      The moral habits and

mental pursuits, begun in the nursery at Colin ton, re
mained with him all life through. But there is another

circumstance that makes those first years instructive,
especially to those who have still to shape their course.

Forbes may be said to have been a self-educated man. Till

his sixteenth year, when he entered college, the instruction
he had was of the slightest and most desultory kind.
No doubt he was surrounded by a refined and intelli
gent atmosphere, one in which the tone was more than
usually pure and serious. But the mental habits and the
definite information which he took with him to college
were not put in him by the spoon ; the habits were formed

by his own self-discipline, the knowledge gathered by his

own unwearied seeking ; and even during his college

years this continued. The main thing was not the infor

mation furnished, nor the stimulus given by the professors'
lectures, but the widening of his mental horizon by the
action of his own swift intelligence and persistent effort.

The journals and observations which he had begun years
before he entered college continued to be his most cherished
                                      sopfeendtuicnaIttioanly,t--hrowueghhaovuet
employment and       his chief means
his college course.    That one year
seen what an impulse it gave to all his thoughts and early
predilections. His after labours in the Alps were only
continuations of habits and processes of observation then
begun. To us now looking back it is clear that physical
science was his natural element. Towards it he was borne
82  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                             [chap.

by a tendency as strong as that which leads the duck to
swim or the hawk to fly. But between these unreasoning
instincts and the rational bias of man there is one great

difference. The lower creature has the instinct, and the
opportunity to act on it is never wanting. But men, espe

cially in youth, before they know ^either themselves or the
world, feel many an impulse which they cannot explain ' to

themselves, much less to others,' many a natural tendency
ifcnoirgrcsuwmhosifctaPhnrocthevesid,ree--nsceaeenm--dsstnheoeemsoeutatolreerte,ocanlageimalia.nrsgteIwnphaiscruhtchoafllctahoseuestgwuiatirddi-s

often very hard for a young man to know whether he

should ciing to his natural tendency at all hazards, or yield

to the heavy necessities which seem warning him to aban

don it. It is many a time a great and sore perplexity. The

binowtharfdrobmiasGoadnd--twhehicohutwoafrdthesurtrwoounidsinagsmaarne,  we  believe,
                                                                         to  follow ?

No definite rules can be laid down. But something may
be learnt from the case of young Forbes, and of others

like him, by whom the difficulty has been deeply felt

and fairly met. Before he could make science the prin
cipal and legitimate object of his life, untrammelled by

jarring occupations and conscientious scruples, there are
proofs enough to show that he had many an hour of
anxious self-scrutiny. He pondered well all the cir
cumstances, he sought the advice of those most entitled
to counsel him, he took his motives and aims honestly
into the light of conscience and of God, and he sought
guidance from above. In due time the way was opened,

and the result we are now to see.

    His period of exclusive self-education and preparation for

the active duties of life was to be closed by a tour on the
Continent, which he had long planned, and in which it
was his intention to visit those places, in which either by
converse with scientific men, or by observing striking
aspects of nature, he might enrich his scientific resources.

It probably was his intention to prolong this tour for
some years, and not to return till he had laid up a store
of facts and observations, which he might give to the
nT.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1832.                    S3

world in some mature work. At the beginning of July

1832 he left London with his brother Charles. Their

course lay through France and by the Rhine on to
Switzerland. By the middle of November he was at

Geneva. Thence he was suddenly recalled to Scotland by

the news of the death of Sir John Leslie, and the conse

quent vacancy in the chair of Natural Philosophy in the
University of Edinburgh. It was exactly two years
before this that Sir   John had made to
                                           his young pupil
the announcement I    have already noted,   which, though
it took him by surprise, must have helped to define his

views for his future course.

    When James Forbes went to the Continent he had left

instructions with his brother Charles, that if anything
should befall Sir John Leslie during his absence he

wished to be put in nomination for the chair. Return

ing rapidly, as he passed through Cambridge on his way
to Scotland, he found that his brothers and his uncle,

Mr. George Forbes, having already entered his name

as a candidate for the vacant chair, were warmly pro

secuting the canvass, and had procured testimonials

from all quarters.

    Besides James Forbes there were four other candidates

in the field -- Dr. Ritchie, Professor of Natural Philo

sophy in the London University ; Mr. Thomas Galloway,
Professor of Mathematics in Sandhurst College ; Professor
Stevelley, Professor of Natural Philosophy in Belfast ; and,
last and greatest, his firm friend and adviser, Dr. after
wards Sir David Brewster. But young Forbes was in the

field and had fairly committed himself, before he knew that
Sir David was to come forward. The tone which Brewster

had always held about      t----helaewndoorFpkoinroibofenpsrwotfheoiscshobreisslhieievpxesp, retashssaetfdathianel

to original investigation
a letter already given
would not now think of the chair. It was therefore with

surprise, but not dismay, that some time after he had
returned from the Continent he learnt that Brewster was

really to be a candidate. To have such a rival as Dr.

Brewster, his elder in years, his superior in reputation, one

                              o2
84  THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.  [chap.

whose achievements in science he so greatly admired, to
whose friendship he owed so much, must have been a
severe trial to Forbes, and would have made many men
shrink from the contest. But while he admired the per
formances of his elder friend, he had confidence in his

own powers, and was not a man to be daunted by any

reputation however great. I have before me a volume

in which Forbes collected the printed testimonials of

all the candidates. It is interesting now to read over

some of these, and to observe the way in which the
same Cambridge magnates testify to the performance
of Brewster and to the promise of Forbes. Professor
Airy, the Astronomer Royal, in writing of Sir David
expresses his conviction ' that there is no person of the
present day to whom his (Brewster's) country owes so
much for its scientific character as himself.' He adds,

that if the choice of the electors is to be determined by
an estimation of past services, it must fall on Brewster.

He consoles himself in the end with the thought that,
' whatever the decision of the electors between Brewster
and Mr. Forbes may be, it cannot be unfavourable to
the University.'

    Dr. Whewell said of Sir David that ' in the department
of optical science he had brought to light more new
facts and new principles than any other person in any
country, and he might almost say than all other observers

together.'

    Nothing could well be stronger than these testimonies.
Comparing them with the language employed by the
same men when speaking of Forbes, we find them testi
fying that Forbes's performances were already important
in themselves and very remarkable as coming from one so
young, and they drew from these and from their knowledge
of himself an augury of a brilliant future.

    From among the numerous testimonials which Forbes
produced from men of the highest scientific name,
Whewell, Airy, Peacock, Buckland, Vernon Harcourt,
Chalmers, Sir William Hamilton of Dublin, and many
more all speaking one language, the following words of
-v.J CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1833. 65

Sir John Herschel need alone be quoted. He speaks of

Forbes ' as marked by Nature for scientific distinction, if
he should continue to aim at its attainment.' ' I adhere,'

he adds, ' to the expression ; and having, in consequence
of the interest attaching to this matter, been led to an
mraetsuteesantrtcisvhaeeys,rteh-aapsterIwuefsilanl ldaosthf ioshfisimmapmnreeytsesooiroofnlohggiisrceaaletalyralisnetdrrenpmagapthgerensne, etidcI
and confirmed by the evidence they afford of a most
valuable union of careful diligence in the observation
of facts, and just philosophic views in combining and
reasoning on them, together with a remarkably extensive
knowledge of the investigations of predecessors and con
temporaries in a great variety of different branches of
         It would be the height of absurdity to
inquiry
think of raising any objection on the score of standing,
to one who has already brilliantly distinguished himself,

and whose talents  thaendvigapouprlicaotfioangec--anyoountlhy  be  rendered
more precious by                                               he
                                                                   means --

to which they are attached.'
Excessive youth was one of the main objections
urged against Forbes. These words of Herschel must
have done something to repel this foolish charge ; for
in truth there can be no more foolish objection urged
against a candidate, who is otherwise well qualified.

Where character and genius are found, as they some
times are, combined in a very young man, he cannot,

when once he has attained his majority, too soon be

placed in the chair for which his gifts have evidently
designed him.

  It cannot, however, be doubted that, if the election

Ihad been decided solely by achieved results, Brewster
must have been successful.    have heard it said, how

ever, that one element which does not appear in the
testimonials weighed with the electors -- a very grave
doubt whether Sir David had the power of lecturing

before a large audience. It is well known that he

never could venture to speak without manuscript at

auy length in public. It may be that the same
86              THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                    [chap.

nervousness, would have unfitted him from being a
successful lecturer. There was still another element

seldom wanting in such cases, and in this contest more

than usually prominent. It was the day of the Reform

Bill, and the spirit of party was then running very high
in Edinburgh as elsewhere. One still more embittering

ingredient, however, which has since then been added

to these professorial elections, church partisanship, was

not then present. It might then have had some effect

on the decision whether a candidate was a Tory or
a Whig ; it was not then inquired whether he belonged
to the Episcopalian or Established Church, whether he
was a Eree Churchman or a United Presbyterian. How

far political  feeling  Imcaaynhnaovte   influenced the choice  which
the electors   made                                             of the
                                        say. It was the last
unreformed Town Councils of Edinburgh with whom the
election lay, and it was the last time in which they had

to exercise their prerogative.
    After a more than usually excited contest the election

took place on the 30th January, 1833, when the choice fell
on James Forbes by a majority of twenty-seven to nine.

    Likely enough the electors may have been glad to see
in the field a young candidate so highly gifted, sprung
from an ancient family, long and honourably identified
with the Tory party in Scotland. But, politics apart, of
the many qualities which may be taken into account in
the choice of a professor, though they cannot figure in
testimonials, few candidates ever had a larger share than
James Forbes. If, in addition to high scientific genius,

a finely cultivated literary taste and style, natural powers
of eloquence perfected by the best aids of art, a dignified

and commanding presence, gentle and refined manners,
                --wieifldgeidftsbysuachwilal s  of rare
and  these all                                           strength, purity,
and  elevation                                    these  enhance a man's

claim to such a chair, then the claim of James Forbes

was of the highest order.

    Whatever reflections may at the time have been made
on this preference of the young man's promise to the
iv.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1833.                                      87

performances of the veteran in science, the result well

vindicated the wisdom of the choice. And no doubt the
sense of his own exceeding }routhfulness in years if not

in learning, and the knowledge that he himself and his

supporters were on their trial, acting on his tensely-strung
and resolute spirit, urged him to put forth his utmost
strength, and to silence all murmurs of detraction. But

though such feelings may naturally have had some place

in his mind, it was from higher and more stable sources
that his habitual strength was drawn. The following
extracts show with what
                                   aims  and          motives    he     entered
on his new career :--

                                   ' Greenhill, 3rd February, 1833.

' God of His great mercy has brought me safely through
another year : He has directed my steps abroad, He has
watched me there, He has given me much richly to enjoy,

He has called me home at an earlier period than I pro
           He has fulfilled        oablljetchtewsehipchrocweaesdtinhgesimI mseeediHaties
Ifposed,  of that return.    the

cause          ever I felt     In
hand.
                             disposed to say, "To-day or to
morrow I shall go to such a city, and stay there a
          Haendh,asbcyonavninacloegdy,meofomf tyheouwnncelritfaei.nty"  of human
year,"                                                                  His ways
affaire,

.are in the sea, and His path in the great waters, and
His footsteps are not known." By the fulfilment of the

object of my return to this country, I find myself at an
oeaf rlNiear tuperarilodPhthilaonsopI hpyropoinsedEdiinnbtuherghp,osittoionwhoifcPhrofIeswsaosr
elected on the 30th ult. May it be for my own welfare,
temporal and eternal. It is under this condition alone
that I have prayed for it. To-day I received the Com
                                                      wishes in
munion,   a: --nd0exmproesstsedpomwyerwfualntsanadnd  gracious   such   words
as these                                                         God,     look

down with mercy on the infirmities of Thy servant.
Amid the changing scenes of life give me firmness to
                                         the great object of that
keep my eye steadily fixed on
life which Thou hast given me.           I trace the workings of
providence in Thy recent dealings with me. Let my
88          THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                [chap.

object be so to use the endowments and temporal advan

tages wherewith Thou hast blessed me, as may most
redound to Thy glory, and to my own spiritual and
eternal welfare. Take from me all fear of the world's

frowns, all elation at its smiles. Enable me to fulfil

with integrity the new duties placed before me, to act
becomingly in the wider sphere to which Thy good
ness has extended my exertions. Aid me to cultivate
Christian charity, to lay aside all feelings of animosity,

Iand to cherish a principle of universal benevolence.
Ibeseech Thee to preserve me from an undue anxiety in
temporal    matters, to which      am  insoThepero, nwe,hicahndI   to
strengthen                                                        ac
            my faltering confidence

knowledge has been sinfully and ungratefully imperfect.

Grant me, I pray, health for the pursuit of my under
                  a slavish love of life. Grant         I may
takings, yet not                                  that
take a fearless   view of my latter end. If             not so
                                                 I be

grossly forgetful of the uncertainty of life, let me not
mistake the very fault of too much thoughtfulness of the
morrow for the saving conviction of the thought of a
                     Teach me not
last judgment.    to number them   tmheartelIy  to number         my
                                                may apply         my
days, "but so
heart unto wisdom." Further all my good resolutions,

however imperfect, and give effect to the weakness which,

Iunassisted, would render them unavailing. This, and all

  ask is through the merits of Jesus Christ. Amen.'

   Our senses are impressed when we see high and
energetic character in men, and we say that nature has
made them vigorous or persistent or conscientious.
We say so, and in part truly. But there is another and
deeper side which we do not see. The inward struggles,
the self-scrutiny of motives, the self-dedication, the
casting of self back on a higher strength, these are things
hidden from all eyes. Only when, as here, some secret
record long after comes to light, do we get a glimpse of
the inner springs whence that strength was fed, whose
outward results men saw for a time, and approved.
iv.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1833.                          89

This chapter, which attempts to sketch the growth of

Forbes's mind and character from childhood to manhood,

may perhaps be fitly closed by the following auto
biographic letter, written at a later date than we have
yet arrived at. One thing only must be noted. While
touching on some peculiar circumstances of his youth,
already alluded to, he gives an estimate of his own cha
         which, if it have  haansidde:--of  truth,
racter,                                              seems  certainly
drawn    with too severe a

                            ' Sunday, November 3rd, 1839.

' I was born 20th April, 1809, whilst my mother
was in very delicate health. She went to Devon
shire, taking me with her, and died there the fol

lowing year. My poor father, as I have reason to
know indirectly, was almost distracted by his loss : a
man of the most virtuous, amiable, high-minded, and

singularly unobtrusive disposition, he was evidently
formed for the complete enjoyment of domestic happi
ness. He had, it appears, so concentrated his affections
on my mother, that with her loss he was a changed man :
he lived as a Christian ought to do, striving to fulfil his
duty to his family and to mankind by the most active
but generally secret benevolence ; but from the time of

my mother's death I suppose no one shared his entire
confidence. To his family the most affectionate, con
siderate, and uniformly indulgent parent, he yet spent
but little time  in
at home, never,       their society, though he       lived  always
                 I   believe for years together       even  dining

out, until the increasing age of my sisters induced him
to mix in society for their sake, and live part of the year

in Edinburgh. Till then we always lived at Colinton in
absolute seclusion. On good terms with everybody, he
had  no intimacy with any person            in
and  consequently we had none.                  the  thneeitgihmbeouIrhkonoedw,
                                            In  all

him he never mentioned my mother's name in my hear
ing but once or twice at the most. I, the youngest and
most delicate of the family, was his peculiar favourite,

and never being sent to school or anywhere else, was
90              TEE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

scarcely separated from  him  till  othr emdoaoydyo--f iht iswadseantho.t
                         him
You must not suppose          sad

                the very hearts of his children, and it is

                back, that clearly perceive that as his
Insoow; ,heaslivI eldookin
Itreasure was not in this world, so neither was his heart.
   was educated with my brother Charles at home, my
two elder brothers went to school in England. Even
when living in Edinburgh we rode out every day to

the schoolmaster at Colinton for private lessons, so that

we formed no acquaintances even amongst our nearest
relatives until we were almost grown up, and literally
knew nobody beyond first cousins, and few of them.
This was no doubt a great mistake, and you cannot fail
to have observed the effects of     it in
sisters as well as myself. In due          ImwyenbtrottoheCroslleagned,
                                    time

having been abroad for a year, but my habits were
by this time too much formed voluntarily to seek for
                     My single playfellow, Charles, was
acquaintances.

withdrawn to other employments, and my habits, which
were always solitary, became confirmedly so. About my

thirteenth year tastes for reading and inquiry had

spontaneously developed themselves, without altogether

the means of gratification, for our reading was very
rigorously regulated, and my first essays in science,
which were soon after, were indulged with almost

criminal secrecy, and of course, if discovered, shared
the usual fate of being laughed at by my brothers.

This still more increased my reserve. One friend I took
a fancy to at College, but it was not altogether happy ;

my reserved manners told too truly then what they have

done ever since ; he is now alive and well, but he never

knew what I felt for him. When seventeen, I commenced
writing anonymously in Brewster's Journal, and soon after
went to Italy. My taste for science always grew, but
                                   it still more sedulously.
my   Ishyness  made  me conceal    every hour of the night
               made  observations
For   years

on two days without anybody in the house suspecting
                                    I
                                                                ;
                                                                it,
except my brother who slept in the same room even he

did not know of my printed Essays.         am not going to
iv.] CHOICE OF A PROFESSION, 1833.                                 91

give you a history of my progress, because that is not to
my present point, except in          so far  as it illustrates     the
system of education under            which                         up.
                                             I was brought
My eldest brother died in 1 826, whilst we were abroad,

Iand my poor father never had a day of health after.

need not dwell on the two years that he lingered,

rendering himself more and more beloved by his family
tIilnl eietdplenaostedsaGy otdhatto
                                     remove him just    eleven  years ago.
                                     we lived secluded   these  two years

and for long    after,   living      entirely at        Colinton.      For
myself, being  quite                  my studies,
                        keen on                         I never    missed

Isociety, and but for the catastrophe of my father's death,

  could spend those meditative years with delight again.

laAbonytndgtdwhyesaepndnetjypoc-syoaiaenr,rdeieadIignakdthineneepswetsnewedadlehmsnicothfsrtotmhInoohubinagofdhdatyn,n,ceyaIv.nedrhTawbhdaeoseunbgouphwtpraIerlsnishteetaldded,

notion of independent action, and felt an awkward
ness and diffidence in my dealings with people in
general, and women in particular, of which no doubt
you have remarked the traces. This diffidence did not
                                     society, and I often wonder at
extend  to intellectual
myself                               of the memorable epoch in 1831,
        when I think
when just twenty-two, and furnished with a great
Iwntdoeeunhnbmossuassebteyue,brjeiaennaccotjqtosLfuyoatlmnehbindteeottoentanrttsnsl,ee,cdleIf-cOphufIxoeipsfeloshtferliaydnsads, tifomrmonabemaneddisenIDogCrf.mtoaharmaBebnrnlbmeeyrwyidfytssegoeetleeatlf,.rr,cso,IaamnItamdmnawdtudhooneetInhicdewameriantsreys,,

immediately a new man. I had thus, you will see, a
world of thought and of intellectual intercourse opened
up to me which became my world : my familiar world
was not altered. My friends, and they soon proved

themselves really such, were generally double my age.
Whilst my, now,   elcdiercstlesbriontheLronwdaosn,mIovhinagd  at the same
time in the best                                              no wish to
accompany him ; it required many years of the intel
lectual society into which I had literally worked myself
92              THE LIFE OF JAMES 1). FORBES.  [chap. Iv.

to give me leisure to think of any other. I fully

indulged,  sLoaocnnidedtyo.snecarIenntdlyECdpairnmidbbeurdirdgghme,yIsaecnolfduldotnhenrometfyorfeiinnddIewphheaandt
dence of

I had in
little or none. In 1832, I travelled alone abroad, and
fully worked out a taste, which you will see was
natural to my then state of mind, for solitary travel
ling, and the independence which it confers and in

dulges. These unsocial journeys, which you profess to
like me to make, are the very evidence and food of
the reserved temper in ordinary society which, because
you observe it most where you feel personally inter
Iested, you sometimes lament. Since I have acted for
myself have     ventured to  do so   very independently           on
the subject of  associates.            formed my own              ac
                             I have
quaintances, maintained them without consulting other

people's opinions or prejudices ; and on the other hand, I
have treated with mere civility
                                 itshotsheatacifcidIehnatavellyoftfhernodwedn
Iin my way. The consequence
                                 time  and a   solid phalanx
a few, have gained much           and          them simply
of useful allies, who like me          I like

because we have something in common, however we

may differ  on other points.     General       mixed society
never had   charms for me. As                   homage from
                                 I ask no

I' iIt,  have nothing to stoop for, and        asks as little
                                     ;I
from me. . . .                          ; I it

                                                              aa
         should add that in childhood, partly from con
stitution and partly from indulgence, was in high

degree timid, excitable, and nervous that as more

independent spirit came over me          became energetic
and ambitious this stage continued from my seven
            ;

teenth to my twenty-seventh year since that some
mellowing ingredients have softened some of the aspe
rities of my character, and the providential goodness
of God which made me acquainted with you made
that friendship in many senses blessed, for which
                I
                                                  I
desire to thank Him as ought.'
                   CHAPTER V.

                   PROFESSORIAL LIFE.

James Forbes's election to the Chair of Natural Philo

sophy took place on the 30th January, 1833, and as he
had not to enter on its active duties till next November,

he had nine months to prepare for the new task that
awaited him. When he was elected he was under
twenty-four, and he had to take the place of a professor
who had made himsel'f a name in his generation. But
to the work before him he girt himself with all the
energy and courage of opening manhood, and with a

methodical and sober wisdom beyond his years. His
feelings of satisfaction at success were well tempered
by thoughts which do not often occur to one so young.

   The way in which he viewed his then situation is
seen in a confidential letter to his sister, written in the
May after the election : --

' Dear Sister,                     ' Paris, May 2Uh, 1833.

'     .         .  Were  I  asked  whether  I  derived  more

   .

unmixed pleasure from my           recent appointment, or
from my tour in Switzerland,
                                   I must answer, from the

latter ; for however intense and piquant the pleasures
derived from one's position in society may be, they
undoubtedly fall far  troesghirnoetrte,tr--cionwuhrsseeirnegwlenitthehess,npautprusurueriit--ty,iws haetnhrede
charm in retrospect
we have nothing to
94           THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                            [chap.

pleasure, and the delightful elasticity of mind and body
Icontrasts strongly with the opposites which almost inevi
tably accompany the pursuit of the other.                            feel
assured that my recent success will be beneficial to me
...in a way
           whI ichha,veonnoa wsuptehreficaiarlduvoieuws,  may   not  be appa
rent.                                                     task  of
                                                                     fulfilling
expectations before me, which, while it is humbler, is
more wholesome than that of creating them. The chief
danger of courting praise or . gratifying ambition is
either when a man is mean enough to wish to have

more than his due, or unhappy enough to combine a
feverish love of ambition with an adverse fortune which

makes his whole life a struggle to obtain his due, and

upon which he therefore naturally puts a fancy price.
Let a man take once his true level, and it is not likely,

other things being equal, that either the prosperous gale

or storms of the world's ways will readily overset him.

At leas't this is my view of the subject, and I feel that

Providence has put me in a situation less tempting to

the sins that most easily beset me, than if it had left me

to buffet my way against opposing circumstances.'

    While he was thus girding himself for his work, and
cheered by the congratulations of his friends, it must
have been felt as not a little painful that there was one
of the oldest and most hearty of his friends who could
not join in these congratulations. Contests for professor
ships, as for higher posts, sometimes bring with them
not painless collisions. But seldom has the irony
of destiny been more conspicuous than in the cir
cumstances which pitted James Forbes and Dr. Brewster
against each other as rival candidates for Sir John
Leslie's chair. It was not in ordinary human nature

but that the success of the younger candidate should

cause some soreness in the elder. At the height of the
canvass, in anticipation of such
written to his uncle : ' With Sir   a  result, Forbes had

                                   D.  Brewster I am re
solved not to quarrel. With him I believe it is difficult
to quarrel, except by one's own fault. I hope and
v.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                                             95

expect that, however this business may turn out, I shall
                                           with him.'
find  myself on the same footing as  ever  exactly fulfilled,
       this amiable expectation was  not
  If
it is pleasing to know that after a few years the old

intimacy was resumed, their correspondence renewed,

and that their friendship continued steadfast till the close
of their lives.

Meanwhile, when, during the preparation for his first
year's course, he found himself in need of a counsellor,
he was obliged to turn, not as of old to Brewster, but to
some one of his many scientific friends at Cambridge or
in London. Chief among these was Dr. Whewell.

Forbes had hardly set himself to write his lectures

before he found the urgent want of simple text-books
in some of the most important departments of Physics.
This want was the more felt, because he knew that text

books used at Cambridge would be useless for his class at
Edinburgh, owing to the then low state of mathematical
                                          WInhethwisells:t--rait,
knowledge among Scottish students.                                 he
turned at once to invoke the aid of Dr.

                                          'March 31st, 1833.

'. . . It is most urgently pressed' upon me during
my present laborious task of writing lectures, upon

which I have been six weeks at work, that the diffi
culty lies, not so much in that of the subject, as in the
very elementary manner in which it must be taught,
the state of preparation here being low to a degree which,
with your high academic notions, fostered by the spirit
I Iof your noble university, must appear
                                          almost  incredible.
From the moment of starting for the       Chair,
                                                  I resolved

that, should be successful, should make a sacrifice,

at least a probable sacrifice, of my popularity, to an

endeavour to raise the standard of science, and to rescue

...the noblest walks of learning from the exclusive domi
nion of the penny literature.        In introducing into
my lectures a cautious mixture of pure demonstration

with experiment and collateral illustration, I have felt
that all my labours are likely to be rendered useless for
96              THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                          [chap.

want a fit text-book -- I mean for theoretical mechanics.
                                the number of
Nwoitthwoiutht,staI nhdoinpge,                       works    on   the subject,
                                 being  fastidious,  which
do not entitle                  me to                found  my    qualifications
...mind.                                Ibe, have            no    work to my
                In writing on a subject so vitally important,
I need
        not assure               you    that compliment is  wholly foreign
to my   thoughts,               when                        Mechanics has
                                        I state that your
appeared to me far the best book I have met with for

Iteaching from, both from its admirable arrangement,

which have hitherto almost strictly followed in writing
my lectures, its mixture of geometry and analysis, its
subdivision into clear propositions and illustrations. But
for my purpose it is too long : it on the whole, rather
    '

           aI
                                                              is,
                                                                                       is
                                                                                                    a
too difficult.

    What want you to be prevailed upon to do to
publish sort of abridgment of the work requiring
grade less mathematics, and introducing into the dyna
mical part problems from your new Introduction to

Dynamics, which, by the way, mean to teach at                         a
    a

       I
                    ;

                I
                          I

                                               a

                                   I
separate hour to more advanced students.                    I     would have

nothing farther than the very elements of the calculus,
and that part printed in                smaller type. . . . Your

labours are most properly devoted to your own noble

institutions nor would                  venture to ask you to do

anything which would employ much time. Such text
                                                                   a

book as want would be almost composed by the easy
art of clipping from your own writings, and you would
                                                            it
add short system of Hydrodynamics,                             if
                                                                  would be an

important addition. The whole should not exceed 300
                                can hardly devote three months of
pages octavo, as

my course to it.'

    One cannot but wonder at the boldness with which

this youth of three-and-twenty approaches the great
Cambridge Don, one of the chief scientific celebrities of

the time, to lay upon him so exacting demand.
                                                            a

                                                                            It

                                                                                        is

still more surprising to find the Master of Trinity

quietly submitting, and setting himself to execute the

imposition.
    From time to time, during the preparation of his
v.] rROFESSORlAL LIFE.                                             97

lectures, as difficulties arose, or interesting questions

suggested themselves,   Ffoorlbloews inggavleettehris: --thoughts  to

Dr. Whewell, as in the

                                         ' July 20th, 1833.

    '  I. . . Since  came home    I have been   at IwocroknfeussponI
the                   principles
        fundamental               of Dynamics.
am half afraid to write to you upon your hobby, but I

...do want to put one or two questions to you about
Newton's laws.       I have read, I believe, all that you

have written    on   the subject, which  seisvesnayvionlgumseosm, eathnidngI,
                is   scattered through
seeing that it
feel convinced with you, that the composition of velo
cities and the proportionality of velocity to pressure must
be separately proved. What appears to me is this, that

your three laws do not correspond to Newton's three
laws, though you lead one to suppose so. My notion is
that Newton's third law is not included in yours ; that
he speaks simply of action and reaction in the ordinary,

Iaccurate, and statical sense of the word. No one can,
think, read his second law without seeing that it contains

two distinct propositions. . . . You will find, I think, that

all who follow Newton closely, find this double meaning
in this second law, and reduce the third to the literal

statement of action and reaction. I have no doubt that

but for a little love of the numbers three and seven,

Newton would neither have so divided his laws of motion,
nor his spectrum. According to my view his laws of
motion would have been four. 1. Inertia ; 2. Com

position of Velocities ; 3. Proportionality of Force to
Velocity; 4. Equality of Action and Reaction. The

French, like you, consider the last a necessary truth,

and reduce the first principles to Newton's first laws ;
Iyou do the same, but break them up into three.
                                                                   am

not quite convinced that action and reaction can be
argued a priori satisfactorily, at least human minds are
                        it,

                                                                                 a
by no means clear upon            and Robison well observes

that no one before Gilbert seems to have thought that

magnet was attracted by iron, as much as iron by the

                        H
98          THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                               [ChAf.

...magnet.  I cannot tell   you what a weight is off                                   my
                             modify your Mechanics.
mind sinceyou agreed to                                                                  I

am so fully convinced that  snyosteinmeaxtpiceriteenxctedwoprekr,sotnhactanI
undertake to write a good
had resolved that nothing should induce me to do it at
plroierkfeffeelserecitnnottig.osne,naTdnrehypyeoesunustagmmgoeyfes;tciroobenpaussyt,oinoffwyymhooiuacukhrewslialIlsmtpemeerdivmgitehiirotty,nm, coeiann, uItwimoshuhaicsothuurilndeI
have marked in pencil on the margin the portions which
occur to me as suitable for the first volume of the two

                           ;

                                 I

                                          it,

                                                                                    1
into which you mean to divide according to the ideas
    have of utility in my own department.
I                                                                                      trust you
will make every exertion to have the first volume out by
          is .the middle of October and hope you will induce your
                        abookseller to make the price as low as possible, which

would much increase its utility.'

                                   August 8th, 1833.
                                   a

                                      is '
                                                                   ;
    . Any doubt as to the propriety of viewing

mixed mathematics as belonging to natural philosophy

class at this moment peculiarly untenable for the
whole progress of general physics
                                   happily so fast
tending to subjection to mathematical laws of that
department of science, that in no very long time mag

netism, electricity, and light may be expected to be as                                is
fully the objects of dynamical reasoning as gravitation

at this present moment.'

   But while he was giving his main strength to thesea
weightier matters, which are fundamental, he did not
neglect the lighter accomplishments which tend to make
the perfect lecturer. When in London in May he took

lessons in elocution from Mrs. Siddons. At an earlier

date he had studied this art under other teaching, but
from the great actress he received, we may believe, some

finishing touches in the art of speaking. In the case of

many men what they leam from such instructors seems
to bs very doubtful gain. The clearer pronunciation
and more effective delivery thus acquired are bought at
                       PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                   09

too high a price in the loss of naturalness. But nothing
of this kind was to be seen in Forbes. His nature was

too strong and serious to be open to the inroads of
affectation. To the last his pronunciation and tone of
voice continued to be, what it had always been, unmis
takably that of a refined, but entirely Scottish gentleman.
But he had absorbed into his own nature whatever the

rules of art had taught him ; and the result was that
clear and well-articulated utterance in which no syllable

was lost, and that impressive and graceful delivery which

none who have heard it will forget, and which made him
one of the most winning and effective lecturers of his

time.
In the midst of preparation he found time to turn his
thoughts to other interests of science than those con
nected with his future class-work The British Associa

tion was to meet in the summer of 1833 at Cambridge,
and before this meeting took place it was necessary to
fix on a place of meeting for the ensuing year. Dublin
was putting in strong claims ; but to Forbes much
stronger seemed the claims of Edinburgh, which he
                       in                                   in the
urged,   not in vain,      the  following  letters written
spring
         of 1833 :--

.It' My dear Sir Thomas Brisbane,'
               .  appears to me that it is little short of the
            .

duty of the Royal Society to convey to the meeting of
the British Association an invitation to make Edinburgh
the place of their next meeting. Since you, as well as
Sir                        mnoytswelof,ndhearvethabteeInfebeol tthhisatstrOoxnfgolryd.
     D.  Brewster   and
and  at  York, you
                    will
It has always been considered that the origin of the
Society was in a great measure Scottish, and Sir D.
Brewster, Mr. Robison, and yourself have always been

looked upon as among its founders. Consequently, at

both the late meetings a very strong feeling has been
expressed that Edinburgh should have the honour of an

early visit. Did it lie entirely with the Council of the
Association, we should naturally wait till an offer so

                                H2
100              THE LIFE OF JAMES V. FORBES.    [chap.

advantageous to Scotland was made to us. Circum
stances which took place at Oxford will, however, at

once occur to you as showing that a more decided part
is necessary. With a view to put another place between

the two Universities, Liverpool, certainly the best place
teinhxaisBttrinnitogaionpf,freowrsvainshcasidaulgbgeeSesontceidme.tayd,e--W--htheneno,reihdpoerwaeesvewenarts,aittioanwbaafnsrodomfonuetndh.de
Since the place and time must be fixed within a few
days after the meeting of the body, there is no leisure
for preliminary inquiry, and the promptitude of the
Provincial Societies, to which the Association chiefly
looks for support, must decide the matter. You may

remember at Oxford a most pressing application on

behalf of Ireland was made by the Astronomer Royal
of Dublin, but was set aside on the feeling that Great
Britain should first be visited, and, most specially, that

IEdinburgh had a prior claim to Dublin. When I think

of all this, when remember the strongly expressed
desire of some     of the first                  in England to
visit or re-visit   Edinburgh,   scientific men   think of the

                                  and when I     could not fail
                                                 an advantage
immense advantage which such a   reunion
to produce upon scientific men
                                   here --

which but a      year or two ago might  have appeared
                 am convinced that you
chimerical -- I                         will join with
me in thinking that we are in every point of view bound
to send a warm invitation to the Cambridge meeting.
From the feeling which was shown towards Scotland at

Iboth the preceding meetings, I have no doubt that the

offer would be accepted, though am sure it will be met
by others from various parts of the kingdom, and par
ticularly from Dublin, the Association now enrolling
among its number the most distinguished members of
the Royal Irish Academy.
   ' The Association is above being patronized now :
the honour conferred is on their side, the advantage on
that of the places of its annual migration. Both indi
viduals and societies will now be ready enough to give
the aid which is no longer required, and which was
v.]                 PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                           .101

withheld whilst the success of the Association was
problematical

   'At all events of this I feel perfectly assured, that the

Council of the Royal Society, as representing the interest
of science in Scotland, ought to otfer such accommoda

tions as it may be in their power to procure, if the
Association will honour Edinburgh by making it the

place of meeting for 1834. . . .'

     On the same subject he makes this energetic appeal to
Mr., afterwards Sir Roderick Murchison, who seems to

have   favoured the  c:--laims  of   Dublin  in      preference  to
those  of Edinburgh

'My dear Murchison,
         ' I cannot delay an hour in writing to you about
the Association, having taken the deepest interest in its

coming here next year, and being horrified at your pro

posal to put it off for three years. I entreat you as a
                                                         and in the
personal favour to   keep       the  matter open,         that your
                     prove       to  demonstration
mean time I can
reasons are null and void.
   ' 1st. You say that Dublin has secured a prior claim to

Edinburgh. This I positively deny. It was specifically

understood, both at York and Oxford, that Edinburgh,

from having to a great extent originated the meeting at

York, should have the first visit ; this, you will see, I
have distinctly expressed in the enclosed letter to Sir T.
Brisbane, which I send for your private perusal.
  I' 2nd. Then as to Bristol, the idea is a new one.

Liverpool was spoken of, but, as far as recollect, not
the other, nor do I think  itwahagtooId                  But putting
                                          position.  is  your calling
this out of the question,                object to
Edinburgh a University town, and therefore that it
ought not to follow Cambridge. This is quite a mistake.

The University gives no character to Edinburgh, and I

fear will give little to the meeting. You must be per
fectly aware that it is not an academical place, and that
the University has nothing to offer. It has no status, no
102             THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                    [chai\

funds, no power. In short, you must never think of the
                                                                it in the
University when you come here, nor compare
remotest degree with Oxford and Cambridge.                       I assure

you you are proceeding on a fallacy. . . . My dear friend
you are a Scotsman, and though a deserter, you should

not quite desert what is due to your country. Only
look back and remember what Scotland did for the

Association. Was there any talk of Dublin then ? My

dear Murchison, do not commit yourself. I daresay you
think I am mad. . . .'

     A few months later we find him writing, through M.
de la Rive, of Geneva, the following invitation to his

foreign friends to  afottreEnddinnbeuxrtghyea:--r's   meeting,  which  had
now been secured

                                                      'August 26th, 1833.

    '       ..  TEhdeinbsucrigehn,tificandmeIetdinog   is to take place next
                                                      earnestly hope that my
         .  at

year
Swiss friends will come en masse in September 1834.
Pray present my warmest invitation to the whole of

them. In particular my best respects and grateful recol
lections to M. de la Rive-Boissier, and to M. Gautier,

who, I hope, are quite well.
   ' I am exceedingly occupied with my preparation for
                course, which  must be my excuse for this
my winter's                    almost obliged to give up
short letter.    I have been

correspondence altogether. . . .'

     Even in the press of immediate work his thoughts
turned at times to the scenes of his foreign travels, as
iBsusrere:n--by the following letter addressed to Mr. William
                                                                   ' September ith, 1833.

     'I think it would really be most interesting if you
could prepare a correct sectional plan of the Cloaca

Maxima of Ancient Rome. As you know, I have in
vain sought in different books  for it ;
                                                      and now   the more
regret that when in Rome I      omitted                         intended
                                                       what I

to do, namely, to make a sketch by actual measurement.
                          PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                     103

Most authors treat of the arch as if it were circular.

My recollection leads me to think that it is oval, as I
remember that I intended to determine its mathematical

fIigusrheoubldy  offsets  from a vertical     line. The place where
                  wish
                          it particularly     examined is where it
appears at the Arch of                        Janus, not far
bItesfoirneduhbiistabtilme ea--ntgiqivueisty  -- Pliny says it  from the Forum.
                                              it a very high    existed 800 years
                                                                interest -- merely

antiquarian ; but my present inquiries are rather con
nected with the history of the Arch as founded on

scientific principles, and it would be difficult to find in
any age or country a more striking work of its kind than
the massive triple arch of the Cloaca Maxima.'

  IOf the                     summer of 1833,
                              retrospect are the
entries in
                 rest of the                      the following   short
                 a diary of                        only record
                                                                 :--
' In May and June went to London and Paris. Very
kindly received in Paris, more so than even in June at
Cambridge. Meeting of British Association. Worked
hard during summer and autumn writing lectures at
Greenhill. Elected to Athenaeum Club by Committee,

July 5th. My brother Charles married at Blair Vadock
on Gareloch. He then went to live at Hermanstone,

and for some years I paid him many pleasant visits

there. In September to Fettercairn. Back by St.
Andrew's, and visited Dr. Jackson there.'

This was probably the first time he had seen St.
Andrew's. Dr. Jackson here mentioned was at that time

the not undistinguished Professor of Natural Philosophy

in that University.
    When the college session 1833-34 opened at the be
ginning of November, Forbes made his first appearance
as a Professor. As is usual on such occasions in our

Scottish universities, he had to deliver an inaugural

lecture. Such lectures, as they are supposed to strike

the key-note of the new Professor's course, are occasions
of no little interest to academic persons, and of some
anxiety to a young Professor. As he succeeds in
interesting the audience or not, men are apt to draw
104         THE LIFE OF JAMES J). FORBES.                  [CHAI".

.auguries of his future career. To Forbes's first ap
pearance circumstances added something more than
common interest. He was succeeding to one distin-

guished man ; he had been preferred to another equally
or more distinguished. His youth, reckoned by some a
fault, was to all an attraction ; his promise was high,
greater than that of any other young Scotsman of the
time. He was sprung from a race well known and
highly esteemed in Edinburgh and throughout Scotland ;
he was of a tall commanding figure, of a fine and impres
sive countenance, his delivery was clear and resolute,

yet conciliatory. Altogether, it is not often that a man,

who combines with so many inward gifts such outward
attractiveness, addresses an audience from a Professor's

chair. The impression left on all who heard that first

lecture was, I believe, that he was in the place where he

had a right to be.                              notice of  it in his own diary  :--
                                                my first    lecture. Owing
  T'Nhoevfeomllobweri.n--g isDethlievesrheodrt                                   to

the struggle ahout the election, considerable excitement,

excessive crowd. Passed off well. The attendance at

my subsecpuent Monday lectures was also distinguished.
Well pleased with my success.'

   A friend of his, the venerable Archdeacon Sinclair,

'Iwho heard that first lecture, still survives to write of it

thus: -- remember well his appointment to the chair,

and I attended his inaugural lecture. My expectations
were high, but he surpassed them. I can still with

pleasure call to mind his tall, thin, elastic figure, with a

long wand in his hand, pointing to various diagrams, and
pouring forth interesting information in clear language

and in a condensed form, with as much facility as if he

had been lecturing for years.'
   Within   a fortnight from the beginning of this
            find him writing thus to Dr. Whewell           Ins  first
course, we
                                                           :--

                                                                        'November \5th, 1833.

  'I am giving weekly lectures, besides the usual

ones, on the study of Natural Philosophy, in relation
                      PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                                105

to its present advanced condition,                      which are largely
attended by non-professionals, and
                                                        I hope that the

success which has attended them may in some small
degree be of use in retarding, for we can do no more,
the downfall of solid literature.
    I' I was much interested by your account of the
Poissonian demonstration.                        knew it was remodelled,
but have not examined the book, though I have it. I,
                                                 in rotation, and a con
too, have been dabbling lately
                                                 I have only studied it
founded subject it is : though
elementarily : I
                    shall  be very glad                 to see what     light
you throw upon             discovered a                 most notable    error,
                    it. I

which my learned predecessor annually inculcated, on

rolling bodies ; and as I learned from his assistant,
annually tried to illustrate by experiments, and fancied
                 '
he  succeeded
               !

   Not long   before  the close of his first            --session,  he  thus
again writes  to the  same correspondent :

                                                        'March 29<A, 1834.

    ' I find the greatest advantage from having been
obliged to study these subjects in a way necessary to

Iconvey a precise idea of them to others ; which
feel that almost no other circumstance would have

induced me to spend so much labour upon. And I
                                                                course of last
sfiunmd mwehr,atwhisennaItuwraolrkeednovuegrhy,  that   in the  prepared such
                                                 hard,
                                                        I had

a treatise on Mechanics as would almost have required a

six months' course to go through, without anything else.
. . . But to return to your paper. In general, 1 think
               at one. I   am still disposed to adhere much
we are much
to the sketch  I sent you  in a letter last year, and which I

employed   in expounding    the subject to              my more advanced
students.    So far you    accede to my
                                                         views in what I

think an important point, the derivation of the pro

portionality of Velocity to Force, that force being
measured by Statical methods, with which the student

is presumed to be familiar ; which gave what I called
the measure of a 'definite amount of Force,' and which
LOG           THE LIFE OF JAMES 1). FORBES.                     [cnAr.

...Iexpression you                                              A

month hence,
              may      remember you objected to.
              shall
                        have finished my     course, and then
                       a little relaxation.     I
propose to escape for  hope to see you.         I  shall  probably
                                                    am    certainly
go to London, and
Irelieved at having got well through so much of my
course. The responsibility  felt was oppressive. But

my labours have been more than rewarded by the efforts
of my pupils, and the obvious improvement in the
                        of study
method and    Idegree  given about    which        has been     the
consequence.     have                 twenty       lectures to  the
more advanced, going as far as ' Poisson's Demonstration
of   the Direct Problem of Central
     it may appear to you, is a step   Forces/     which, humble
as                                    among us      ' hyperborean

sages.'

     He might well feel a sense of release and exhilaration
at the prospect of the close of his first session as a
Professor. In any case, it is something to feel that the
strain of six months' continuous lecturing is nearly at
an end. But to feel that his first year's course was
achieved with satisfaction to himself, with benefit to his

pupils, and with the approval of all, was more than

a common joy. Whatever misgivings he may have
had as he entered the Natural Philosophy Class-room
in November were now well over. Whatever doubts

as to the fitness of his appointment others may have
entertained on the ground of his youth and inexperience
were silenced by the test of fact. Henceforth he must
have felt he was fully ' master of the situation,' and, as

long as health lasted, his work there was not an oppressive

burden, but an ample field for his abundant energy.

It was not, however, self-complacency, but feelings of
quite another kind that the retrospect of the session so
successfully closed called up within him. This is the
entry of his private   journal :--
                                     --I  will  not  let  this  day
   ' Greenhill, April   20th, 1834.

pass without recording my deep and heartfelt sense of
the special goodness and protecting power of God, which

I have experienced during the past fifteen months of
              PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                            L07

almost incessant labour, a share of bodily and mental
vigour 'which has enabled me to pass, with comparative
                                            of my profes
ease and credit, through the first session  to satisfy my

sorial career. I have had the happiness
friends, and to have my toils more than rewarded
the zeal and application and gratitude of my pupils.        byI
desire to acknowledge God as the source of all
                                                            this good
fortune, and to bless Him that I am yet spared              to pursue
the course in which He has so parentally guided and

strengthened  my exertions.   pHoainvtingofatvtiaeiwne, dI  the summit
of my wishes    in a worldly                                  hope that
              with a reasonable share of resignation, say
I could now,
if required, Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart
in peace.'

    The life of most Scottish Professors was then as now

divided into six mouths of unbroken work in College
and six months of vacation. To strangers unac
quainted with the ways of Scotland and the habits
of its students, so long a vacation appears a strange
anomaly. But there are reasons enough grounded in
our social facts and habits which have justified it for

generations, and which satisfied the late University
Commissioners when they carefully inquired into all the

bearings of this question. It must not be supposed that

these six months are either to student or Professor

times of idleness. The former is often employed in some
useful work for self-support, as well as in carrying on
his College studies. The latter, when he has recruited
himself after the toils of the session, finds full employ
ment in preparing new lectures or recasting old ones
for the approaching session. Besides this, whatever
Scottish Professors have done for Science, Philosophy, or
Literature, has been the fruit of their summer leisure.

   No man ever employed his summers more methodically
and energetically than Professor Forbes. Indeed, it
is probable that the world has received fully as much

advantage from what he achieved during his summers
as from his regular winter labours.
108                   THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                 [chAr.

   In May 1834, we find him spending three weeks in

London, accompanying his sisters to Oxford, and him

self visiting Cambridge, and there attending Airy 's

optical lectures.

   In June, he went by himself for a tour through the
south of England, and had his first interest in Gothic

architecture awakened.

                              ' Newport, Isle of Wight, June 9tJi, 1834.

     I' . . .         have  grown            voefrywhaicrhchIitetcrtauvreallledin     these
                            in proof                                               sixteen
southern counties,

miles  yIeshtearddayreatsoon  see            a country church,     RoImsweays,
which                                        suspeet was curious.
                               to

amply rewarded : an almost perfect church, said to be of
the time of Edgar, scarcely polluted with Gothic, and
rich in horseshoes. Being quite innocent of theory on
                       or of having read Rickman          Milner or
tWhheewsuebHje, ctI,  affect to become knowing on    or
if I form any theory, I shall of course be         facts  only, and
                                                   very   obstinate.

Though tempted to be disappointed at first with Salisbury,
                      tauhInneddetxewlareomftaipnirlteeadianfsuiyatllnistnoktfeydr,aunyniastalllyclIooynsaespndtedannteatxldiyntmergitnrhraaeetlwiloynneu.wipgiohtnhI
when seen

me during
bourhood.

some care,

next went to Winchester, which has much greater variety
of style, and interested me very much. But what
                                             was the small church of St.
particularly          gorfaf,tifwiehdichmeI  accidentally heard of, and im
Cross, a mile
mediately went to. It appears to me most interesting,
as pointing out the tendency to transition in Stephen's

reign, from the round zigzag style to the Gothic.
There are interesting arches, lancet windows, and actually
Gothic arches with the zigzag ornament, formed by the

crossing of two circular arches, placed obliquely to one
another, in the roof of the aisle. Connected with this

remarkable church, I found a most interesting establish
ment kept up by funds given by Cardinal Beaufort. It
supports thirteen decayed tradesmen, who live in the
most charming range of houses connected with the
                PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                                 109

church. They have a common hall, common laws, have
a nominal master, Lord Guildford, a resident chaplain

who reads prayers daily, and they are obliged to distribute
                                                                   gate, of
for ever bread and       beer  gratuitously  at their

which I partook.'

   Although he never had leisure to devote himself
earnestly to the study of architecture, yet interest in old
historic buildings, and love for all that they contained of
ancient and beautiful, continued strong in him to the
end. In this journey he turned towards Lympston,

which had for him another and more sacred interest.

It was there his mother died when he was yet only a

year old. There he found an old sexton who remem
bered his father and mother. ' Some particulars he told
me, calmly enough, thrilled me.' So he writes years

afterwards. It is thus he describes this visit in a letter

to his sister at the time :--

                                      ' Exeteb, June 22nd, 1834.
I. . You may conceive, better than
                                                                   can de
scribe, my feelings at that moment. For some days

my sympathies   Ihafedltgsroaddueeapllyanbdeemn ewlaanrcmhoinlyg,  towards a
point in which                                                     and at the
same time 30 romantic an interest. It is but rarely that
Iin the life of a sober man this species of interest can
be so fully worked up as in my case.         left Exmouth

early in the morning, and sauntered up the bank of the
Exe, under a melancholy sky, and with somewhat ex

cited feelings, determined not easily to forego the ob
Iject of finding the spot
                           where my parents lived,                 though
by no means sure how                                               walked
                           should easily effect it. I

almost through the village without seeing    Iansyhtohuinldg        like
                                                                   have
a communicative face. I almost fancied
been received as a known face, instead of being an
object of not  a little               At length I
the church,    which      curiosity.                  inquired for
                         is not very    conspicuous,
                                                        and, as I
expected, found an old sexton who, I thought, might
be a chronicler of more than twenty-four years back.
I soon entered into conversation with him, found that
110               THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                                                      [chap.

he recollected the individuals in question ; way, the first
thing he told me was that he had with his own hands
tolled the bell at four in the morning on our poor mother's
death. Like most of his trade, he was not of very fine

feelings, but he was very communicative, and you may
imagine the impression which his little anecdotes, as

fresh as if of yesterday, made upon me. I made him

take me to the top of the church tower, and show me
                                                         inoqfutihreedn. eigIhbmouardse,
the house where they lived,

Iabout the fate of some of
                                       and those
                                       whom
Ihim show me where they sat in church, and walked

from the church to the house by the very path leading
also to the Parsonage, which they had often trod. It
seemed a sort of hallowed ground. The house has
                  pwreipshosesdessIingcoiunldits                                                                                    in plain
nothing    verIy                                  exterior, except
neatness.                                         have had my                                                                       mother's

astlehpsteetcetioreisnststeeoornefdcsovt letlanhI teeetrmoatothikoteonm,inmtoehn.tahtetmhIIe, crseowptpaohitieen.dnedytYhooneuuomt  may recollect
                                                                                                                                    were so good

                                                                                                                                     with such a
                                                                                                                                     merely word
fcoorurswe oIrdf,eltbua tpepcaugleiar  for page and                                                                                 line. Of
                                         and additional  line for                                                                   in every
                                                           interest
                          considering that I
thing on the      spot,                                    wIashandotbeveinsititnhge
                  for    the first time, that
these places
                                                  of this
almost  unconscious inhabitant                     what     very house ; nor
could                                                      identity subsisted
        I help speculating upon
between my then and my present state of existence.

The old sexton recollected             the baby, and certainly was

somewhat moved when I                  said, 'I am that baby.' I

strolled from the church to the house, and from the

house to   the church, and             could   hardly tear myself away,
            did too late to             avoid
which I                                amiss       an   impending thunder
           It may not be                                join a sketch of the
storm.                                            if I

position, in case, when the next person goes on the same
errand, the old sexton should be dead, and other wit

nesses too.'

   In September      1834,              the British Association                                                                     met at
                  was in               a great measure owing to                                                                     Forbes'
Edinburgh. It
v.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE. Ill

exertions that the meeting took place there. During
its stay he entertained in his house at Greenhill, Dr.
Whewell, Mr. Peacock, and Mr. Vernon Harcourt.

Of the latter he says in a letter to Professor Phillips

about this time : ' I learn every year to look with

more admiration and affection on that remarkable man ;

nor shall I ever cease to look back with peculiar satis
faction on that meeting at York which brought me first
into connection with him and with yourself.' With
the success of the meeting Forbes was well pleased. The

Association had now quite established itself as a national

institution, and the gathering at Edinburgh, which was
the third since its origin, attracted foreigners of distinc
tion, among whom was M. Arago. Of this eminent
man Forbes writes : 'The impression he has left here

cannot be forgotten, and I look upon my improved ac
qI uatriunstat ncbeefowreithvehryimloansg                         in my
                                           a very happy    event   other  life.
                                            to extend it  on the          side

of the Channel.'
                          CHAPTER VI.

                       PROFESSORIAL LIFE {continued).

Having so entirely succeeded in his first year's course,
Forbes no doubt entered on his second (1834-35) with
full confidence that like success would attend his future
efforts. Henceforth, session followed session with that

uniform success and that energy and devotion to his
work, which never flagged, as long as health lasted.
Nothing can be more uniform than a Professor's winter's
course -- so uniform, that to lookers-on from without

it may appear monotonous. But from this it is saved,
at least in the case of a vigorous and advancing teacher,

by the deeper insight and wider range which he is year
by year obtaining in his own field of inquiry. And
the sense that the teacher is one who is not merely
retailing old knowledge taken from books, but by dint
of mature reflection or original research is opening up
fresh fields, and adding something to the store of human
thought or knowledge, adds a wonderful charm to all
his intercourse with his students. Such a charm gene
ration after generation of students felt, at least those
who could appreciate these things, as they sat in the
Natural Philosophy Class Room, while Forbes was in his
prime. But though such impressions, received in youth
from some master of thought or science, are among the
most lasting and delightful which men ever partake, they
furnish little that can be told in narrative. What these

Iimpressions were shall have occasion to show in the
ti.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE. 113

words of those who once felt and still vividly remember
them. But as one session in outward appearance was
much like another, as the incidents in them were few,

and the adventures none, I shall not attempt to describe

them in detail. The main thing to notice will be the
course which Forbes' own investigations and thoughts
during each winter were pursuing, and this will be best
seen in selections from his wide correspondence.

   What events or adventures his life contained were

reserved for his summers. Of these, I shall notice in

this part of the narrative those which he spent in Great
Britain. His foreign tours and Alpine explorations will
be given in some chapters devoted to themselves.

   In November 1834, Forbes left his second home at
Greenhill, and went with his sisters to live in Melville
Street. His two brothers, each on his marriage, had
before then quitted the family home : his brother Charles
had married in July 1833, and taken up his abode at
Hermaustone ; Sir John, in August 1834, had gone to
live at his country seat, Fettercairn. James lived in
Melville Street only one winter. In May 1835 he and
his sisters removed to Dean House. This, which was

then an old country house, has since been removed to
make way for the beautiful cemetery of Dean.

   The following letters will show what subjects were
engaging Forbes* thoughts during the winter session
of 1834-35:--

                       To Professor Powell.

                                       'December 1st, 1834.

   ' I write  to tell  oyfoura, daias nytouheapta, rttichualtarIly    interest your
              affair                                                have worked a
self in the
great deal since I saw you, with Melloni's Multiplier, and
with entire success. It is a most
                                       Imanageable, com
parable, and satisfactory instrument.       have succeeded
in repeating some of his more delicate experiments, such
as the refraction of the heat of boiling water, with
the most ample success, and have shown many of them

to other Professors here.
114                     THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.             [chap.

  ' But what I principally write about is to tell you that
I have proved to demonstration, by its means, the "pola

rization of non-luminous heat, and have now to look to

further anxious results connected with it. So that I

consider the question for the first time decided. . . .'

                        To M. Quetelet, Brussels.

                                     'Edinburgh, December 5th, 1834.

     '. . . I have recently been experimenting with Melloni's
Thermo-multiplier, and have been much delighted with

it. Very lately I have been enabled to establish beyond
a doubt the polarization of non-luminous heat; and have
verified Melloni's experiment of the refraction of the
heat of boiling water.
     '               I               register with a particular
        yToou-.dayI     commenced a  apparatus for weighing          view
to                      have got an                                   and

measuring men, and shall collect annually as many
results from the students of my
also their strength by Regnier's                Iclass as possible,  and
                                                                     dis
                                               Dynamometer.

tinguish their age and  native country. . .        . Amongst         my
many other pursuits,                               on optics         this
winter, I have been     as I mean to begin
                                                           theory with
great admiration.       Wsteudayrein, gI  the  undulatory  indebted to
                                          am   sure, much

you for putting Herschel's Treatise on Light into a more
convenient form than we can find it in England.'

                     To Professor Airy, Cambridge.

                                     'Edinburgh, December Wtk, 1834.
        ' I have at length found leisure to read with great
attention, and consequently with very great pleasure,
your undulatory tract, which quite fulfils my expectation
as to the            nature and  extent of     the evidence on this
marvellous                                     getting sundry pieces
                     subject. I  have been

of apparatus made, and can now profit by your valuable
Ipractical lessons, as well as by the papers with which you

have from time to time favoured me, and which am
...now better prepared to appreciate. Allow me to ask
you a few practical questions.                 I hope you will not
                PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                                                                                    116

be overwhelmed by my questions. I have been working

lately with Melloni's Thermo-multiplier, and have verified
some of his most curious results regarding radiant heat,
which in their connection with light are extremely

remarkable. It is unfortunate that that point to which
                                                                                                                      in the
Ihis researches chiefly tend    is the most  obscure                                                                   lately
                                absorption.
theory of light, namely,                     I have
succeeded in establishing, as think for the first time

demonstratively and  Iquaabnatnidtaotniveedly,thethme epthooladrizoaftiorenflecof
non-luminous heat.

tion, which is the only one hitherto employed, and
adopted that of transmission through piles of thin mica
Iplates, for which the Thermo-multiplier is well adapted ;
and with entire success.        have also been endeavouring

Ito determine numerically the     whraetfraIngniboiwlityfinodf                                                        non-
                     discovered,                                                                                      that
luminous heat.
Melloni had previously done, that the tourmaline trans

mits almost as much heat when two pieces are placed
with their axes crossed as when parallel. Melloni saw

quite as much as I also at first found, but I afterwards

detected a slight difference.'

To the Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                             ' Edinburgh, January \st, 1835.

I I'. . . am quite full of polarization. do not exactly

wAuniitrdhyeoruIstthaanpvdoelawmrhizaaadtteioyongu,rembautetapnarotbgyraelsldso.euvbelneMtsyresfironarcciegtiinoInal   existing
                                                                                                                      wrote to

                                                                                                                        experi
ments related to polarization unconnected' with double

refraction, but I have since extended the proof to every
recognized species of polarization ; and non-luminous heat
must be doubly refracted, because it can be polarized by
tourmaline and depolarized, or di-polarized if you will,

by other crystals. Hence we are entitled to conclude
that we might feel brushes and rays of dark heat if our
                                             I can also
hands were delicate enough thermometers.
Imake some approximation to the length of a wave.
Ihave as yet communicated this to no one.
                                             shall read
it on Monday to the Royal Society, when it will be
                                  I2
116                    THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                   [chap^

immediately printed. I have proposed Airy as our
honorary F.R.S.E., and hope soon to communicate his

election. Pray tell him I shall be happy to have the
polarizing grinder any time before the middle of
                                           to say about the
March. .  . . Have     I  you anything   ought certainly to get
Rumford   Medal ?         think Melloni

     for his two masterly papers in the Annales de Chimie.
it,There have been few of the adjudications for researches

 a I'so accurately fulfilling the founder's intentions. . .
        J.                   '

                    a                             of
                                                                                     .'
To Sir F. W. Herschel, at the Cape Good Hope.

                              Edinburgh, February 5th, 1835.

     had letter from Whewell the other day, com

municating your obliging message to me about your very

interesting meteorological results. Still am little
                              9

                                      :

                                           3.

                                           I

                                                               8
                                                                   a
-at loss what to say about them. The oscillation
appears very small. My formula '1193 cos *                            '0150

gives "060 Eng. inches. Mr. Whewell mentioned to me
only '025 of variation from to
                                         The permanent
low pressure at Cape Horn observed by Captain King
     confirmed by Foster's voyage. The annual variation
is
               is
of mean pressure and also of hourly oscillation you
                       noticed by Humbolt in equatorial climates.
mention
Is the barometer highest in summer or winter
                                                                                         fear
                                                     ?

                                                       I

                                                                 is
we are likely to find little analogous to your observations
at the Cape in the Mediterranean. The oscillation
undoubtedly greater and do not think the barometer
                       is :
                            a

                             I
                                 I
is   highest in bad weather. The variable pressure in

different latitudes       very important and to me, till

lately, an unexpected fact.         hope that you will be able

to bring your barometer safely home again, and so
determine the height of your observatory.
                                         it          hope you

                                              I
have your actinometer with you here has a sinecure,
                                    ;

there being no sun worth measuring.
        am very much to blame for not having written to
I'
you sooner. In truth, have been in an almost constant
                          II
state of exertion since we parted at Cambridge. The
result of my last labours enclose, and should be anxious
                                    PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                    117

at your leisure to have your opinion upon it. Setting
on foot a six months' course of experimental lectures
Ihas been, you will believe,                            task. It
                                           a laborious             has
occupied most of my time                                you last,  but
                                          since I saw
                                       made a short tour in England
is now nearly over.
last summer, but was kept in a state of excitement by

preparing for the Association meeting here, which went

off well,    and which you may believe interested                   me
             suppose your Cambridge friends supply                 you
much. I
with news from head-quarters, which would make it pre
sumptuous in a hyperborean like me to offer you

any. . . .'

                To the Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                       ' Edinburgh, February 22nd, 1835.

     '. . .  I feel quite            gladdened   --atpotlhaerizianttieornestofyohueata--re
disposed                            the subject
              to take in

for as there is not an individual here capable of fully
              it,
appreciating                        naturally to England, and especially
                it

                   I is
to Cambridge, that look for that sympathy which                    is
                                                                       a

...superadded enjoyment to that of the mere perception of
truth.       I  was sorry to see that Trinity lost the Senior

...Wrangler, as in May last Goulburn was very confidently
pointed out to me.                     I  was so engrossed during the

earlier part of our session with my experiments on heat,
that am obliged to work hard with the business of my
I

course, and am soon to begin optics, which have not
                                                        I
                                                           I
yet lectured upon.                  I  shall imitate Airy in polarizing

and tormenting light on the large scale.                continue my
practice of
choose to    altetectnudr,i--nganodn   the higher branches to those who
                                       though often not to more than
                                                           shall thus
ten or twelve, feel myself well repaid.                 I
' it,

                 I

                                 a
be able to introduce the undulatory theory for the first
time in Scotland. Airy's Polarizing Grinder, as he calls

    delights me.
     Your plan of fusible surface for detecting rings had

occurred to me, but, you will see by reading my paper,
would be hopeless from the extreme minuteness of the
quantities with which we have to do.'
IIS                     THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.            [chap.

     The summer of 1835 was spent abroad, and therefore
falls to be noticed in another chapter. On his return to
England after a visit to Fettercairn, he thus writes from
                    toobSseirrvJaothionnsHaetrstchheelC, awpehoofwaGsoothdenHoepnega: --ged
Edinburgh
in scientific

                        'Edinburgh, October 25th, 1835.

     'The results of your table appear to me very satis

factory and interesting. One thing strikes me as requir
ing new investigation, viz., what are really the hours
of maxima and           minima, which in
might be easily                                      your fine    climate
                        fixed ; for I have          no doubt    that the
diurnal curve is very different from ours. I argue this

 rom the circumstance that the barometric pressure at
noon, instead of being the mean of the day, coincides
very nearly in your table with that of 9 a.m., which
therefore in all probability is not the hour of maximum.

   ' I assumed the hourly variation to be a function of the
latitude, simply because the tables of observation seem
to indicate it ; and, whatever may be the true theory, it
does not seem to me that the mere distribution of sea

and land can be regarded as the main cause of the
variation. In           cIonefonrdmeaitvyourwedith
Mr. Whewell,                                        your wish, conveyed  by
                                                    to get observations
                                                                         es

...tablished at Malta ; and wrote to Dr. Davy for the
pI uwrpiollsetr. y  to     He has returned, however, to England, but
                        get new ones set on foot here at the College.
The formula given by me was empirical. . . . The Asso

...ciation is itself the best Meteorological Society that ever           I
was formed, and capable of doing almost anything.
have been led to study the undulatory theory, particularly
lately in reference to my own inquiries and lectures, and
have received from it the same pleasure which everyone
... Imust do who approaches the subject with perseverance
and candour.            have exhibited all the chief

phenomena of polarization upon screens on the large
scale to my class, for the first time in Scotland. You

Imust have heard so much about the comet, that need not
add my account of it. It has really been a fine object.'
vi.]                 PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                                          119

                     To the Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                     'The Dean House, Edinburgh, November 12th, 1835.

      I'. . . have got a fund of new experiments on hand,
       Iabflaammeoums yssueplpf lyforofnorotchkasvainltg
and                                                       from Cheshire.   up  your
    '                                                      sooner taken

suggestions    about tides,  whilst you have been so attentive
to my small                   feel confident that nothing of the
               matters. I
kind exists here, but I will endeavour to get it established.
' Is Professor Airy at Greenwich ? He did me the
...honour of
                            from               me information    and advice.
I gave him                  of the             former, though
               requesting                                       I adventured
               very little   1 spent a day with Mr. Harcourt

some of the latter.
on my way down. I pressed upon him the necessity of

               gIretahtinekxethretiopnlsaceto   secure a good   attendance at

              of the best in point             ill chosen, but
                                                of science.
...making                                                       yet that it    may
                                                                               pro
Bristol.                                                           I fully
be one
pose being there, and also being in Scotland in the early
summer. Do arrange to come down and make your visit
to Orkney : my sisters earnestly second my cordial invi
tation to pay us another visit. You will find us in an
old chateau to the north west of the town, with gloomy

walls, winding stairs, and painted ceilings, but a hearty
... Iwelcome. By a curious accident we lived here thirty
years ago, and my sisters were born here.                                  do not
know whether I have anything to recommend specifically
about your Mechanics ; at least it will be some time before
I shall
it. I    have  leisure to examine it.            Only pray      don't      enlarge
         have  no doubt you will               improve it.        My       class is
enlarging. I have issued
                             a programme for a prize                           Ieslsikaey
on the undulatory theory,
                             which I will send you.

my class and my work very                      much, and    alrIeasdtyill  perceive
an improvement and a desire                    to improve.                  propose

publishing on the Pyrenean hot waters. . . .'

                            To the Same.

                                               ' Edinburgh, January 1th, 1 836.

      '. . .  My     special thanks for        Hopkins' paper,              which
                     admirable moment.                                     a paper
arrived       at an                              I was reading
120         THE LIFE OF JAMJiS D. FORBES.                                    [chap.

to our Royal Society about Auvergne, and particularly
uwproitninegleavaptaiopnercjruatsetrsn, owwhicwhhicwhasI  quite in           I am
                                                           intend    point.
                                                                    for the  R. S.,

London, on the Pyrenean springs, their temperature,

Igeological relations, &c. ; and on the former point, temp. ,

   am vain enough to hope that it may prove a sort of
model to future observers : at least no one has hitherto
Iso observed,                      I have also in hand a little
                believe.

Gothico-mathematical speculation which perhaps you

may laugh at ; but I give you leave beforehand.

   ' But these are only secondary occupations, which, with

my lecturing labours, only revolve round my primary,
...the polarized heat. I have managed to magnify the
effects so as to be, I hope, beyond cavil.                                I think

that experiment is a quietus for Biot. . . . Excuse this

                   and pray come           down           and       see my   experi
                    have finished                         am                 should
                                          what I                    doing I
...very long story,I                                                              If

ments. When
be most happy
                   to look into your conductivity.
Mr. Airy is with you, pray give him the above numerical

results.'

     On February 2nd, 1836, we find him writing thus to
Dr. Whewell on                            of a
just made :--   the         first  blush                  new  discovery     he  had

                                          ' Edinburgh, Feb. 2nd, 1836.

     IIcsauncncoetedheedlp
  I'

that
                             writing two  lines in        a hurry to      tell you
                            yesterday in   making          the most       curious
discovery respecting heat, it seems to me, that have
yet arrived at, and one quite decisive of the identity of

its character with that of light. I found that dark heat is
copiously reflected within rock salt at an angle too great
                             This I had
for its  I  emergence.                                    foreseen last summer
before       was aware      that Melloni                  had actually tried
            a

                             nI

                                                               I I it,
and at the same time conceived the possibility of

trying whether two total reflections would produce the
same effect in the case of heat as in that of light.
            Fresnel's rhomb made of rock salt with
have had
angles of 45° -- one of the critical ones, nearly, calculated

by this formula, giving its proper value for light.
vi.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE. 121

placed it between polarizing and analysing plates of
mica, as described in my last. When the plane of total
reflection coincided with that of primitive polarization,
'

          .

                           a

                     it

                                                                  '

                                             fi
                                                it,

                                          .' I
                                                                                       a;
                                                   I
                                                                               it
or rather was perpendicular to the heat was as much

polarized as before the rhomb was interposed when

was inclined 45° was wholly unpolarized, apparently,
or even the longer axis of the ellipse turned little the
other way, corresponding to for heat. This made
...out even with very imperfect rhomb, and with heat
wholly unaccompanied by light.                                                           congratulate

Scotland upon Smith's distinction. . .

                        Edinburgh, March 10th, 1836.

     . . Pray be the depository of these facts in case
Biot and Melloni, with the odds of two men at leisure

....against one man with his hands full, take them from me.
             Since writing the above have solved, partly,
   doubt which has much puzzled me. The action of
aa
                        a

                           aI

                                                                                      ;

                                       II

                                                                    is
                                                                             is
metal gives maximum polarizing angle for heat greater
than for light, whence  concluded that the index of

refraction must be greater for the former than the latter,
                                have just found in
contrary to my general views.
Brewster's paper that precisely similar fact occurs in
the action of metals on light the red ray polarized at

  greater incidence than the blue. It most satisfactory
thus to find the truth of experiments confirmed by
an apparent anomaly, as has several times occurred to

me lately.'

The following letter to Mr. Leslie Ellis, before he
             ahdims iCreadmbthriadtgeremcaarrekear,blwe imll ainnte--rest                      who
entered on                                                                               many
loved and
                        '

                                I
                                                                      :
                        Edinburgh, February 1ith, 1836.

. . . assure you also that had been long looking
'.
       a

      I
forward to the fulfilment of your promise to write to me,
and began to feel some anxiety as to your state of health.
. . . Let no stimulus of fame or advantage induce you to
make sacrifice of the first of earthly blessings.
                                                                                         I     hope

you will not go to Cambridge, unless you are equal to
122           THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                 [chap.

the fatigue of such a career as your tastes and talents
Iwould enable you to pursue.
                               circumstances  you  will                       not
    ' hope that under any
lose sight of your physical pursuits in purely mathe
matical ones, which are of a comparatively narrow

character. It is in the field of contingent truth that
the triumphs most congenial to the human mind in a

healthful condition are to be gained.  direTchteiond,ispaonsditioIn            at
Cambridge strongly aims in this                                               am

convinced that you will reap as much credit and more

advantage by  Istucadnyninogt   mathematical physics as    pure
mathematics.                   conceive a better exercise  than

Airy's tract on Light, which contains some hard mathe
matics, but the acquisition of the clear physical views it

presents is much harder. I am glad you should feel

any interest in so unpopular a subject as polarized heat.

I have now greatly extended my experiments, made

the effects much more obvious, and made some new

singular discoveries.
   ' The Royal Society of Edinburgh have done me the

honour to award me their Keith Medal.

  I' My summer was chiefly in the Pyrenees and Auvergne.
IIndothenoftorwmoenrdersttuhdaite- dyohuotwesrperinagpsp,ailnledthbeylathtteerdivfofilccualntoiess.

of the measure of absorption of the atmosphere, which
in fact involves the same difficulties with the theory of

refraction, which has been a celebrated problem amongst
mathematicians. . . .'

   When his third professorial session was over his cor

respondence was resumed.

     To M. Quetelet, Observatory, Brussels.

I'                                     ' May 17 th, 1836.
   ...
        have been so much occupied with my experi
              polarized heat, and with several papers
ments upon
              mcyomamnunnuiaclatleecdtutroes,outrhaRt oIyalhavSeocihetaieds,    as
which I have                                                                  but

well as with

little time for correspondence or for reducing old obser
vi.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE. 123

vations. I have, however, got a pupil to calculate my
                                              I have weighed and
Imagnetic intensity observations.
measured 800 individuals myself.              have had the

mortification to discover that the construction of the

Idynamometer was extremely insufficient, but this can
scarcely affect the relative results.         have separated the
English, Scotch, and Irish. The ages are chiefly from

fourteen to twenty-four.
 ...' On the
                1 5th the solar    eclipse     was most admirably
seen here.                                    a 7-feet reflector the
                     I observed     with

immersion and emersion of          the        spots, of which there
                                   not         observe the slightest
were several, but I could

distortion produced by refraction upon those delicate
objects. My attention was chiefly directed to this object :
to examine the light from the sun's edges, at and near

the annular period, in order to ascertain whether the
dark lines in the spectrum were more numerous or
stronger in the light which must have traversed the
greatest thickness of the sun's atmosphere, and which
have been supposed by Sir D. Brewster and others to be
due to the absorptive action of that atmosphere. An

attentive examination assures me that no material differ

ence could      exist ; indeed, 1  did not perceive the slightest.
                  conclude that    the sun's light is originally
I therefore

deficient in those rays.'

                To the Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                   ' Edinburgh, May 20<A, 1836.

     '          One interesting  thpiosi--nt    which seems to me to
                development is                the variation in the kind
           ...

admit of

and quantity of proof required as demonstration by the
human mind in different ages. That the educated part
of mankind are more acute than they were a century

ago seems probable. Paradoxes cannot be so successfully

maintained now as they were then ; and people are not
now allowed to take up the querulous and futile objec

tions which passed current 150 years ago, and which great
men condescended to answer. Some parts of Newton's
124        THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                      [chap.

Optics contain surfeit of demonstration which would
not now be tolerated ; and as the habit of estimating both
mathematical and experimental evidence advances, the
chances of error by abridged processes of reasoning are
diminished, higher powers of mental abstraction are pro
duced, and a degree of sagacity brought to bear upon all
kinds of questions which perhaps more than compensates
for what the sciences may have lost in the ambitious
display of continuity of reasoning. . . .'

                      To Miss Forbes.

                               'Edinburgh, May list, 1836.

     '. . . The eclipse was admirably seen here, and seemed
                      sort of
to strike  evIewryas   making  person    much more     than  they
expected.                       optical   experiments  in a  dark

room most of the time, but ran out for half a minute to

Isee the ring, which was a wonderful sight. sent you an
account in the Advertiser.
                               Dr. Chalmers preached, and
I managed to hear him, too.      Evening service was post
poned in the churches and .chapels, except Mr. Bagot's,
and the smoking of       glass and the                 of fingers
and blacking:o of faces  was wonderful.  b..u.r"ning

   His travels during the summer of 1836 were confined
to his own country, followed by a short visit to England.
In the same month, May, as that in which he watched
the annular eclipse of the sun at Edinburgh, he explored
the Lead Hills, returning by Moffat and St. Mary's Loch.

   The following letter refers to this tour : --

                      To Professor Jameson.

                                                                  'June 1st, 1836.

    ' . . . On occasion of a late visit to the district of

Lead Hills I suggested to my friend and former pupil,

Mr. Irving, of Newton, the importance of determining
the temperature of the springs in the bottom of the Lead

Hill Mines at this particular epoch. The working having

been discontinued since the end of March, any supposed
influence of animal heat and light is avoided, and yet
vi.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                                               125

the pumping of the water has been regularly carried on.
Mr. Irving immediately and zealously undertook the
inquiry ; and descended to the deepest part of the mine
on the 16 th of May and found the temperature of the
water in the bottom to be 49°. This was at a depth of 95
fathoms below the entrance to the Susanna Vein. . . .'

In June he traversed on foot the greater part of the
Highlands. Beginning with Braemar, he passed by Glen
Feschie to Aviemore and Inverness, thence up the Beauly
to Erchless, where he parted with his companion, the
Rev. H. W. Sheppard. Alone, he seems to have turned
back to Ben Mac Dhui and Loch Aun, whence he crossed

Scotland by Loch Laggon to Glenfinnan, Knoydart, and

Skye, ascended the Coolins, thence to Loch Maree, passed
                                                                    of the
through Inverness,   and on to                Glencoe.   The  rest
tour shall be given  in his own
                                              words :--

                     To Miss Forbes.

I'                                            ' Dalmally, July 23rd, 1836.
   ...
                have been in full action for a very consider
                                              of Saturday and Sunday last
awbhleichtimI es,peanntdatthIenvreerpnoesses  was much trespassed upon by
the misfortune of a tremendous wool market, which

gathered all the North of Scotland. I came along the
course of the Caledonian Canal, not by steam, for the
                                                  to visit the adjoining
most    parIt,  but walking,  in order
glens.          took Glen     Moriston            one    tdhaey,whGolleengI awrrays
                                                    On
another,  and Loch   aAs rkI aeigxpeacttehdi.rd.  From Fort William I
as much
            pleased

went to Ballachudilish, which is most charming indeed ;

and yesterday I devoted to a leisure survey of Glencoe,

Iwhich                                                   really the   best
                                                           Scotland,  and
scenery                                                               over
                                                             walked
worthy
        extremely  wdheollieghtIedhamvee,       and is
          on the
                                               seen in
        of comparison with any
                                              I know.
to-day from Kingshouse down Loch                  Etive to Bunawe.
Ballachudilish is a glorious contrast
                                                  to Glencoe, and I

experienced much hospitality from the Stewart family,

who are very primitive, patriarchal people. . . .'
120  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                 [chap.

   In these tours he was not only gathering strength and
health for further mental work, but rapidly as he passed

along he was making geological and other observations
with a rapidity of eye for which he was unsurpassed.

    After visiting London in the dead month of August,
and finding Oxford still more deserted, he passed on to
Bristol to attend the meeting of the British Association

there.

   On his return to Edinburgh he thus writes at the end
of September :--

     To M. AUGUSTE DE LA RlVE.

                        'Edinburgh, September 26th, 1836.

or      . . Ever since   I1832 have been    eoictchuepr attrioanve--llitnhge
     in a state of the
                        most active mental

former happily providing the health and spirits necessary
for the latter. . . . The subject of Mr. Cross 1  I iIs,
                                                          con
fess, rather disagreeable one to me. You will readily
Ienough conceive how much people more conversant with
      I
              Iageology than electricity must have been struck by hear
ing most eloquently expounded series of experimental
                        a
                                     a
discoveries, for they were perfectly original to Mr. Cross,

silently prosecuted for many years by retired country
gentleman in Somersetshire, and only elicited by chance
in the course of discussion. From the first moment that

the matter was mentioned to me, and on every succeed

ing occasion, really believe not less than fifty times,                 II
have patiently vindicated the claims of Becquerel, which

only require to be mentioned to be acknowledged.

own felt somewhat indignant on the subject, because,

having seen Becquerel's magnificent preparations and
conversed at great length with him on the subject, had

been led at various times, publicly and privately, for
several years, to draw the attention of geologists to one
of the very best things ever done for their science. . .
   have, however, great pleasure in assuring you that                   .

everything that could be done was eventually done to
put matters straight. The Bristol meeting went off ex-

     Belating to the production of artificial crystals by electricity.
vI.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE. 127

tremely well, and promises admirably for the permanency
of the Association. £2,700 have been voted for objects
of a truly scientific character during next year. . . .

My discoveries in heat have been warmly contested in
Paris, but, as you are aware, MM. Biot and Melloni
have fairly given in. . . .'

nJv.eortOiyAcfned,Speejlroesstasotisoenand,nt1dJ.o8gw3rR6noa-u3nbp7kyintFoheoef, rrebsHetrsauedrmraeiatsniotnsans----lathBtteehaetftdoealnptleo,lewa:--Csinalegn' gtHehssaohtdronra,It

ever had, much occupied with experiments on radiant
heat.' Some of the students above named must have

been attending his advanced class, or his regular class
for the second time.

   The few letters that he wrote during this session were,
as usual, almost entirely confined to those scientific sub
jects that were filling his thoughts, either in his lecture-
room or in his investigations.

                      To M. Arago.

                                              ' January 3d, 1837.

   'I   write to mention some  results respecting terres

trial  magnetism at which I    have lately arrived. In
       I made an extensive series of experiments with
1832

Hansteen's Intensity Apparatus in the Alps, and in 1835
in the Pyrenees.
the influence of      One   prIincdiopuabl t  object was  to ascertain
                  heights.                    extremely   whether any

decided result can be drawn from preceding observations.
. . . Those of M. Kuppfer seem to be of little value.
IThey were not made at the summit of the Caucasus. . . .

  have referred the positions of my stations in the Alps
and Pyrenees to the three co-ordinates of latitude, longi
...tude, and height,and     deduced the influence of
                                                          each by
the method of               . I have in the first         instance

confined my calculation to horizontal intensities. From
three different series of observations, made with two

needles, I find always a negative coefficient of the height,

indicating, at a mean, a diminution of "00 L of horizontal
128              THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                       [chap.

intensity for 3,000 feet of vertical ascent.   If,  as Hum

boldt states, the dip diminishes in ascending, the dimi
nution of total intensity will be somewhat greater. You
will judge of the extent of the inductions upon which
this founded when mention that the sum of the
   I'
         is
                    I
                           I
heights to which    have carried Hansteen's apparatus

exceeds 160,000 feet, or thirty vertical miles, twelve

lieues.

     have lately been engaged in procuring thermometers

similar to those at the Observatory at Paris, to be sunk to
different depths in various soils.
                              ;               have three sets from

                                 aI
three to twenty-six feet long one set to be sunk in
trap-tufa, second in sandstone, third in pure loose
              a

sand. . . The observations in the Lead Hills are being

continued.'

                 To the Rev. Dr. Whewell.
                                                         'Jan. 31 si, 1837.

     . . feel gratified by the prominent place you
   '          I

           .

have given to my experiments as bearing upon the theory
of Heat, in which you have done me full justice. . .
But must mention for yourself,it
                                              if

                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                                       ;
     I                                        not for your

book, that the discovery of the polarization of heat was
not the necessary consequence of applying the thermo-

multiplier to the investigation, which would have been

a  poor achievement, seeing was another man's invention

but that Melloni had first applied the instrument to the

tourmaline question, and answered in the negative (Ann.
de Chimie, vol. 55); then Nobili, the inventor, attempted
to repeat Berard's experiment with the most improved
piles, and with results quite null (Bib. Universelle). So
that conclude that, when published my experiments,
     I
                              aI

                                                                            ;

                                             I
                                                      I

                                                                                    is
the question of polarization was negatively answered by
persons operating with every advantage which possessed,
and indeed seemed to be set at rest. My discovery was
the application of mica as polarizing substance, first by

transmission, then  ebxypererifmleecntito--n    and have shown                        that
repeating Nobili's                            the same as Berard's                    and
Powell's -- the quantity of heat reflected from glass so

excessively minute that the errors might well equal the
vI.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE. 129

total effect. I think you have not mentioned total re

flection and circular polarization.
   ' As to                   reflection, Melloni
alone, but     sIimclpaliem  double refraction.'  should        be                                                    mentioned

The following extract from a letter to Professor Airy

shows what      his occupations  cwoemreb,ineadnd:--how             closely                                                   his
lectures and    researches were

                      To G. B. Airy, Esq.

                             ' The Dean House, March 15, 1837.
I' have been exceedingly busy, and not very well,
which have been the causes of my silence. Amongst
other occupations I
I have received in           have had to read     Ifive essays, which
                             competition for a
                                                  medal proposed ,
oySnocoutttlhha,endaU,ndnwdhIuiclhahatvoIeryagmoTthdeesoloirgmyheteodrfeaLtolilgyfhinrte,dspaheacsntaesbwtleirrseucdbojmeucpptoosuiinr
tions. This is a proof to me that things are mending,

and that exertion, private and personal, is not thrown

away, even where public sympathy or support is not to

'Ibe looked for.ndoritveanbaanbdoonuetdthismywinptoelra.rizeId   heat, but have
      have                                                      have got twelve
been  much

thermometers sunk in different soils from three to twenty-

six feet deep, to measure conduction. Shall you be cer

tainly at Greenwich the last days of April 1 '

The following letter, written about this time, proves
that the intercourse with Sir    David Brewster,
suspended, was now cordially                                                                                          for  a  time
                                 renewed :--

' My DEAR Sir David,                      ' Edinburgh, April 28th, 1837.

'     .  .  .   Your         experiments  on  absorption must                                                                 be

   .
most interesting. I think Wrede, the first pages of whose
IpoIfaf pthererecTkoainlyledloctryowhuealsla, lllhauetdeeilmy tiotta,ratenisfslaIttheeudn,pdheherasnstoamdnoednneait
                                                                                                                      something

                                                                                                                       correctly.
                                                                                                                      of absorp
tion by combinations of thin mica plates, that by the
colours of thin plates.      K
                                                                 is,
130  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

  ' I will do my best to capture a Wolf's lens for you, on
Icondition that you will not require an affidavit that

saw the wolf make use of it. To stare a wolf in the face
in the Black Forest would be enough to throw any
optical philosopher into a fit of reflection.

   'With best regards to Lady and Miss Brewster, be
lieve me, my dear Sir David, yours most sincerely.'

    Forbes was not a man who, while he belonged to a
corporation, could confine all his energies to his own
peculiar subjects, without regard to the working of other
departments and to the general well-being and well-work
ing of the whole body. He had not been long established
in his chair before his action began to make itself felt, be
yond the bounds of his own class, on all the machinery
of the University. The Scottish Universities, like those
of the sister kingdom, had suffered from a long torpor,
which lingered somewhat later in our northern seats of

learning, after it had passed from Oxford and Cambridge.
No doubt, during the last century and the first three
decades of this, there had arisen, here and there in the four
northern Universities, men of real genius, lights of their
times, not likely to be surpassed by those who now fill
or may in future fill their places. Principal Robertson,
Dr. Thomas Reid, Dugald Stewart, Sir John Leslie, Dr.
John Hunter, Professor Wilson, and many more, were
men of whom any university or country might be proud.
They not only communicated life and energy to the

students who heard them, but they enriched the litera
ture, the philosophy, the science, and the scholarship of
their country. But their action was wholly isolated and

individual. It began and ended in their own classes,

stimulating, or, it may be, only delighting their hearers,

but not necessarily producing in their students any solid
or certified attainments. Of the several functions of a

university life, the professoriate was the only one which

was really alive, and it had swallowed up all the rest.
Graduation was as good as dead, a mere form, little
PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                         131

valued, and seldom sought for. But the teaching of

able professors, excellent as a mental stimulant, requires,

if it is to produce solid fruits, to be supported by three
additional conditions. It must be received into minds
previously prepared by adequate school training ; it must
be supplemented and solidified by careful and methodic
getting up of books during the college course ; and lastly,
the joint result of professors' lectures and private reading

requires to be tested by thorough examination. In

Scotland, when Forbes became a professor, these three

necessary buttresses to the professors' lectures were wholly

wanting. The professoriate reigned solitary and unsup
ported. Consequently, of the large amount of mental

force annually let loose from those Scottish Chairs, who
shall say how large a proportion lost itself in air ?

   In Oxford the system of systematic examination for

degrees had been revived as early as the first decade of
this century, when Sir Robert Peel was an undergraduate.
Slowly the sense of the need of a like revival crept north
wards ; and by the fourth decade, when Forbes entered the

Natural Philosophy Chair, he took it up and pressed it on
his colleagues with characteristic energy
For the following sketch of his exertions  and perseverance.

                                           in this direction I
am indebted to the kindness of Professor Kelland, who has

for more than thirty years filled the Mathematical Chair
in Edinburgh University, and done so much to promote
tibthuostrootmuhegrohudgeathnaodiulstacwcShucriocathtleanmtdea.aychnIiofntgt,ihnenteortgeeosnntelryhailminr,ehaIidsemor uwfsnitndchlsaospisen,

he will bear with them, in consideration of the value

which these possess to the many who, from their interest

in the further improvement of Scottish education, will

welcome any light which may be thrown on the history
of the steps by which it has reached its present condition.
   After observing that in the early years of this century

degrees in Arts had been so little in demand, that it was

almost a favour conferred on the University when an

able student proposed to graduate, Professor Kelland
goes on to state that as early as 1814 the University

K2
132                        THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.        [chap.

of Edinburgh made an attempt to frame some very ru
dimentary rules for graduation, and again in 1824 there
was an endeavour still more to shape these rules into a
system. Both of these attempts, however, proved abor
tive, and a third made in 1831 had no better result.

     ' Up to the date of Forbes' appointment to the chair
of Natural Philosophy, things continued in the old

loose and unsatisfactory condition.

   ' It was reserved for Forbes to institute that complete
working system of examining by means of printed
papers, and of judging the results by marks, which is in
force at the present time. To Forbes belongs the merit
tohfreheavhineagdsg--rotuhpeedClathsesicsaul,bjetchtes   of examination under
                                                        Mathematical, and the

Philosophical. The effect of this grouping               is,

                                                                     is
                                                               though

perhaps this result hardly came into Forbes' calculation,
that moderate amount of knowledge at any rate
         a
                             a
exacted of one, at least, of two or three kindred subjects.

The system was well-devised and admirable one. There

was, however, one error of detail, arising no doubt from

the fact that seven separate interests were involved. The
requirements were too high, and the amount of Greek
demanded was more than an average student could bring

up and in other departments, Natural Philosophy among
the rest, there was an indefiniteness of programme which';

must have operated to alarm the conscientious candidate.
       The first trial of the new scheme took place in April
1836, when six candidates presented themselves for
examination, and all passed. Next year, 1837, Forbes was
appointed Dean of the Faculty of Arts, as not only
well qualified in all respects for discharging the duties of
the office, but more particularly as having taken so
                           part in maturing and establishing
prominent                  was thought fitting that he should  the new
system.                                                        have the
     '                 It
                      a
chief care of watching over the success of what might be
called his own experiment.

         Immediately on his appointment he introduced some

important modifications into the scheme for estimating         a
vI.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE. 133

candidate's proficiency. These need not here be detailed.
Spite, however, of the excellence of these regulations,
candidates for the degree came forward but in small

numbers. In 1837 there were seven candidates ; in 1838,
six; in 1839, one only. The Faculty agreed to recom
mend this gentleman for a degree without examination.
In the two following years there were five and two

candidates respectively.
    ' These numbers show that the first effect of the new

system was rather preventive than encouraging. But
however great the difficulties, Forbes did not lose

heart. Various modifications were from time to time

introduced into his scheme, chiefly by himself, such
as the allowing the different branches to be taken in
separate years, and awarding honours in the several
departments. To Forbes belongs ' the credit of having
devised and brought into working order this well-
appointed scheme, and for this the University owes him
a lasting debt of gratitude.

  ' It will be seen from the above that one great feature
in his character was order or method. He was on
system a thorough disciplinarian, as well in his own class
as in University matters. He was orderly in the extreme.
His class examinations were fixed year after year for

corresponding days, and his colleagues were compelled to
accommodate themselves to his unbending requirements.

It must not, however, be inferred from this that there
was anything harsh or unkindly in Forbes' dealings with
his colleagues. On the contrary, he was thoroughly
kindly, though somewhat cold        in manner.       His principle
of action was ' straight forward    '-- a principle   admirable in

itself, but apt to carry its bearer rather sharply against

an opponent, who, even if adopting the same principle,

may have thought fit to travel to it by a different route.
                                    he had thoroughly made
mOninde--vehryadgresaot  question    considered the subject   up  his
                         carefully                           and   so

completely mastered      it,  that he could not appreciate the

determined opposition which his views were apt to meet
with from some of his colleagues, who equally with him
134        THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                          [chap.

self had the interest of the University at heart. When
two such unbending natures as those of Forbes and Sir
William Hamilton came into contact, as they did more

than once, the shock was a rough one, and the result

not generally beneficial. A middle course, which would
probably have been the right course, was, from the
nature of the opponents, an impossibility. In looking

back on these conflicts, each of the combatants referred

to stands  out as  a pmurapnosoef--imwmitehnseonlpyowaenr,   of high prin
ciple, of  honest  as to make it cease to be                excess of one
virtue so  great                                            a virtue --self-
reliance. With their wide differences, each has left a

per'mInan1e8n4t1mcaarmk efour pgotohde  on the University.       of  the
                                        subject of the disposal
magnificent legacy left by General Reid for the endow
ment of a chair of the Theory of Music, and for the
library and general purposes of the University. In the
controversies to which the disposal of this fund gave
rise, and which for years kept the Senatus in the law-

courts, Forbes took a prominent part. He honestly con
sidered a chair of Music to be a mere ornament, and

therefore resolutely opposed all votes of money for
supporting the chair. He believed that there were far

more urgent needs to be supplied than this. It was

notorious that certain professors from age and long
service had great difficulty in conducting their classes.
Forbes thought that the Reid Fund could not be bet
ter employed than in providing retiring allowances for
these aged professors, and supported this view with all
his energy. Of his colleagues, some pleaded for the
museums, some for the library, while only a very few stood
by the Music Chair. .Hence came the rupture with the
holder of that chair, and ere long with the Patrons as

the governing body of the University. It is needless to

dwell on the litigations that ensued between the Senatus
and the Town Council and the Professor of Music. The

result was that, after years of contention, the provision

for superannuated professors, and other most desirable

objects which Forbes had at heart, were stopped, and the
 vi.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE. 136

Reid Fund was by the law-courts restored to the support
of the Music Chair.

   'In 1842 another large fund, the Straton Fund, came

to be applied by the Senatus. Here again Forbes took
the initiative, and was mainly instrumental in inducing
the Senatus to establish Fellowships out of the combined
Reid and Straton Funds, to be held by distinguished
students, after graduation. Ultimately these Fellowships
were founded out of the Reid Fund, but, owing to the
decision of the law-courts, they had but a short period
of existence.

   ' It only remains to be added, that whilst Forbes was

a stern and unflinching opponent, he did not allow his
opposition to interfere with his friendships. The colleague
who most systematically and consistently opposed his
views regarding the Music Chair, enjoyed his warmest
friendship and had the kindliest intercourse with him
up to his dying day.'

   When a man of vigorous mind and resolute will

throws himself into public action to carry out his views

of what is right, it must needs be that collisions come :
and if he meets with men of views as decided and wills

as strong as his own, the colbsion is sure to be a severe
one. Forbes never shrank from such collisions, however

painful, if they met him in the way of what he conceived

to be duty. But he was by nature no polemic. He did
not love the battle for its own sake ; indeed, it cost him
more than most men to enter into personal conflicts.
"Whatever ambition there was in him found scope in wrest
ling with the difficulties of Nature and extorting her secrets
from Science. Though he never flinched from opposing
men when he thought he ought to do so, he felt very
keenly the hard words and severe blows which such en
counters call forth. Therefore, however manfully he may
have stood to his guns in the Academic combats to which
Professor Kelland alludes, it was in the intercourse of
the class-room and of private life with like-minded stu
dents that he found the field most congenial to him.
136      THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.           [chap.

     Professor Kelland alludes to the encounters which

sometimes took place in the Senate when Forbes and

Hamilton took opposite sides. Physicists and meta
physicians do not generally think very highly of each
other's pursuits. This natural want of sympathy would not
be diminished by the disparagement and scorn with which
Hamilton spoke and wrote of some of the processes most
in favour with mathematicians. But it is needless to

revive these buried controversies. The mention, how

ever, of these two colleagues side by side cannot but
recall the striking but contrasted appearance of the two

men as during these years they passed along the Bridges
to and from College. Forbes, with tall, thin, but lathy
frame, in the invariable suit of black, and broad white

neck-tie, his head stretched forward, his long arm swing

ing resolutely by his side, strode rapidly along like one
bent on some determined purpose from which no man

could turn him. An hour or two later, coming the same
way, might be seen Sir W. Hamilton ; under one arm

his lecture portfolio, the other hand thrust deep into
his pocket, hat pushed well back, and exposing a noble
breadth of forehead, prone in meditation, from beneath

which looked out those large brown eyes so loaded with

intellect that the youth on whom they were turned almost
shrank beneath them, oppressive as they were with their

weight of thought. A third there was, an elder colleague

of these two, tall, and still erect, broad-breasted, with

an herculean frame, now become massive, almost portly,
moving no longer with the restless step of youth, but

with the firm, measured tread of ripe middle age. In
that well-known countenance, so vivid, yet so benign ;
the eagle eye, with its fire mellowed, but not abated ;

the long golden hair, just faintly silvered, streaming back
over his shoulders, as if the wind and no hand of art had
shed it                                         him -- and who
did not  there,   all who turned    to look on  embodied ideal
                   for once before   them the
         ? --saw

of an inspired poet. Such was the look these three col
leagues wore to the eyes of their admiring students, all
of whom could appreciate their striking outward appear
Tl.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE. 137

anee, little as they might sympathise with their inner

man. It is not often that one University at the same

time possesses three such representatives.
   Before Forbes had completed his third professorial

session, his eminence as a lecturer and his growing
reputation as a discoverer had so awakened the enthu
siasm of his students, that they publicly expressed their
sympathy with him in his researches, and their pride
in his achievements,  by presenting to him the following
address :--
                 'Univeksity of Edinburgh, February \bth, 1836.

' The students in the Natural Philosophy Class in this
University beg to convey their congratulations to Pro
fessor Forbes on the well-merited honour which he

received last night as the successful demonstrator of the
polarization of heat. The students would express their

attachment to Professor Forbes as to an excellent and

amiable teacher, their personal interest in his scientific
pursuits, and their personal pride in the successful results
of these. That he has not only succeeded in displaying
the polarization and depolarization of heat, but that he
has also detected signs of its circular polarization,
strongly excite their expectation that the evidences of
interference will not long remain undetected by the
delicate and judicious experimentalizing for which Pro

fessor Forbes is so justly celebrated. They hope to see
the undulatory theory of heat as fully demonstrated as
the undulatory theory of light, and Professor Forbes'

name raised to the highest eminence among the philo
sophers of the day.'

However cordial may be a professor's relations with his
whole class, there will always be some with whom, either
from circumstances or from congeniality of pursuits, the
intercourse of the class-room will lead on to closer friend
        Of such
ship.            intimate student friends Forbes had a
goodly  number
                 I; and can remember the peculiar ten
derness with which, either in public addresses or in

private conversation, he alluded to these in later life.
138             THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                               [ChAr.

   A few of his letters about this time will                               illustrate   the

nature of his intercourse with these young                                 friends :--

                      To Thomas Cleghokn, Esq.

                                            ' The Dean House, Oct, 22nd, 1836.

     '    .  .  When  I had the             pleasure  of seeing you        here in

       .

May last, you suggested the possibility of establishing a
society of an academical character for the special object
of encouraging a taste for physical science. You may

perhaps not     have thought                 much on   Ithe subject since,
                you that the                more that
but I assure                                             reflect upon the
                success of such
chances of      which it might              an undertaking, and            the im
portance of                                 ultimately prove, the
                                                                           more I

fateutetraleilnydiinspgthosoetudhgehttooboejfenccittouirsnaingcevei,eawna. yndwIIelhlw-adrveietveisoetfdotenssacyhaenmtdheamtfoairf
you feel disposed to prosecute your own suggestion, you

may reckon upon my cordial co-operation.

   ' So far as I recollect, the desideratum which you and
some of your companions have felt was of a purely
                       It had no similarity to those
academical character.

societies of which one or two already exist, and Avhose

object is to imitate exactly the great scientific asso
ciations of the country. Your object seemed to be to

have a society which should encourage the taste and
give facilities for physical studies by the union of

kindred minds, rather than to pretend to the more
arduous task of extending the boundaries of human

Iknowledge. . . .

   ' have thought of no means so fit as your suggestion

of a society which might act energetically in two
                                                                       of
ways:     --(N1)e,wbtoyni'nsduOcpintigcs,a  fcoarreefxual msptuled--y  in  experimental
                                                                           order to take
essays

a share in a discussion which might be raised upon any
disputable point in experimental investigation, of which

there are thousands ; aud (2), by providing from the funds
of the society instruments of a simpler kind, but which
are yet too costly for the easy purchase of an individual ;
for instance, a barometer and an electrical machine. Also,
vi.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE. 139

the union of several individuals may accomplish what
one might want zeal or leisure to perform. For example,
Sir John Herschel has desired the co-operation of
observers to note the barometer, thermometer, &c., for

thirty-six successive hours occasionally. My own occu
                    ims enoftromdonuendinertaankyingpartthisoflaSbcooutrl,anadn,d--I
pations   prevent
believe
          that it
when I was your age, or younger, I used frequently to

make      hourly   observations for      twenty-four successive
hours     without                        would willingly furnish
                   assistance. -- but I
a committee of such a society with the necessary instru
ments, and assist in the use of them. . . .

   ' As the suggestion was your own, so I wish the execu
tion to be ; but you may make me of use in any sub
sidiary manner that you please, and in conversation or

by writing I will endeavour to further your objects.'

                    To J. T. Harrison, Esq.

                               'Edinburgh, September 17lfi, 1838.

'      .  .  There  has  been  a   considerable  break-up,     of

   .

course, amongst your associates in the Nat. Phil. Class.

Still, however, I have kept my eye pretty well upon
those with whom you were more particularly associated,

and the Physico-Mathematical Society prospered last
winter remarkably well. Batten is now at home in
Somersetshire, but comes to London in winter to study
                             the Middle Temple. I
law,   having entered    at  hope that, if you ever    hear from
him    constantly, and                                  reside in
                         I
London now, you will find him out. Cleghorn and
Anderson are both occupied, one with law, the other

with medicine ; they have, however, by no means for

gotten their physical studies, and the hourly meteoro
logical obs. go on chiefly under their auspices. Geo.
Irving has reached the dignity of an advocate's gown.
John Rankine is more zealous than ever, and has com
                          set of
pleted     an admirable  studying  anemometer     observations.
Lewis     Gordon is now            at Freiberg,
                                                 in Saxony : I

heard from   him not     long ago.        I  scarcely  expect  it,
             be glad     to hear, though
  ' I shall
140                      TEE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                             [chap.

that you have not in the midst of your professional pur
                                     foouf nthdeatigoenn. eraIl
suits entirely           lost sight                              scientific principles
which form              its surest                               do not doubt your

good-will or the clearness of your views of what befits a
                                     prosecution of your profession.
liberal          and enlightened
                                     never do ; but I rather fear that
That I           am sure you will

the very success to which your talents and application

so well entitle you, may have already forced you to
travel upon the narrow railroad of every-day applica

tions. . . .'

                                  To the Same.

                                                                 'December Oth, 1838.

     '     .     .  At  the very time      you  were writing I was                on   a

        .

visit to the North of England, by way                            of a little stretch,
before buckling to my winter's work.
                                                                 I had the gratifi
cation of making the acquaintance of your family and of
Iaccepting Mr. Harrison's most cordial invitation to spend
a day with him.                   visited  --yoVuirctobrroiatheBr'rsidgmeo--st     splendid
viaduct across               the   Wear                                           and was

much gratified altogether by my excursion. Indeed,

Newcastle           and  tiatsstevicfoinr ittyheafafortrsdswahagtreevaetrf.ieldI  for persons
who have            any                                                           was much
Ipleased too with the Monkwearmouth Bridge ; and

visited Dr. Cowan's school, where your                           yoIuncgaenrnobtrosthufefri ,

and I believe you also, were educated.

ciently       I     wonder that   1 took no      pains           to   find you    out
when                 was last in  London.                             dreamily    for
                                                I took            it
                                                be there, though it seems
ygorauntweedret.hatI    you  could not still
                         am  interested by      the honest account you
give of your fortunes in London. It is a place of all
                                                          from what I heard
others to find one's         level ;  and though,
                              fancy                      the case rather too
from your father, I                   Iyoduoubsttatneot   that even in these

strongly against yourself,
           reverses you will find
Ivearym                                    the  germs             of future        success.
            sure that the honesty           of  your             character        and the

strength of your principles must be the foundations of

high professional character, and that as you seem to be
satisfied that Mr. Brunel means to act justly and favour
ably towards you, your conscientious perseverance in
vi.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE. 14)

what you believe to be right will ultimately be rewarded.

I am not surprised at what you say as to the effects
which the non-observance of Sunday have had on you.
An engineer is placed perhaps in as great temptations of
this kind as any man, and it must be conceded that a
mere engineer is not brought in contact with subjects
calculated to mould his moral character and prevent his
feeling from being hardened by the trying ordeal of such
a place as London, of which selfishness and mechanical

utility are the predominant springs and ends of action.
. . . Believe me that it will ever and at all times give
                                                  of your success in life.
mI eshpoleualsdureliketo  hear from  you and      you expect to leave
                          to know    whether

London, and whether Mr. Brunel is doing all for you

that you expect.
   'Never mind filling a sheet, but write me a few lines

when you can, as I do.'

       To Thomas Cleghorn, Esq.

                          'The Dean House, September 2Znl, 1839.
I' have just received your very kind letter of the
I15th June, and the                               it accompanied.
   state the bare truth   enclosure which
                                                  few things have
                          when I say that

ever gratified me more than this mark of your affec

tionate regard. I find myself reaching that time of life
Avhen mere compliment and external demonstrations of
       good opinion of
the    attractions, and   one's fellow-men lose much of        their
first                                                          more
                          I continually attach more and
Iweight to the personal attachments of those whose moral
and intellectual qualities                        can admire, and whose
amiable dispositions I can love. The terms of your
dedication, and of your letter, alike prove to me that

you    haraeveawjuasretlythaaptpirnehternudthedI  my feelings  on this subject,
and                                               attach more   importance to

the friendships which my position as a teacher and culti
vator of science may enable me to make, than to any

celebrity which I may acquire in that department. As

a worldly man, 1 am gratified by your having dedicated
your 'Thesis' to me, rather than to many other persons
142              THE LIFE OF JAMES B. FORBES.                         [chap.

whose countenance might  have been                         professionally useful
to you. As a man of                                        am infinitely more
                         feeling I
rejoiced at the expressions of personal attachment which
it contains.
     ' Believe me, my dear Cleghorn, ever most sincerely

your friend,                                               'James D. Forbes.'

                   To H. G. Cumming, Esq.

                                      ' Edinburgh, November 22nd, 1840.

     ' I was very much gratified by your letter of the

27th October, and now that a month has nearly elapsed
I should like much to hear more particularly what you
Iare doing.      have not very precise notions of what a
                   and will thank you to enlighten
broker's businessit

me.         am given to understand, however, thatis,                  does
      if I                                                 I
                                   :
                                                                  it
not very materially differ from merchant's as far asI
                                      a
learning the profession goes, and therefore hope that
            you should be unable to make up your mind;
even
entirely to like you will yet be able to bear with it.

There are two very good grounds on which you may be

encouraged to do so first, that things the dullest and

most repulsive, steadily pursued, gradually and insensibly,
and in spite of one's self, become interesting in certain
                                                           a

way, chiefly from the satisfaction which always attaches

to sense of steady effort to do right and secondly, from
a
       a
the consideration of alternatives, namely, that in this
world majority of people are compelled to find happi
ness as they best may, in doing what they cannot alto
gether help, and in choosing what appears in prospect
the lesser of the two evils, though may ultimately turn
                   ;

                                     it
out very real good whilst on the other hand the few
     a

who really get their own way and have all externals and
full luxury of choice for procuring happiness, may much
oftener fail in doing so than those for whom some inevi

table destiny or strong motive has chalked out their
course of life.
                   am not writing from theory, but from
                 B, I

                                C.

                                                        .

                                    I
very real observation, which                               could substantiate by
instances of A, and . .
ti.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                                                   143

    ' I wish I could send you any news worth having ; but

you know my winter habits are not such as to furnish
me with much chit-chat.
   ' Young Mackintosh, of Geddes, is attending
tures. He brought me a letter from Albyne.                           mIy  lec

                                                                          like

him extremely. He tells me that he is acquainted with
you, and he had heard somehow or other that you did
not like your present situation, and, like me, he was
sorry for it. We had a very pleasant walk together

yesterday.'

    The summer of 1837, from May to October, was
spent in an extended tour through North Germany
and Austria, and in the summer of 1838 he returned to

the same country for a less extensive tour and for a

shorter time.
    The summer of May 1839, from May till August, was
spent in the South of France and more or less among the
Alps. In August he was recalled by the meeting of the
British Association, which took place at Birmingham.

These foreign summers fall to be noticed not in this, but
in another chapter.
   The winter of 1837-8 was busy with experiments on
radiant heat, till these as well as his lectures were inter

rupted for a time by an attack of scarlet fever, in March

1838. These experiments were, however, again recom

menced, and continued to engage him during the winters

of 1838-39 and of 1839-40. At the close of the latter

winter session they were dropped for a considerable
length of time, and though afterwards taken up, never

again received a long and undivided attention.

    The      fsoullbojwecitng: --letters  belong  to  this  period,  and  bear
     this
on

                           To M. Cauchy.

                                          'Edinburgh, December Wth, 1839.

    '     .  .  I receive  with the greatest          interest your sugges

       .

tions on the subject of radiant heat, and your promise to

pursue the theory. In my third paper I have proved
to demonstration, I think, that all kinds of radiant heat
141                 THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                               [chap.

are   nMoetlloenqiu--allayndpoclaorniszeeqdu--enctolyntritariys  to the opinion of

Mr.                                                              possible, as I have

suggested at page 9 of that paper, that there are normal
vibrations combined with transverse, and more abun

dI ansetely,  as    tbe temperature of the source is lower.                    ...
              no      difficulty in constructing graphically
                                                                                the

ellipse in the case of heat. Would not this be the most

satisfactory way ? Can you suggest any mode of deter
                             of the wave in the case                       heat ? In
mining the length            only get the ratio of                     of
depolarization we                                                          I- have
sometimes thought of applying the ellipticity of the ray
in the case of Fresnel's rhomb, when the angles do not
give circular polarization, to this purpose. . . .'

                    To Prof. Phillips, York.

                                     'Edinburgh, December Wlh, 1839.
I'
   .             I           in
         .    .     believe      my  conscience                  that      am better
employed now than in writing reports. I have fields,
not of untrodden snow, but of untrodden heat, before

Ime, all promising a rich harvest. Cauchy has just set                      '
me a task to which           must buckle myself.                 .     .   .

                    To Professor Powell.

                                     'Edinburgh, December 27th, 1839.

'     .       .  I own that I should be very glad to see                       a good

   .

synopsis of what has been done during the last eight

years, well aware that, so far as my own contributions
are concerned, they were published in a form repulsive to
the generality of readers, and even to many men of science
who would willingly glean from your critical pages how
much has been established, and on what kind of evidence,
without troubling themselves about details. . . .

  'I hope that you will not treat Melloni's papers so slightly
Ias you propose. His earlier ones are full of interesting

and original experiments. So far as am concerned, 1
have nothing to wish but that everything Melloni has
done should be fully and accurately known, for by a rare
good fortune there is not a single debate in point of
priority between us, and every experiment we have in
vi.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE. 145

bcoilmitmy o--n,cowniftihrmas  single exception -- the variable  polariza-
                               each other's results. It is for   you as a
critic to judge how far, if in any case, my right con

clusions were founded on false grounds, for this is the
sum of Melloni's captious criticisms.'

                To the Astronomer Royal.

                               ' Edinburgh, January Wth, 1840.

    'Enclosed is  a memorandum about some                eIxpheopriemeynotus
on heat, which    are new and unfinished, and
will think important. I cannot help thinking this affec
tion of heat by mechanical surfaces and textures one
of the most singular and important yet noticed. For
instance, is there any way in which we can trace the

action of striae on transparent surfaces upon heat or light
different from physical interruptions or spare spaces like
                                                     of
fine wires 1        Has        anyone thought     "  Is   proposing this
question in     the case        of light, viz. :         the illumination

of a screen by parallel rays of light passing through a
                                            area of
grating, always determinable by the         grating      the"  interstices
compared to the whole area of the                         ?      Can you

refer me to any investigation of this ? Is there any
Ifprimd facie absurdity in supposing it should not be so ?
     striae or scratches act really as opaque lines would do,
my experiments lead me to think that in the case of heat
Ithe interrupting power of the screen depends on X.                               But
                                                                                  fine
   have not succeeded in getting any wire gauze
enough to test it in that case.'

                To Professor Whewell.

                               'Edinburgh, February 8th, 1840.

I'              have lately been making a few preliminary
   ...
experiments on the form of the elliptic vibrations of
heat, in  verification of some formulas of               ICafiuncdhyn, owdhiifcfhi
he wrote  to me to endeavour to test, and

culty in  doing so.            The results  seem to come out well,
and by    a graphical                       can readily project the
                                process I
                thYeoudirweciltliobnelioefvethtehagtreIatterrulyaxrise,joticheed
ellipse,  find                                                                    excen-
tricity,  &c.
                                                                                  in my
146             THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.             ChAP.

friend Ellis's success, as well as in the honour of Trinity.

I Ifear shall scarcely know Cambridge soon, if my old

friends take wing as they have lately been doing. Gregory
                   hope that if I      to Cambridge      in May,
gives    me  the                   go                    find you
which        have   some thoughts      doing, I shall
          I                        of

lecturing on Moral Philosophy'

                        To the Same.

                                 'Edinburgh, February 22nd, 1840.

   ' You     cannot  I  gratify  me more than     by leading me to
imagine,     what                 could persuade    myself of, that
                        wish I
II can ever render you any service worth giving. . . .

   look forward with much interest to the appearance of

your book, and on several accounts. Some views you

once stated to me as we walked down the north bank of

the Cam, some two years ago, have been sticking by me
Isince, and expect to see them developed. Will it be
Ifone volume ?          so, it must be nearly complete.
     '1
         have not quite, but nearly done          AtollrmIencatinngdo,heaaltl
with     gratings and dusty diaphragms.

kinds of heat get through the finest gratings (metallic)
in precisely equal proportions, and that equal to the area
of interstices ;
specific action.   and   yet   grooved surfaces   exert a powerful
                        am    reluctantly forced  to the conclusion
                     I

too, that pure metals may be reduced to powder so fine
as to affect the quality of the heat transmitted, though
the thinnest gold leaf permits no appreciable portion of
heat to pass.'

              To Sir J. F. W. Herschel, Bart.

     I'                 'The Dean House, Edinburgh, March 9th, 1840.
        .. .
              should like very much to know the degree of
sensibility of your paper to heat ; whether, for instance,

the heat of the hand affects it. It has long been an
object with me to get a surface capable of detecting heat

pictures, such as those which polarization and diffraction
would indicate. Mr. Talbot gave me hopes at Birming
ham of providing me with such, and he actually sent me

a primrose-coloured paper which was transiently affected
vi.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                                          147

by a pretty violent   heat    ;Itbuwtasi,t  was far   too insensible to
be of the slightest  use.                             iodide of silver.
                                            I think,
Is the impression on yours permanent, and would you
allow me to try a small piece of it \ . . . Have you ever
oatinpopntlhieeadnsdupbhdjoieftfcrotag--crtaiwopnhhiyc%htoIThthheaevoebneplyauureptixofupsleelrfyiimgauevrnoetisdeIodef vspeporelanmrdiazindage

my time upon, seeing that it is in much better hands-
was to   fix the splendid image of calc
brushes  by solar light, and to my surprise           Ispwarhorlilnygsfailaendd.

Perhaps the calc spars had absorbed the chemical rays ;
but at all events my experiment, being but once made
and by inexperienced hands, was not worth much.'

But much as his experiments and discoveries filled
his time and attention, they still left room for graver

thoughts.

    The  following   extract  from his      journal was written  ju: --st
before   he entered   on the  work of       the session 1839-40

                              ' The Dean House, Oct. 20th, 1839.

' Five years and a half have elapsed since the last pages
      written ! What    a chasm in anticipation ! What a
were
span  Iin retrospect !   thank Almighty God that if any

one change more than another has characterized my
mind, it is an approximation to             the fulfilment of the
wish expressed in the last sentence.
                                            I yearly feel a greater
readiness to die, and become more familiarized with the
         I wish that I
idea.                   could impute this             to  an increasing
fitness   for such a                                      am perfectly
                        change ; it arises,           I
aware, fully more from the experience of satiety even
in the more intellectual earthly gratifications. . . . Yet
my grounds of calm anticipation of the future have
undoubtedly in some respects greatly improved in these

five years. I have a far more settled and reasonable de

pendence on the atonement of Jesus Christ, a doctrine of
which God's grace has within these few years revealed to
me the full importance, as a ground of hope and guide

lof action. I am now about to celebrate the tenth anni
                                                    2
148  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

versary of my father's death : since that event I have
aIatdtvhaaacvnhecmeedgnretosanteclodvsoaeusrbt tthsirarnewthrtiehetovhsaeebrlIeIatssthpeaprellsteoenwvtearprdofssosremtshse.'egarrathvely.

   It may be worth while here to note a piece of prac

tical counsel as to the observing of the Sunday rest
which he offered to his students in the lecture with which
he opened the session of 1839-40 :--

   ' By earnestness in your studies during the week, I
advise you to reap the enjoyment of that beneficent
provision of the Almighty, and by a sedulous abstinence
in thought, as well as in act, from your ordinary occu
pations, to restore the tone of your minds and the capa
city for vigorous exertion. None who have not made a
strong effort are aware of the admirably tranquillizing
influence of twenty-four hours studiously separated from
the ordinary current of thought. Monday morning is the
epoch of a periodic renovation.'

    Sir Andrew Agnew, who at that time was prominent
as a defender of the religious observance of Sunday, was
so much pleased with these words that he applied to Pro
fessor Forbes for leave to publish them. Forbes replied
that as they had been publicly spoken they were public

property, but that if they were printed he should prefer

their being given as a report of part of his lecture,
rather than as a communication made directly by himself.
For this would argue a love of notoriety from which he
rather shrank.

   Just before the close of the session, in April 1840, his
eldest sister, Eliza, died at Dean House, and left him
with only one home companion, his sister Jane.

    The summer of 1840 was spent at home, and then for
the first time we meet with allusions to his own health.

In the retrospective journal written in 1850 he writes
that he was very ill all the summer of 1840, and we hear

of his consulting Dr. Chambers when he visited London
and Cambridge in the June of that year.

    In August he made with his sister Jane a tour through
vi.] PROFESSORUL LIFE.                                          149

Dumfriesshire and Kirkcudbright, of which there remains
a diary written in a lighter and more frolicsome vein
than was usual with him. Having no glaciers or other
great object to study, he amused himself with noting the
peculiarities or follies of the natives he met.

  IfOn going to   visit the mausoleum      of  Burns        in  the
                  of Dumfries, he notes
largest kirkyard                          :--
' there is anything characteristic in Dumfries, it is

the sepulchral magnificence with which the churchyard
abounds. Scarce a tailor can die without leaving his
measure for a stately monument. The only gradation of
rank acknowledged in the cemetery is the geological dis
tinction of the primitive granite, which rises over the
grave of the border chief, and the modern spongy red

sandstone, which not less strikingly and more gaudily
covers a clockmaker, Mr.                            of the
magistrates in the year 18 -- .'  ,  who  was  one              chief

    Again, in journeying up Nithsdale, when they slept at
Dunscore, he notes : ' We had tea, but mine host had

partaken of something stronger, for he slapped me on

the back, and was sure that if we came from Edinburgh
1 must be travelling in the grocery line, and be perfectly
acquainted with Mr. Brown, the Leith tobacconist
After spending his best care on us and on our steed,
whose mouth he affectionately wiped with his pocket

handkerchief, he reluctantly let us go.'

   In Nithsdale he amused himself besides with watching
the meeting of the gray wacke and red sandstone.
The journal throughout is written in a more jocular
                  usual with him, here and
style  than was   for comical verse, like the  tfhoellroewifnogrsa: --king
prose  narrative

       1The banks of the Nith are both fertile and green,

        And haymakers merry on all sides were seen.
        More beautiful cottages nowhere one can see
        Than those which tho Duke has built for his fancy,
        And lodged all his people in excellent style ;
        So, passing the Castle, we drove for a mile,
        To call upon good Mr. Gamekeeper Shaw,
        Who at hst had succeeded in finding the law
160         THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                                    [chap.

     Of the growth of the salmon, the par, and the smolt,
     And showed how each nat'ralist has been a dolt.
     This gained him this year the Keith Medal and prize,
     Whilst Knox, Wilson, and Jamieson opened their eyes
     At finding the gamekeeper's salmon so far

     Advanced to a preminm, and theirs below par /'

   As they traversed the Galloway coast to the west of
Nith, and explored the Piper's Cave and Needle's Eye,
while thinking of Dirk Hatteraick and Meg Merrilies, he

not the less had an eye on the syenite or felspar rocks
interfused with the stratified slate.
   In ascending Criffel he found first Little Fell : some
what further on the Great Fell, and then Criffel above

both. The   undoubtedly authentic    origin                        of these names
as handed   down by tradition he     thus
                                                                   records :-- 'The

devil, having collected the scrapings of the earth, came

to lay them down in Galloway. The first pickle made
the Great Fell, the next the Little Fell. Then he
                                                              it,

                                                                      a

                                                                                                         :
couped the basket over and left                               to form the Creel
Fell, or Criffel
          '
   Further             !'westbienardG,aallnodwamyoushteachmee--ta  geologist with
redundant   locks,                                                 tehpiinggratmhen--very
unusual.
            On him he made the following

          Medusa's head of old turned all to stone,
          Her snake-encircled eyes did light upon.
          But times are changed now
                                                                keen glance
                           :

                                      C

                                                       's
                                                                                       ;
          Would stare the mountains out of countenance

          The rocks resent the unaccustomed stare,
          And Gorgonize his golden head of hair.'

   The only other record of this summer which remainsis
    that contained in the retrospective journal so often
alre'Saedpyteamllbuedre.d--toS.hort visit to Arran -- alone. British

Association at Glasgow. Presided at Physical Section.
Thence to Pitsligo, and along Banff coast to Dumphail
and Altyre. Met Agassiz and Buckland there. Agreed

to visit the glaciers with him in 1841. In October went

to London to consult Dr. Chambers.'
vi.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE. 161

   In November he was elected Secretary of the Royal
Society of Edinburgh, a post which he continued to fill
with characteristic energy and business-like exactness,
till the failure of his health obliged him to resign it.

   The following letter of this date will interest many,
were it only for the sake of him to whom it is
addressed : --

                  To R. Leslie Ellis, Esq.

                                             'Edinburgh, December 20th, 1840.

I'. . . rejoice in no slight degree that you propose
to yourself so manful a course of reading in mixed

physics ; and allow me first to say, that I hope that in
doing so you will continually bear in view that your

tastes, talents, and position alike give us reason to hope
that you are to be an extender as well as an occupier of
the domains of science. In selecting amongst the sub
                                   ofafnedrinygouardviecneu, mIewraotuioldn
jects to which you have referred,
of which almost supersedes my

suggest that you should pursue that department to which
your taste most naturally leads you, and which you think

you would choose to make your own by substantive addi

tions to our knowledge.
  ' Your keen interest in physical reasoning and your clear

notions about experimental evidence, happily preceded
as a spontaneous act of your mind the acquisition of the
admirable analytical skill which your brilliant Cambridge
course has rendered available to you ; so that it is
speaking very much within bounds to say that very few

men are so well placed as you for entering on the mixed

physical and mathematical investigations which so rarely

are successfully cultivated together. So far as I can form

a judgment, amongst the subjects you mention, the
subject of electricity is less adapted for your study than
the others. Magnetism is very good. But though much

is to be done by following out Gauss' method both

experimental and practical, the experiments are not such
as you would think of undertaking, nor such as in the
                       man can lead to
hands of    any one   of light and heat  Iacognrseiadterditshceovmeorys.t
The allied  subjects
152             THE LIVE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                          [chap.

hopeful and the most brilliant for                       a person   furnished as
you are with all the necessary                           weapons,
                                                                   -- one whose

clearness of mathematical apprehension may disem
barrass them of some of the cumbrous learning and

merely plausible speculations by which they have been
overlaid, and whose love of experimental laws may enable
him to trace analogies which will ultimately point to the
                Ioafppclraeshseensd,ofaplrheeandoymweneall  still distinct.
identification                                              read in the undu-
   ' You are,

latory theory of light, though perhaps the original memoirs
of Fresnel and Airy are not all known to you, and well
deserve being read, as the kind of investigation which they
                      I
point to and recommend    I iIs,  think, far more satisfactory
than the endless memoir of Cauchy and of some others,
even in this country, whom could mention. That there
are real outstanding difficulties to the theory of the trans

verse vibrations, none, apprehend, who understand the
present state both of the experimental and mathematical

evidence, can deny.
     From this subject, which you should prosecute with
'

pieces of mica and Iceland spar and Nicol's prism in your
hand, you should turn to heat. Fourier you have pro

bably read already.         doubt whether Poisson worth
                     I

                                                  it
                                                                  is
the labour, even to you, who would read comparatively
easily. The researches of Melloni and my own on radiant
heat, of which you will find an abstract in Powell's forth

coming Report, contain no doubt, as far as they are
correct, the elements of just theory of heat, parallel
         I

                 it
                                        ;

                           it ;

                           is it I a
                                                      a
with that of light and here great deal to be done
and will soon be done and should be much more glad
that you did than that should be imported from
                            with great diffidence that             is
abroad.         assure you                                             in

                                                                          I

                                                                               I
presume to offer anything like advice to one so competent
to judge for himself and with so many able advisers
besides. Should you think well of the suggestions have
made, will endeavour, so far as can, to aid carrying
'

   I

                                      I
them into effect.

     With kind regards to Mr. and Mrs. Ellis, believe me,

my- dear friend, most sincerely yours.'
Ti.    PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                              1»3

   The letter of Forbes to Dr. Whewell on his appoint

amsewnteltloatshepeMrsaosntaelrsihnitpereosftT:r--inity has a certain historical

                                                      'Edinburgh, October 31*«, 1841.

  'I do not know whether your appointment to the

Mastership of Trinity has actually taken place ; if so,
excuse the deficiency in my address. I hope you will
have little difficulty in believing that amongst the many
who rejoice on this occasion, not one can do so with more

disinterested sincerity than I do.
     ' Having learned during the ten years of friendship
with which, notwithstanding our disparity in years, you

have  honoured me, to value and    admire  your  personal as
well                               cannot  but   rejoice that
      as your public character, I
you should fill a station for which the previous course of

your life and studies so eminently fits you. The great
influence connected with that station will give additional
currency to the views of education and other subjects
       I am happy to    think I hold in common with
which                                                  you,
       certainly augur  the happiest results from the  per
and I

manent connection thus formed between you and the

University. Beside all this, I feel the liveliest pleasure
in any circumstance which, like this, bears public testi

mony to your well and hardly earned reputation, and

which must place you in a position as really desirable as

any I suppose which this world affords.'

   During the session of 1840-41, among the students
who attended his class was one whose beautiful and

engaging character soon attracted Professor Forbes.
John Mackintosh had just completed his course at Glas
gow College ; and, having to spend in Edinburgh a year
before he passed to Cambridge, he attended the Natural

Philosophy Class. The Professor and the student, if in

some things unlike, resembled each other in the rare ele
vation and purity of their natures. The intimacy which
arose between them quickly ripened into a deep and

affectionate friendship. At the close of the session, in

May 1841, they made a short tour together in Arran,
154           THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.        [chap.

then together travelled to London, and thence to the

Continent. In June and the early part of July they
                               aamt oGngrentohbeleP--yreJonheens.MaAckftienr
"were travelling companions
traversing these, they parted
tosh to return to Scotland, Forbes to meet Agassiz on

the Aar glacier and to ascend the Jungfrau. For the

next ten years they two kept up by letter an interchange
of true and tender affection, to be closed only by the last

letters which shall be given at the proper time.

     Returned from this, to him, eventful Alpine summer,

Forbes employed what remained of the autumn before
his winter work began in throwing his observations and
reflections on what he had seen, into the shape of an
article on Glaciers for the Edinburgh Review. This
article appeared in April 1842, and was well received,
and almost at once translated into French. He was

at the same time invited by Murray and Lockhart to

write for the Quarterly on the same or on kindred sub

jects ; but this he appears not to have done, though,
in his general views of things unscientific, his sym
pathies went more with the Quarterly than with the

Edinburgh.
   In May 1841 he and his surviving sister left their old
home at Dean House, in which they had lived since
1835, as it was to be pulled down to make way for

some large changes in that neighbourhood. They took
up their abode for a time in a house in Ainslie Place, in

which, however, they passed only two winters.

   The winter session of 1841-42 was, if possible, a

more than usually busy one. Besides his class work, his
spare hours were given to the preparation of a paper on
astronomical refraction, which was to be read before

the Royal Society of London. He also prepared and
delivered in his class-room some lectures on Glaciers,

which, being open to the public, were numerously at
tended. He was, in addition to all this, preparing for a
new and still more vigorous campaign among the Alps
next summer.

     As soon as the close of the session 1841-42 allowed,
vI.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE. 155

he set off for London, and after a few weeks spent there

he proceeded to Paris. Just about the time of his arrival
                                                 member of
there he   was    elected a    corresponding                     the
Institute                       honour which       is regarded,
           of   France, -- an                                      I

believe, by all European men of science, as one of the

highest which they can receive.
Of the eventful summer of 1842, as of all his other
                  the full record will be found
foreign summers,                                                 in
another chapter.  I shall only here give the entry               in

his journal when looking back to it in 1860, at a time
when he knew that for him Alpine adventure was over :
' This was the most active and, except the summer of
                                                 busiest summer I
1833, when   writing   my      lectures,   the   happiest. It still
ever spent.           also,                 the
             It was            I believe,
thrills me with delight to look back to it.'

When this energetic summer was ended, he left

Chamouni on the 29 th September, but did not return

to Edinburgh till October, a short time before the session
opened. All the next winter, 1842-43, he was in
tensely occupied in writing his book of Alpine travels
and in reducing his observations. Murray, the well-
known publisher, had undertaken to bring out the book,
but some misunderstanding arose between the author and

the publisher. On New- Year's Day 1843, we find him
in London conferring with Murray and trying to settle
differences that had arisen. But this attempt did not
succeed ; for in the end the book was published, not by

Murray, but by the Edinburgh firm of Messrs. Black

and Co.

    On returning from London, all the spare hours of the

following spring were devoted to the book. It is curious
to remember now, that this was the most agitated winter

which Scotland had seen for many a year. Edinburgh
was absorbed with the turmoil and excitement which

preceded the disruption of the National Church. Undis
turbed by the din of ecclesiastical collisions, Forbes
went silently on with the work he had set himself. By

the close of the session the book was nearly completed ;
and in the end of April he refreshed himself from his
156  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.          [chap.

winter's labours by a visit to Makerstoun and by a

journey tbence on foot to Melrose and Peebles.

   On May 18tb we find this entry in his diary : ' Wit
nessed disruption of the Church of Scotland at Assembly
in St. Andrew's Church. Same day asked Alicia Wau-

chope to be my wife.'
   On July 4 th his    marriage took place with the lady
here mentioned -- the   eldest daughter of the late George

Wauchope, Esq.
   The last lines of his Travels in the Alps had been
written on the immediate eve of his marriage. The
dedication to his travelling companion, M. Bernard
Studer, is dated 1st July, 1843, and his marriage took

place on the 4 th. Having therefore completed his work
and committed it to the publishers, the critics, and the
world, he set off with Mrs. Forbes on his marriage tour

to the Continent.

   The following letter, addressed to Mrs. Forbes, from
the Astronomer Royal and President of the Royal

Society, which, though bearing a recent date, is mainly
a retrospect of intercourse with Forbes during these

early years, will form a fitting close to this chapter : --

' Dear Madam,          ' Royal Observatory, Greenwich, London,
                       April 1 1th, 1872.

     ' When I wrote last to you, I hoped to have a
little time at command for bringing together some notes
                     friend, as soon as the short refreshment
Iregarding my late
                     should be terminated. But I have
which required
never had my thoughts free, and now I fear that the very
few ideas that 1 can put together may be tflo late.

   ' I cannot certainly say when or how my acquaintance
with Mr. Forbes began. I have some obscure idea of

having seen him before my marriage, which took place in

March 1830. But I certainly saw him at the meeting

 f the British Association in Oxford in 1832, on terms
which implied established acquaintance. In the latter
Ipart of that year he was candidate for a professorship -
I  believe the same  which he subsequently obtained-- and
   had the pleasure   of offering to him my certificate of
vI.] PliOFFSSORIAL LIFE.                                 167

competency. At the beginning of 1834 he was candidate

for a different office ; and I think that I then attempted

to take a step in his favour as before.

   ' In the years from 1830 to 1835 I was much employed

on physical optics, in its two divisions of diffraction and

polarization.
     '
        Professor Forbes took great  interest in  these  subjects,
and                                  with him.           arranged
        I had much correspondence                 I had

for my lectures at Cambridge a rather rude machine for
showing the relation between plane-polarized light and
circularly or elliptically-polarized light, and Professor
Forbes entered heartily into this matter, and requested
me to furnish him with a duplicate of my machine.

   ' The undulatory theory of light was then struggling
into existence, or at least into reception ; and the clear
understanding and hearty support of it by Professor
Forbes must have contributed materially to its successful

establishment in the locality with which he was more

immediately connected.

   ' In 1 835 the question was raised by me of the esta

blishment at this Observatory of a system of continuous

magnetic observations. I had from the first the advantage

of frequent correspondence with Professor Forbes on the

various points entering into consideration.

   'In 1836 Professor Forbes communicated to me, as
one of the first persons, I believe, his splendid discovery

of the polarization of radiant heat.
    ' From this time almost every important step made by

myself, or in this Observatory, was made known to Pro

fessor Forbes, and almost every scientific enterprise

undertaken     iwtbeyrweahssoimothn,atcaonImd mtehusintsiifcieagdteendoefrtfaoiclimaplelyr. ocetIoedfoitnhrggeestimiant

Edinburgh,
what year

portance of the magnetic determinations which he
bad made with so much labour at different elevations

above the sea.

   ' The record of his experiments on the conduction of

heat through metals was lodged, at his request, in this

Observatory.
158  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.               [chap.

  'An early copy, I believe the first, of Professor Forbes's

Travels in the Alps was presented by him to me ; and

I read with great interest the observations on glaciers,

especially the part beginning with the chapter which
bears the appropriate motto,

     "The glacier's cold and restless mass
           Moves onward, day by day."

     'And I have often contrasted, in my mind, the well-

directed and careful observations there detailed, and the

cautious deductions from them, with the paltry and
doubtful objections that have been made to subordinate
points of the theory. As a whole, this essay must hold

a very high place.
   ' No person, perhaps, could testify better than myself to

IProfessor Forbes's scientific character. In every investi

gation of his which saw, he was careful, accurate, and
truthful. He would not change an idea or a term for

any consideration but his own conviction.

   'This uprightness and manliness of character was
impressed on all his transactions, and in time insured to
                 of all  who had sufficient opportunity of
him the respect           matter of great pleasure to Mrs.
witnessing it.   It was

Airy, as well as to myself, to enjoy the hospitality of
your house, or to offer our own, to take part with him in
an expedition for sight of a solar eclipse (1842), or in

an excursion to our northernmost islands, or to put
ourselves under his guidance in Scotland or in Savoy.
   ' In the systematic pursuit of science, and in prepa

rations for accurate geography and topography, Professor
Forbes prepared himself with powers which sometimes
almost assumed the character of the lighter accomplish
ments. His mapping of the Mer de Glace of Chamouni
is an excellent specimen of  Isufrovuenydor'sthawt ohrek.wasIntakcionng
templation of an excursion,
regular lessons in drawing, and the fruit of these appeared
in those most admirable depictions of Alpine
                                                scenery
which adorn his book of Travels in the Alps. I  suppose
that it may be asserted that the present popularity of
vI.] PROFESSORIAL LIFE.                                              159

Zermatt, a place which was before scarcely known, is
almost entirely due to Professor Forbes's picture of the
Matterhorn. The power thus obtained was of course

used also for other purposes, and I know of at least one

excellent sketch of scenery and antiquarian remains
which still adorns a lady's portfolio.

   ' It is needless for me to say after this how much the

loss of my valued friend was felt by Mrs. Airy and

Imyself.       am,  dear  Madam,  very  faithfully  yours,   Airy.'
            '                                       ' G. B.
                    CHAPTER VII.

                    MARRIED LIFE.

Forbes and his newly-married wife had not advanced
far on their wedding tour when they met with an

unlooked-for interruption. Scarcely had they reached
Bonn ou their way up the Rhine, towards Switzerland,
when he was seized on July 20th with a severe fever,
which brought him very low, and detained him there till
the end of August.
During this detention at Bonn, the first tidings of the

reception his book on Glaciers had met with at home
reached him in the shape of an article on it in the
Edinburgh Review, from the pen of Sir David Brewster.
That this article must have been
the following letter acknowledging  a   tonic  to  shhios wsp: --irit,
                                        seems  to
                                    it

                   To Sir David Brewster.

                                                                'Geneva, August 3rd, 1844.

    ' Having now first had the opportunity of reading
your article upon my volume of Travels in the Edin

sfbohurarrgmeheoRfteotvhrieeeswtg, luoywnotiunilgwI ihlfleaevuelinndgeesxrpsroteafsnspdeldeathstuaorteyitowuiistshoimmwpehoisscsmhibalelIl

read it.
    ' During my short scientific career I have had yet

ample occasion to know the rarity of well-weighed praise,
the still greater rarity of well-timed support. Even the
best of us are apt to commence from friendship rather
ChAP. vII.]  MARRIED LIFE.                                161

than from a studied conviction of merit, and to spend
that commendation in generalities and circumlocutions,
until a decided and general opinion in favour of a new-
view or discovery shall have placed the wary advocate
on the sure ground of participating in a victory, and not,
even by remote possibility, of being plunged in the con

sequences of a defeat.
   ' You have done three things for me, any one of which

would deserve my sincere thanks. 1. You have read

my book carefully, and really studied the theory you
undertook to judge. 2. You have allowed yourself to
be convinced by arguments, unswayed by the force of
opinion against them. 3. You had the moral courage to

stand forth, whilst most if not all hesitate, to express

your convictions with a force and clearness which alone
must carry much weight in public opinion, and exactly

at a time when such assistance and public acknowledg
ment are most valuable and most hard to be had.

'The flattering terms in which you have expressed

yourself as to the difficulty and importance of this and

such like generalizations, exaggerated as they will no

doubt appear to many persons, are such as find an echo

in the heart of the person most immediately interested,
who feels his own travail of mind portrayed with a force
and reality which seems more like a dream of egotism

than the public sympathy of a kindred spirit. It was

this which so deeply touched me, and you know by ex
perience the value of so rare and entire a sympathy. It
is impossible for me to express all I have felt on the
subject, and I will not attempt
I'                               but conclude by
            I

                          a

                                   I

                                                   a it,

                                                   I
assuring you that you have added very deep debt to

others which already owe you.    was quite struck by
the apparent facility with which you had seized the
bearings of this intricate subject, but which must, know,

have cost you much time and labour. The tabular views

add much to the clearness.

        have had pretty extensive correspondence on the
subject with different continental philosophers, who have'
proposed to me their difficulties with much frankness;

                            M
162            THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.              [chap.

Iand though the progress of the theory is slow, it seems
to be solid, and the answers      have given have been
generally well received. Several of these I have em
bodied in
published,     supplementary letters published,        I  or to be
                                                          hope you
              in the Edin. Phil. Journal, which

may have leisure to look at. The most interesting cir

Icumstance occurred to me, however, two days ago.

called at Bex on M. de Charpentier, who, you are aware,
is old, and is usually supposed to be sufficiently wedded

to his own opinions, and last year I found him quite
indisposed to admit the smallest scepticism as to the truth
of his dilatation. Now, however, he received me with

great warmth, and told me that he had read my book and
visited the Mer de Glace, and he believed that every

fact admitted of being as well explained by my theory
as by his ; that, moreover, he expected soon to be able
                                                         He even presented
to   announce    his  einnsticrreibceodnvferorsmion".  son bient6t converti
me             book
      with a

serviteur et ami S. de Charpentier."'

   The substantial merits of Forbes' book of 'Travels
through the Alps of Savoy ' will be discussed in another
part of this work. Only one word concerning it which
          in
occurs        Canon   Kingsley's  Miscellanies may here be
given   :--

     ' We have heard Professor Forbes' book on Glaciers

called an Epic Poem, and not without reason. But

what gives that noble book its epic character is neither
the glaciers, nor the laws of them, but the discovery of
those laws ; the methodic, truthful, valiant, patient battle

between man and nature, his final victory, his wresting
from her the secret which had been locked for ages in
the ice-caves of the Alps, guarded by cold and fatigue,

danger and superstitious dread.'

   By the end of August he was so far restored as to be
able to go on by easy stages towards his beloved Alps.
A month was spent among them partly in showing to
Mrs. Forbes the more accessible of his favourite haunts,
partly in carrying forward some of his old work at
vII.] MARRIED LIFE.                                     1C3

Chamounix, and on the glacier of the Grindelwald. On
returning to Bonn to consult Dr. Nasse, the physician
who had attended him with much care and skill during
his late illness, the advice he received was that to under

take his winter's work was inexpedient, and might prove

dangerous, and that to ensure recovery he ought to
winter in Italy. On receiving this advice, he acted, as
he did so often afterwards, and at once surrendered to"

the judgment of his physician. He wrote to the then
Lord Provost of Edinburgh, as the representative of the
Town Council, the patrons of the University, telling the

state of his health, and the advice of his physician, and

applying for leave to appoint a substitute to teach his

class during the ensuing winter. The request was at
once granted, and Forbes set out with his wife for Italy.
Naples was reached about the middle of November, and

Rome by the beginning of January, which places were
their head-quarters till the end of May. September

1844 was far advanced before they reached the first home
of their married life, at 15 Ainslie Place, Edinburgh.

Soon after his return he received the following warm

welcome from a former pupil,                   whose    words no doubt
expressed the feelings of many                 besides
                                                        himself :--

      From Mr. Rankin.

' November lUh, 1844. -- My heart leaped when I saw

your  winellt-hkenowSonuthhaIndtwhroiutignhgt  again ; often while you
were                                           of you, and longed and

prayed that you might soon be restored to health and

professional duty. . . . However, I was gratified by

seeing in the public prints that you had returned much
benefited by your sejour in the South. . . . Allow me
to thank you for your kind interest in my well-being.

I feel indebted to your kindness more than can be ex
pressed, for it was this kindness which first awoke my

faculties into energy, and enabled me to taste the plea
sures flowing from their lively exercise. Indeed, often

since my settlement here, when some extra work was

accomplished by dint of extra application, I have thanked

      M2
                       THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                          [chap

you in my heart for teaching me what difficulties steady
mental energy can overcome.'

   He had, however, scarcely returned, and before he had

time to settle down, than he was called away to attend
the gathering of the British Association, which that year,
towards the end of September, took place once again at
its earliest meeting-place, York. Some of the incidents
of that meeting as they occurred to Forbes                                                                   in
the following letters written at the time to           haisrewgifieve:n--

                                ' Bishopthorpe Palace, Wednesday evening.
                                              at twelve -- I mean
   '     .  .    We    arrived  here to-day                                                                  at
      .

York, in company with Sir D. Brewster, Lord Enniskillen,
Dr. and Mrs. Alison, Sir A. Agnew, and many other

stars. It is very cold. My cold is not better. The
people staying here are all most pleasant. We have
Brewster, Murchison and Mrs., two Archdeacons Wilber-

force, Liebig, Peacock (Dean of Ely), Lord Northampton,
&c. &c. Whewell and Mrs. were at dinner. The Arch

bishop is wonderfully well. The William Harcourts are
                                Mrs. very, and one of
a  very charming       family,                                                                               the sons
a  most amiable        youth.   How I wish you were
        asTbohousuortsrrdyyoauyIrscmealnfo.'rtnisnIegn.hda--vtheIishaatmdo-nsbiogemhtttee. rtatlok-dwayi.th  here. I

am                                                                                                           Tell me
                                                                                                             Whewell
     '

all

about glaciers ; he said my note expressed exactly his
                about Hopkins and his papers.          I have
opinion        whether to make a communication                                                               not
settled                                                  or not
                                                                                                             :I
want to avoid a collision with Hopkins, who is here.'

                                'Bishopthorpe Palace, Sept. 27, 1844.
  I' have received your two kind notes. I wish you
were with me. I am better to-day. The first evening
                       opening of the Association was last night ;
mI edeidtinngot  and   but stayed cosily with the Archbishop. We
                  go,

stayed cracking for three hours, and then he went and
                                for my cold.
fetc' h5edp.mm.e--loIzeanmges  much better    to-day.  We have had

such a lively discussion in the Section on Glaciers. Lord
vii.] MARRIED LIFE.                                                                                   1CS

Fitzwilliam gives a grand dinner to 200 people ; \ am
just going to it.
    ' Saturday, Sept.  28,   1844. -- I      wrote you very hurriedly

yesterday. Thanks to the previous evening's repose and

Ithe Archbishop's lozenges, my cold was much better, and
  was able to  gI edtowtehlilnkt,hrvoeurgyh   the  day. My                                            naot"icseeleocnt
Glaciers was,                                well
                                                   received by
and fashionable" audience, not to say a learned one,

which it was ; and the impression seemed general that
viscosity was established. Whewell explained my theory
of the Veined Structure and the Frontal Dip very

clearly.     -- My     cold  is       much   better;                                                  but we had a
   'Monday.

postponed discussion on Glaciers on Saturday morning,

when Hopkins and I did battle, and I am sorry to say I

felt it exceedingly ; it discomposed my nerves, and made

me very uncomfortable indeed, until I was soothed

abBvyuottidhIeesexMeciintitesmtweerinlltsebaersvimcqeuuictehyeasnsteecpredossassyaib,rylew. hfoicrIh    was beautiful.

                                                                                                      a long time to
                                                                                                      need hardly say

that the discussion was not prolonged by me, but by the

desire of the Section. I am sure, darling, you would be
pleased by the kind way people, not scientific, speak of

my book. The two Archdeacon Wilberforces and the
Bishop of Ripon are much interested.'

He had not Ion"; returned to Edinburgh when his
                                             born. It is thus he com
Ieldest child, a daughter, was        of
municates the event    18to44o. n--e         his dearest friends :--
    ' October 20-21,                  ..
                                             . I lose not a moment in

telling you the joyful news.              pray God that our children

Ifmatahyerpsa--rtaakeboonfd                         which                                             unites their
                 the affectionate bond                                                                this solemn
                   which, let me say                it at
moment, will endure,                                                                                    the grave.
                             trust, even           beyond
In the morning   Ionwe.i--ll gIivheavyeoujufusrtthseerennemwsy.                                       little babe,

   ' Quarter to
such a nice lively little animal.'
To the same friend, writing a month later, he thus
expresses his sentiments on first reading the Life of Dr,
166       TUE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                       [chap.

Arnold, by the Rev. A. P. Stanley, now Dean of West
          a--pTpthhreoavtabble,osotaksb--hioaLgsorlacokpnhhgayrst'isoncfe
minster.                                                                    been stamped     by the
world's                                                                                        alone
                                                                           ' Life of Scott'
excepted                                                                   modern times.       It is

curious, however, to see the estimate formed of that

biography, before the world had given its verdict, by
one the bent of whose mind was so different from that

of Arnold's, so averse to that busy, even restless, dis
cussion of moral and religious subjects which to Arnold
was the breath of life. To those who now pass for the
' advanced thinkers ' of the time, Arnold's views on

fundamental principles appear even unduly conservative.

It must, however, be remembered that thirty years ago
this biography sounded almost the earliest note heard in
this country of that so-called ' liberal religious move

Ifment,' which has since become rather a weariness.

some devout minds were then attracted by                                             by      many
                                                                                       it,
more were startled, not to say repelled.
                                                                                           it
     'Nov. 1844. -- . . . am much more ready to do you
          is

              a

                      I
battle on the subject of Arnold than of the British Associa
tion. It
          book well calculated to bring out the deep
gushing well of hidden virtue in man whose overt acts
                                  it a

                                       is
                                             a
must evidently have made him unpopular and misunder
stood. In the first place, then,
                                                                                 work of biogra
phical justice to his memory. In the second place, may
commend fervent piety to some men of Arnold's intel
lectual force. In the third place, may show how much
                                                             it

                                                                              ;
violently original opinions like his inevitably tend to be

s"odbiesrqeudiedtionwgnonbeysetlhf einexvpaeinrie"ncme igohft              life and  how much
                                                                           be saved    believing

that opinions held by men whose principles we approve
of are as likely at least as our own to be true on subjects

on which they have had practical experience, and we

have not. The same candour which acknowledged the
generally admitted barbarism of Latin grammar in
                                                                           a

Latin to be practically best would have found something
of similar practical wisdom in some religious and political

institutions against which his fervid and presumptuous
vII.] MARRIED LIFE.                                                                                         167

judgment  "  rebelled.    You   rightly   say that as his age
matured      his notions        getting  complete and correct ;"
                          were

but this makes one regret the more that he was not con
tent with holding his crude opinions himself, but must
deliver them as a testimony which the progress of the
age demanded of him, although he might have been led
to suspect them when he found that he had not one
adherent. This terrible obstinacy and intellectual pride
it

           a

          I
                                                     a
                                             I p.
                                                                            it,
invariably wrecks itself, leaving no trace behind
because utterly contemns the support or advice of any
class of men. In some cases this desperate struggle
seems to have worked him up into sort of mania, which
dictated such passage as that at vol. ii., foot of 425,
third edition. On the whole, except the uses have
mentioned above, think those of the book are of an
entirely negative kind. In truth, except his warm and

affecting piety, and his fond zeal for his school and
scholars, what are the fixed principles to be found in his
life what arc the lessons of polity, civil or religious,
I
      '
            ?
                   I
                                                                                ?
                                                                                                         ;
                                                I
which your £500 lady wishes to impress upon the
governors of the country
For myself have read the book with the sincerest
pleasure and no little admiration and have gathered,

do trust, some useful and enduring lessons. There are
some very charming passages in his journals, and his
biographer appears to have executed his task with extra
ordinary fidelity and impartiality. In very many of
Arnold's opinions on disputed subjects find an echo of
a

        I
                                 I
my own, and his opinions were so heterogeneous that

almost everyone probably does the same, and hence
perhaps clue to the popularity of the book. But on

this very account do not lean to the coincidence as very

strengthening to my own mind.'

   The session of 1844-45 found Forbes once more at
his post in the Natural Philosophy class-room but that
his illness had not left him the man found him he felt
himself, and confessed to his friend Mr. Batten in the

following letter
                                         it
                                                                     ;
   1GS                         THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                          [chap.

                                                   ' Edinburgh, Jan. 23, 1845.

        '      .     .     There  is  no  question            that  my powers of

           .

   resisting the tear and wear of work have much dimi

   nished, and I have very carefully set bounds to my
                                                                                        of
   ambition and my anxieties.                  mThaerkegdreabtenterfait,nqaunidllityI
   my life has been of the most                                                        am

   much improved indeed since the session began, and
   the mechanical act of speaking does not now fatigue

   me at all.

      ' I have lately been reading Wilkie's Life with great
   pleasure. He was really a fine character from first to
   last and his sketches of Art, of Italy, and of the Holy

   pbLrceehaoagasnduirdt,aniocIcntaefHirrnorindyrodnreeodenrau'desll.lle,oLvnipifaTeotwh,mioeitnpwhohhuiuoacsnflh,faabaonIadfdtvfeitenwhdndeittuhianfrotierevus,ret--tersyvtaa.ondlyubifmoffIeryeerhesatnhwhvnteihenisccknsohiomnowgIf

   as if he were a man, and treating all men past and

   present as his equals at most. . . . Do you hear any
   thing of this marvellous new invention of multiplying
   books, prints, deeds, bank-notes, signatures, and all inde
   finitely, and almost for nothing ? You, who are a man

   about town, and frequenting the Clubs and Westminster
   Hall, ought to send the poor country mouse all that is
   worth knowing in the world.'

      Again                Ehdeinthbuusrgwhrihteosmeto:--the  same  trusted  friend  from
   his final

                                          '3 Park Place, February \Wi, 1845.

        '         .     .  No  external   spectator           can   know  what  it   costs

            .

   omcecutpoatpiuornc.haseI       health at the               expense of every exciting
                                  have sacrificed              my own researches, and

   can write but very little on any subject which interests

   me          without         a headache and   other unpleasant feelings.
                               enjoy our most  tranquil life and the lighter
   But         I really

   occupations, such as copying my foreign sketches, re

   vising my notes on Naples and Sicily, and arranging my
   books and minerals. We never go out in the evening
   anywhere, and we have no rattle of carriages nor per-

\
vII.] MARRIED LIVE.                                   169

petual door-bells, as in Ainslie Place. The dear little one
is well, and now wears Mrs. Batten's pretty socks.'

That illness at Bonn had given the first rude shock

to his strength ; and though he recovered so far as

to be able to return to his work as zealously as before,
and twice again to revisit for a brief sen son his

well-loved Alps, yet he never again was entirely his
old self, and the inroads of illness, kept at bay for a
time, gradually closed in upon him. Though his mus
cular frame had been lithe and vigorous beyond that of

most men, there was an internal weakness which the

severe strain of his life had at length brought out.

Ever since he had entered college as a student, it had been
with him one long unremitting effort, unbroken by few,

if any, seasons of entire repose. Professors who have

been long-lived have generally compensated the strain
of the winter session by some periods of entire idleness
in summer. But Forbes had thrown aside his labours

Ifin the class room only for still severer among the Alpine
snows.  there were any weak place in a man, such

a life would be too much for him. Unfortunately there
was in Forbes, for all his vigour, such latent weakness,
and too surely his glacier bivouacs had found it out.
In the December of 1844 he removed from his house

in Ainslie Place to one nearer to the College, and 3 Park
Place continued to be his permanent home till he finally

left Edinburgh.
His eldest daughter was born in Ainslie Place ; the
rest of his children, except the youngest, were born in
this new and more lasting home in Park Place. These

details are necessary to throw light on the two foregoing,
as well as on some of the following letters.
The summer of 1845, from the middle of April to the
first week of June, was spent with Mrs. Forbes in the

West Highlands, in a tour ranging from Bute to Skye.
In that latter island he explored the Coolin mountains

with M. Necker, who was then living at Portree ; and
there, ' amidst the splendid hypersthene formation, found
170  THE LIFE OF JAMES 1). FORBES.                                 [chap.

indisputable traces of glaciers.' These explorations were
afterwards embodied in a paper on the Geology of the
Cuchullin, or Coolin hills, for the latter is the name by

which they should be called.
   A letter written
--the removal of      from Skye  teosntsa--vmerayy  different   subject
                     University                      here be   given.

     To the Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                     ' Portree, Isle of Skye, April 1845.

     '. . . You ask about our University tests. As on all

similar subjects, men's minds seem to be undergoing a
curious revolution on this. The result of the late dis

cussion in our own Senate surprised me excessively.

From the first I had resolved to take no part whatever
in it. As an Episcopalian, I felt too much interested iu
the removal of them to trust myself to vote on that side,

my prepossessions being certainly favourable to some

species of test generally ; and besides, having been myself
                             or the laxity of our usages
admitted by the liberality
into a position somewhat    equivocal, I would not take
advantage of that position to lift a hand against the

IEstablishment which had connived at my entrance.

Great was my astonishment when found how much

this delicacy seemed thrown away, for every professor

present, including old Presbyterians, Free Churchmen,
lawyers, several Conservatives, and all the Episcopalians,

voted for the removal of the tests, except Principal
Lee and myself, who did not vote ; but it was plain
that even the Principal did not dissent from the grounds
of the vote, but kept back merely from a consideration
of his position in the Church. This curious result
satisfied me that the minds of moderate sensible men

in Scotland attached to Presbyterianism are in favour of
the removal of the tests which, in our University at least,
have so long been nominal. But I am glad that
                                                               no  part
of the weight rests on my shoulders. Personally,                   shall
                                                                I

feel more comfortable when these tests are removed,

Iwhich suppose will soon be done, since so many parties
Iunite. At all events, suppose there is no chance of
vII.] MARRIED LIFE.                                                  171

their stringency being increased, and that either  EpIiscaom
palians or Free Churchmen will be displaced.
clearly of opinion, with the Edinburgh Review, that any

attempt to exclude the latter must d fortiori act upon
the former.'

   About the middle of June, he set out alone for
Cambridge to be present at the meeting of the British
Association, and to visit Dr. Peacock, Dean of Ely, in
his island deanery amid the marshes. The following letters
to Mrs. Forbes, who remained in Edinburgh, preserve
pleasing recollections of the persons who then flourished
as the leaders in the world of science, most of whom

have since then disappeared.

                            ' Cambridge, Thursday, June 19</t, 1845.

  I* . . . Here everything is so nice, and so comfortable,

and so hospitable, that wish every hour you could have

come with me. It would have been such an opportu

nity for you to see the lions, who are all so pleasant and

kind. I shook hands with Hopkins the first opportunity.
Old L. von Buch is here, but I have not seen him yet.

Mrs. Whewell does not come on account of her father's

death, which throws a shadow over Trinity ; but we dine

with the    Master on Saturday.   andThsepirAitisr,ysanadrrIivseadw  last
evening   in the greatest health                                     the

comet through the great Northumberland telescope.                      I
shall finish this in the afternoon. We are likely to have

hard work. The Magnetic Committee, on which I am,
is to meet at 8 a.m. to-day. We dine at Miller's.'

                                  ' Cambridge, Friday, 7 a.m.

   '. . . We had a very long night of speeches at the

Senate House. I could not get away, as all the gentlemen

of our party slipped off and left me alone in my glory with

the ladies. Herschel's address was very good, but imper
                             resigned the chair,
fectly heard.     Peacock   had a very busy and   and he took it.
   ' Afternoon.                                   a very exciting
                 -- 1 have

day, but am standing it very well. We have a lecture
from Airy to-night, and we shall not be back to the
Observatory till 10 p.m., having left it at half-past seven
172                   THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                                [chap.

Ithis morning. We have Baron Ettingshausen on Etna,
and Leopold von Buch in the Geological Section.                                    got

a very cordial reception from the old geologist, which

.was no doubt partly owing to my having warmly espoused
the Elevation theory, magnified Elie             de Beaumont, and
defended the claim of his countryman
                                                 Ettingshausen. I
                                      in all quarters I have been so
kamindhlya,ppIymtaoy  tell  you that
                       say   warmly,  received. We have the Arch

deacons Wilberforce,             the Vernon Harcourts, and                         many
                                                 I do regret                        most
other pleasant York              acquaintances.

deeply that you       could      Inot come, you would have seen so
much in a short       time.
                                     am very happy that sweet baby
is so merry, but I fear the little monkey has a short
                                                                           them all
memory    a' sforanhyethr infgrie--ndesv,enshpeooseremnusrseto  ;  forget  can papa
as fast                                                             what

expect ?                                         ' Cambridge, Saturday.

     ' Yesterday we dined at Trinity Lodge. I sat beside Von
Buch, which was the greatest fun ; he spoke so kindly of
my book and map, and told me a great deal of gossip so

pleasantly and amusingly. To my infinite amusement,
he told me his side of the story of the discussion with
Charpentier at the Monte San Primo, which you recol
lect was so graphically told in our old friend's last letter.

   'In the evening there was a most brilliant party in

                      rooms, which are  reIallyregsrpelten; dipde.rhapLsady
                       not come, which
the Master's

IHerschel did
may meet her at the Dean of Ely's next week. My

old and good friends the Vernon Harcourts were there,
and Miss Harcourt, who gave me a most kind invitation

to the  IArdcehcbliisnheodp. 's  place at Nuneham, near Oxford, but
which                            Wilberforce, the new Dean of West

minster, is a very taking person ; he has been most kind

to me, and I had a hearty greeting from old Sir Robert
Inglis. Kiss dear                b2a2bendm, a1n8y45t.im--esTof-odraym,e.
   'Sunday, June                                                             ...   is  a

                                                                          Sunday,
real day of rest, so quiet and still. It is a mile and
a half from Cambridge. We go into Trinity to hear
the Dean of Westminster preach.'
vII.] MARRIED LIFE. 173

                     'Deanery, Ely, Sunday, June 29th, 1845.

'        And so I have retreated                  to my little bedroom

   .. .

in the top   of the   Deanery            to have a  little      I  talk quietly
with you,   and 1                        you more   than
                     will tell                                       have done

about this place. The Isle of Ely is a comparatively
high ground, which rises out of the adjacent fen country,

which is almost perfectly flat, rising not more than a very

few feet above the sea. It was formerly an unhealthy

swamp, but is now generally drained and very fertile.
From its situation, Ely Cathedral has a grand effect, and
really the ground just near it is very undulating and

pretty, more varied than near Cambridge. The Deanery

is close to the Cathedral, a curious old-fashioned patch

work house, most comfortably fitted up by our admirable
host, who is really a very uncommon person. He was,
you know, tutor at Trinity College, and was generally

liked. It is impossible to put Peacock out ; he has time
for everything, and a civil word for everyone ; he is a
first-rate man of business, and what he has done for Ely

shows no common taste and enthusiasm. He has im

proved and is improving the Cathedral in every part,

laid out the neighbouring grounds and gardens afresh,
and he is passionately fond of architecture and music ;
his patience never wearies in showing off the beauties
and architectural singularity of his cathedral, and in
directing the chanting, and visiting the lessons of the
                                                  therefore, one of the most
Isinging boys. The choir
                    aa
--prascoticsoemd pilneteEnags latondb,e    aand theservice the   most                                  complete
                                                 aalmostwearisometo one                                 who has
                                                   is,

                                         I
                                                                                                      a
not such musical taste, yet undeniably most beautiful.
This morning we had Credo of Mozart, most mag
nificent, an anthem, and all the responses chanted,

including the Litany, so that the prayers, without the

'Isermon, lasted two hours.
never was in                             pleasanter house, nor perhaps so

pleasant one, and one seems even not to miss Mrs.
Dean, for the poor Dean never was married, nor will be,

suppose, except to his Cathedral. One cannot have
everything in this world, and suppose he would not
174                       THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                         [chap.

have had his Deanery if he had left college and married.
The party when I arrived was a large one, consisting of
Sir John and Lady Herschel and two daughters, Mr.

aud Mrs. Vernon Harcourt, Colonel and Mrs. Sabine,
Sir W. Hamilton of Dublin, Professor Sedgewick, Mr.
Phillips, and Mr. Kuppfer from Russia. 1 wish, my

own darling, you had been here. God bless you, and keep
you and our sweet baby. Over again, Farewell ! '

     I'                                 ' Deanery, Ely, Monday.
        .
           .  .  When     you get this  shall be on the salt sea, on

the way          home to you.     Everything    has gone on so well.
                 to have written   you a long   letter, but the quiet
I meant
and rest of Ely are even more seductive than the pressure
of business at Cambridge. But my heart was gladdened,

aud     .  cheerfully     gladdened,  this morning with two                    letters.
     '                      you what   a remarkable person
           I. . told                                                           Sir W.

Hamilton of Dublin but
                          is            impossible to give you
                               is,                                             a

                                      it                                          Ia

                                             is
                                                      is

                                                           is
                                                                     a
                                                                            a
correct idea of his character. He                                    fair, fat, little

round-faced man, as playful and simple as child, with
a good deal of Irish humour. He the first mathema
tician in this country, and very metaphysical in his habits
of thought. He so full of his subject that he fastens
upon anyone that will let him talk about equations, and
yet this abstract turn of mind alternates with the
liveliest fits of poetic feeling. He
                                                always vibrating
                                  a

                                    I

                                                       is

                                                   iIs,
between an equation and sonnet. You will not require

evidence of the former, but enclose a specimen of the
latter in his own handwriting, which                                 think, fair

specimen of the sonnet style for those who value such

things. The pure sonnet style is, believe, very rare.
                               it J.
                                             I
consider         it       very great curiosity -- the three persons

                       a

--allusodepdleatsoe  are Sir   Herschel, Sir W. H., and myself
                               carefully, and do not fold it.'
                     preserve

    On his return to Scotland, August was spent quietly
with Mrs. Forbes and his young child at Fettercairn,

the place of his elder brother, who was then absent. In

this retirement he wrote paper on Glaciers' for the
                                      a
                                                                  '
vii.] MARRIED LIFE. 175

Physical Atlas, and a review of Humboldt's Cosmos for

the Quarterly.                              of Fettercairn

    Here is    a  description                                      and his stay

there :--               To E. Batten, Esq.

                                 'Fettercairn House, Aug. 1th, 1845.

'     . . The     charm      of             this  place  is        exclusively  its

   .

rurality.       There   is   a very nice garden, but                      no fine
scenery.                in   a flat below the round                       lumpish
               It lies

Grampians, which offer no interest except the mere exer
cise of climbing them, and change of air. There are no
neighbours almost but the Gladstones, and it is a real

retirement, and as such very enjoyable to me after having
tossed about the world so many summers. 1 brought
               of books and   work          tomfoiullnutapinm, yI
pI leonftteyn   sigh for a   snowy                                 time,  and though
tshuem, mIerh. opeIfnIotdivdisionnoat,ryI,                          look  forward to

                                             hope   of seeing the Alps next
                                            should
                                                     not be so tranquil. I
hear often from the dear Auguste.!

Forbes' achievements in science had for some time

been generally acknowledged by the scientific brother
hood. The Government, however, had not yet stamped

them with the approval of the State. In due time,
however, this was not withheld. In September of this
year he received a letter from Sir Robert Peel, then
Prime Minister, announcing the grant to him of a
pension of £200 a year for the services he had rendered

to science.

   'September 19th, 1845. -- This morning I received a
letter from Sir                                                    pension of £200
a year, which     Robert Peel               offeI rinogbtamineead   it through the
                                                  friends. This will relieve
                   I accepted.

joint recommendation of many                      Ifuture prospects.      mean
me of much anxiety about my
Ito reserve it principally as a store for old age, if be
               it,

                                 if

                                       I
spared to         and at all events for the education, and

professional education, of my children. By leaving my

present income free to be used, may pursue science

with more liberty, and,                     spared health, continue my
176         THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                 [chap

travels. I trust I shall be delivered from the snare of a

penurious and money-loving old age ; but the night
cometh, and professional men, especially professors, should

retire ere they manifestly decline.'

   The following letters will serve to trace the course of
his life from October 1845 to April 1846, when another

College session closed.

            To M. de Charpentier.

                                             'Edinburgh, October 20th, 1845.

     ' How many changes and reverses have you undergone
since you did me the favour of commencing your long
and interesting letter of April and May last ! First,

your inflammatory rheumatism, and walking on crutches ;

then your annoyance through the unhappy political move
ments of Switzerland ; then your recovery; then the

attack of small-pox. Next I heard of you at the meeting
at Geneva, and, most recently of all, of your being dis
covered by Studer, quite well and hearty, at Ivrea in
                                                            phantasmagoria of
sItiatulya!tionTsru; lya,ndtruIlycatnhnisot  is quite a       congratulate you
                                              sufficiently

that the bad news has been chased away by so good. . . .

   ' Your account of your rencontre with M. de Buch on
the way to Milan afforded me many days' entertainment,

which was not diminished by the fact that very soon

after receiving your letter I met M. de Buch at the
meeting of the British Association at Cambridge, in June,
when he voluntarily gave me his version of the same
memorable journey, and his discussions with you.

IT had hardly expected that M. de Buch would have

honoured me with any notice when we met, as had
heard of his rooted aversion to all authors on glaciers;
but as I sat beside him at dinner at the Master's of

Trinity College table, when he found that I carefully
avoided any allusion to glaciers or my book, he spoke of
both very good-naturedly and in flattering terms, and we
are the very best of friends. Baron Ettingshausen, who
                         soufrv"eEyrhoefbEutnngas,-cwraatserteh.e"re' ,
has made    a splendid                                                   and we
            description
had a full
V.I.] MARRIED LIFE.                                                     177

                      To the Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                            'Edinburgh, January 8th, 1846.
' I am much your debtor for your very kind and
friendly letter, which reached me on the banks of the
Tweed, whither we
Christmas holiday.          hIadregtuonrne  to spend  a few days of my
                                            you my    sincerest acknow

Iledwgams emntufcohr  your  Christmas       greeting to myself  and wife.
                      and   grievously      disappointed, and   still am,

that last June Mrs. Forbes should have been compelled
to relinquish the pleasure of visiting Cambridge at so

interesting a time.

   ' I am very glad indeed that you approve of my review
of Humboldt. Lockhart modified slightly a sentence or
two, which perhaps,
observed by anyone          however, would have been            scarcely
                                                                thought,
                            but myself, -- of course I

not for the better. Colonel Sabine has resumed his trans
lation, and talks of adding notes.

   ' I hear faint echoes of Faraday's prospective discovery,
and                         it.
      am   on tiptoe about  History         and     Philosophy  are to  be
  'I   am   glad that your

reprinted with the          additions which the deliberate revisal
                                     If it does not go
will enable you to          make.                       very rapidly
                                    endeavour to offer  any hints on
through the press,          I will

the History, and shall be happy to look over any sheet
Iin proof that you may send me.                  In
                                                Mr.
suppose you will do battle with
                                                      tMhiell.PhiIloscoupthyo,pen
part of his Logic lately, and was interested in many
views of education which it presented, and thought some

of his cautions salutary, without attempting to form any
judgment upon questions so difficult and at the same

Itime so purely speculative, that with my present habits
of thinking and analysing,                  should find some pains
necessary to fix myself down to an intelligent study of

this very curious and interesting subject. Perhaps some
day it may be
                      more  congenial.      to  do   something  for  the
  ' I am glad         you
                            still hope
Cambridge system of education, but I suppose it will be

a struggle.

                                    N
178           THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                      [chap.

     ' You have read of course the Sequel to the Vestiges. . . .
The author of the Vestiges, who is generally believed to
be a denizen of modern Athens, has shown himself a very
apt scholar, and has improved his knowledge and his

arguments so much since his first edition that his de

formities no longer appear so disgusting. It was well that
he began to write in the fulness of his ignorance and

presumption, for had he begun now he would have been

more dangerous.

   'You will see from my tenth letter on Glaciers that

Agassiz has found his way into my mortar-tub at last. . . .
  ' I have
              lately written        a  paper  on   the Geology  of   the
Cuchullin     Hills in Skye,           which                    all  but
                                   in         I   think I have

demonstrated the existence of ancient glaciers there,having
been myself convinced most entirely against my wilL'

              To RODERICK MURCHISON, ESQ.

     I'                                ' Edinburgh, February 3rd, 1846.
        . ..
              have the pleasure of sending, on the other
side, an official acknowledgment of the honour vqu
have done us in
Royal Society.       sWenhdaitngI  your  very  splendid work to the
                                   have  read  of it pleases me very

Imuch, but     at    the same       time satisfies me that    my first
              was                  as such first impressions   usually
impression           correct --
are -- that
              have not the extensive and at the same time

minute acquaintance with this part of systematic geology
which could alone entitle me to undertake so honourable

Ia duty as reviewing it. I regret it very much, because

   am much gratified and flattered by your thinking of

me ; but I have never practised the ungentle craft of
                                         of amateur snatches of
reviewing     upon   I  the  strength    that others will be found
knowledge,     and      am   very sure

most willing and far better entitled to render you this
friendly office. Why should not Sedgewick or Dr. Fitton,
who used to write so well in the Edinburgh ? '

                        To E. Batten, Esq.

     '     . . Your                      'Edinburgh, April 5th, 1846.

        .            most    comfortable letter   from the      Athe

naeum aroused all my bachelor sympathies, and abstract
vii.] MJURIED LIFE.                                                                   179

ing from the existence of our respective wives and

three small et cceteras, I began to fancy the corner of
the library which you had chosen to make your own, for
I take it for granted
                                                        that you   choose    the  liIbrhaerya,rdanind
the quiet hours from                                               eleven,   and
                                                        nine till

memory the quiet tick of that small chimney clock and
saw the dull glare of that most ponderous and ugly chan
delier. But you have returned to the realities of life.
--Lwehttihcehmetchoasnytot"arabmraoc-uhcsehelaoirr'isn
                                                         Mrs. Batten    the  wlaitthentdrjyeatoloaustsy"
                                                         pot of mixed   tea
                                                        which so often
                                                                        woos the literary
soalrledeepag--petn,thtlteeomochajaunrsmtlosyn,ofttohteheexncopitreat.mh pshAildefetteraonfadllt,hmeIagwfaiirzlelin-pesalaycteatbhlietso,,
that the still life of a club is more winning than its

intellectual life. I am sure I have not made three ac

quaintances the more by being a member of the Athe
naeum ; and except very intimate friends, such as you
and I, who are always glad to meet, a club promotes
rather indifference than union. So great is the fear of

being bored or the possibility of saddling yourself for
ever with a pestilence in your own drawing-room, i.e. the
club, that men's advances are always very guarded. My
              of pleasure                               tihnanthemeAnth--ennaieceumb,ookI s,reapnedat,coasrye
associations  with things
much more

chairs, and warm cups of tea, than with sages, wits, and
poets. But
               you, as  I  a London man,                            may      have  a  different
experience,   though        do not expect                          it.'

    When the session 1845-46 was over, two months
were spent in visiting, with Mrs. Forbes, sundiy places
on the Borders, and in a tour through the lakes of
Cumberland.

   July found Forbes once more at Chamounix, and
making experiments on the Mer de Glace. All August

was spent in those regions, and September brought him
back to Mrs. Forbes at Largs, where she had remained
during his absence.

   The very full correspondence which Forbes has left

                                                    N2
ISO                     THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                      [chap.

will form the best record of his life for most of its future

years.                  To E. Batten, Esq.

                                                  'Edinburgh, December 6th, 1846.
     '

    I. .

looked
                . The   old Dean    is      now a green grass-plot.             as
                in the  other day          the gateway-bell and all is
                                   --

it was. How that bell reminded me of you ! how often
at its sound have I started up to see you walking up the

avenue ! The avenue and the holly-hedges are there ;
but, instead of terminating in the tall pile of masonry, it
opens on a flat turf soon to be full of graves. Nothing

more surely was wanted to point a moral. . . .
  I' My class, together with the Royal Society, affords me

nearly as much work as can overtake, and sometimes
I am
              very  Itirceadnn;otbubt utmydoclamsys  is so  attentive     and ear
nest         that   Ivihgaodrouesighthtya-nfivIe     best,                thankful
                                                            and I am

to feel more                                      have done for  some winters.
                                                   papers given
A week ago                                                       ibne, focroentaIinhinagd
                    thirteen questions ; the week
answers to
eighty-three : so you see I have some evenings' work
with such a class. Viva voce examinations on Saturdays

make little way. I think of trying six or seven minutes'

examination at the beginning of each lecture.'

                              To the Same.

                                                  'Edinburgh, Jan. \0th, 1847.

     '       .  . You   must  allow        me        some      voice  in  deciding

          .

whether the glacier question may safely be abandoned
to itself. Your repeated assurances that everyone is
Isatisfied are very pleasing, as expressing a sort of public

opinion ; but have the very best reasons for knowing
that only a small portion of strict men of science, whose

opinion must ultimately decide the matter, are convinced,

or at least, if convinced, have the candour to allow it. Dr.

hWishe"weInllduhcatsivespoHkiesntoroyu,t"  maanndfuIllyhoipne  the new edition  of

                                                                Lyell will do   as

much, and then we may expect others to follow. But
the result of my reading in the history of science is that
in questions of mixed evidence like this a man must
vii.] MARRIED LIFE.                                                                 181

work it out to the utmost limit he can, if he means that
it shall finally be associated with his name, which is

Imy desire. . . .

   ' very much agree in what you say about Popery.

It is ludicrous to hear it blackened like Atheism. The
truth
       disisttohreteyda, ryeetovnelyrytidneseeplleadndanhdolyvatrrnuitshhse--d   over, and
often
                                                                                you know
I have no leaning to the Tractarians, or I would not
say so much. But there is sad bigotry and unchari-

Itableness in religious parties. Most heartily also do
agree with you, my dear friend, in what you say
about the questionable benefits of intellectual educa

tion merely to the masses, which I have hardly seen

better stated.'

   At the meeting of the British Association at Oxford
in June 1847, Forbes was present as usual. Of what

there   tsooomkeplianctee,retshteingfollcoowlliencgtiolnestte:--r to  Mrs.  Forbes  pre
serves

                  ' Rugby, June 29</t, 1847.

' I really could not manage to scribble a line yesterday,
we had such a busy day at Oxford : it is the first time 1

have missed. I breakfasted as usual at half-past eight,

and was busy in the section, having a diagram to draw
for Sir D. Brewster, and to listen to an admirable paper
of Thomson's, and to Leverrier, who gave us a long and
                  Adlbisecrotur"seassinisteFdr,e"ncwh,ithatthethDe uklaettoefr
most interesting                                                                     part
of which Prince                                                                     Saxe

Weimar. The moment the Prince was gone, two o'clock,

I had to rush home and dress for the luncheon which

took place at Exeter College. Our drawing-room was
the garden, where a party of the Oxford dons and chief
persons of the Association and principal foreigners met
Prince Albert, and stood twenty minutes with their hats
off ; fortunately it was a very mild day, and no hot sun,
but quite dry. The Prince was most exceedingly amiable
and affable, and perfectly unaffected. Sir R. Inglis did

me the honour of introducing me to him particularly,
and we had some ordinary talk, whilst the Bishop of
1S2            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                          [chap.

Oxford entertained us with some anecdotes. The

luncheon over and the Prince gone, I had an engage

ment to     look over the  wNhaetnurdailnnPehrilohsoouprhyarraivpepda.ratuIs,dinaendd
that was     hardly seen

at Prof. Powell's, where we had a small but excellent

party, including Airy, Adams, and Leverrier. I had
resolved not to go to the evening lecture, but to go

early home to prepare to be off this morning ; but at
Powell's we heard that the evening was very fine, and

that Neptune might be seen, and accordingly at ten I
started for the observatory, in company with Leverrier

and Adams. Fancy the interest of seeing the new planet

for the first time in company with its two discoverers !
Of course there could be no going to bed without seeing
it,  and accordingly, as rose late, did not get back to
                 I
         a            I it

                                I
                                    I

                                                  is

                                                               a
my college till very nearly two in the morning.                      was
                                                                  I
                                                                       I
up at seven punctually, as the coach was to start at
eight o'clock, and my packing was not near done.
arrived here at three o'clock, and found all well. After
such day's work as have described, you will believe

that the tranquillity of this place                               most agreeable

variety, though  own that  have enjoyed                           a  most

delightful treat at Oxford in my intercourse with so

eminent men.'

    On his return from Oxford, Easter-Tyre in the Strath
of Tay became his residence for the summer of 1847. His
journal tells of days spent pleasantly reading Agassiz,
and Clarke's Travels studying Airy's Lunar and Plane
tary theories writing on the geology of Vesuvius
making excursions in the neighbourhood, and ascending
Schihallion.

    Autumn brings him visitors from abroad, M. Studer
and M. Schintz. With these he undertook an extensive

tour through the Highlands, during which they visited
Ben Nevis, the parallel roads in Glen Roy, Staffa, Iona,
and Arran. These names are suggestive of geology, and
accordingly we find him next spring writing geological
notes on Ben Nevis, no doubt from observations made
               ;
                                   ;

                                                                                                                                              ;
vII.] MARRIED LIFE.                                           183

during this tour. The great Ben Nevis group of moun
tains retained for him a peculiar attraction, even after

he knew that he would never again be able himself
to explore their scarped precipices and snow-filled gorges.
He used then to tell what lie had once hoped to have
done for that brotherhood of Bens, and to speak of the
fine field that lay there almost untouched for some future

geologist, and the delightful work that might be produced
by the combined labours of some skilful man of science

and some scholar who knew the Gaelic names which every
crag and corrie bears. Science and poetry might com

bine to read the character which nature and man have

together inscribed on the blank folds of those mountains.
   He had scarcely returned to Edinburgh to begin the
session 1847-48, when he had an attack of severe in

fluenza, from which he hardly recovered all the winter.

The following letters, to the friend who for some years
               thc9eothrr,Ceo1slp8le4og8ne.d--esnets,s. imo.na.r:--kWtehehacvheiefjusfatmrielyturinnecdi
was his chief
dents during

   'February
from consummating the happy event of christening your

name-son . . . It was a very happy moment to me this,
consecrating as it
of the very deep    were for another         generation the   mIemhaovrey
                    attachment and           affection which

long borne   to   you.'   --  .  .  .  Were  I  to write  for a week,
            5th,   1848.
   'April
I could not tell you what we have gone through since 1
last wrote. Our dearest Eliza has been at the very brink
of the grave, and has been mercifully restored to us

under seemingly hopeless circumstances. All thought of
recovery was abandoned, and we waited to see her die ;
but, rejecting no means of safety, and having our careful
and excellent Dr. Smith in the house, we saw her gra
dually revive, and she is now, I may say, convalescent.
You may believe I am thoroughly exhausted with anxiety
and watching, and Alicia                    much better ; but I have
returned to my lectures,            is not  are very heavy work. I
                                    which

have loads of examination papers, which must be my

excuse for writing thus briefly.'
184              THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                     [ciiAr.

     When May 1848 set him once more free from College
duties, Forbes returned on his track of last autumn, to

conclude his survey of Ben Nevis before writing his

geological notes on  :i--t.  The following                         are some records
of his whereabouts

                 ' Fort William, Wednesday m-yrning, May 24th, 1848.

     '     I. .  am  about   to                   start,   Swiss   fashion,       with a
        .

hot roast leg of mutton in my knapsack,                                awagyu--idef,ora, nads

some letters to some  charitable                  folks by the          Ben Nevis.
to inns, there are                                circumvent
                      none -- to
There will be two days without a letter ; I am very,

very sorry.'

                     ' Shooting Lodge on Loch Eilt, May 24th, 1848.

     ' Here I am in as wild and remote a spot as you

need wish to see. There is hardly a village nearer
than Fort William, which is at least seventeen miles off

-- which I have just walked over -- by the most execrable

sharp-stoned footpath you ever trod. A most kind

welcome, but nothing else, met me here. There is
                                                                       stock of pro
only a       gamekeeper     --livninog              here,    and the
visions      not extensive                                 no butter,   no bread, no
                                                  milk,

eggs, no cheese, no meat, no fish, no fowls, no ham, no

I Ianything except oat-cakes, and, strange to say, tea and

sugar ; so supped on tea, and dry bread, which had
brought with me, sopped in
                     '                                     and am now getting

                              a !'

                                       it,

                                       I
into bed with no sheets. Good night, my darling
     '                                                                               !

all blessings attend youaa

                            Shooting Lodge in Glen Spean, May 25th.

     To you, my darling, shooting-lodge on Loch Eilt
and shooting-lodge in Glen Spean may seem to be very

much alike at present to me they are very unlike.
                             ;

                                  a
To-night the richest cream, the freshest butter, the

best eggs, crimp toast,                                 block-tin  --teaspuocth,  cocoa-nut
candles, and everything                           corresponding    a                the luck
                                                                             is
of travelling. You will really require guide to my

wanderings, so am making you, on the other side,
   map of my route. .
a                    I

                                         .
                                               .
vn.] MARRIED LIFE.                                                          J?5

' Yesterday I went from Fort William to Loch Eilt.
B is the
last year.  place   where the          I  two men               were found   dead
marked A             morning               went to              the top of
              This                                                          a hill
down here.
            byI  the   dotted line, to                Loch Treig, and so
                 am   very, very tired,               but have been often
and often thinking of you and my little ones. I shall

probably make to-morrow a short day, and get back to
Fort William on Saturday. Does it not give you a

good idea of my Ben that I shall have been three days
in going round and travelled nearly seventy miles
I
              I ; it,

                       I

                                          it I
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                            I
am greatly surprised how much insight have got into
the geology of this difficult country during the few fine

days have had but am quite satisfied that, to do the

thing properly, must sit down before Ben Nevis for
two or three months, and use every fine day. Do you

think, darling, you would not dislike                              very much,
coming to this wild place, and under the tempestuous
sky, and me rambling about the hills to places where,

even with pony, would not like my wife to go
I
               a

                     by

                 I
                   ;I

                                 it

                                                is

                                  Ia
                                                                            a
                                                                           is
                                                       it ; ?I
                                                                                    is
have really been looking what alternatives there would be,
and find none -- except living in the inn, which most
                      in the heart of
comfortable, but      Nevis House --                   this poky village              or
else to take Glen                                     shooting quarter just           at

the foot of the Ben.                was through the house, and

comfortably furnished but                 in such wild, solitary
                      the mountain, think you would not
glen, overhung

like it.'

                 '  Foet William, Sunday evtning, May 28M, 1848.

                   a
I       wrote you long letter only few hours ago, but
    I I'                                              Ia
can't bear you to lose post, and am going to start
                                    a

early for   BesnupNeerbvisd,aya--ndBsehnalNl envoist  be back      till  late. This
has been    Ia                                         as clear          crystal.
                         a                                          as   is
                      It
                                is                                               I
hardly dare hope for so good to-morrow. This the first

day have had comfortable dinner, or hot meat, since

Saturday week.                      not ten, and am writing by good
                                                      I
daylight.   have been reading all your letters, and am
deeply interested in all you tell me.                        ;
                                                                I  am so rejoiced

with your accounts of the children they did so warm
186               THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                       [chap.

mI yloohkearat.t  Darling things !  I often think of them, and
                  all the children
                                    on my journey with very
different eyes from what I used to do, down even to the
infant in arms. . . .
   ' Wednesday. --Monday was a bad                             as I
here is another worse. But yesterday  Idahya,d                       wrote;
                                                               such  a dose

of walking as might count for two or three days. The
                                      usual on the top of the
weather was       fine, but mist as   circumnavigated him at

Ben, so I did     not attempt, but I

a very high level, over some of the most frightfully rough
ground it is possible to see. My object was to examine,
as far as possible, the contact of the granite and black
porphyry. There is a very wild and precipitous glen at
          of Ben Nevis,  with       GalesnorNt eovfisp. assI,
the back                 into                                  at the head
of which    we can get                                         shall make
you a little drawing ; it will please you better than

description. . . .

  I' Our pass was by A, the summit of the Ben being at C.

Neither my man nor had ever been in the said place

before, and as I said, mist surrounded the upper part of

the Ben, and came down somewhat lower than the ridge.
So, as we approached the head of the glen, we got only
glimpses of snow-fields and broken rocks above us ; and

at length we were immersed in the fog, which fortunately

was not very deep. We kept on the rock as long as we

could, and at length found that there only intervened
between us and the ridge a short steep ascent of drifted

snow, most truly Alpine. It was too late to think of

receding, and it was not far ; so, assuming my new

mahogany tripod as an Alpine stock, I proceeded foremost

to make steps in the most approved Swiss fashion, to the

no small edification of my companion, who had never

seen such an operation before. The upper few yards

were so steep that I actually could not get one foot stuck
into the snow before the other, and had to get along

sideways.
   ' We luckily got to the top safe and sound, and found
less mist on the opposite side. We came down a most

tremendous steep into Glen Nevis, but without any risk,
vII.] MARRIED LIFE.                                                  187

having been eleven hours incessantly on foot ; so perhaps
I was not very sorry to see rain this morning, to give me
Ia good excuse for staying at home.
                                                    have so very many
Igeological notes and specimens to arrange that have

abundant occupation.'

                                    'Fort William, May 2'Jth, 1848.

    '     .  .  I wrote at once to Mr. Robertson, enclosing Mrs.
       .
IBatten's letter, telling him that I should leave this for

Drumnadrochit on Saturday, that should spend Sunday
in Strathglass, and wished to reach Kintail by Tuesday

night to catch the Skye steamer going north on Wednes

day morning. He will thus have time to give notice
                         the Glen,
to  the       people up                 &c.
             mentioned                   that your
    'I                    in my   last  completed   letter to McGregor
                                                    the circuit of Ben
had been most            useful.   I

Nevis successfully in three days. There is typhus fever
at Kinloch-Leven. Mr. Milner was from home, so that

I did not go down there, but contented myself
with a bird's-eye view and scramble over the hill to

Loch Eilt, where, if I had not all the comforts in the
world, I had a truly kind reception from Oliver, the
gamekeeper; got a view next day from Scuir Eilt and
down the Glen to the head of Loch Treig; slept at
Inverlair (Mr. Walker's).           A letter from
mised me comforts and                               McGregor pro
                                    luxuries, but
                                                     I was rather
                Rudopids,s.aI nfdeIerlohwdaeveellanesdninocduergohvbeeteoinntdoueplFivoeBrrtenyWoiuNllrieavmliest,tenraenxtdot
knocked

day, nor
Colonel

should have been on the Ben to-day ; but though yester

day was magnificent, just because it was Sunday, it
came on to rain in the night d la mode du pays, and is

drizzling awaj'.'                       'Portree, June \\th, 1848.

    I'          can assure you Mr. Robertson did not belie
      ...
the character you had given him. He paid all honour

to Mrs. Batten's kind introduction. I spent part of

Saturday and all Sunday last at his hospitable house,

going to church at Erchless Chapel. A very wet Sunday
it w as, and I had come to a resigned state of mind to go

                                                                                                                                r
188          THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                        [chap.

by Glen   Affaric unless the      weather was really          stIorhmayd,,
in which                          gone by Dingwall.
          case I should have

however, better luck, and  Monday was                         smo otshtatagrweheeanble,I
and improved every step    of the way,
                        it was really
reached Loch Atfaric     hill-tops all  calealor.velyI        afternoon,
still quite early, the                                        spent the

teIhveheansdicneagnrerrraaynmgabesldinIgtohaagdboobuuet,epnaMnwdaitmhwatSshueaisl dmirnivuecthhferodmemliogFrhantsienndga,kwyblietuh.t

unfortunately in     Ithweaseaarflt)e' rwmaorrdnsinggladthe1  mist fell down
on the hills, and                                             did not attempt
it,

               is I
                                        a
                                      if
                                         I

                                                        I is
     both because the afternoon became extremely wet,
and because was little unwell.                                arrived at Kin-

tail much fatigued, although the walk not particu
larly long or difficult, at least
                                   we except the descent
from the Balloch. That part of the road and the view

from the pass certainly very striking.                        arrived very

wet and rather chilled at the manse at an early hour,
and was very kindly received by Mr. Morrison, who
with true hospitality, finding that was very anxious to
                                   I

get onI      next morning's steamer to Skye, after giving

         by
me dinner, kindly sent me in his gig to Balmacarra,

where arrived most wet and weary at 10 p.m., at
                                                              I

                                                                                  aa
small but comfortable inn, and next morning had just
sat down to capital breakfast when the alarm of the
             a

steamer was given and had to run and gallop on
                        I
                              a
                               I
pony for mile and half, and after many adventures
          a

and much energy and my luggage just reached the

steamer in time. . .
                     .

        should have written to you sooner, but have
I'                                                            I

                  a  moment, having been almost constantly
hardly had
with my friend Necker, who was very glad indeed
to see me, and who talks incessantly to me till past
eleven every night. As he never speaks to any person
here, you would think he had kept all his conver
sation of the last three years to devote to me. But
is
     a

                          I

                                                                                 it
     pleasure to see him so well and to be permitted
to cheer his solitude.  return home, that is, to Bridge

of Allan, on Tuesday, and to our real home soon after,
vII.] MARRIED LIFE.                                           IS))

where we        mean to remain for some time.     I forgot    to
               can hardly suppose Mam Suil to
say that I                                      be as high    as

has been       trhemepoyBrtaelbldoa.crhomJ--uedItgesrinhgoautldbyAcfofaanprcpilceuadr--eanciutenst,foorbtauennduantetdhleyer

height of
broken at

4,000 feet, perhaps considerably. Have you got the

height V

   June, July, and August of this summer        were  spent--
   rare thing for him -- in Edinburgh.
a

   September found him at Fettercairn, and October at
Conway, in North Wales. To these two expeditions the
following letters belong :--

                         'Aberdour, Fifeshire, September 21af, 1848.

   '     .  .  We much enjoyed  our  visit  to  Fettercairn,  and

      .

I must say it is very pleasant to see so happy and united

a family, so rejoicing in the performance of every mutual
and other duty. Their child is indeed a charming girl,

and a model of all that I could wish mine to be, espe

cially in gentleness, though tfulness, and most child-like
simplicity, with charming gay spirits. We spent a day
or two at St. Andrew's on our way back, where Alicia
had never been, and we enjoyed it very much. The

weather has been almost perfect for ten days or a fort

night past. We returned home to-night, and found our
little flock all well and happy to see us. On Saturday
we are going into Edinburgh to hear Jenny Lind, for the
                         last time. It is an indulgence which
first and      probably  Alicia, though I myself am scarcely
               not deny
I would
worthy of it.'
                         ' Birkenhead, Liverpool, October 1848.

   I'. . . have been on a sudden escapade to North
IWales to see the Conway and Britannia bridges.               left

home this day week, and proceeded to Manchester, whore

I visited some engineering establishments. I then went
Ito Conway to see the tube, and by a singular accident

arrived just after the second tube had          been floated into
its place. But though so far unlucky,
                                                I could not com
plain, as it enabled me to meet Mr. Stephenson, and to
100              THE LIFE OF JAMES J). FORBES.        [chap.

discuss the  whole matter with him, and receive       every
explanation                                              We
             from him which I could possibly desire.
next went to the Menai Straits, and saw the stupendous
Iworks there. He is indeed a very interesting as well as

able man, this Robert Stephenson, and have formed
quite a friendship for him. He appears to be a most
liberal man in point of money, no grasping, no pretension,
candid, and most affable ; often acknowledges mistakes,

Iand is ready to listen to what everyone has to say.
was really delighted with him.     We parted on Saturday
                                Snovvdon, passing Sunday
morning, when I went round

at Bethgelert.'

   When Forbes met his class at the opening of the
session 1848-49, he devoted two lectures to the refuta
tion of a view of knowledge which he regarded as
sophistical and mischievous, but which had recently been
recommended to an Edinburgh audience by a high

authority. .
    Some time before this Mr., afterwards Lord, Macaulay

had come from London, for the special purpose of deliver
ing an oration at the opening of a large public library
and lecturing Institution in Edinburgh.

    Macaulay took occasion to ventilate one of those

startling but not very profound paradoxes which he
knew so well how to set forth in pointed and brilliant
epigrams. He maintained that ' a little knowledge is
not a dangerous thing,' that there is no line by which
superficial knowledge is separated from profound. He
said that he never could prevail on any one of those
persons who talk of the danger of shallow knowledge to
let him know what was their standard of profundity.
When we talk of deep and shallow, we are comparing
human knowledge with the vast mass of truth that is
capable of being known, and, tried by this standard,
the most learned and profound are almost as shallow as
the most ignorant. The sage of three centuries ago
is not equal in knowledge to the child of to day ; the
intellectual giants of one age become the intellectual
til] ' MAURI ED LIVE.                                               I'll

pigmies of the next. Homer, and Plato, and Shakespeare,
and Bacon must dwindle into insignificance as the world

grows older. These views Macaulay sought to establish
by pointing to the fact, that any mechanic can now

learn in a few days more about the celestial bodies from
llersehel's astronomy, than the astronomer of the Middle

Ages could learn in a lifetime ; and Faraday taught the
little boys and girls in his Christmas-holiday lectures

more chemistry than all the alchemists ever knew.
These plausible sophistries were, of course, set off by
brilliant rhetoric and by amusing illustrations which all

could appreciate. But they were too false in themselves,

and too likely to find favour with the ignorant and the

self-conceited, for Forbes to allow them to pass unchal
lenged. He therefore entered into a thorough and
elaborate exposure of the falseness of Macaulay's whole

position ; and, after delivering his views in two
successive lectures to his class, he published them in
the form of a small book, entitled ' The Danger of

Superficial Knowledge.'              that the terms ' great ' and
    Forbes began by showing,
                                     if used in relation either to
' little ' are really unmeaning
the whole amount of truth in itself, or to the whole of

what is knowable by man. It is only in reference to the
mind that receives knowledge, and to its capacities of
            It it,
receiving   that knowledge can be called either great
                   is
or little.             even repugnant to common sense to

Ifspeak absolutely of little knowledge being dangerousa;a

thing.      it                       it  inqudiaryng--ertooustheto    some
thing                 be dangerous,                                 human
        sentient and capable               is

                                     of

understanding which receives the knowledge and thus

the effect may be expected to vary, not according to
the absolute measure and amount of the knowledge,
but according to the capacity, the habits of thought, and
the previous attainments of the mind to which
                                                                    it
                                                                        is

addressed. And the same relativeness holds not only
with regard to individuals, but with regard to the
fame nation in different ages, and to different nations
in the same age.
VM  THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.  [chap

    If, instead of a little knowledge, we speak of know
 ledge which is superficial in quality and sudden in acqui
 sition, then it may be truly said that such knowledge is

 dangerous. A legacy of £1,000 bequeathed to a poor

 labourer whose whole previous income was £30 a year,
 may very probably prove injurious, or even ruinous, to
 his habits and character ; while to a man who has been
 accustomed to spend £10,000 a year it becomes merely
 a small and useful addition. Power, wealth, knowledge,
 when suddenly possessed by those unprepared to use
them, become to them sources of real danger ; it is
 experience, or the wisdom of experience, which renders
these gifts safe and fruitful of good.

     Such sudden and superficial knowledge is called em
pirical, and is acquired by memory, or by a very narrow
experience, not deduced from extensive study and general
principles. There shall be two men who in the amount of
facts they know, that is in their useful information, seem
to be as nearly as possible on a par, yet the knowledge
of the one shall have been gathered from mere memory of
things read in books, the knowledge of the other shall

have been thought out by himself, the principles on

which it rests apprehended and made his own. Between
these two kinds of knowledge, though their amount be
exactly equal, there is a whole world of difference. It is

one of the most cherished fallacies of self-conceit to con

fuse between the mental power which originates great

discoveries and the very commonplace power required to

understand and apply these discoveries when made.
    That anyone should for a moment confound the state

of mind of a person capable of originating the Theory
of Gravitation and of composing Newton's Principia,
with that of a reader of the same work, even one who
completely comprehends every argument it contains,
seems hardly conceivable. Yet those who see no distinc
tion of one sort of knowledge from another, except in the
facts with which it makes us conversant, evidently fall

into this confusion. They forget that facts have nothing
great or little in themselves. The greatness is in the
vII.] MARRIED LIFE. 133

ideas they disclose, the power they call forth, the light they
                                                  It  is in the indi
spread,   the  usefulness    they  generate.          originates and
vidual   mind              mental   power,    which
               -- in the
grasps the knowledge -- that the greatness truly dwells.
' A man may deduce truth entirely for himself, as
Kepler did when he deduced the primary laws of the

planetary motions, or he may be led to perceive and

apprehend it as an act of his understanding, by receiv
ing a mere indication or hint from another, as Galileo
constructed a telescope from a hint of the toy of Jansens.
Or he may extend and enlarge the knowledge which

another has added to the common stock, as did the

great mathematicians of the eighteenth century working
upon Newton's theory of gravity. Or he may passively
assent as an intelligent reader to the truth of what is set
before him, as does every day the competent student of
Euclid's Elements. Or. finally he may receive on trust
the conclusions of another without attempting to analyse

the proof or comprehend the reasoning ; and this last is
the humble acquisition of many of the readers of popular

science of our own time. All these are various ways in

which the knowledge of the same facts may be attained

by the understanding. It were childish to suppose that

the effects of this knowledge could be the same, either in
kind or degree, in all these cases, or on the character
and habits of thought of the person acquiring it.'

   After showing how false and arrogant are the pre
tensions of those who disparage the great thinkers of

early time, because they knew not many facts and
processes which we now know, and who hold that the
intellectual giants of the past become the intellectual

pigmies of the present, he points out that this temptation
is greatest in sciences especially progressive as are the

physical.
   Macaulay had said, 'The knowledge of geography which

entitled Strabo to be called the Prince of Geographers
would now be considered mere shallowness on the part of
a girl at a boarding-school.' ' The contrary is the fact,'.
Forbes replies : ' the knowledge of Strabo was a profound

                                   o
10i            THE LIFE OF JAMES 1). FORBES.                              [chap.

knowledge of   wgeelol-gdriarepchtye,dankdnoiwt lepdrogdeu, c--edit  the  effects of
profound and                                                         was   a know

ledge ever increasing, yet ever tempered by the conviction
of ignorance ; a knowledge which taught his contem
poraries to enlarge their acquaintance with the common
family of man, to extend commerce, and to preserve
human life. Whereas the knowledge of the boardiug-
school, unless it be tempered with more humility than
can be possibly looked for whilst such comparisons are
uttered by men of talent on such occasions, will begin in
ostentatious displays of memory, and end in pedantry

and conceit.'
   Again he says, ' The empiric who has acquired a sort
of sleight-of-hand acquaintance with a parcel of facts, and

uses them ingeniously, may outshine for a time the more

profound and practical student, and the latter may even
be unable to cope with him in his own narrow field of
display. But for the production of fresh knowledge or
substantive additions to the capital of the human mind,

our superficial aspirant is incapacitated by the very habits
which have gained him a popular reputation. We have

it on the authority of Newton himself, that if he was in
apconantyisetthnaitnntgalynsdubpecefoorrnioecremntotera,o"ttehhdeerthsmaoieudng, ,ht"i.tawnda"sIwinakeitetphteiltlhfaetchuseultbyfjierscottf
dawning opens slowly, by little and little, into a clear
light ;" a sentence which speaks to the experience of all
who have accustomed themselves to habits of patient
study. But the superficial thinker has no such dawn.
Facts are things which admit of no degrees. He knows
them or he does not. He is in a blaze of what he calls
light, or else he is in total darkness. He evidently never
thought in the way that Newton thought ;
                                          his knowledge,
if knowledge it be, comes to him through  some different
avenue. Facts are not knowledge, any more than books

possess understanding.'

   By these and such like arguments, less sparkling but
more solid than those of the brilliant essayist, Forbes
combated Macaulay's paradox. He then concludes by
vii-l MARRIED LIFE.                                                    195

suggesting certain safeguards against the superficial
knowledge which pufi'eth up. Such are, the making
every acquisition of knowledge not an isolated effort, but
part of a total mental discipline ; the not resting in facts,
but striving to grasp the laws and generalizations by which
they are connected, to appropriate the ideas or theories
which bind them together and unite them into a body of
           the habit of  coremabdiinnigngbesctoumdyeswmitehrethcartarmemfleinctgio--n,
science ;   from which
divorced

a simple effort of memory  aonr dmeacfthearn--icablacekxpetortnethses  ; the
habit of looking before                                                lives

and discoveries of the great thinkers of old, forward to
the time when all our borrowed learning shall have
disappeared, and all that posterity shall call his will

be that small residuum which each man by patient
thought has made really his own, and discovered for
himself and for mankind : lastly the cultivation not of
the mere intellect only, but of our whole moral as well
as mental nature. ' The discipline and education of the
moral sense, the exercises of habitual piety, and the
sanctions of revealed religion are truly found, by dearly
bought experience, to be necessary for the temperate
and useful employment of the reasoning faculty.' The

whole discourse breathes the sobriety and truthfulness

of a man, who knew what it is to go out in some direc
tions to the confines of the known ; who in thought was
at home there, and who had striven to carry the limits
of knowledge some steps forward into the unknown.
And as his experience, so his language about know
ledge was altogether unbike that of the rhetorician who,
viewing knowledge merely from a distance, has his ima
gination fired by the achievements of others, but knows
nothing of what it is to think out difficult problems for

himself, or to wrench from Nature her secrets by patient

inquiry.

   During the December of the session of 1848-9, Pro
fessor and Mrs. Airy visited Forbes, and stayed for some
time with him in his house in Park Place. The Astro-

                                               o2
THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                 [chap.

norner Royal lectured for Forbes in his College class room,
and received from the University the degree of LL.D.

   The summer home of Professor and Mrs. Forbes and

their young family was for the year 1849 Chiefswood,
in the Rhymer's Glen, well known to readers of the
Life of Scott as the home of the son-in-law and biographer
of the poet. Forbes' time there was spent in writing for

the Edinburgh Review a paper on Greenwich Observatory,
in working at a map of the Mer de Glace, reducing his
Alpine surveys of 1846, or in a tour among the Border
hills. This was varied                                       in autumn,
of which the following  by a    loisngaerreceoxrcdur:s--ion
                        letter

- " To "M. Studer, Berne. .

                                                  . ' Chiefswood, August 2dth, 1849.

' You must have had more " second sight " than
myself when, in your kind and most welcome letter
of the 14th July, you prophesy a tour in the footsteps
of Walter Scott as my summer's occupation. ^ You will
not easily believe, perhaps, that, not content with the
scenery of Melrose, the glen of Thomas the Rhymer,
the Abbey, and the glen of the White Lady of Avenel,

I have been on the track of the Pirate, the Fitful
Head, the Cathedral of Kirkwall, the stones of Stennis,
                          In short,  I have returned from
and the Isle of Hoy.
a tour of Orkney and    Shetland.    I was induced thereto

by my friend Mr. Airy having projected this excursion.

I .visited Orkney with him and Mrs. Airy, but I went on

to Shetland alone. Caithness, the northernmost part
of the mainland of Scotland, and Orkney are chiefly
remarkable, geologically, for the great extension of cer
tain members of the old red sandstone formations, which

have been ably described by Mr. Hugh Miller, and which
contain, you are aware, a host of fishes which charac

terize that formation, and which are perhaps nowhere
found in such perfection, although in Russia the same

species have been found. These are the fish named

and classified so successfully by Agassiz, such as- the

Asterolepis, Glyptolepis, &c. I visited some of these
                      MARRIED LIFE.                                                    197

fishbeds in Orknej*,  and I     Iam promised a                         large      series
from Caithness ; of                                                    part
                      which        can offer you a                                if you

choose to have them. Shetland is a long voyage beyond

tehxecepOtrknbeyys,waatnedr--asthteheinistelarniodrs  can hardly be explored
                                                      boofgsm--anyyou
by almost impenetrable peat                                            being      covered
                                                                                   under
                                                                         will

stand that one is very much at the mercy of the winds
                                                      sailor myself, you will
and waves.    IBesincgarcneoly  great                 expected to visit these
believe that                     ever

remote   but interesting islands                      oaf nTdhuI lema; nbaguet,d  on   the
whole,  opportunity favoured me,                                                   to  see

in a short time, and by seizing every occasion, a good
deal  both of good    geology and of good scenery ; and
as a                  feel glad to have visited a country
      Scotchman I

so remarkable in several points, besides being the

northern extremity of the kingdom. A steamer conveyed
        Lerwick,  the capital of Shetland, but from thence
me to   to make    my way in small boats, and to. depend

I had

on the hospitality of the native gentry, there being no
regular inn from one end of Shetland to the other.

IConsidering my anti-marine propensities aforesaid,

felt rather proud when I stood on the northernmost
headland of the Island of Unst, the northernmost of the

group, almost in latitude 61°, and looked the North Pole
in the face ; nor had small pleasure in breaking the
chromate of iron and
Balta Sound, whereof  IDiahlalavgeespPeoccimksensandforseyrpouen, tiifneyoouf

care to have them. Pure hydrate of magnesia was also
found there. This was the station of Biot and Kater

in their pendulum researches, and I lived with Mr.
Edmonstone their host. The west of Shetland, the least-

known part, struck me however most. We have there
the granitic hill of Boeness, the highest land there ;
and the phenomena of magnificent granite veins into the
adjacent rocks, together with very curious associated
claystone porphyries. These various formations pro

duce a grand variety of cliff scenery, which I scarcely
remember to have seen equalled except near Staffa.
The outmost Island of Foula, far to the west, shows - a
108        THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                       [chap.

gigantic precipice of 1,200 feet, rising perpendicularly
out of the sea : but the sea and climate are so wild that
it is a serious exploit to visit
     I                                              and did not attempt
                                                              II
                                               it,                  I
it. do not think that, even in the Alps, have seen
                                                                              a
more terrific single precipices than in Shetland. Al                                     a
together am much pleased with my trip. Do not
        II                                                                                       V

                   is

                      I
                        I
think that have forgotten either Ben Nevis or Switzer
land. The opportunity of securing so delightful re

sidence as this for one summer for my family decided
me upon taking it, as might not have so good an
occasion again, but will not forget the Ben. Again
my long-projected visit to London, which have regarded
for years as kind of duty, took in place of foreign
        I;
                a
               I
                              I

                                   if
                                        it
excursion but very fully intend to make one next year,
although fear that the meeting of the British Associa
tion in Edinburgh may occur at an inconvenient season.
Shall you not try to come over                      takes place in August

   The session of 1849-50 found Forbes stronger ina
health than he had been since his illness in 1843, and
with larger number of students in his class, 203, than
in any former year. During this winter he resumed his
long-suspended experiments on Radiant Heat, but after
spending much time on these, he found his labour fruit
less through some defect in the apparatus.

                           'Edinburgh, January 29th, 1850.

     have not had such good working health as this
I
   I'

                    I

                                                is
                                                         it,
winter since before 1843. The test and proof that
                                                              is
have been able to return to my laborious experiments
on Heat without suffering from                                               ;and can at all times

apply myself without any significant symptoms which
for six winters past have told me of mortality and
                 wish you could see my new little
increasing age.
room in College, which
                           really a charming den, and
fitted up with an express view to my Heat experiments

whereas you remember my old arrangement at the case

in the great room used to get very comfortless by four
o'clock of winter's gloaming when you used to look
in upon me.'a
vii.] MARRIED LIFE.                                          199.

I' . . .                              'March \lth, 1850.

          am going to read a paper at the Royal
ISociety to-morrow about a wonderful meteor which was
seen here on the 19th December last.  will tell you its

route as nicely as you know that of the omnibuses in

Oxford Street. It moved in a straight line parallel to the
horizon of Edinburgh for two or three thousand miles,
without any regard to the earth's curvatures. There is an

independent gentleman for you ! Doesn't even touch his
hat to old mother Earth as he draws a tangent to her just
to the west of St. Kilda, 88 miles above the Atlantic'

When May 1850 came, Forbes had looked forward to
taking Mrs. Forbes with him to spend a summer among
the Alps. This was prevented by the sudden illness of
his second daughter. After an anxious interval, his

child was so far recovered as to allow him to set forth, and
he travelled with his sister as far as Kissingen. Thence
he went on alone to Chamounix. Ten days were given
to complete his survey of the Mer de Glace, and then
he had to return home. This was the last of his Alpine
work : for though he passed another summer in Switzer

land, he could then only gaze on the Alps from the lake-

shores, not assail as of old their heights. It was the

meeting of the British Association, held in the August of
that year in Edinburgh, which called him reluctant away.
Sir D. Brewster was President, Forbes was Vice-President,
and presided in Section A, and Mr. and Mrs. Airy were
guests at Park Place. Forbes himself was unwell the
first two days of the meeting. After it was over there
followed tours with Mrs. Forbes, first to the west coast,

then to Aberdeenshire. During the months of August and
September he lived with her at Phesdo, near Fettercairn,

from which place he and Mrs.      Forbes made    the Aber
deenshire excursion described in  the following
                                                 letter :--

                         To E. Batten, Esq.

                                                       ' Phesdo, September \7 th, 1850.

   ' 1 am anxious to write to you whilst under the
invigorating influence of an eight days' tour into Aber-
            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                      [chap.

deenshire, with most beautiful weather -- except just at '

starting, when we had a dense and cold fog. We first

lionized Aberdeen very thoroughly, spending nearly two
days, one of which we                                                                         where I
wished much for you.   devoted to old     Aberdeen,
                                         recommend                                             you on
                       I very much

your   next Scotch trip to               make up your mind once                               for all
for a  sea-voyage --which                                                                     know
                                         you have been, I do not
                                         about, but I observe it always
how many    iynetaorsr, aitla--lkainngd
evaporates                               go to Aberdeen, which is nearly
as quick as to Leith, and as cheap. You will be delighted
Iwith the old King's College, unless I am much mistaken,
or unless    am even   now               pirte. paIrinwgasyomu oastdisstarpupcokinbtmy etnhet
by saying   so much   about

College chapel, which is the choir of the old one, the
remainder being converted with slight change into the

library, where the holy water basin at the old entrance is
still quite uninjured. The chapel contains the original
carved-oak stalls, &c., in most admirable preservation,

quite unlike anything else which I recollect in Scotland.
It seems that the iconoclastic spirit was never so strong

in that country. Crowns, mitres, and bishops' tombs

are quite uninjured in the old cathedral, though in other
respects it is fearfully transmogrified. The old Gothic
bwwreeidllg.weenLotef auDvpoinntgheiAs bDveeorrdnye. einntI--erweIasptsirnegoten, rmatnhitde  tthheatotIherrecsoigllehcttse--d

                                                                                              whole much dis
appointed with the scenery, though it is an eminently
industrious, thriving country. The neighbourhood of our

former family place, Monymusk, was the chief exception

in point of scenery ; there it is highly beautiful, with
Isome grand timber. We spent a day at Castle Fraser, an

admirable specimen of what is called, believe, Flemish
style, as it prevailed from two to three hundred years ago.
We subsequently visited Craigivar, also a fine old tur-

reted castle. We found the Dee at Aboyne, where,
and subsequently, we had always difficulty in finding
accommodation, every inn being full in that region. We
                   not in the open air, but in
always slept out,   Thanks to our stars, we                                                   eascsauppepdlem"etnhe
tary hospitium.
vI,.] MARRIED LIFE.  201

gathering " at Braemar, which would have made it intole
rable. We enjoyed the drive up to Castleton exceedingly.
I knew already the neighbourhood of Castleton and In-
vercauld, but not the stretch of Deeside, which is truly

beautiful. The Queen and her mother have made a
happy choice. We spent Sunday at Braemar, but did
not go to the Queen's church, being nine miles off.
Yesterday, Monday, we mounted Lochnagar with the aid
of ponies. The morning, misty as usual, cleared up into
a splendid day ; and, indeed, each day just now is magnifi
cent, and as like the last as can be : the barometer nailed

at Set Fair. We scrambled down the hill to Glen Muick,

a rough affair, and came out just at the Queen's hut,
where, by the merest accident, her Majesty had arrived
only an hour before, and was already off to fish in the
dark waters of the utterly lonely Loch Muick, and this
as evening drew on ; we had not time to follow her
Majesty or wait her return, but had to make the best
of our way to Ballater. We crossed the Cairn over here

to-day.'

   During the remainder of his time at Phesdo, he was
occupied with the theory of probabilities as applied to
double stars, which, he says, cost him much thought and
labour ; with Fourier's theory of heat ; and with writing
a new course of University lectures. But, before he

returned to Edinburgh for the winter, indifferent health

forced him to give up severe study.
   The journal of the ensuing session notices experiments

on the conduction of heat, a visit to Professor (now
Sir William) Thomson, who had been appointed to the
Natural Philosophy chair in Glasgow University, and
last letters which passed between Forbes and his young
friend John Mackintosh, who then lay dying at Carn-

stadt, near Stuttgard.
    Mention has already been made of the mutual affection

between these two, which, at first arising out of their
relation as professor and student, soon passed into warm

friendship. It will be remembered how, in n former
202          THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                         [chap.

summer, they had travelled together in the Pyrenees.

Ever since they had kept up an affectionate intercourse

and correspondence. In the previous summer Forbes

had met Mackintosh at Kissingen, and had seen and
                                                                  It is
heard from   himself how his   Fheebarlutahrywa1s85faJ il:i--ng.
thus Forbes  writes of him in

                               ' Edinburgh, February 9th, 1851.

I ' My dear friend John Mackintosh is dangerously ill.

  received a letter about ten days ago, dated from Tubin
gen, the 21st January, kind and warm-hearted and
gentle, as he always was, yet evidently a little alarmed
about an increasing affection of the lungs, under which

he has   suffered ever  since his  imprudent       yeexapro. sureThiasndI
fatigue                 May and    June last
         in Italy, in
learned from him first at Kissingen, in June or July last,
but always under the seal of strict confidence not to alarm

his family. It was a sad mistake. The disease was

commenced and aggravated by imprudence ; and with the
characteristic unconsciousness of consumptive patients,

he had evidently no conception of actual danger even on
the 21st January. But on the 28th, his friend Mr.
Rostlin writes to a mutual friend, Mr. Nelson of New

port, to break to his family the utterly unsuspected
tidings that he is rapidly sinking into the grave. How
strange, how appalling to us the ways of God ! Is it
because he is so pure, so good, so beloved, that he is to

be removed from the evil to come ? I wrote him a letter

to-day, full of unrestrained affection, in sad uncertainty

whether his living eye, which so often beamed with regard
towards me, will ever glance over
                        it                         or even his ear
                                       :
                                   I
                                              it,
catch the words when read for have written to his

mother to entreat that may be read to him, neces
                                                   if

sary.    long to have an interest in the thoughts and
prayers of that dying saint -- for dying fear he is.''
                                      I
    .
          To John Mackintosh, Esq. (Tubingen).'
    I
                                                             Edisburoh, February 1831.

        . . No moderate distance, no dispensible en
gagement, would have hindered me from going to
                         MARRIED LIFE.

Iattend the bedside of one whom I love so well, and who
   know would have conferred more benefit on me from

that bed of sickness than I could possibly have hoped to
                him. Under present
communicate to                              circumstances you
well know how   impossible this is. I      must satisfy myself

with imagining the pleasure which meeting your mother
and sister after so long an absence will give you, and with

indulging the hope that your good constitution and placid
temper may yet enable you to surmount the attack of
disease. Yet              of us would blind ourselves
alternative of  neither                                    to the
                such a   struggle. I have once, as you     know,

found myself not far removed from those circumstances
in which you are now placed : abroad, and attacked by
a prolonged illness, of doubtful termination, warned by a
medical friend at home, to whom Dr. Nasse's opinion had

been  communicated,      to prepare for a  longer  journey   than
that  to Italy. That     was in 1843, and          am still  here.
                                           yet I
But the recollections of that solemn period fill my mind
with various and opposite emotions .when so vividly
recalled by the circumstances of your state, dearest

Mackintosh.

  ' In all things, I know, you have greatly the advantage

of me. Sincere and absolute will be your resignation.
How habitual and deep your repentance for the sins
and errors of your past life ; how natural and unfeigned
your trust in the Saviour whom you have constantly
believed in. I know5 how little, comparatively,             I
such grounds for comfort, and how                          I   had
am to offer you spiritual consolation.     uBnuwtoratshyI      now
                                                           do
                                                                feel
these things deeply, I see no good reason for suppressing
them. And on such subjects your thoughts will most
surely be turned with most pleasure when this letter
reaches you ; and should it be too fatiguing to you to
write, do, dearest Mackintosh, send me some friendly
message, your love and blessing, by the pen of one of
your friends and M atchers ; and think of me as one who
would be present with you in body if he could, but most

certainly is so in soul and spirit : and that God Almighty
and our Saviour Christ may be with you now and ever,
204              THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                              [chap.

to support and comfort and defend and reward you,
is the prayer, dearest Mackintosh,

                             ' Of your affectionate friend,
                                                   'James D. Forbes.'

   To this letter Mackintosh was able to reply, not how
ever with his own hand, but in words which he dictated

to his sister.

* My VERY DEAR SlR,                     ' Carnstadt, February 1st.

but     ' The kindness of  your          letter overpowered me             I;
     more, it sustained    and          comforted me. Since
             I
wrote  you       have   indeed been     brought very low,                   and
think  my   end   must                  suffer greatly from                pain
                        be near. I
Iin the spine, which has been weakened by so much
expectoration, so that sometimes        can find rest in no

position. Yet the Lord has never yet tried me above
                                        to bear, and His goodness to
what He gave     mI ethsintrkentghtihs  light affliction over, and then
me is infinite.

His own presence. My family are a great comfort to me.
IfYour name is written on my heart, and I can never
forget all your gentleness and kindness.                                   it be the
Lord's will to take me home, it is my joy to think that
we part only for a season. I desire to be most kindly

remembered to Mrs. Forbes and the dear children, and

ever am,         'Your devotedly attached, and grateful,
                                            ' John Mackintosh.

  ' I know I have your daily prayers. The ground of

my confidence is the alone merits of my dear Redeemer.'

    And so ended the friendship of these two, all of it
that was allowed on this side the grave. The record of
it is beautiful in itself, and will find a response in many
hearts in Scotland which remember one or both of these

two friends, so different in character yet united in affection.
In  'aMJaourcrnha1l 1wthr.it--tenJohlonngMaaftcekri,ntFoosrhbesdiemdadaet
                                                                           this entry :
                                                                           Carnstadt,

near Stuttgard. No event for a long time made such

an impression. on me : he was a most holy character.'
VU-,]  -       .- ' MARRIED LIFE.     205"
            ;

On the 9th of April the remains of John Mackintosh,

having been brought from Germany, were laid by his
own last wish in the Grange, as near as might be to the,
grave of Chalmers. Forbes was one of the friends who
attended that funeral.
                                   .

The letters contained in tbis chapter reveal a great,

change that had come over his feelings and character/

during this last decade of his life. In the autobiographic;
letter with which the fourth chapter closes there is
something too much of self-sufficingness, too great inde
pendence of human sympathy, unless it came from the
great ones of science. That letter is no doubt a faithful
transcript of him as he then was, or at least as he ap
peared to himself to be. He was then in a great degree
self-contained, but perhaps he believed himself to be so

more than he was. We may give an exhaustive account
of all that we feel in ourselves, and it shall be true as far

as it goes.    But there is in every man much more,
whether of strength or weakness, of good or evil, than the
plumb-line of his consciousness can at any one moment
get down to : much that lies in him dormant, waiting
but the change of circumstances which shall awaken it
and bring it to the surface. So it was with Forbes.
How strong the family affection was in him we have seen

by the way he felt his father's loss. Then came the
gradual breaking up of the old home, the scattering of
the family, the absorption in scientific discovery, till he,
finding himself almost alone, and yet with all his
powers in full and delightful exercise, fancied that he
could so live always, and that he and science were a

match for any two.
   But the change of circumstances that was needed to
alter all this came in 1843. The peaceful and happy
married life which then began, the birth of his children,

and the new family ties that grew round him, called out
the deep family affection which, during the first active
years of manhood, had slept in him unsuspected. Married
life, and the home it gave him, unsealed anew those feel

ings which since his father's death, and the breaking up
206  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap. tii.

of his first home, had been without adequate objects :
new channels were opened for the long pent-up streams
to flow in.

    When the summer of 1851 came, Forbes took the
house of Craigieburn, a romantic spot on Moffat Water,
and there he left Mrs. Forbes and his young children,
while he set off on the 21st of June for the Fiords of
Norway. As this was the last of his foreign tours, our
narrative must turn aside for a while, not only to describe
this Norway summer, but to cast a retrospective glance

over all the summers he spent abroad from 1835 till

1851.
FORBES' TRAVELS.
                       CHAPTER VIII.

                       TRAVELS, 1826- 1839.

If' we were to classify travellers in a very general
m" atonunreisrt,sw;e"  would consider them as either "travellers" or
                        meaning by the former, persons who visit
unknown or distant regions, and by the latter, those who

confine their rambles to comparatively civilized countries
-- as, for instance, to any part of Europe. . . .'

   These words are taken from an unpublished article

on 'Travel' by James Forbes, written about 1839 or
1840. Its pages, from which space forbids us to quote
at greater length, show how well he had studied the
philosophy of travel in all its relations ; and
it                                                                                     accord

                              a

                                                                   '
                                                                       '

                                                                                    '
                                                                                 '

                                                                            if,
ing to his own definitions, the limited geographical range
of his journeys places them in the more modest category,

   must be allowed that the travels of many men have
been less fruitful than the tours of James Forbes.

We cannot do him justice, however, unless we bear in
mind that half century of improvement in locomotion

lies between us and the time when he first began to
travel. The men of science, the mountaineers and the

tourists who now, each returning summer, throng the
valleys in which Forbes found himself alone, can hardly

realize the difficulties which beset the path of one who

pioneered for all three classes, in days when experienced
.210     THE LIFE OF JAMES J). FORBES.                           [chap.

mountain guides did not exist, and railways were un

known.

      He laboured, and other men have entered into his

labours. The theodolite has been planted on peaks which
in his time were deemed inaccessible by travellers, and
fatal by guides ; for even then, legends of air too rarefied
to support life, and of avalanches                      sctarargtesd--btyhethe'trhauimlinagn
voice, still lingered among their
skirts ' of that departing night of superstition, which
had before peopled them with dragons and chimseras.
Stories, too, of savage rudeness, if not of crime, hung
about many of the less frequented valleys of the Alps.

The fact that a pass had never been crossed by man

before,' was then a reason for avoiding it; it is now an
invincible attraction towards it : and Forbes, although

by no means the first of English mountaineers, contri
buted greatly to this change of feeling, by the popularity
given by his writings to those Alpine regions which he
was among the first to explore.
      To attempt a portrait of the traveller himself, is im

possible. Many who -were the companions of his pro
fessorial work, many who knew the tenderness of his

friendship, and the deeper tenderness of his domestic
life-- and all this encased within a shell of cautious and

sensitive reserve which left on some the                         impression of
                                                                  When on his
hardness --had seen only half his nature.

travels he was another man, and yet the same. To an
artist's appreciation of beauty (and he was no contemp
tible artist), combined with carefully trained powers of
observation, there was added the outburst of a sunny
and joyous spirit. How he drank in the pure mountain
air, how unwearied was his light active step, and how,
at the sight of a fresh gleam of sunlight on the land
scape, a cloud shadow, a flower even, he would break

off his  --pearbpoevteuaalll,mteherrychiwvahlirsotlues  for an exclamation of
delight                                                 pleasure in confronting

ndoifbfilceultciehsaraacntderd--antgheerrse,  which belonged to  his strong  and
                                              are but few now     left who   can

remember. Of the companions and the guides of his
vm.]                   TRAVELS, 1826--39.                                        211

journeys some preceded, and some have followed him

              ' From sunshine to the sunless land,'

leaving the difficult task of attempting to portray him

as he was, to those who had seen him only after many
long years of shattered health had caused his early vigour
and energy to be ' half-forgotten things.' Comparatively
few of his letters written from abroad remain, and his well

filled note-books cannot supply their place, for they are

but dry bones from which to reconstruct the living man.

They are records of facts only, for the impressions made

on his mind and imagination by the more poetical aspects
of nature, he felt, but seldom recorded.1 And yet, as a

dried flower is often more valuable to a botanist than a

drawing of the same flower, however artistically coloured,
the following sketch of James Forbes' travels, the ' plain
unvarnished tale' afforded          for                         --pamrtaybybrihnigs
journals -- not written to be       read          the   most
                                                  by   others2

1 While urging the moral advantages of mountain travel, 'Their
solitude,' he writes, ' is the parent of reflection, and draws forth to

daylight the capacities of that dimly seen inward being, which now

begins to assert its claim to individuality, but which, amidst the busy

turmoil of life, might remain a secret and a puzzle, even to itself. At

such times the mind becomes capable of seriously entertaining thoughts
which in hours of luxury or business would have been instantly dis
carded. The young mind in particular seems to discover a link between

its powers of conception, and the gTeatness of the objects to be con

ceived. The seeds of   a poetic temperament usually          g'errmoilnda, teto  amidst
mountain scenery, and  we envy not the man, young                                 whom

estphexuenp2bsrleeidIssnehsaoeedfdd18sa:5aiwl6ere"tni--ccIhelteeansootefnheeums'xesspTqeruwarieimvresoentptecle.ireo'e)udtsownhtaaoitcfuhrlriaeeunagddhop:e--icsstou'TnrehnoseetqaruerberHiinsegwaarviatenemnrois!rt"rhea' sssiesr(ttiUiohbunulses

Idifficulty in writing travels of many years back from mere notes taken
              have tried and found so. It twenty-one years
at the time.        it                     a           I is
since was in the Pyrenees, nineteen years since was in the Tyrol
I                       :                       it

and Carinthia, and that minuteit    local         fi"dTeoliutyr-bionokt,r"acvinagnisihmeps,ressionnese,d
which gives value and freshnessit,   to                         I

not say, in an incomparably shorter period. My mere tourist's notes,
in the form of diary, would be unbecoming in me to publish, as
              a

they are not worth     while whatever matter was added would run

the risk of being either exaggerated or obsolete.'

                                    P
                                        2
212  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

him more personally before the reader, than if any

attempt had been made to present the narrative in a
more attractive form.

    Forbes' first journey was made in 1826, at the early
age of sixteen. He travelled with a large party through
France and Germany to Italy, rarely halting for more
than a couple of days until they reached Venice, where
he was compelled by illness to make a longer stay, after
which he continued his journey to Rome. Between this
capital and Naples, Forbes spent no less than six months,
during which time his remarkable papers on the 'Physical
Geography of the Bay of Naples ' and other subjects,
which were sent anonymously to Sir David Brewster and
by him inserted in the Edinburgh Journdl of Science,
 had, as the young student found on his return, laid the
foundations of his future fame. Shortly after Easter
 he left Rome, and his journey homewards through
 Switzerland is rendered memorable by his first visit to
 Chaniounix, a full account of which has been already
 given in the earlier pages of this book. In 1832 he
 travelled with his brother Charles to Heidelberg, and
 afterwards continued his journey alone to Switzerland.
 He revisited Chamounix, passing on this occasion a
 week there ; and after making the tour of the Italian
 lakes, was suddenly recalled from Geneva by the news
 of Sir John Leslie's death. He hastened home to con

 test successfully the chair of Natural Philosophy at the
 University of Edinburgh.

    It was not until 1835 that Forbes resumed his travels.

 Three years had now passed since he first occupied a
 Professor's chair, and the lectures of the still youthful
 philosopher had proved that he was more than qualified

 to fill it : but the work had been necessarily severe, and
 it was full time that he should again have recourse to

 travel, not as before, for education and amusement only,
 but also for the relaxation afforded by such a fallow for
 the mind. ' Those,' he writes, ' who are compelled by
 circumstances to fill an active public station during three-
 fourths of the year, can alone appreciate the influence of
thi.]                                  TRAVELS, 1835.  213

saiotnesm. poTraherysese"clhuosiuorns  from ordinary habits and impres
                                       of idleness," as many would term
them, are not lost. As far as physical capacity goes, they
serve to store up energy, which, distributed Over the other
ten months of the year, render every labour not only
more tolerable, but also more productive. So, too, of the

intellect. During the hours of continuous study many
ideas float before the mind of every man, and some are
caught as they pass ; but he is then too much occupied in
the nerve-labour of research, to have much of the super

fluous energy required for invention. It is during these

hours of relaxation that thoughts of diviner mould arise
unbidden, and that the mind, like a magic mirror which
converts the distorted elements of a landscape into a

congruous whole, reflects from its untarnished surface

the scattered impressions derived from experience and
meditation, into one bright focus.'1 During the previous
session he had been delivering a course of lectures on
heat ; and as the hot springs of the Pyrenean valleys
promised new and interesting observations on this his
favourite subject, he thither betook himself early in the
May of 1835.
After some days spent in Paris, he was, as he ex
         it,  'safely delivered by the diligence in its
presses
portmanteau fashion at Orleans,' whence, by way of
Tours and Bordeaux, he reached Pau the beginning of
July.

                 Journal, July         is

I'      left Bordeaux at a.m. by diligence for Pau, anda7.
was agreeably surprised by the beauty of the country,7
for as far as Langon we followed the course of the
Garonne through perfect garden of vines and fruit-I
trees. . . . The approach to Pau delightful, through a
richly-wooded country, with very fine chestnut trees and1
oaks, while the box-tree begins to appear in the hedges.
To-day the mountains were shrouded in mist, all but
their bases, and yet thought the view from the upper

                             Unpublished article on 'Travel.'
214         THE LIFE OF JAMES B. FORBES.                   [chap.

part of the town, even under these conditions, one of the

finest I had seen, especially that from the promenade

which belongs to the chateau, but is open to the public.'

            Journal, July 9.

     ' A splendid morning. . . . The whole range of the
I IHautes Pyrenées was now uncovered, and presented as
noble and rugged an outline as ever saw.             hastened

to the promenade to enjoy this superb view, which ren
ders should think, the finest of its kind in Europe.
a

      iIt,
After walking an hour on the promenade, and learning
the names of the principal mountains, by the aid of
                                                     I
                                                                     a
map and of Brugiere's Outlines of the Pyrenees, sought
   new point of view by
mounting the exquisitely        crossing the   Gave   de Pau and
                                 rich cote on   the
                                                     other side --

going out by the road to Lourdes, and returning by
that to the Eaux-Bonnes. As expected, found in
the midst of rich scenery some magnificent points of4Ia
view, especially that of the Pic de Midi de Pau, looking
                                   is            I
up the Eaux-Bonnes road, which bordered by poplars
of   ...great height.
.... The springs of Eaux-Bonnes enjoy high reputa
            :                 left at p.m. for Eaux-Bonnes.

...tion, especially when taken inwardly.I            It veryis

singular that of two of the springs, which are about 200;:
yards from each other, one should be hot spring, and the
other cold, or nearly so and that with nearly the samea
constitution, as Dr. Darrall assures me the cold one
                                               ;

containing, however, more sulphur. The costumes are

very picturesque the women wear showy red hoods,
flat topped and peaked and the men, scarlet sashes of
silk or worsted, which contrast admirably with the dark
brown garments of undyed wool with which they are

clothed from head to foot.'

     Eaux-Bonnes was succeeded by Eaux-Chaudes, with its

splendid gorge, to which  Forbes had seen      nothing superior,
except the Via Mala.                           was valley of
                           If ever there
                          '

                               is

                                                   Ia
disruption,' he writes, 'it this one, though do not
pretend always to decide. This confirms Dr. Daubeny's
via.]                      TRAVELS, 1835.                              215

theory of hot springs, especially as these waters issue

just at the junction of the granite and limestone. The
limestone rises always to the granite, more as it ap
            it,
                                              in horizontal strata
                  it                             could judge from

                                       is

                                        I
proaches       and at last     elevated
on the top    of -- at least  so far as

a very imperfect examination. What confirms the view
of the granite being the upheaving agent
                                                                   is  that the

valley of disruption perpendicular in direction to the
           is
strata (Hopkins' theory).a       remarkable that there

                       a
                        a

                                is

                                 a It

                                                  is
                                                                a
are marks of water wearing (obviously not weathering)

on the rocks at great height above the torrent.'
    The scenery appeared to him more and more beautiful
as he passed on by Argeles to Luz, little village lying
on the brink of brawling stream, embosomed in rich

meadows, and crowned by quaint old castle, the chapel
of which
              remarkable specimen of Romanesque archi

tecture. The hotels, even there, were delightful compared
with those of many more pretentious localities, and for

four weeks Forbes made this charming spot his head

quarters.

                           Journal, July 14.

....Following the custom of the place, hired pony and
'                                I
             a                         it I

                       is                                      a

                                                               it

                                                                             is
rode to Barege             As unfortunately the supply of the

Barege water               quite inadequate to the demand,
constantly husbanded in cisterns, where must necessarily
undergo change of temperature, depending more or less
on the season. For this reason took the temperature of
only three of the principal springs as they flowed from
their cisterns. In these reservoirs the baregine or fatty
                                           procured some with
matter  is  copiously deposited
                           a
                                                                       trying
                                          :

                                   I
                                           I

                                                       it

                                                                    is,
                                                                                is
difficulty, the bath-keeper, whose perquisite

as usual to mystify me. The country people have great
faith in its application as poultice, but believe this

not sanctioned by the faculty, who, however, seem to be
in almost profound ignorance of the mode in which

these waters operate, for     sometimes as unaccountably
                           is it

                                 is

                                                                  it

                                                                              is
energetic as  it           at others the reverse. Certain

                   is

that the greatest care     necessary in the use of them,
216                 THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                  [chap.

and in some cases they have been confessedly fatal.

IBarege is a perfect hospital, and one is stared at for not

having crutches. In the evening rode up the magni
ficent pass of Les Echelles, towards Gavarnie.'

                        To Miss E. Forbes.            'Luz, July 22.

     '     ..  .1   am  still  enjoying       myself  amazingly,  and,

        .
although I have been here ten days, I have seldom spent
ten days more agreeably. I have been singularly fortunate
in my quarters, a fact which makes me the more unwilling

to leave them and try my fortune in some other place.
I have a delightful room,
in the extreme. They at                and    the  pineotoplemyarewaaytste--ntaivned
                                       once   got
my ways are pretty irregular except that I always dine
...at four, which gives me a long evening to walk or ride, and
in the morning I am up at five or half-past.                      I have

been twice at the       top of         a mountain called the Pic                 de
                                       feet above my bedroom -- and
Bergons-- which is      4,501                                                     it

gave me        one  of the finest      views  in   thfaemPoyursene"ecs.irqueFr"omof
               (as                     seen   the
it only             yet) have I
Gavarnie, with its cascade 1,400 feet high, although it is
distant no more than a three hours' ride. This may surprise

you, but I do not go post haste to the sights. . . . The Pic

de Bergons is charming, and although about 7,000 feet

above the sea, it is enamelled to the top with the most
beautiful flowers, while on one side it is clothed with

Iwatered and mown grass slopes, almost to the summit . . .

   ' went to spend last Sunday in a very wild valley,
                               t"heallupthpeerwpoarrldt "ofonwhthicehEvtheeroef
the Vallee d'Héas, in                                                            is a
chapel, resorted to by                                                           the

IAssumption. It was
                               no fete-day when I was there, so
                                                          ascceonnesrcyi,enwceith"
ospnelyntthteheaphpoaurarstusamoofn"g  grand and savage
                                       a prayer-book and
I(as Dr. C
                    would say), and spent them much to my
Imind. Nor did think the occasion desecrated because

Imy geological hammer accompanied me. . . .
   ' I like the people         hereabouts better      ath"anboannynatuhraevl,e"
                               me to have really
seen ; they appear to
vIII.]                       TRAVELS, 1835.                                      217

and not to be spoiled by strangers, of whom there are very
few, except invalids. As I was gargling my throat this
morning (having got it
tdheec"hadmeabdrethbroalwtesd! "in'to  relaxed), the good, worthy                femme
                                                                                 was in
                                        my room, thinking that I

                             Journal, July 18.

   ' I ascended the Pic de Bergons in magnificent weather.
I left Luz at about six, and though I ascended very gently,
I reached the summit, not by the easiest path, in exactly
three hours. This surprised me, as its height, according to
Reboul and Vidal, is about 730 toises, or nearly 4,700 feet
              Fifty minutes from the top I found
above Luz.                                                                    a  copious
spring with   a temperature of 40°'5, and as                                     walked
                                                                              I
                             its height above Luz may be 3,400 feet
pretty  ;unbiufot rImhlya,d  not my barometer. At the top, a little
nearly
to the south, and in the shade, I swung my needles very

carefully, but the observation was almost entirely vitiated
by the discovery of
after all was over,          aImndydidgaewfotaelonrgt iIcita.hl acdomppraesvsiouinslymysepaorcckheetd,
for it in vain when
...' The view was very magnificent : it was my first sight
of Gavarnie.                 I descended a very steep and fatiguing

path towards St. Laurent (which is not visible from the
summit), and was well rewarded by a most exquisite
view of the last-named village and the valley of Luz,

which, from the extreme steepness of the mountain, seems
to lie under one's very feet. This, with the stream of
the Gave, mapped out as it were upon
I                                                                             in all its

            a

               II
                      ?) I

                                     I

                                                                         it,
windings, formed the most exquisite picture of the kind
              must not forget to commemorate a visit
have seen.

from two immense eagles, as            sat alone on the top.
One of these, which had for some time watched making
his circuit, seemed suddenly attracted by my appearance,
and with the utmost coolness made towards me. He came

so near that absolutely thought he was going to pounce
upon my straw hat. But after coming quite close, and
making two circles of reconnaissance around my head,
(qu. good omen he solemnly flew off with his
218            THE LIFE OF JAMES 1). FORBES.                             [chap.

Imate towards the Vielles Niéges.  estimate the span
of his wings at three and a half or four feet at least.
The geological structure of the Pic de Bergons is exactly

what I anticipated from the examination of its base as

seen from the road to Gavarnie : alternating traps, slates,
and limestone, the latter extremely slaty at the summit.'

               To Miss Forbes.

     I'                           ' Argeles, Hautes Pyrenees, August 5.
        ...
               write to you from a place which, from its
situation, may be considered a paradise. It is just

where the mountains are lowering themselves into the
plains, and where a southern climate is combined with
the freshness and variety of mountain scenery. All the
little hills are covered with chestnut trees, and trellised

with vines, while the cottage gardens are filled with

Ibeautiful peach and fig trees, the latter covered with
fruit. . . . This morning         have come on fast from

Cauterets, one of the most beautiful and (unfortunately)
fashionable of the Pyrenean watering-places, the environs
being most romantic, and more in the                    of the Alps
than any part of the Pyrenees with which  sItyalem      acquainted.
IThe pine grows in characteristic abundance, and in this

   confess I have a great delight, for it is a far finer
mountain tree than the oak, or beech, or even chestnut,

which abound elsewhere.           There is some most                     savage
                                                                         but all
scenery near Cauterets, and       assp"leMndoirddewcaaitetrhfeallJse--w
this profits nothing so long                                              sits at

the gate," and one is subjected to all the misery of fashion

able infestation, much discomfort, and exorbitant charges.

. . . From what I have seen, which is yet but a small
hpI aawsrti,slleIennaomtthegdiivAseplpossaedw" efitlnlo,alnsaedyeedl(iavnleotrhtaonducigeeho")fwdtithehasptDairar.nyiCfohnhaeelmdwoeheross
                                                                he must
not   see the  oPbysreernvee,esI  (which otherwise of   course
do).     But                       include the Italian          which I
                                                        Alps,
think among the noblest, and without which he could
not have a conception of the mixture of Alpine and
Italian scenery which surrounds me here. For example,
viii.]                            TRAVELS, 1835.                            219

it seems to me that the Pyrenees have even more

peculiarities than the Italian Alps, and some advantages
over them, especially in the character of the people.
Here, almost everything is peculiar, and the flowers are
almost all different from ours.'

                                  Journal, July 29.

   ' I left Luz on foot at half-past five, for Gavarnie. . . .
Beyond Gedre, where we breakfasted, I found, in accord
ance with the accurate account of Charpentier, magnificent
crystallized limestone in the granite : the granite here,
like that of Heas, is altogether a strange rock, and often

passes into a slaty structure, becoming gneiss, or mica
slate, besides enclosing masses of these rocks, and forming
an absolute breccia. But where crystalline, it seems to

me never stratified : the fissures and the flat surfaces they

leave can never be traced to any distance, and when they

disappear, are as often at right angles to the former as
not. The appearance of vertical stratification is often
caused by the rain-courses, as in the valley of the Reuss
at St. Gothard, to some parts of which this valley has a

gre'aAturgesuesmt b1la1n. --ce.I    ..   .        at five,   on horseback,  and

                                  left  Gavarnie

in an hour arrived at the Cirque . . . attaining the Breche
Ide Roland a little before
gI uifdoeundh,adasproneoxupneccteedd,   ten.  glaNcoietwrsith"staasnsedzingmétchhaatntms,y"
                                        the

                                        that it only required a little
patience to make good each step with an axe, and that
real danger there was none. . . . Until the new snow
                  it is all
has     melted,    little          straight  wthalaktingI .      ...  to  Gavarnie
                                  fatigued,
     '  I was so                                             walked

by preference, riding to Gedre in the afternoon.

   ' I never enjoyed an excursion more. The Breche itself

quite exceeded    my expectations, and well repaid                          my
second ascent.                                                              not
                  I fouud that the first time I had

been more than thirty minutes' easy walking from the

top. The view of the Cirque from Saradetz is magni

ficent, as from this point it loses the coniined look it has

from below.'
220           THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                  [chap.

    Forbes' next resting-place was Bagnieres de Luchon,
and while there he made an excursion into Spain, which,
although rapid, was not devoid of small adventures.

                  Journal, August 16.

' I started for an excursion into Spain, that
                                                                                          a for the
                                                                                                       1 is is,
Vallee d'Aran, the upper part of the valley of the
                                                                                                      I
Garonne, which has been very awkwardly separated
from France. left Luchon at about seven, with Bertrand                                                               is
il

              A le I
                                                             !
                             I le
Lafond, the old guide of my friend M. de Raffetot, who,
ipnliscreeirtcayo,bm"iemSnei nhdeiunrbgeounhximD"ieautondmet,aromreumvdeiasrpakouessdesd,i  with great sim
                                                                                             brave que moi,
                                                                                             to say as much
of him myself. The walk to Boussos, or Bosost,

charming.     gently rising, richly-wooded valley leads
to the Port de Portillon, from whence we descended

to Bosost, where the fete of the Assumption                                                 chiefly

celebrated.'

                  To Miss Forbes.

                     'Bagnieres de Luchon, Aug. 17.

        have just returned from an excursion of two daysI'I
into Spain, where slept last night. Yesterday started
with fine morning from hence, and in three hoursaI
was in Bosost, where found men gaudily dressed, with
showy embroidered silk handkerchiefs, worn as ladies

do, dancing the Bolero but while strolling about fell;
in with far more interesting sight, chapel seated
          a

amongst rocks on the banks of the Garonne, where mass
was being said. All the neighbouring rocks were covered
with men, women,  gaanuddychidldrreesnsesin--tqhueitaettiStupdaenisohf--prwayheilre,
all in the most

several pilgrims with staff and escalop completed the
scene, la Wilkie. Having stayed some hours, might
     d

                           I

                                                                                         .

                                                                 .'

                                                          I

                                                                                            a
have returned here with the other less enterprising curious
who went to Bosost, but had arranged to sleep at La
Vielle, the capital of the Vall6e d'Aran, and to return

different way by the mountains. .
viii.]                            TRAVELS, 1835.                    221

                        Journal (continued).

  ' I left Bosost for Viella at half-past three, and in an

hour and a half reached Las Bordas, where I was rudely
stopped by some ragamuffins of the Spanish National
Guards (Urbanos). My permission from the Maire of
Luchon to go to Viella and return by the gorge of
Artigues de Lin and the Port de Venasque was exa

mined, and then my baggage (which had been already
examined) and           myself    wGeorveerfnorowr arodfedV,ieulnlad,ertothewhcohmargeI
of an Urbano,           to the

carried a letter from M. Barron, of Luchoii. Of course

I thought my troubles were ended, but the Governor
proved a genuine Spaniard, hasty and caustic, and
ordered my immediate return, under guard, to Las
          treating me with scant courtesy. I
Bordas,                                                 at once
resolved  to descend at night to Bosost, where
                                                        I could

lIodegffeecbteedtteart  than at   the  posada at Las Bordas, and this
                        the risk       travelling in Spain at ten o'clock
                                  of

Iaaheoltslutnascibeogln--hisvth,ewmnhhieeaicnnvhtitn--gsIpnepoheetadrd.foqrulmeAitfeettdlianptsohtstehaIedjoaaum,rrrnoivaerenynddinfgrao,atmlmathnoVedsiteewlxlpahcreeiwvlrleaeittneht

had been lodged in the most cleanly and comfortable
manner, with the delicacy and attention of a private

family. The dancing was still going on, so I remained
until half-past eleven, witnessing the Bolero and Fan
                                            with great
tdhaengmo,enw. hicIh      were kept    up   bed by the  spirit chiefly by
                        was escorted    to              two masters and

the mistress of the house, and slept so admirably that 1
could not hesitate to pay a charge of 8fr. next morn
ing, four of which,
quantities of bows      at least, might           well be ascribed  to the
                         and civilities
                                                  I had received
Having slept a night in Spain, I left it Spanish fashion,
Iescorted by a troop of dancers, who danced me out of
the village.            forgot to mention that a priest, a brother
of mine host, joined in the dances with all the alacrity of
the rest. It was quite a domestic performance, and there

were no strangers but myself. . . .
222              THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                 [chap.

     ' August 18. -- Started from Luchon about six for the
Port de Venasque                        Jts opening on Spain was

magnificent, but the Maledetta was much clouded :
fortunately, however, the mists cleared away so far as to
let me have a complete view of this giant mountain, with
its prodigious glaciers, which seem to me to rival those
of Mont Blanc, and to vie with the ice-fields of Grindel-

wald. The valley of Venasque is a fitting foreground for
such a scene : bare rocks with only scattered pines, savage
in the extreme. Altogether this is far the finest thing

I have seen in the Pyrenees.
  ' From the Port de Venasque I descended into Spain
for an hour and a half to see the Trou du Taureau, a

most singular spot, which I wonder is not more known.
A river as large as the water of Leith, but incomparably
more rapid and deep, is lost at once in a limestone gulf

with precipitous banks. The river partly flows under the
solid rock, and is partly carried in vortices through open
ings in the sand which has accumulated at the bottom of
the crater-shaped gulf. The river reappears in the valley
oanf dArItigshuoeuslddehaLvine,  communicating with the Vallne d'Aran,
                                 seen its new source but for the incivility
of the Governor. There can be no doubt of the identity of

the streams.    After            much   irtaihnim(asselmf) y  guide informed    me,
stating that  he had              seen                        the water rises  to a

great height in the crater from want of sufficient outlet ;
and when this is the case, the stream reappears in the

valley of Venasque at a spot which I saw, not very far from

the Trou du Taureau, being forced out of its subterranean
bed, no doubt, by the hydraulic pressure in the crater.'

   Quitting Luchon with regret, he entered the depart
ment of the Arriege at St. Beat, and travelled by St.

lGeitrtoenrstotohisAxsi,stefrrom:--which town he dates the following

                 To Miss E. Forbes.

I'                               ' Ax, Depautement de l'Arriege, Augutt 26.
  .
     .  .  Here  am, in quite a new country, perhaps less

frequented by strangers than almost any part of Europe
tin.]                TRAVELS, 1835.                   223

furnished with good roads. . . . But notwithstanding all
this, and although the mineral waters are stated to be
more abundant here than anywhere else, and equal in
quality to those of  Bareges, nobody comes here unless
from Toulouse and
                     Ithe neighbourhood. Altogether,
am very glad that I  Icame here, not only because have
seen a great deal of good scenery on my way from

Luchon, but also because there is perhaps no other part
of France where you find the French quite pure and
unmixed with strangers ; and moreover, being a place of
considerable local resort, there is a good hotel. The

abundance of hot water here is something extraordinary.
There are sixty or seventy springs in the town, and one
of them, in the market-place, of the great temperature
of 168° (scalding hot), constantly sends forth a stream as
thick as your arm, to the great convenience of the
inhabitants, who use it for washing and every sort of

purpose. This is by far the hottest spring I have seen,
except the baths of Nero, and perhaps the most abundant.

It is marvellous to think where all this comes from,

but the quantity of the Pyrenean waters is indeed sur

prising. . . .
' I was dreaming, the night before last, of my arrival
at home. I am not
I have enjoyed it  tiinrecrdeaosfinmglyy.jourIneaym;  on the contrary,
                                                      more and more

convinced of the value of such a fallow for the mind,
connected with the most favourable reaction upon it of
a vigorous bodily state. Yet it is curious how in travel
ling my thoughts almost always recur to old times, and
to the sacred associations of childhood, which, about my

time of life, begin to be forcibly felt. Circumstances
the most minute present themselves in fresh and glowing
colours both in my daily walks and nightly dreams ; and
gbmorefeaaenounyutirf"ua--lfnedafaossrtmes,spatsonfooyrrofawMbhtoriixm.c-hterSe, heitsaw,nhudehsneadvsewaytaIosn--rdebecearoinnld"lgecmtrteyehdcraoftlauhlevgedohudrattihhtyeees
pattern with which I used to decorate the table, my
favourite employment. Yes, the coup d'ceil of a vast
224            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                         [chap.

series of those sumptuous entertainments in all the

various parts      of poor Collinton are                    pIrefseeenl teidt        to my
imagination.       Pleasing reveries, which                                         a privi
lege to be able to recall, and which people the solitary
hills and valleys of a distant land (to the eye of one who
would be still solitary though all the villages below were
              kthinedirretdh--ronagnsd)   with the  images of country,
                                          of some   faces which could
******to turn out
never   be  seen again      bfuotr --for  the  aid  of      that  same              happy
home, andspiritassociation
        of               ;

                " She can give us back the dead,
              E'en in the loveliest looks they wore."

I did not think to have been led from the hot waters of
IaAdnexaurtnoEfe.wl--tritteionmgeontsidoeennat--vimouernwtot,oublduimt wpwaisrrhtititnaogfecaeoslninvIged,yonsotootmeytoonuao,ftfimeocnyt
of the trains of thought with
                                          pwwrohhniocomhunItcreamve"eelbltiineignn   after my
fashion (which the Frenchmen                                                        parties of
from six to   twenty or     thirty                                                  triste ! ")
inspires me.    But this                  one of its greatest advan
                            I think

tages. . , .

   ' The inns in these regions are not in general very bad,
but the attendance is execrable, and affords a lesson of

patience which one might go through the worst parts of
Britain without learning. To get hot water to make tea
has cost me more running up and down stairs, more
strength of lungs (not a bell in the Pyrenees), and
more twirling of   thumbs, than all the conduct of an
English journey.
                   I have acquired an intimate acquaint
ance with the French cuisine in the same way, and
marvellous it is to see the dinners they turn out with
one or two saucepans, a few bits of live charcoal, a
gridiron, and an infinite number of earthen pots, which
in this                                                          Another            of the
French   country   awrehicpherfeI cthasvaelamaalwnadeyrss.  intended to
          arts of                                                                    speak

is that  of the coiffure of the women in                    the S.W. of
France,  between Bordeaux and Bareges.
                                                              It consists
viii.]                       TRAVELS, 1835.                                       225

simply of a handkerchief, -- very pretty, certainly, but ad
justed with extraordinary skill. . . . The art appeared to
             wellanWdoratchtulaelalyrn"incgo,ifftehdat"  I
me      so                                                     served an apprentice
ship         it,                                         a     demoiselle in shop
         to             it,                                      I
                                                              ;              a
at Bareges, with the greatest success so that hope to he

able to impart               and, like Brummel and his neck-cloth,

to leave an imperishable legacy to my country. .
                                                                 .
                                                                         .'

   After another descent into Spain for the purpose of
examining the springs of Las Escaldas and its neigh
bourhood, Forbes passed on by Veronet and Arles to
Perpignan, where he finally took leave of the Pyrenees,
and, travelling by diligence to Toulouse, entered the
volcanic districts of Auvergne, and established his head

quarters at Clermont.

                             To Miss Forbes.

                                                         Clermont, September 22.
                             '

                                  it

                                                a

                                                I
        . Clermont seems to me the most pleasantly
'.               all the large towns of France which have
                  perched upon an eminence rising from an
      .
                .

            is
situated of

seen. It
extensive and fertile plain, which forms sort of bay
amongst the hills which surround for two-thirds of
the horizon. These hills are, for the most part, con
nected with plateau or table-land of granite, from
                   a

which the volcanoes rise and of these, the Puy de
                             ;

                                                is
D6me, the highest and most noted, conspicuous from
Clermont, being about the distance of the nearest Pent-
lands from Edinburgh, and greatly resembling some of

them in shape.

   'You are not to suppose that the word volcano, as
applied to most of these hills, has anything problematical
it,

                                                       Q

                                                                  if
in for they are as obviously volcanic as Vesuvius, and
their vast torrents of uncultivated lava occupy the

valleys with their cindeiy masses like those of Vesuvius

or Ischia. The craters whence the lava has proceeded

are equally visible, and often so red as to look as
they were still glowing hot. Besides these unequivocal
volcanoes, there are others of diverse character which
226            THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.  [chap.

serve to connect the former with the origin of mountains,
like Arthur's Seat and the Pentlands -- whence the im
portance of Auvergne for geology. . . . The Puy de
Ddme was the first mountain up which a barometer was

Icarried, at the suggestion of the famous Pascal, and

ascended it fully as much in reverence for his memory

Ias on any other account. He was a most remarkable

man ; and as he was a native of this place, hoped to
have obtained some new particulars about him, but in

this I have failed.'

               Journal, Sept. 16.

     ' I left Clermont on horseback for Mont Dor. The

morning was fine, but the Puy de D6me was clouded

over, and we ascended the granite plateau from which
the chain of Puys arise, until the Puy de la Vache and

its neighbouring volcanic orifices appeared, when we

crossed the lava streams to which they give rise, and
which are cpjite similar to those of Vesuvius, with only

a stunted vegetation of birches and willows.

   ' The craters of La Vache and Lassolas are well pre

served, and completely thrown open on the S.W. side,

to which they have directed their lava streams. . . .
There is quite a circle of craters here, among which
Mont Jughat and Mont Chat are conspicuous. But the
rain soon began to fall and rendered more uninteresting
an uninteresting eountry, until I reached the Mont Dor,
when it poured torrents, so that I was soon chilled and

wet. During the descent the weather moderated, and
... II was able to admire the very pretty scenery of the
valley.        was, however, truly glad to arrive at my

destination.'

               Journal, Sept. 19.

   ' A cloudy morning, as usual at Mont Dor, but it
cleared up, and I started about half-past eight to return

to Clermont by a circuitous route. I found my way
with some difficulty to the rock of La Thuilliere, which
with the Roche Sanadoire forms one of Elie de Beaumont's
vIII.]                TRAVELS, 1835.                            227

centres of soulevement. The road, although marked as

such in Desmarest's admirable maps, does not exist in
                                                             I asked a
some places ; but notwithstanding this,              when   my way, I
                      it                              lose
peasant on entering       "wOhhe,thmeor n1    could  non."     In a fog
got the usual answer  :                     Dieu !

it would be impracticable without a guide, but the
absolute stupidity of the peasantry in giving local indi
Ications is quite characteristic of them. . . . Stopping at
Malvialle,     climbed to the top of La Thuilliere and

enjoyed a superb view. La Roche Sanadoire is a noble
object, and the hills round this supposed centre of eleva
               remarkably the form of an
                these rocks phonolite --
Ition   have                                Iamsphhoituhledatrrea.therEvhearvye
        calls
one
named them compact felspar, as did not observe the
sonorous character, nor the vitreous lustre. But it little

matters.

'The Sanadoire is beautifully columnar, and the
Thuilliere, although also columnar, splits readily into
Itabular heaps. A little to the north of these rocks, on the

other side of the valley, found granite not indicated
                                                            of
...by Beaumont orDesmarest,    and the      situation           which
                               close to     the Puy         de  Dome
is remarkable.      I passed
and descended to Clermont by La Barraque, reaching it
about five.

   ' September 20. -- . . . Ascended to La Barraque, and

collected the fine basalt with olivine which occasionally
occurs in a very singular manner : having all the cha
racters of imbedded masses of granite, when examined
it turns out to be only olivine, with some reddish

cretaceous and clayey matter. May not olivine be

formed from roasted Igranite 1 . . . continued to

ascend to the Fontaine du Berger on the great road to
                struck off to  the Puy de Pariou (whose
Limoges, then    had for some  time been following), and

lava current I

reached its base in two and a half hours' slow walking
from Clermont.

   ' I ascended to its summit, but was sorry to find its
lovely bowl-shaped crater covered with grass and heath,
instead of being in its native beauty. Thence 1 went

                          Q2
                THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                          [chap.

slowly on to the Puy de Dome, which I ascended from
the Petit Puy. . . .
   ' Mem. -- Decomposed                        granite is sometimes hardly

sdaismtiengiunigsrheadbileentsfro: mI   tuff,   and domite has nearly the
                                       have    no doubt that it is an altered

granite. . . . The view from the top, which is easy of
ascent, and not so high above the plateau as it looks,

is very noble, and I admire more and more the situation

of Clermont. The form of the mountain is that of a

parabola squared down at the vertex, and its top has

somewhat of a crater aspect, but it has obviously been
artificially dealt with. A chapel built of quarried basalt

and scoriae formerly existed.

   ' 1 descended by the valley of Royat, which I was
rather too fatigued to enjoy, as I had not recovered from

my cold and the fatigue of Mont Dor. I reached Cler

mont at five.'

                Journal, Sept. 22.

' I left Pontgibaud under the guidance of my innkeeper,

to see the Fontaine d'Oule, a hollow in the great lavai
stream which contains ice in summer, and none in

winter. A guide was most necessary, not only to find
the place amidst that scene of desolation, but when

found to find the                      ice, the season   being     so  far ad
vanced that scarcely                   any remained ;   but a   piece   " large

enough to swear by" was at length discovered. My
theory of this is simple. There are notably many parts
of the cheire, or lava stream, where snow lies in the

hollows during  most of the year.                       dTehtaechecdheibrelockbse,ingI
composed here   almost entirely of
presume that the melting of the said masses of snow pro
duces currents of water at 32°, which, dropping through
this grotto at a spot entirely sheltered from the rays of

the sun, may readily by its own evaporation be suffi

ciently cool to render it solid. It is obvious that this

process can only go on while the ice is melting, i.e.
in spring and summer ; in winter, as the source is frozen,

there is no further accumulation of ice.
vIII.]                   TRAVELS, 1835.            .2-2'J

' From thence I took the road to Volvic, passing to
the west of the Puy de Louchadiere (i.e. La Chadiere,
or, hi patois, the arm-chair), whence comes the lava which
                                         After
is crystallized  near    Pechadoire.  the lava  a pleasant ride
of about two     hours,                          quarries above
                          I reached
Volvic, situated in the coulee of the Puy de la Nugere.
The lava was remarkably fissile in the direction of its
length, most in a horizontal, then in a vertical plane ;
and the cavities, which are numerous, are in the same

direction. Near the surface, and also, as the workmen
told me, near the bottom of the coulee, this struc
                 It becomes compact       like
ture is lost.                            -- so  basalt, and is
no longer able     to be readily split,
                                                far is it from

being true that lavas are always most porous near

the surface.

   ' From Volvic to Clermont I followed an agreeable road
near the base of the granite
several coulees of recent lava.       table-land,  and passed

about two hours from Volvic.'         I reached    Clermont in

Forbes made no stay at Clermont, but started at

once for Paris, journeying without intermission through
the rich country watered by the Allier and Loire.
At Paris he conversed with MM. Arago, Libri, and

FresneL and obtained from the former the temperature

of the hot springs observed by him, making at the
same time a careful comparison of the thermometers
actually used, with his own. By M. Melloni, Forbes
                  to Baron Humboldt, ' whom        I found,'
was introduced
he says, ' very  much what I expected, but I       had little
time to form a judgment of him. He is very con
versational, especially on subjects connected with his
own labours, and speaks English fluently. His face

is not very striking, and does not at first sight greatly
convey the idea of intellectual power.' Forbes only spent
two days in Paris, and then travelled back straight to

Edinburgh.
230      THE LIFE OF JA.VES D. FORBES.  [chap.

   The following sketch of Forbes's tour in 1837 is
contributed by Mr. E. C. Batten, who was his travelling
companion on that occasion. The latter had been for
some time his pupil, and between them a deep and

affectionate friendship had grown up. Shortly before,
Forbes, in his official capacity as Dean of the Faculty
of Arts, had presented him, together with the other
successful candidates, for admission to their academical

degrees, and at the close of the session proposed to him
that they should travel to Germany together.

         Mr. Batten's Narrative.

     'Early in the May of 1837, Professor Forbes and I
started from London for Antwerp, the first stage of the
longest tour ever made by him in one year.

    ' His first object in visiting Germany on this occasion

, was to acquire thoroughly the German language, and for

this purpose he proposed passing six weeks at Bonn ; we

accordingly travelled thither by Antwerp and Brussels

(where we received a warm welcome from Professor
Quetelet), Aix-la-Chapelle, and Cologne.

   ' Very happy were the six weeks we passed at Bonn.
The unusual lateness of the spring caused us to be in
time for the first glorious burst of green leaves in the

woods which surround Godesberg, and clothe the sides of
many of the Siebengebirge. Our mornings were taken
up by German lessons, and the lectures of the Pro

fessors ; and after a mid-day dinner at a table d'hSte,
our afternoons were devoted to exploring in every
direction the lovely scenery which surrounded us. . . .
     .A' The simple society of the Professors of the University
was always open to us. . .  pleasant country walk,

preceded by a tea, or followed by a supper, formed the
staple of their modest, yet kindly hospitality ; but this
enabled us to enjoy still more the intellectual and well-
sustained conversations arising out of such social inter

course.

     'Among the names of those whose acquaintanceship

we enjoyed, and whose lectures we attended during our
viii.]     TRAVELS, 1837.  231

sojourn at Boun, I may mention Dr. Klauscn, who

lectured on mythology ; Professor Moggerath, Dr. Sach,
and Professor Walter, whose subjects were moral philo
sophy and law ; Professor Goldfuss, Professor Mendels
sohn (grandson of the composer), and Schlegel : above
all, Baron von Buch, the geologist, with whose vigorous
mind and enormous attainments Forbes seems to have
been particularly struck.'

ForTbhees'sfoollwowninjogurancaclsou:n--t of their meeting is taken from

                      Journal, June 15.

' Finding Von Buch here, I left my letter from Pro
fessor Jameson for him, and in the course of an hour he

called. 1 was instantly charmed with the kindness and

simplicity of his manner ; and as I could see at once that
his character for singularity was not one which I had any

reason to  f1eo6anrth, c. rw--aeteVrwosenroeBfuimechlmevheaadtviiaointneg,lyIgievleexfcntelmfloeerntlhafismrtieenovdnesen. inogf

   ' June

his paper
mine on the same subject, as well as another on the

Pyrenean springs, and this morning I had a visit from

him, and a long conversation on the latter subject. He
expressed himself as being much struck with my paper,
and thought my remarks on the influence of granite, at
its junction with other rocks, on springs, original. . . .
Altogether he was much pleased with it. As to the
history of the elevation theory, he states that he first
p----oiacnhltleieodfflyowuhbtiycfhoturararceeinlwegevlaltthiseoenesrnivbeinerl-ocGnorguimirnsmges's.tomdaTiphffeeorefmnGoteurenmptoaacinnhyss

about the Elbe form one system, the Tauuus mountains

another, the Schwartz-Wald a third, and the Alps a
fourth ; . . . pointing out, as evidence of the compara
tively recent elevation of the latter, the inclination of
the tertiary strata. He gives Elie de Beaumont the
credit of finding exact criteria for determining epochs of
elevation, but attached little probability to the theory
of parellelism on a large scale, considering the systems
232      THE LIVE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                     [chap.

of chains rather overdone. . . . He considers that car

bonated springs are, as a rule, higher in temperature
than others, and spoke of the large number of them
...which are found in Nassau and in other countries, the
deeper valleys of which contain hot springs.              He

also spoke of a theory of variations of atmospheric

pressure in summer and winter, depending on the fact
that the superior current will sooner find its way to the
surface of the earth in winter than in summer. . . .

   'In the afternoon I observed the dip of the magnetic
needle at Poppelsdorf, with very concordant results, and
afterwards called on Professor Gustav Bischoff, who

showed me the sheets of his work on the temperature of
the earth. He had made experiments on springs, with
                               obof thdeercerdeas"e                      in
a view to getting   awalas w"                         of  temperature    of
ascending ; but he                                   by   the influence

the proper temperature of the different depths from

which they take their origin. He does not consider that

...carbonated springs arc, generally speaking, hotter than
others.  He has also made experiments on the

cooling of spheres of melted basalt, having a diameter of
twenty-seven inches, and others of nine inches. He
finds for thermometers at different depths in arithmetical

progression, the temperature increase geometrically, and
the velocity of cooling is as the diameter simply, and
refers to Newton's experiment, which it confirms,
and which seems curiously mangled in quotation by
Dulong and Petit. The specific gravity of glassy slag
is less than that of slowly cooled basalt. . . . Von Buch

came in as we were examining these.
    ' Bischoff also took a piece of basalt, split in two, and
      together with twine (the  use of the two
tied  the completeness of the   fusion), fixed             pieces was to
test
                                                          it in the axis

of a cylindrical mould, and poured molten iron round it.
This latter in cooling (according to him) expanded and

Isqueezed the basalt. Certainly, many dykes of basalt in

iron appeared, very prettily, but doubt the squeezing,
especially from the large cavities left in the iron, a fact
which was also noticed by Von Buch : whether there
vIII.]              TRAVELS, 1837.                            233

toJwould be squeezing or not, would be somewhat difficult
    Ipredict...--.
                    went  to  the  Drachenfels  by  steamer,  in
    ' une 17 th.

order to make my preparations for a course of hourly

meteorological observations at which I purposed assisting,
when who should I find at the steamer but Von Buch, on

  his way to Paris, to which he intends going on foot from
  Mayence, although he had not said a syllable about it
last night. He received me with his usual cordiality,

and we had so pleasant a chat that I regretted our arrival
  at Konigswinter. Speaking, amongst other things, of

  mathematics, he remarked that their invention requires

  tctmhooaenbtrtieeicnfioasutrneiemsd,",ublhea"eitnelagadddmnbeaoydtru,earne"oraiatplepipsseslaulasphtfoadyl'sseniecsaiptspurtirsrtie.ncq;iupo"elreiEgnnitnoouaeslbf.fuemitl,ad"Athnuhedpe

  complicated explanations to account for one or two
  observed facts. Let facts multiply themselves until they

  explain one another. If this does not happen, I would

  renounce a theory which should require me to argue,
  instead of to interpret nature." '

                Mr. Batten's Narrative resumed.

      ' We made two or three excursions from Bonn, each

  having for its object something of scientific interest ;
  and after a short absence in the country of the Upper
  Rhine, during which Forbes had remained at Bonn, we
  met at Konigswinter for the purpose of carrying out a
  plan, into which he warmly entered, of continuing on
  the heights of the Drachenfels a series of meteorological
  observations, which had been taken by a society of the
  students of the Natural Philosophy class in Edinburgh for
  some time past. He had never attended our meetings,
  but had encouraged the formation and progress of the
  society, and now joined me in taking the observations

  hourly for two days and a night. It was this hearty

  zest with which he encouraged and entered into the
  efforts of his students, whose love of science had been

  first roused by himself, that forged so firm and lasting
234  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                        [chap.

a link between him and them ; . . . and now, after

five lustra spent in law chambers and law courts, 1

can look back with undiminished interest to that watch
on the " castled crag of Drachenfels," beside one of the

purest votaries of Science, to whom she was unfolding
every day more and more her wonders and her blessings.
   ' On the 26th of June we had finished our studies at

Bonn, and proceeded by Gbttingen and the Hartz moun

tains to Berlin. At Gottingen our stay was short, but
we visited the Professors, especially Blumenbach, and

W older, the Professor of Chemistry ; while Forbes in
terested himself greatly in the system of management
and mode of education followed at the University. We

then walked through the forests of the Hartz, examining
the geology of that district, sleeping on the Brocken
and testing our thermometers in its snowdrifts, and after
an interesting visit to the haematite iron mines of Back-
berg, we reached Berlin early in July.
   ' At Berlin we remained for a fortnight together, pre
serving pretty much the same course of study as we had

done at Bonn. Our German lessons were renewed, and

we attended lectures on various branches of science,

while many of the Professors, among whom I may name
Gustav Rose\ Weis, Ehrenberg, and Encke, were most
kind and attentive in making us acquainted with all the
objects of scientific interest which Berlin could afford.
. . . With Professor Encke Forbes was principally
--chatrhmeedla. tterHias
                          astronomical and his magnetic  observatory
                          pretty cottage in a garden,    charmingly
situated at some little distance from the centre of the
town -- supplied my fellow-traveller with two inexhaus
tible sources of pleasure : a splendid telescope by Fraun-

hofer, and a spot for swinging his magnetic needles, and
continuing the series of delicate observations on the
direction and intensity of magnetic force, which he had

commenced at Bonn.

   'Al\va)'s more thoughtful for others than for himself,
my dear friend chafed under the notion of keeping me
within the walls of a city during the dog-days, and
v1U.]                     TRAVELS, 1837.                                                 235

accordingly persuaded me to go before him into Saxon

Switzerland. He soon after joined me at Dresden, but
his extra sojourn in the Prussian capital was not without
its effect on his health, and he did not recover his usual

vigour until we reached Carlsbad.

   ' At Dresden I bad the advantage of his long experi
ence and consummate taste in Italian pictures as a guide
through its galleries, after which we gladly exchanged
the heat and dust of cities for further geological ex
plorations, in the course of which we visited the pitch-
stone rocks of the Tribisch Thal, and the remarkable

contact of granite with chalk in the neighbourhood of
Meissen. After examining the springs of Toplitz, where
Forbes was still feeble and unwell, we reached Carlsbad,

and lingered there until his health was completely
restored. He was equally attracted by the scenery and
the society of Carlsbad, and
rsehmelal,r"kahbelewgreitoelso,gic"aol fporseicteionnt .  gr"eaTthlye  impressed by its
                                                                       great tortoise-like

                                                          formation, incrusted over

the source of both its groups of springs, now bearing
much of the weight of the town, and having within an
enormous pressure of gas, is one of the most singular of

natural artifices conceivable."
' On the 10th of August we started in a private diligence

for Prague, and thence posted across to Budweis, taking
the tramway to Linz. . . . Travelling southward, we
                                                                       mountains, which
wI etrheennoswawdafoilry   getting   nearer                to the      both the Alps and
                          the first   time,               though

the Pyrenees were already familiar to him ; and 1 well
recollect his quiet consciousness of the mighty secrets

which lay   before us,    when       he introduced                     asto"  me a bluish,
indistinct  line rising   above       the horizon,                                        "
                                                                              The  Alps
                                                                                         !
' The few days we spent in the Saltzkammergut, passing
by Ischl and Hallstadt to the magnificent scenery of the

upper Gosau lakes, and               ethnejnocyemebnyt.steaImneer vetro       Saltzburg,
were days of exquisite                                                        again trod
the mountain side in company with my friend until after
his trying illness in 1843. Now, on those towering

heights, commanding the most enchanting Alpine scenery,
23(5  THE LIF£ OF JAMES J). FORBES.  [chap.

he was full of vigour, his foot planted firmly, Lis eye
ever keen, and bis whole tone and air that of a thorough
 mountaineer.

   ' Soon, too soon, we reached Saltzburg ; and as I was

shortly due in England, he persuaded me to leave him
to his more detailed examination of the Berchtesgaden,
urging me, however, in words which he repeated in a
letter written from Windisch-Matrei, to return home as

soon as possible, "because then I shall expect you the

sooner in our old-fashioned capital, and welcome my dear
friend all the sooner to my old-fashioned house." And
thus we parted, to meet again in Scotland.'

    After the departure of his friend, Forbes, having com
forted himself by a series of tough magnetic observations,
proceeded to visit the ancient springs of Wildbad Ga-
stein ; and having completed the circuit of the Gross
Glockner by crossing the beautiful pass of Malnitz, the
Matrayer Jock, and the Velber-Tauern Col, he arrived at
Inuspruck, and soon passed on to Trafoi and the Stelvio.

                        Journal, August 30th.

   ' I meant to have crossed from the Saltzburg country

by the Velber-Tauern ; but, the morning being very bad,
1 remained patiently at Windisch-Matrei all day, in the
afternoon walking up the great lateral valley of the Isel-
Thal, a well-cultivated and well-peopled, but most remote

spot. A stranger was a real lfon ; and even at Windisch-
Matrei, the chef-lieu of a district, my visit was a wonder.
The apparition of an Englishman (Lord Auckland) in
1819, and of another in 1832, were still fresh in the
recollection of mine host. . . . Next day I started for
my Col, on a promising morning, with a guide who also

promised fair, and had been strongly recommended ; but
his request for a morning draught of brandy did not
augur well. Very well he went, however, as far as the
Tauernhaus, or inn at the foot of the Col, which required
fully three hours to cross, and afforded some fine scenery.
But as we ascended his pace slackened, and he soon
became quite as incapable as my drunken guide of last
vIII.]              TRAVELS, 1837.                               2:17

Tuesday. On tlns state of things a thick mist descended,

which completely enveloped us ; whereupon he insisted
on sitting down every five minutes, and drinking water
when he could not get brandy, for he had no private

store, and my flask was soon exhausted. At length he
evinced symptoms of perplexity about the way, which

made me suspect he was feigning in order to gain time,
and was in the pleasant predicament of doubting between
my guide's honesty and his fallibility, when a happy
opening in the mist showed the path far below us, just

when we were about to be cut off from it by precipices.
As it was, we had a difficult scramble over a snow-bed of

extreme steepness.
'The Vellar-Thal, into which we now descended, was very
wild and
           precipitous,   --forlmikiengthelowOuelresdoowf nthea  tPryermeneenedso--us
horseshoe  of precipices

over which innumerable cascades poured their waters, and
it was late before we reached Mittersill, where I slept. . . .
' Landeck is beautifully situated. The limestone crags
which surround it are very steep and bare ; but in the
midst of them, and on the wrong side of the Alps too,
fruit-trees and Indian corn abound, and even the vine

grows hardily. When noon sounded to-day from the
          attheOirbshtaetisg--aosneI                  I saw the field labourers
church                                pkansesletd--,
take off                                              and remain in an attitude
of prayer until the bell ceased. At the same place I was

atogtirrnfoaesnngew,streeleader"tteiiHsndb,igyib""saIigscnnoho"edoEsGlwddeiGilgnwoenbkosetemicrishats!ent!"si",w"J.eitsw.Bhuhus. ittchChethh, ereixsImtturpoasrso,et"rsducimtonomae,rmwyhomnicsaahylfuottrhabmee
' I left Mals early, to cross to Bormio by the pass of
Santa Maria, through the              Grisons, purposing to return by
the Stelvio -- a charming             expedition. The road to Santa
Maria lies through a pleasant valley, where the Bomance
language still lingers, passing Taufers and Miinster, the
latter in all the brilliancy of a fete day ; and then a steep
but good horse track carries it on, always through the
same ravine, so that it is impossible to miss the path,
238        THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                           [ChAP.

which eventually joins the great Stelvio road at Santa
            After dining and undergoing
           descended to the baths of San
...fMoramriaalitiSeosp,ra.I                                       passport
                                                                  Martino,
                                                                  I was ex
near Bormio, in about two hours.

ceedingly struck by the  tathhpiepneka,nreantighcheeboOpurrrtehesoleeonrdte--dSpitpbzeyerh--aopnases
of the snowy peaks in

Monte Cristallo, not, I

seen from  tMhearieal.evaItiosnawimimt eudniadteerly   above the  Cantoniera
di Santa                                              singularly  favourable
circumstances as regards light, and it had the appearance
of being formed of solid ice. It seemed absolutely trans
lucent. . . . Next day I left the baths               of Bormio, on
                                                      Santa Maria.          a
lovely morning, to retrace my steps to
                                                                            I

must confess that the engineers have done their work
well, for the ascent on the Italian side to so great a

height is certainly wonderfully  easy.                --Twhiedev, ieuwndtuolwatairndgs
the south is very wild and       grand

snow-fields of great beauty ; and immediately on leaving
the refuge at the top, the prospect of the Tyrol opens

and enlarges for some hundred yards. The day was

unusually favourable, and it was perhaps the grandest
scene I ever saw. The remainder of the road seems as
though it were planned on purpose to show off to the
best effect the Orteler Spitze, with the superb glaciers
I

                is

                          it

                                    is it,

                                        I
which descend from and the magnificent brotherhood
of peaks of which  one. Their forms are beautifully
varied, and the stupendous accumulation of snow on their

summits such as materially to affect the characteristic
form of their outlines. In fact, under certain lights, as
...observed yesterday, some of their summits have the
appearance of pure icebergs.                          think the advantages
of mounting from the Italian side very great; for, although
the cream of the view comes upon one at first,
                                                                  it      all

                                                                      is

the more striking, while, at the same time, its details are

successively developed in such manner as to keep the
interest on stretch during the whole of the descent.'
           a

                             ;

                                a
                                                  a
    Forbes now began chase after his knapsack, which
had been mis-sent and as he had gone to the Stelvio in
vIII.]                  TRAVELS, 1837.                                                                                                            239

the lightest of marching order, with full pockets only, he
was glad to capture the fugitive some days after, at
Botzen. Having picked up a welcome budget of
letters at Trent, he entered the ' Dolomite country,' then
so little known, now the paradise of artistic tourists, and
proceeded in the direction of one of its finest peaks, the

Marmolata.

             Journal, Sept. Wth.

   ' This morning, whilst warming myself dreamily during

the rain at the kitchen fire at Cavalese, I got an excellent

geological lesson from the boiling of certain thin porridge
made of Indian corn (polenta) and milk. The air-bubbles-

disengaged during the process formed the most beautiful
elevation craters, often with little interior ones, formed
...by the
        immediaItewaslekqeudencfreomof  another bubble at                                                                                    the same
point.                                  Cavalese to Vigo,                                                                                    in order

to understand fully   Von    Buch's section of  the                                                                                          adjacent
beds of rock, and in  this                       my                                                                                          expecta
                            I succeeded beyond
tions. But the strata of limestone and sandstone do not

all dip towards the axis, as he has represented, but some
from and with evident disturbance.
'

     it,
                 is

                            a

                                         I

                                                                  it

                                                                                                                                          :

                                                              is I
                                        went in search

of minerals to dealer's, but only found some very
indifferent specimens.

        The scenery from Vigo to Campedello, and from that
             in the highest degree striking -- in fact,
to Canazea,

know nothing of its kind to compare with                                                                                                     one

entirely surrounded by jagged peaks of dolomite. The
amazing crags of the Lang Kofel come into view near

Campedello, and afterwards the magnificent outworks
of the Marmolata and Sasso di Val Fredda are seen, in

all their majestic beauty. As wished to examine the
Lang Kofel more minutely, as well as Von Buch's sec
tions between Groden and Colfusco in the Abteier-Thal,
I
             I

                                          a

                                   I

                                                                                                                                          (
availed myself of tolerable horse track which wound

through the forest, and, after passing close under the
...precipices of the Lang Kofel, entered the Grodener-
Thal.        then proceeded to scale the range dividing

Fassa from Groden, but before we had ascended for an
240              THE LIFE OF JAMES J). FORBES.                                 [chap.

hour and a half, my guide exhibited the usual symptoms
of knocking up ; in fact, although he had stood yester

day's hard walking very tolerably, it was now apparent
that a substitute must be found, and I was lucky enough
to pick up a day-labourer at Plan who accompanied me

to Colfusco. . . .
   ' The ascent of this Col was extremely fine ; at each

side magnificent dolomite cliffs, and behind, the towering
pinnacles of the Lang Kofel. . . .
                                                        of
pea'QksuitattinNgiedtheersdnoerifg, hIbosutrahrtoeodd       the great  dolomite
                                                       one  charming   morning,
with all my goods on my back -- so sick was I of

guides ! . . .
     ' I had yesterday passed the source of the Drave, and
to-day I descended the valley in which its course lies.
IThe scenery is very pleasing, at least so it seemed to me,

for have seldom enjoyed a walk so much ; and as it
...becomes constantly deeper and more striking, it is on
that account finer to descend than the reverse.                                Its

forests also give to its scenery the peculiar character of
the Carinthian valleys, as they consist of a variety of

spruce fir, exceedingly taper and cypress-like ; and although
the individual trees are seldom or never fine ones, the

change from the ordinary Alpine pine-forest is agreeable.

The whole  swaavyagdeodwonl,omonitethpeearikgshta,ndthecravgasl,leyunwtial sI  over
hung with                                                                      drew

near to Lienz, where the valley of the Drave suddenly
opened with great beauty, showing a wide extent of
                 adnott"edEinwspiathnningeeart
...cultivation,                                 "      villages and churches.
      I took                                           from Lienz to Greifen-

burg, where I passed the night, as 1 had resolved next
day to leave the post road, and cross to Villach by the

Weissen See.'

While Forbes now zigzagged in an easterly direction,
southwards to Laibach, and again northwards to Gratz

and Vienna on his homeward journey, he does not

appear to have   found human     nature improve as he went.
' Manners,' he   writes, ' seem
                                 to degenerate as I go east
vIII.]                              TRAVELS, 1839.                                     241

ward. In the Tyrol they are far from polite, but here

t"hWeyasarsecheavffeenn  less   so  : and  dtoheyoiuntwolaenrat b?l)eanadnd"  perpetual
                         sie     "  (what
                                                                              Wohin V
                               ?

I(where are you going?) reach even to the acme of

Transatlantic curiosity. . . . To-day was much struck
with the disagreeable appearance and air of the country

people. The Krainisch, especially, are a piggish look
                         atnhiemyals--eetmheiqruitfereqiunenttheoircceulpemateionnt .
ing race, and                                                                          when
herding that                                                                             The

form of their heads is as peculiar as their features, and
their costume is characterized by peaked hats, long
leather boots, and general dirt.' Nor yet did the guides
of Southern Austria                 nofitnedbofoakvo:--ur  in
from this leaf of his                                          his  eyes,     to       judge

    ' Synopsis  of guides engaged by me for the                               l:o--ngOeustt
and shortest    distances in Saltzhurg and the Tyrol

of seventeen, five were good. Three also good, but ar
rived exhausted. Four stopped, or did not start. One
left    Ibehind. One good, but cheated.                             This explains
why                                                              '
        was  generally              my  own   carrier
                                                               !

   Next year Forbes again visited Germany, accompanied
by his sisters ; but their tour did not extend beyond the

baths of Kissingen. In 1839 he resumed his travels,

and started for Paris early in May, on his way to the
volcanic districts of Auvergne*

                               To Miss Forbes.

... ' Lyons, May 20.

' Of all my Paris reminiscences, by far the most
interesting is having seen Daguerre's pictures, a matter
which is now of some difficulty ; but M.
arranged it              a large party of us, the                   AdraaygobekfoinredlyI
                for      went certainly prepared
left Paris.                                                         for a disap
                 I
I Ipointment, yet have no hesitation in saying that

was pleased beyond my most sanguine expectations . . .

in short, it baffles belief. All sorts of objects were repre

sented : furniture, plaster casts, curtains, &c., all fixed by

the camera obscura ; open-air views at different hours

                                           R
212                    THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.        [chap

of the day fixed in three or four minutes, including the

most exquisitely delicate objects, and giving the shadows
....proper to the time of day in a way no artist can do.

--aobnleosne!enicn''aAegursatrtaghuioetnmepraem:sp"ierpNaaUtcoelusde'se!ns"neefvoersmroamlermteiumsneeqsuiedHéeder.essehbCea'lre'bssot uraeildmlemuairrrsk
   ' Afterwards I spent some hours with M. Babinet and
his friend M. Moigno, and was agreeably surprised to
find him well acquainted with my experiments on heat,
as well as to find that he had formed a just estimation
of Melloni's claims to his
                            discoveries in polarization.
I showed him my method      of making polarizing plates
of mica, a process which I afterwards explained to
Lerebours the optician, leaving with him some speci
mens, and then visited M. Cauchy, who received me
with great politeness and explained very clearly his
Iviews on the laws of reflection of light on metals
  gave him a reference to MacCullogh's memorandum,

which he did not know, and he expressed great interest
in the                 of heat, seeming much pleased
account  sIubgjaevcet  him of my own experiments.'     by   the

                       Journal, May 17.
I ...' M. Elie de Beaumont called in the morning, when
  gave him my results   of  two   years' computations   of  the
conductivity of soils.            afterwards called    on
                               I                            M.

Isidore Niepce, who had the week before showed me the
first specimens of the Daguerre process, as discovered by

his father M. Niepce, and whom I found a most gentle
          Iperson. He
manly                  explained the process         circumstan
tially,  and have no   doubt correctly.
' I examined the pictures very minutely. The substance
is acknowledged to be silver, plated on copper, and Arago
suspected that the metals produced some galvanic effect,

....but it is evident that the surface has most to do with it.
           The pictures of both Niepce and Daguerre have
this very singular peculiarity, that the parts which are
dark, and therefore unaltered, have an aspect simply
vm.]              TRAVELS, 1839.

metallic ; and in the case of those on glass, the glass

appears wholly uncoated. The sensitive surface which

is first applied must therefore be either wholly trans
parent like varnish, and whiten slightly on exposure to
light, like chilled varnish, or, what is more probable,
the unchanged portions of the composition are subse

quently removed by some chemical action. The con
sequence of this that you look along any of these
                  is,
                      a

                           if
plates, so as to get specular reflection, the picture
                                                                           a
reversed, the lights becoming dark, as in Talbot's process.
       am also inclined to think that this composition                         ;
is                                                                                      1
easily soluble, at least in Nicpce's process for he
 I'showed me on one of his pictures blot made by                                           a is
                                                                        a
     if
...touch of the finger, where bunch of flowers shoulda

have been.        In our presence M. Arago promised

Daguerre to advise the Ministry to give him pension,
and, they declined, he proposed to bring the matter

himself before the Chamber. The same evening left
Paris by diligence for Dijon, en route for Chalons and

Lyons.'           To Miss Forbes.

                                                                           'Lyons, May 20.

                  arrived here                     few days ago, and am
'.    ..

       .I

                                                                     ;

                           Ia
                                  I
astonished by the magnificence of the panoramic views
                                                do not think have ever
...which Lyons commands                                                    aI
seen    anything  Frtaonecequ--alptrhoebma.bly             am on my way to
the   South of                                     first to the Velay, right    a

bank of the Rhone, then to Avignon, where please write,

you have occasion, as am quite at sea as to future
if
                  I

                                             a

                             I
arrangements.     came down the Saone to-day in                                             a

steamer from Chalons, blissful change from diligence,

and yesterday travelled from Dijon through country
filled with imperishable names. The man whoso
patriotism would not warm on the plain of Marathon

would be less inhuman than he whose blood does not

circulate more freely in the environs of Pomard, Volnay,

and Chambertin,   a"ncdloswhdoeseVoiduegaesotar"e--noatltheoleuvgahted             by the
proximity of the  R                                                                would
                       2

                                                  it
puzzle Johnson himself to make that sonorous.'
244           THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                           [chap.

                           To the Same.

     .... ' Montpezat, Departement de l'Ardeche, June 2.

     ' I arrived from Le Puy on Friday, and am as
tonished at the beauty and interest of this country, which

rivals even the Italian Alps and the Pyrenees. In a
geological sense it is interesting in the highest degree,
and I have four or five craters, just as well-defined and as
recent-looking as Vesuvius, within a day's walk. But
what chiefly delights me is the exquisite beauty of the

scenery. There are deep granitic valleys divided by
serrated mountains, through which here and there a
cindery volcano thrusts his roasted bead, while the valleys
are clothed with chestnut and mulberry trees in the most

exquisite manner. Then the climate, instead of the cold
of the Haute Loire, has    IancaItmaelianhefreeel,intteemndpeinregd
by Alpine freshness.                                                  however
half a day,   and I shall end                                        to spend
happily, as
              I wrote to Jane,  by spending four or                  five, for
                                things do not press.                  This is

an admirable country for sketching: Jane would never
be idle here ; you are as sure to find lava in a valley
     water,   and Giant's
as            very much    Causeways are innumerable.
     ' I was               interested to- discover accidentally

yesterday that a very few years ago a meteoric stone fell
in open day in the immediate neighbourhood. The noise
was heard by hundreds of people, many of whom have
Idescribed it to me, and I have to-day been fortunate
enough to procure a piece of it.         will try to get more.'

              Journal, July 5.
     I' went in search of the spot where the meteoric stone
was said to have fallen, at Libounez, between Juvinas
and St. Pierre Colombier, where I found that everybody
in the neighbourhood spoke of it as a thing of yesterday,
and never to be forgotten. The field was immediately
shown to me, a small enclosure just      below the village; and
                                          of the fall. Dolmaas,
I inquired for the actual spectators
who had been mentioned to me, was dead, but with some

difficulty I found two brothers named Serre, who were
working with some others in a potato field when the
                       TRAVELS, 1839.                      245

stone fell among them. One of these men gave me in
his patois a most animated account of the scene and of
their extreme terror, and with the aid of an interpreter
I extracted the following particulars, in which those

present whom I questioned agreed.
'The stone fell on the 15th June, 1821, at half-past four
in the afternoon, whilst the sky was clear, and the wind

blowing from the north. A long rolling noise was first

heard, then an explosion like the discharge of a cannon,
which occurred five minutes before the stone fell, touching
the ground within a few feet of the terrified bystanders
and penetrating it to a depth of seven palms (about 5^ feet)
in a vertical direction. No lightning accompanied the
noise or the fall, but the stone burnt the ground, reducing

it to a cindery condition.
   'The men were
                  frightened,  but not stunned, though the
noise was heard   at a great   distance -- one man present

declaring that he had heard it at Argentiere, distant five
French leagues in a straight line. The hole was the
saine size as the stone. There was no scattering of earth,
and it had so wedged itself between two others that it

could not be removed without breaking it. The people

of Libounez thought it was the devil that had fallen !

and did not venture to dig up the stone for seven days,
when it was sprinkled                                      ! It
weighed 220 pounds,    with  holy  water  by  the  priest
                              was   told  by  the   man    who
                       as I
'

            it,

               I it
                                                                                               1

                                              II

                                                                                   by
                                                                                               is a
weighed and was sold for six francs: but the frag-

ments have been so dispersed that         with difficulty

obtained one or two morsels, although inquired for
them in all the surrounding valleys.

Such was the circumstantial and apparently authentic
narrative which gathered from the spectators of this

most curious occurrence. They are corroborated
manuscript account, or proces-verbal, drawn up by the
Maire of the Commune of Juvinas, and forwarded by

him to the Prefecture of Privas, where subsequently
discovered and copied it. . . . The meteor of Juvinas
one of the very few which have fallen so near to intelli

gent spectators as actually to endanger their lives.
24fi          THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                           [chap.

      ' In these regions the appearance of the people and
villages is quite Italian, only that the people are more

hisonheostm, elyanednoeuxgche,sbsiuvtelyI   simple. The   accommodation
                                           have found an  inn which con

tains within a very untempting exterior a clean bed and

most civil people : and this, I own, has had some influence
in postponing my departure. . . .
   ' All  t"hMisiloisrdws ithAinngloanise            journey of the
                                           "  day's  rattling along  Rhone,
where                                           are                  at this

moment, ignorant that on their right hand lies one of
the finest countries in Europe ! Never mind, let them

remain so. A traveller is quite a curiosity, and there is

no tradition of an Englishman having ever sojourned

here before.

   ' I arrived at Thuez, quite astonished by the exquisite
beauty of the valley,  which is far finer than that of
Montpezat, and has a   Imore southern aspect.
                                                                     found

excellent quarters at a small inn, but unpleasant, in so far
that as the profession of innkeeper was there of secondary

importance,   there was a disposition to             consider the traveller
as an equal,  and the obliged person.
                                                      After dinner I went

to examine the lava stream, which, proceeding from the
crater of Mouleyres, has filled up the whole valley to
a depth of 200 feet, and, abutting against the granite
mountains opposite, once formed a lake by damming up

the torrent of the Ardeche. I descended by the Goule
d'Enfer, a ravine formed at the junction of lava and
granite, and found myself in a wide gorge, the scenery

of which was perfectly magnificent. A lofty wall of
basaltic pillars stretches away for more than a mile, in

some places 180 feet in height; and while its columnar
structure is in the lower part vertical and regular, the
upper portion is composed of irregularly placed nascent
columns, but the whole is evidently the result of one

eruption. . . .

   ' I am more and more charmed with the scenery of

Thuez. . . . Above the lava stream the valley expands and

the river runs in a wider bed. At this point, above the
southern bank of the river, rise the picturesque ruins of a
vIII.]                TRAVELS, 1839.                                       247

castle, and here the scenery reminded me of some of the
best-wooded of our Highland glens, a resemblance which
was increased by hearing a peasant chanting with much
taste a wild, plaintive, irregular air, exactly resembling
some of our Gaelic dirges. . . . Wild fig- trees grew plen
tifully around, and were covered with fruit ; but towards

Mayras the valley became wilder, and the vegetation

more scanty. . . .

    ' Next day, after finishing my examination of the lava

cliffs of the Ardeche, I started on foot for Jaujac, deter
mined to ascend the volcano of Neyrac on my way . . .
and soon came in sight of the extensive colonnade uf basalt

which occupies the southern bank of the Alignon for more

than four miles. It is more beautifully columnar but
far less lofty and grand than that of Thucz ; and after

scrambling along the  north                        bank with  some difficulty for
two miles to Jaujac,                               somewhat   disappointed with
                      I was

the latter. The Coupe de Jaujac is a low, strong (sic),
elliptical crater, which has burst at the end of its longei
axis, and from the firmness and dimensions of its lava

walls I presume it was once lofty-- as indeed it must have

been to have contained any part of the prodigious flow
of lava which proceeds from and which was evidently
the result of one eruption.
I'

                                           a it,
        waited an hour and half for the courier for

Aubenas, and almost laughed when he approached in
                                                                           a
heavy, six-seated, antediluvian vehicle, drawn at foot's
                                                                                     !
pace along an excellent road, by the most miserable of
broken-down ponies. When we got within some three                               Ia a
miles of our destination, the courier, in order to make

more speed, shouldered his bags, and walked on
proceeding which imitated. . . . While settling with
        I                                                            of
the postmistress,     IIhad                          new    proof    --   what has
                                                      this  journey      the univer
                                                  a
struck me very much during
gsaelniteyraollfythseafiadmeEcoofssSaciso,t--t.
                                                     When   asked    my    country,
                                                   Anglais   being    too   generally

associated abroad   with pride,                      wealth, and     extravagance
                                                     myself such,    in any place,
-- and scarcely    ever named

however remote, without the name of Scott being imme
248  TUB LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [cuap.

diately quoted as that of my great " eompatriote," who
had interested everyone in my country. Even at Jaujac,
where I had, as usual, given myself out for a Scotchman,

aqTuhpoiesttetidifsog"agLinseogrTtnaooyfta"fiaraemn,edwht"ooLmawhI iCmclhyedt Iea"tsdcaainsrcneeclrlya,sismtichminesktdrieaSatcmeolsyt.t

attains in our country, and surely it is the highest of any.
Even among the wild lava streams of the Vivarais he has
made his country known and its natives honoured.'

   A few days more, and Forbes had quitted, with regret,
the beautiful valleys of the Ardeche, and, after a short

stay at Marseilles, began to make his way northwards

towards the Monte Viso, by one of whose passes it was
his intention to descend into the valleys of Piedmont.

                          Journal, June 29.

   ' I provided myself with a guide from Meyronnes, and

started to cross the Col de Maurin to St. Veran -- a most
picturesque and striking route, especially at one point
above the village of St. Paul, where the river rushes
through a narrow gateway in the limestone rock. . . .
Higher up the valley is choked by a mass of debris,
a fallen mountain, which descended, it is said, in the fif
teenth century, and has evidently caused the formation of
the Lac de Paroi. There, the cultivation of corn ends ;
then comes a narrow pass, which is succeeded by a more
open pastoral valley, extending several miles to the Col

Ide Louget, leading by an extremely gentle ascent into

Piedmont. In this pastoral valley saw several masses

of serpentine interposed in limestone, and about to be
worked for ornamental purposes.

   ' Having reached the head of the valley, instead of

crossing the Col de Louget, I turned to the left, and pro

ceeded to ascend abruptly to the Col de la Cula, leading
to St. Veran. The ascent was not very agreeable, for after
very steep grass slopes abounding in marmots' holes, came
patches of soft snow, into which we sunk knee-deep,
and then beds of soft mud, from which the snow had
viii.]              TRAVELS, 1830.                         240

lately melted ; so that a course of loose sliding stones
which succeeded was a positive relief. From a point a ·
little to the right of the Col, we had a most magnificent

view of Monte Viso and its surrounding chains, together
with the Alps of Dauphine\        The descent to St. Veran
is steep but not difficult, and
height of the highest level at   Ion the way observed the
                                 which I found corn grown
in that valley. The village of St. Veran lies at a
height of 6,591 feet above the sea. Barley and rye are
hvoeiflrlaeSgoecgulilootifvaiSntte.tdhVeeurTpayntro--ol 7--th,0ei0s0hmigfoehseetts. tsininTghuEelaurarop:ppieeta, risaenxacceempatosfsththaoetf

wooden spars, more like ships' masts and rigging than
dwelling-houses, the latter being built of logs, with ex

tensive verandahs on one or more sides, filled with spars
for the purpose of exposing to the sun their ill-ripened

harvest, which is sown in July, and reaped, ripe or not,
in August of the ensuing year, when it is hung up to dry
or ripen as it can. . . .

    ' The only bed at the inn had so disgusted me that, at
the risk of hurting the feelings of
to the Cure and begged a lodging     the inmates,  1 went  off
                                                   which   he
                                     -- a request
courteously and promptly granted. He was somewhat of

a man of the world, and expressed his anxiety to be useful
to mankind in general, and to me in particular -- a feeling
for which his order does not often get credit, and for the
absence of which they are sometimes unjustly abused.

He had a good house, the only stone-built structure

in the village except the church, and he treated me very

Ihospitably. . . .  a charming   walk  to Abries,  where   I

   ' Next day had

presented my circular letter from the Directeur des Dou-
anes at Paris, to the captain in command here, who im
mediately sent me one of his men as a guide for the Col

de Viso ; and having made all necessary preparations, we
started about five for the chalets of La Tronchet, where

I had resolved to pass the night. The walk was most
beautiful, and on arriving at our destination we proceeded

to cook our tea in a saucepan, and then retired to rest on
   250            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                              [chap.

   some very clean straw spread on the clay floor, with my
   -knapsack for, a pillow, placed against the solid rock which
   formed the fourth wall of the house. There was, of course,

   no glass in the windows, but the shepherd had con

   siderately stuffed them up, so that by keeping up a good

   fire the night passed very tolerably.
      ' Next morning my chcmeur-douanier, by name Rey,

   called me at three, and at half-past we were already on
   our way to the Col de la Traversette.                  The ascent was

   over  --stmeeispergarbaless    slopes       as far as   the chalets of Monte
   Viso                                       in every
                                --plaacneds,  from the    way worse than those
   of La Tronchet                                         summit the view was

   superb, stretching away to the hills above Genoa, and, of
   course, only to be seen in the early morning. Unfortu
   nately the Alps in the direction of Savoie cannot be seen
   from the Col, and I neglected to ascend a point on the

   left, which commands them. . . . The precipitous way
   in which the Col appears to overhang the plain is extra

   ordinary, so much so that, feeling no desire for a closer

   acquaintance   with Grissola and Peesana, considering also
   the value of
                  so good a guide, I proposed to him on the

   spot to attempt the circuit of Monte Viso, returning to
   sleep at the chalets. To this he assented, and having

   Iobserved the barometer and dismissed my porter, whom

     had brought from Meyronnes, to await us at the chalet,
   we at once started. . . . We sought the entrance of the
   ancient gallery 1 on the Piedmontese side, but were
   unable to discover as was still covered with snow.
   i
            is                                                     still accessible

                                 a it,
                                      it

                                              ; it,
   There no question, however, that                       it

                                                               is

   from that side, and even nearly complete. My guide

   had entered and examined and had observed an iron

   hook for suspending lamp the Cure of St. Veran also

        This remarkable gallery, which pierces the Col de Traversette
                                                                   a la
   at about 300 feet below the crest of the ridge, and at height of at

   least 9,500 feet above the sea, was cut through the mountain by

   Ludovico II., Marquis of Saluzzo, in order to facilitate the intercourse
   between his territory and the adjoining valleys of Dauphine. Many
                                 was cleared out, and a^ain used but in
   years after Forbcs's vi*it
                  it                                                     ;
                             it
   mine cold seasons remains choked with snow, until the summer             is

   far advanced.

-
Viu.]  TRAVELS, 1839.                       251

had been there two years ago ; so there appears to be no

doubt that the gallery is nearly complete, although the

entrance is small and obscure, and the cold and wet make
it very disagreeable to traverse.
   ' Our walk soon became ticklish enough. Large fields

of snow lying at steep angles, and affording very bad

footing, had to be crossed, some precipices climbed, and
immense tracts of loose stones scrambled over : but at

length we reached the Lago de Vallaute, which is held
to be the proper source of the Po. The lake had a cir
cumference of about two miles, and was still frozen over.
   ' Hitherto our course had been clear ; but now, how to

get round the back of the mountain, which Rey had never
visited, was more doubtful, for a rocky spur descended

to the plain, presenting an edge very like a cock's comb.

. . . Luckily we found a gap which let us pass, and we

thought we were about to complete the circuit by finding
a Col to conduct us back to France, when suddenly we
fell upon a valley, perhaps 2,500 feet deep ; it was the
valley which has Ponte at its head, and into it we had

no alternative but to descend. Here we had the greatest

...difficulty in obtaining any information from the inha
bitants of the chalets.  At last, however, we met

with an old man, who resolutely refused to believe that

we had crossed the mountain from Abries, but directed

us correctly to the descent of the lofty Col de Vallante ;
so, after dining on cold chamois, we proceeded with

as much heart as we could raise to regain the high
level from which we had descended. The Col de Val

lante joins the Monte Viso on one side, as La Traver-

sette does on the other, and both on the top and

during the descent on the French side- we found enor

mous snow-beds, down which we scrambled and slid

Ias best we might, sometimes sinking to our thighs,
always hearing the water flowing under us.  made

the guide go first, but often made a plunge where he it,
escaped. This side of the Monte Viso is awfully preci
pitous. Rey, though he had been on one part of
had evidently no idea of the extent and savage wildnesp.
252            THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                        [chap.

. . . During our descent into the valley of Ponte I had
wienched off the heel of one of my shoes, a small matter

elsewhere, but serious  here ; and            although greatly fatigued
and annoyed by this,                           better not to stop at the
                        I judged it
chalets of La Tronchet, but to go on to La Monta, where
there was, so to speak, an inn. We had been out alto
gaeccthoemrmsoixdtaeteionnhoIurms,anwagitehd
                                              short halts, so   in  spite of  the
                                               to sleep well.'

Next day, notwithstanding his injured shoe, he crossed
into Piedmont, by the Col de la Croix, to Bobbio and La

Tour, where he made the acquaintance of M. Revel, the

Principal of the Protestant College, who subsequently
accompanied him to the defile of Pra del Tor, famous in

Vaudois history.
After an interval of bad weather, which exercises, as a

rule, a disturbing influence on the temper, and may pos
sibly be accountable for the fact that Forbes alludes to
the inhabitants of Pignerol as ' odious,' he quitted this
flourishing town ' de bon cceur,' and proceeded in the
direction of the Pelvoux group, by way of La Perouse
and Cesanne. At Monestier, however, ' the most primi
tively nasty place ' he ever saw, he met with unexpected
difficulties.
' After visiting the springs of Monestier,' he writes,

'and getting tea with great difficulty amidst an uproarious

group of Sunday revellers, a gendarme, who had asked

for my passport, very coolly and distinctly informed me,
with
that  evident marks of  satisfaction, though civilly enough,
                         no further, but must remain at
      I could proceed

Monestier for at least several days. On my remon

strating, he pointed out that the signalement was

wholly wanting in my passport. It was one of Lord
Granville's, and I am afraid rather a slovenly document.

However, after a very short discussion as to the non-

importance of this part of the solemn farce, I walked

upstairs, and produced a letter from the Directeur des

Uouaues at Paris, requiring all his agents on the frontier
to assist and aid me to the utmost of their power. Then
vin.]                T1UVELS, 1839.                          253

the little gendarme -- who was a sharp, Napoleon-like
                                        little grudge
fellow, and, 1 suspect, had     some    was up. He           against
the English -- saw that his     game                         fought,

however, as long as he could, verified my signature, and

started difficulties about the fact of my letter bearing
a date subsequent to the day of my departure from Paris;
but all this 1 answered by producing the letters of M.
Griterin and M. Arago, with
                                  their envelopes addressed
to me at Avignon, which I       cohmadpleftoer,tutnhaattely"Naprpeoselervoend."

The evidence, in fact, was so

cporouclededo. nlyI  say that he was satisfied, and that* I might
                                        all through with great
sang-froid,          Iconducted myself
                                        I did not sleep any the
                     but confess that

sounder for the interruption.'
Having overcome this little difficulty, he started for

Bourg d'Oysans, which he reached after a long day's walk

over the Col de Lauteret, and then advanced into the
heart of the Pelvoux group, to St. Cristophe and La

Bérarde. ' The scenery,' he writes, ' is stupendous,
...unparalleled, perhaps, except in the neighbourhood of
Mont Blanc or the Orteler Spitz.                             It is far finer
than the Val Romanche, and Venos is quite exquisite.'
Forbes then went to Grenoble, and by Chambery to
Geneva, where he found his brother John established with
his family at the Ecu. In company with them he paid
a visit to Chamounix, where they made several of the
smaller excursions, amongst others that to the Jardin ;

I' the scenery of which,' he writes, ' was not less fine to

me than recollect at the commencement of my Alpine
journeys, and at this I greatly rejoice.'
    Towards the end of July Forbes went round by the

Col du Bonhomme to Aosta, where he sought about for

a man to guide him towards the then unknown valleys,
above which rise the Grivola and Grand Paradis. He
succeeded with difficulty in finding a guide--'a short,

thick-set man, afflicted with goitre, but a good-natured,

honest  femlloawrrieednoutogh,hisantdhirwdhowiwfealk! 'e--d  wonderfully well.
He was                                                       and after examin

ing; the iron mines in the neighbourhood of Cofrne, he
254            THE LIFE OF JAMES 1). FORBES.         [chap.

proceeded to cross the chain of the Grand Paradis to
Cuorgne, en route for Turin.

                    Journal, August 1.
     I'. . . left Cogne with a guide recommended to me
by Dr. Grappin, for Ponto. There were four different paths
to choose from, and that recommended by Brockedon is

the only mule path, I believe, the others passing over
glaciers. The one I selected, which is called the Col de
la Nuova, is considered the shortest, at least in point of

time. I found the glacier part of it by no means difficult,

and on the whole the pass resembled the Col de Traversette

on Monte Viso : but on the Piedmontese side the descent

is most precipitous.  The chain of   Mont Blanc is   finely
seen from the summit  --indeed from  several points  in the
Ivalley of Cogne ; but in order to see Monte Rosa, was
obliged to climb a rock which rises on the right of the
pass, and from this I obtained a fine view : but the
northern side of the valley of Cogne conceals too much,

and on the whole, judging from Brockedon's description,
the view from the Col de Reale must be preferable. . . .
After descending to the village of Campiglie, the scenery
becomes charming, and so it continues without inter

ruption to Ponte, which is beautifully situated, but the

landlady of    the  inn was  drunk,   and the inhabitants were
disgusting--   so            on to
                    I went           Cuorgne, where I found

better quarters. My guide, who yesterday had been

very compassionate, inviting me      tbtoehgsoaiutngdhottow. nfi,nIdanddtohnaa'tdt vItihswiinnagks
me not to look over precipices,

made of tougher metal than he
I sat down quite enough for him, for he was completely

...knocked up  w2btenehafdeot.hr--eearftIwewerlenagfsotoovtnCeutroIoyrgCshanuoweto,rgbISnyirgeed..sitlPiegldaennaacf,etearfnomdr yTfojuouruinnrd.
   'August      in such cases, overwhelmed with
      As the    what lost time compared to the
ney, but in

him, as usual                                    official
                                                  petty
engagements --
consequence or the emoluments of an official position !
He spoke of Libri's book on the History of Science as
vIII.]               THAI' ELS, 1839.                                          L'.Vj

wasted time, which would better be employed by enlarg

ing the scope of science ; and he spoke in the same strain
of the popular writings of Herschel and others . . . but

does he do           b'e3trtde.r--h\imcsaelllef d1  ..     .   Sismonda,  Professor of

   ' August                                         on     M.

Geology, and saw his carefully arranged and catalogued
collection, as well as his geological colouring of Maggi's

map of Piedmont : I also visited the Egyptian Museum.
                                                                 of
S" igM.etPhlaondaus  kindly gave me a                   '  copy      Taylor's  very rare
                      Incrementorum."

   After leaving Turin, Forbes proceeded on foot to
Lanslebourg, and next day crossed the Col d'Iseran, which
he describes as ' savage and wild in aspect, and planted
with numerous crosses, commemorating not only accidents,
but murders.' This brought him to the ' abominable '
chalets of Lignes, and eventually to Bourg St. Maurice,
Chambery, and Lyons. He thence returned home by
Paris, and early in August was again in Scotland.
                         CHAPTER IX.

                    ALPINE TRAVELS.

Forbes spent the summer of 1840 at home, but in the
autumn of that year an event occurred which sent him
back to the Alps the following summer with renewed
interest. At the meeting of the British Association
held at Glasgow, he fell in with M. Agassiz, who,
already well known as a naturalist, had turned his atten
tion to glacial phenomena, and had recently published
his ' Etudes sur les Glaciers des Alpes.' Forbes was
already familiar with the general aspect of glaciers, and
had been much struck by what he saw of them. M.
Agassiz spoke of a series of observations which he pro
posed to make on the Lauter-Aar Gletscher, of such a
nature as to entail a residence of some days in a hut on
the glacier itself, and invited Forbes to share his bivouac.
The invitation was gladly accepted, and Forbes accord

ingly started for the Alps early in July 1841, accom

panied by his friend and pupil John Mackintosh.
   After a short stay in Paris, they descended the Rhone

to Valence, and thence drove to Thuyetz, where Forbes
found himself once more among the ancient volcanoes of
the Vivarais. To these he devoted himself until his
rendezvous with Agassiz at the Grimsel, which was fixed
for the 8 th of August.

  'IThe six weeks which intervened were well spent.

'During my previous visit in 1839,' he writes, had
found in the Vivarais a united attraction of scenery
ChAP. IX.]  ALPINE TRAVELS, 1841.              257

and geology, together with that isolation and remoteness

which lends a peculiar, though doubtless a selfish, charm

to a prize which we imagine that others have in some
            overlooked. This caused me to
degree                                          fix my quarters
            very first village I reached, and  again two years
in the

later (1841) to revisit every point of geological interest,
to extend my notes, and to prepare a map and drawings
of the volcanic phenomena.' The unwonted presence of

travellers appears to have excited considerable curiosity

among the somewhat morose inhabitants of this remote

district. At Thuyets the Professor was taken for a tax-

gatherer, and roundly abused by an old woman on that
supposition. Again, at La Bastide, beside which rise the
ruins of a castle once belonging to the Count d'Autraigues,

a victim to popular fury during the French Revolution,

the consciences of the men whose fathers had sacked his

chateau and divided his lands smote them, and they
said, ' The grandsons of the old Count are come ! '

   After lingering for a few days at Thuyets, ' sketching,
geologizing, and bathing in the limpid Ardeche,' they
turned their steps towards the district of Le Puy, and,
although foiled by bad weather in many intended excur
sions, they explored much interesting country. But

time pressed, and they soon turned eastward towards
Agassiz' trysting-place, which it was Forbes's intention
to reach by the Little St. Bernard, the Col Ferret, and
the valley of the Rhone, having first, however, revisited

the Alps of Dauphin^, and crossed, if possible, some of
the glacier passes of the Pelvoux group. In company

with Mr. Heath of Trinity College, Cambridge, who had
joined him at Grenoble, he succeeded in making two
interesting passes : the first of which, the Col de Sais,
had probably never been previously made by a native, the
second, the Col du Celar, certainly never by a traveller.

                              To Miss Forbes.
                                  ' La Grave, Val Romanche, Dauphine,

  ... IA wet Sunday, August \st, 1841.

   ' In my letter to John described our passage

of a Col which no strangers, so far as we could hear,

                                                       s

                                                                       s
258                   THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

ever crossed before, and how we descended into a valley

blocked up by glaciers at its head, which testified its
astonishment by the mouth of the Mayor of the village,

who asked for our passports, and told us that bdtons
ferres were prohibited in France. The gendarmes were
secretly sent for, from the nearest town, in order to
inspect the strange strangers. After a day of repose,
we jumped out of the valley, as we had jumped into
1 it,
                   ;acrossglacier, which proved more difficult than
                   a
the last and the precipices we had to descend altered,

     confess considerably, the sense which          had always
                                              ;
attached to the word inaccessible. The inns are so
                                                 aI
horrible, that we lodged with the curts, and met
with an amicable reception and clean beds, an immense             .
luxury. Our time limited by our rendezvous with
     I                                                       .'
                                 a
                                is                       I
                                          's
Agassiz at the Grimsel on the 8th, otherwise we should                       a
have spent more time in these valleys but we have seen
enough to give us fair notion of their general as well as
of their wildest features. Never in Switzerland elsewhere

have gone through such places. We went to the valley

of Arnieux, Felix Neff parish, and spent an afternoon
very pleasantly with the Protestant pastor, rough zealous
man of the Covenanter character, and well fitted, dare

say, for his arduous and ill-paid situation. .

     They reached the hospice of the Grimsel on the even
ing of the 8th, and found that M. Agassiz had arrived
few days before, the avant-courrier of the numerous party
who were to share his hut on the Unter-Aar Gletscher.
Dr. Voght the naturalist was also there, and M. Zippach
the keeper of the hospice, while two days after their party
was increased by General Pfuyl, with MM. Studer, Escher
Von der Linth, and Desor. On the 9th M. Agassiz,
with Forbes and Mr. Heath, made trial of the hut as
                      is

                                                                         ;

                                                                                           a
sleeping-place, only to be driven back next day by heavy
snow. But although thus foiled in their first attack,
they did not return empty-handed for then for the
first time   icweh--atwhiccha, llaeldthothueghvepirneevdiouosrlyribrbemonarskterdu,cthuarde
of glacier
ix.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1841.                                           259

been passed over as superficial and unimportant -- was ob
served by Forbes, and at once pointed out to the others

as a   phenomenon of      the utmost             significance and import
ance.                    three hours'            good walking,' he writes
         ' It was fully
to Professor Jameson, ' on the ice or moraine, from the
lower extremity of the glacier to the huge block of stone
Iunder whose friendly shelter we were to encamp ; and in

the course of this walk noticed in some parts of the ice

an appearance which I cannot more accurately describe

than by calling it a "ribboned structure," formed by
thin and delicate blue and bluish-white bands or strata,

which appeared to traverse the ice in a vertical direction,
or rather which, by their apposition, formed the entire
mass of the ice. The direction of these bands was

parallel to the length of the glacier, and, of course,
being vertical, they cropped out at the surface ; and

wherever that surface was intersected and smoothed by
superficial watercourses, their structure appeared with
the beauty and sharpness of a delicately-veined chalce
dony. 1 was surprised, on remarking it to M. Agassiz
as a thing which must be familiar to him, to find that he

had not distinctly noticed it before ; at least, if he had,

that he had considered it as a superficial phenomenon,
wholly unconnected with the general structure of the
ice. But we had not completed our walk before my
suspicion that it was a permanent and deeply-seated

structure was fully confirmed. . . . We did not sleep
that night until we had traced it in all directions, even
far above the site of our cabin, and quite from side to
side across the spacious glacier of the Finster-Aar.'
Next day they returned to the hospice, but on the
                                      of
11th  stlehept--wh'aoleclopseartfyit      eight  went  to the  hut,  where
they                                  !'

   The scene of their encampment lay among the grandest
and wildest scenery of the Bernese Oberland. The
two great glacier streams which have their origin in
the neighbourhood of the Finster Aarhorn and Schreck-
horn unite in their downward progress at a rocky pro
montory, which bears the name of the Abswung, and

                                          S2
260         THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                   [chap.

their combined streams form the Unter-Aar Gletscher,
which travels for five miles from the Abswung before it
gives birth at its lower extremity to the waters of the
Aar. On the medial moraine, which, taking its rise from
the point of junction of the two branches, stretches down
the centre of the main glacier, may still be seen the
remains of the huge rock which was now to be their only
shelter for some days, although the ice in its patient
march has since then borne them many hundred yards in
the direction of the Grimsel.1

    The  following   letter to Miss       Forbes  gives  an                animated
picture   of their
                    bivouac life :--

            ' From, M. Agassiz' Cabin on the Aar Glacier,

                               '8,100 feet above the Sea. Avgutt 10th, 1841.

     ' You never, I am sure, got a letter written under cir
cumstances like the present. Here are M. Agassiz, Heath,

and I stretched out on beds of hay under a huge detached
rock, lying on the ice of one of the greatest glaciers of
Switzerland, in the very midst of which we have taken

up our abode for some days. The nearest house is the
hospice of Grimsel, five hours' walk nearly. But add to
all this,  Itlhiegavhtetrnwihneega,hrda,vaemndixpeadsssneoedwve--trhyetnheonwighmatnodsitnthtearnemswtoeirtnmhdothuoesf
thunder,
thunder

     of an
     own
Iffall                          or        rolling down of stones from
                               ice.       you will turn to Plate 14
our
            baevda--lantchhee        the

of Agassiz' Atlas, . . . you will find a most exact picture

of our residence. It is on what is called the moraine

of the glacier of the Aar, the immense heap of stones
which goes along the centre of the glacier, and which is

not all stones to the bottom as you might suppose. It
is really ice protected from melting by the covering of
stones, so that one side of our parlour and bedroom is a
wall of ice, which supports the huge block which makes
the roof of our house ; which wall is an object of study
by the crevasses which form themselves in increased
1

                                                                      it,
      When Forbes revisited the spot in 1846, the block was found
broken in two.
ix.J ALPIEE TRAVELS, 1841.                                  261

by the heat of our bodies. The kitehen is without, under

the same rock, where strong decoctions of tea, coffee, and

soup from time to time are made. It is astonishing how

we accustom ourselves to anything. We have our ward
robe nearly all on our backs, and of course we did not

undress very much  ; but  this morning,  by   Agassiz' advice,
                    over  from a pail    of    iced water in
I sponged myself
                                          To complete the
the open air with great refreshment.     for the first time

novelty, I have just smoked a cigar
Ifin my life, with no disagreeable consequences, but the
reverse.  this weather lasts, we go down the Grimsel

to await better. Agassiz  has just asked the  g" uIitdeiss  without
how the weather is ?      And the answer,                   raining

white," is not consolatory : the snow is eight or ten
inches deep. We have brought plenty of clothes, books,

and instruments, not to mention victuals and wine, which

keep mind and body in a most healthy state. We are
fortunate in being alone with him, the other companions
of his journey being not yet arrived. Agassiz has brought
the Athanceum and Literary Gazette down to the 24th

July ; so we are quite in the world, and yet out of

it. . . .'
                       Journal, August Vith.

   ' Occupied much time in actinometrical observations.
In the course of the day M. Chambrier of Neuchatel
joined us with three friends, and left us before evening.
We went down to the east side of the Lauter-Aar

Gletscher, to examine a contact of polished rock and ice,
of which M. Agassiz took a section. Some wine we had
poured into a hole in the ice (with a temperature of 28°)
had wholly disappeared this evening. . . . There slept
this night in the cabane MM. Agassiz, Voght, Girard,
Robertson of Elgin, Burckhardt the artist, Heath, and

myself.'

Two young English noblemen, Lord C            and Lord
N , had arrived during the day, seeking quarters for
chamois shooting : but our philosophers were there for

business, not for amusement, and they seem to have
262        THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                       [chap.

found the  cpoarrrteyspoofndcehnatssseu'--rs --somasewthheat '  Red Prince '  found
' our own                                                       in the way.      The

hut was full, and Agassiz was inflexible, so they were sent
to 'slAeuepguwsitth14t.h--e Tgou-iddeasy. we had a visit from Lord Ennis-
killen and the Hon. John Cole; the former remained.

There arrived, also, M. Martins (of the French Spitz-
bergen expedition) and M. Canson. We walked up to the
very foot of the Finster Aarhorn. The glacier becomes
very flat, and has a most imposing appearance of breadth,
opposite the entrance of the valley leading to the Strah-
leck. . . . The view from the flat part of the glacier

is most imposing ; the precipices of the Finster and Ober-

Aarhorns rising sheer from the flat surface.

   ' We ascended part of the Neve or Firn leading to
the Strahleck, where the texture of the snow is soft and

entirely granulated. The blocks appear to rise through
it by their action in melting the snow, and forming

a pillar of ice upon which the block is gradually
raised. This is M. Agassiz' idea. In returning we
observed that the vertical structure of the ice must

be of a permanent character, for we traced it across

old crevasses for considerable distances, well marked by

the vertical stratification, and showing a shift, from the
lateral moraine, at each crevasse in descending order.
We slept this evening, Agassiz, Lord Enniskillen, M.
Martins, Canson, Heath, and myself. . . .

   'August 15. -- We had intended to-day to cross
the pass of the Gauli Gletscher, but Jacob did

not consider the morning sufficiently favourable to

call us : and as the sky soon became cloudy and

threatening, we resolved to descend to the Grimsel,

completing, on our way, our examination of the struc

ture of the glacier, by a careful scrutiny of its lower
       We traced, without difficulty, the vertical
part.
stratification on both sides of the medial moraine,
but for a considerable space found it not truly
vertical, as it leans towards the lower part of the
glacier surface, at an angle of about 70°. Towards
IX.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1841.

the lower extremity the ice becomes distinctly granu
lated and composed of fragments, re-cemented as Agassiz
describes, and this structure may be traced at the very

edges, but not generally throughout the glacier. The
stratification becomes less apparent below, but is still

clearly traceable. It rises towards the wall of the

valley, whilst the whole middle, from leaning or falling
Iforward, appears to give a central horizontal stratifi

cation ; but in reality these strata, as believe, dip
inwards at a considerable angle.

   ' In the upper part of the glacier yesterday we traced
the vertical structure quite into the valley of the

Strahleck, near the lateral moraines, i.e. wherever

Ithe ice is well formed, so that ascribe its disappear

ance or very imperfect formation in the centre, not
to the want of structure in the half-formed glacier or
n4ve, but to its incapacity of demonstrating  it,
                                              there
                                                           a
being no formed strata of blue ice. We also traced
something of          in the glacier descending from the
Finster Aarhom.'a it

   Monday was dies non, for the rain fell in tor

rents, but Agassiz and Forbes faced the storm and

walked down the valley to Rosenlaui, devoting the next
day to careful examination of the grooved and stri
ated rocks in the neighbourhood of its beautiful glacier.a
M. Agassiz had effaced the polished surface with
hammer within triangular space close to the ice, in
order to see whether the advancing glacier would renewa
                                           found that the ice had
                          ;                experiment, with which
its presumed  thwisorpkointb--utsothtehye
retreated at

aForbes appears to have been much struck, was as yet
   failure. They then walked back to Imbuden, where
they fell in with Professor Guyot, of Neuchatel, and,
as they were somewhat fatigued, passed the night at

Guttannen. M. Guyot was an intelligent companion,

and great tea-drinker, while M. Agassiz gave them  a
   a

most interesting history of his studies, and the develop

ment of his intellectual powers. So the evening passed

pleasantly away.
204                  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                 [chap.

                     Journal, August 18th.

   ' A charming walk from Guttannen to the Grimsel.

We carefully examined the polished rocks as we passed,
rising as they do 1,500 or 2,000 feet above the valley.
They are not all polished, and even for large spaces

Ithere is not a trace, but observed two facts which
I think nearly general. (1) The polish is decidedly

greatest on the side of every projecting rock looking
up the valley, against which, therefore, the ice would
abut. (2) The inclination of the striae does not de
pend, as Agassiz supposes, on the combination of the
vertical motion of the block in the ice with the longi
tudinal motion of the ice (which would be an insen
sible quantity), but the striae rise before a contraction
of the valley, and fall after such a contraction : the ice
rises to surmount an obstacle ; having surmounted

    falls.
it                                                 is
                                                                 it,
  I'
                        .
                         .
                                  .

                            it

                                         is
         cannot for one moment doubt that the configu
ration of the rocks in the valley of Hasli
                                                   entirely
superficial, and independent of crystalline or other

structure, and that                          not performed by water. The

continuity of the strokes, the depth of the furrows
relatively to the hardness of the rocks, the immense

height above the valley to which this polishing action
extends, seem conclusively to negative the idea of water

action.  .
              .

                 .'

     In the afternoon Agassiz went back to the Aar
Gletscher, while Forbes and Mr. Heath ascended the

Sidelhorn, finding, on their return, that Mr. Faraday
had arrived at the Grimsel. The next day again saw
them inmates of the hut.
     In the evening we had a splendid display of the
'

            I

                          It

                                                                     6
                                                                                               a
phenomenon of the shadow of mountains projected on
clouds, which once saw by moonlight at the Mer de
Glace at Chamouni.
                                             was about o'clock, when the

sun was near setting. The peaks of the Lauter-Aar and
Hugi-horner were grandly depicted on a cloud short
way above them. This evening there slept at the
Ix.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1841.                                                                  2C5

cabane MM. Agassiz, Nicholson, Burckhardt, Heath, and

myself.'
   This was their last night at the cabane. During an

ascent of the Schneebighorn and an exploration of the

Gauli glacier, next day, Forbes was partially engulfed
in a crevasse, and, falling forward, severely strained both
back and legs : the accident did not prevent him from

pursuing his observations during the remainder of the
day, but he did not again accompany M. Agassiz to the
Aar Gletscher, remaining for the whole of the next week at
the Grimsel hospice. Part of this detention was caused
bglyacaiebru--rs'touorf
                         bgaladciwere' atahserthweyhicahlwadyrosvecaAllegdassitiz--faronmd  his
                                                                                            the
belated party, ' MM. Agassiz, Voght, Desor, Burckhardt,
Heath, Mr. and Mrs. Trevelyan, and myself,' must often

have remembered those pleasant days, when the logs
crackled on the great open hearthstone, while the storm
raged without ; and when tired of social chat M. Agassiz
lectured on glaciers, or Forbes on the chemistry of
heat, until they came to the conclusion embodied in
an old German proverb, ' Besser schlechtes Wetter als
gar keins ! '
A week afterwards, while suffering from snow blind
ness brought on by his ascent of the Jungfrau, Forbes
                                                         of
dictated to a            friend the following sketch                                       the
party --                                                                                 little
                         Thursday. -- The weather being
   'August 26th,
:-·

                                                                                       aa
better, M. Agassiz went up to the glacier with M. du
Chatelier and M. de Pury of Neuch&tel, who arrived yes
terday in the midst of a torrent of rain, which Dr. Voght
predicted would prevent the arrival of anyone but hot

headed Englishman. The morning was tolerably fine,
but the snow had fallen quite down to the level of the

hospice, and this was all against the projected expedition
across the Ober-Aar Joch, for which we had now waited

several days of dreary bad weather.
   'We scarcely regret, however, on recollecting the

sociable hours which we spent in this place, to which
so many travellers come with no other wish than to leave
266     THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                            [chap.

it as soon as possible. During the worst weather our
little
        --soMcie. tAygwaasssiza, lmchoesetrfucol,nfikniendd,  to the following  mem
bers :                                                         and frank, not   much

disposed to active exertion within doors, but always
ready to contribute to the cheerful companionship of a

party, the chief of which he justly considers himself.

Dr. Voght, a laughter-loving, and withal shrewd young
man of twenty-three, a true German in complexion,

phlegm, and habits. During the excursions of his more

adventurous companions his chief home was near the

snuggest corner of the smoke-inviting wood-fire which
blazed at the end of the long, low hall of the hospice ;

here he would remain almost as motionless as the red
molecules of doubtful origin which it was his chief

delight to Watch through a powerful microscope in the

coloured snow, the gathering of which was the object of
an almost daily walk to the Sidelhorn. M. Desor, a

Frenchman by birth, a friend of M. Agassiz, and the
journalist of the expedition : like all journalists, placed in

rather a difficult and dubious position, from which even

a certain share of natural quickness and French vivacity

did not serve wholly to extricate him. M. Burckhardt,

the artist of our Agassian Club, a shrewd sensible man,
with a sly smile and some dry humour, often successfully
used in rebutting the sallies of M. Desor. Mr. and Mrs.

Trevelyan formed latterly part of our daily circle : the

one quiet, gentlemanlike, and well-informed ; the other

quick, rather erudite, and fond of art. They usually
spent their mornings with us, occupying themselves by

drying flowers or finishing sketches. Zippach, our land
lord, was an excellent manager -- all went on smoothly,
cheerfully, and without annoyance or a single unkind

or hasty word. Everyone was well served, and that
although the situation rendered it impossible to avoid

sometimes a tumultuous overflow of guests. By 8 or
9 a.m. all passing travellers were gone, and a still
repose reigned until three or four (we usually dined at
one or two), when travellers began                            ttohirdtryoporinfosrotyr--appidelry
that at seven supper was laid for
ix.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1841.                                       267

haps even sixty persons -- who had all to be lodged in
clean dormitories of the establishment. At this hour we

generally took tea, in which the whole Grimsel party
above named often joined us. Many and pleasant were
                                  '
the  evenings  we  thus  spent
                                !

   On the 27th the weather cleared, and they accord
ingly started for the Ober-Aar Joch, a pass which at that
time had been only traversed twice before, with the inten
tion of afterwards attempting the ascent of the Jungfrau.

A full account of these expeditions forms an appendix to

Forbes's work on 'Norway and its Glaciers,' published
in 1853.

   The    following letter conveyed to his      sister  :--a sketch
of this,  his first considerable ascent in the
                                                Alps

                   To Miss Forbes.

                                     'Brieo, 29th August, 1841.

I  ' You will probably be surprised when I tell         you that
                                                        Jungfrau,
   have just returned from the summit of the
where M. Agassiz and I and two Frenchmen, with

four guides, arrived yesterday afternoon at 4 o'clock.
You thought
               me  wiser than        to undertake any such ex
pedition, and      own that          but for Agassiz, who had
                I

an intense anxiety to ascend the Virgin Alp, so often
assailed in vain, the idea would never have occurred to
Ime. Since it succeeded,
                                     am, you may believe, very

glad to have made the attempt ; not only for the thing

itself, but because it gives me a perfect idea of what I have
long wished to know, the real amount and kind of difficulty

of the most formidable Alpine ascents, for I suppose that
there is no doubt that the ascent of Mont Blanc, though
longer, is by far less formidable. We commenced on the

27th August by a very interesting walk from the Grimsel,
by the vast mass of glaciers which fill up the Oberland,
or rather the            between it and   the Vallais (as you
                 space     We ascended   the upper glacier of
will see by the  map).
the Aar, and, passing a Col nearly 11,000 feet high, de
scended with much labour, but without much danger, the
Glacier de Viesch for about five hours, until we reached
2«8  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

some chalets on the neighbouring glacier of Aletsch,
where we slept after a very fatiguing walk of twelve
hours over glaciers in every form. Yesterday morning
 we started at six, being prevented accidentally from going
sooner, for the Jungfrau, preceded by the rather ambi
guous emblems of axe, rope, and ladder. We had four
and a half hours' rapid and not difficult walking over
the glacier of Aletsch before we began to mount consi
derably, and then we had much snow to cross and con
cealed crevasses to avoid, going cautiously over them
tied together by the rope. When quite at the foot of
the steep part, we had on one hand nothing but precipices
of snow and ice before us, and on the other of rock. The
former alone appeared assailable. We crossed a great
crevasse, opening nearly vertically, by means of the
ladder, and then had to make our way up a wall of

snow which overhung it in such a way that if our foot

ing failed we must have gone right into it. The risk
was, however, rather apparent than real ; for the snow
being moderately soft and yet consistent, we could dig in
our feet so as to keep a good hold, and thus we gained
first a more moderate slope, and finally a Col which
separates the glacier of Aletsch (see Keller's map) from
the valley of Lauterbrunnen. But the worst was to
come, for we had yet 800 or 900 feet to ascend of the
final peak, composed of a surface highly inclined and

terminating below in precipices some thousand feet high,
on the one side in the Roth-Thal (near Lauterbrunnen),
on the other side in the Aletsch valley. Had this surface
been of snow, as before, it would not have troubled us

much, but it was almost all solid ice. Every step was

made with a hatchet, and every foot secured before the
other could be moved, so that we were two hours in

ascending. When we reached the top, we found it a

point on which one man could not stand before the snow

was beaten down ! Of six travellers and seven guides
who started four of each reached the top. We were
obliged to stand upon it in succession, and planted a flag.

The view was clear in some directions and very magni-
ix.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1841.                                          269

ficent. On one side we had only clouds, but such clouds 1

I noticed one which seemed to extend from the very
valley of Grindelwald to
                                        2,000 or   3,000  feet above us.
A single cloud of 12,000                feet high  was a
                                                          thing I never

saw before. The thermometer was 25°, and we soon

descended. We were obliged to come all the way down

the icy slope backwards, taking every step (about 700)
as we had come up. By the admirable provisions of
our guides (of whom the chief, Leuthold, is by far the
best in the Alps) this was much less nervous work. . . .'

 .... 'Vat, Traveiw, near NeuchAtel, 21st Sept. 1841.

' I wrote to John a few supplementary notes on
tnhaetioJunn. gfrIahuadbuasinsheassrp,  with one or two  tshcerapeysesinaeftxeprlaI
                                        inflammation of

wrote, which you can but too well sympathise with ;

and I am sure you would think the ascent of the

Jungfrau dearly  purchased               by any permanent           inajnudry.I
Fortunately my   cure was               rapid and complete,

took the advice of an English Indian doctor, who was

very obliging, and who advised me to avoid glaciers for

a time. It is very curious that the glaciers properly so
called never affected me in the least degree : it was the
intense whiteness of the snow and the force of the sun

above 10,000 feet. I then spent nearly a week at the
north foot of Monte Rosa :

" At the foot of Parnassus contented               to stop,   "  '
                                                   the top
  For fear of a kick from the nag on                         !

   At Zermatt Forbes lost the companion of his previous
journeys, parting from Mr. Heath on the summit of the

St. Theodule pass, which the latter soon after crossed on
his way to Courmayeur and Paris. Forbes lingered a
few days longer at Zermatt, visited the Riffelberg, and
explored the glaciers of Gorner and Zmutt, after which
he retraced his steps down the Rhone valley, devoting
a day to the examination of the soi-disant polished rocks
and moraines in the neighbourhood of Vernayaz. The
evidence he there found, seems to have removed from
270      THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                   [chap.

his mind all doubt as to the glacial origin both of rbches

Imoutonnees and striated surfaces.
    ' took a return car to Vernayaz, and ascended by
some slate quarries to the village of Salvan, on the
south side of the valley of the Pissevache. This is on
the junction of the slaty limestone (here quarried as
roofing  slate), with  the equivocal gneiss and                                  granite rocks
of this                 climbed a rock which                                     immediately
         district. I
commands the valley of the Pissevache, and also that of
the Rhone, which is itself extensively striated. From

this I had a glorious view. The ravine of the Pissevache
itself
away    2is,00m0agfeneifticbeenlto,w.whilBeutthIe           Rhone valley stretches
                                                           was most struck by the
stupendous wall of rock which forms the north side of

the Pissevache ravine, striated and polished nearly from
top to bottom, often in the most distinct and beautiful

manner. The striae are generally horizontal, but some
rise and fall a little, depending on the direction in which
the rock has offered least resistance. To talk of such

striaa having been produced by water is ridiculous. The
whole valley of the Trient which is commanded from

this point, is composed of roches moutonnSes ; and from
the direction of the striaa near the Pissevache, they seem
to be due to glaciers descending from the Tete Noire or
Dent du Midi, which swept round the Pissevache and

descended to St. Maurice ; not to a great glacier descend
ing the valley of the Rhone.

    ' On the shelves about Salvan are many blocks, a
considerable portion of which appear to have travelled.
        of them, I  think,
Some                the "                        are the   V"aloofrsAingeassciozngalonmderCatheasr.-
These    belong to                               moraines

pentier, but this part of their theory is difficult to follow ;
I                                                harpmrooonfiziintsgelfw--itaht  other
                                                                                 least
                             .' it,

                                                a
we   may admit          as                                                              evidence,
but   scarcely as  being                                                                as far as

have seen. . .

    Forbes had looked forward to meeting M. Charpen-
tier at Bex, but the latter had gone to Italy, so he went
on to Geneva.
IX.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1841.                                                271

                    Journal, September Wth.

... I' M. de la Rive called on me and took me to the obser
vatory.             also made the acquaintance of M. Planta-

mour,    the observer,    and   of M. Emile Gauthier, nephew
of the                     saw   Professor Gauthier soon after,
         Professor. I

and he received me with an affectionate warmth which

touched me. He is all heart. . . . Every evening since

I came, Mont Blanc has been beautifully clear, and the

sunset fine ; but the recoloration has never been well

marked. This shows that it depends on peculiar atmo

spheric conditions, and favours De la Rive's hypothesis.

In Galignani of the 11th is a most laughable account
of our ascent of the Jungfrau. We are made to have
been conducted by a shepherd 80 years old, who ascended

for the third time ! and to have engraved our names and
                                         '
the  date  on  the  flag  we  planted  !

Much impressed by his observations at Vernayaz, he

hastened to Neuchatel to discuss them with Agassiz.
   ' My first walk with M. Agassiz was to the polished
rocks near the lake, a mile from Neuchatel, in the direc

tion of Bienne. Quite satisfactory. Glaciers only could
have done this ; but whence came they ?
   ' Took tea with Agassiz, Mr. and Mrs. Trevelyan, M.

Desor, and M. Burckhardt -- quite a Grimsel party. Dis
                                                                           . . Next day
pI uwteadlkeadbowutithglAacgiaesrssizthaendenDtieresoer vteonitnhge.  ".  Pierre a Bot,"

which exceeded my expectations. It is a boulder 50 feet
long, the largest in the Jura, composed of granite which
Von Buch recognizes as that of the Val de Bagnes. At
this level, about 850 French feet, is a sort of ledge, on
which the boulders are abundantly heaped, those of one
kind usually together. That these blocks were trans

!'...'ported by torrents seems incredible. They must have
been broken into a thousand pieces                                        How came

they thus to alight on the steep, and there remain 1

What force transported them, and, when transported,

lodged them high and dry 500 feet above the plain 1
272            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                          [chap.

We reply, a glacier might do this. What other inani
      agent could do it
mate                      we           know not.'  and  Forbes  turned
      was now the end                  September,
  It                      of

his steps homewards, pausing at Berne to discuss with
M. Studer the origin of blocs percMs and striae ; but

although the latter had seen striae at Bagnes produced

by water, which caused him to doubt, Forbes's convictions
as to their glacial origin remained unshaken. He soon
returned to England by the Rhine and Belgium, crossing
for the first time from Ostend to Dover, a route with
which he was greatly pleased. ' There were about ten
passengers,' he writes, 'and everything so smoothly

managed     at the Custom-house by     a commissionnaire,            who
           as many lies as you like                               '
will tell                              for two     shillings
                                                                !

Forbes had now fairly served his apprenticeship in
glacier observation. During his residence with M.
Agassiz, on the Lauter-Aar Gletscher, he had acquired
an intimate acquaintance with the varying features of
the Alpine ice-world. ' M. Agassiz,' he writes, ' had
lately published his interesting work on Glaciers, in
which he had embodied the bold reasonings of Venetz
and De Charpentier with the results of his own obser
vations ; and, guided by this, as well as the ready
                by means of
illustrations                          Iexample on the    spot, which
               wIassoaosnwfiolluinngd
M. Agassiz                             to afford as was    desirous to
learn from,                             that a multitude  of interest

iIngwafasctsalrheaaddyhithtoelretroabblyeenfaomvieliralorokweidthbyAlmpien, ealtshcoeungesh,
and with glaciers in particular. Animated and always
friendly discussions were the result, and, without ad
                                                   othf emir yinzgeeanlouuisty.a' nld
mitting in every case  I  the deductions
energetic instructor,     readily allowed
That glaciers moved, was unquestionable. That in

doing so they grooved and polished the rocks which

formed their beds, as they passed on, bearing the enor

mous transported blocks which had for so long puzzled
geologists, Forbes was now convinced. But the rate of

               1 ' Norway and its Glaciers,' p. 297.
«.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1842.                                  273

this motion and its character, whether uniform or inter

mittent, and whether differential or otherwise -- above all,
the origin of this motion -- were still moot points ; and

these points, he urged, could only be settled by treating
the mechanism of glaciers as a question of pure physics,
and obtaining precise and quantitative measures as the
only basis of accurate investigation. He resolved, there
fore, that he would open a campaign by himself the
following summer, and, taking with him sufficient in
struments for a complete trigonometrical survey of some
convenient glacier, grapple with the problem in a way
which had not before been attempted. His previous
visits had convinced him that the Mer de Glace of

Chamounix would be found in every way suitable
for his researches. Although less extensive than the
Lauter-Aar Gletscher, this very fact placed its phe
nomena more within the grasp of a single observer;
while the three glacier basins, the snows of which
combine at the same point to form its ice-stream, pre
sented every variety of horizontal angle and lateral
pressure to which a glacier could be subjected. Next
year, accordingly, he hastened thither, and in a few
weeks succeeded in- placing the facts of glacier motion
for the first time on a firm basis.

                 Journal, Paris, June 7th.

'I left London with Mr. C. Bentinck on the 27th of
t1rOMhenaewcyoe,tgInhnnatesirzttireo3tiudv0ttithenhaegnIdomhfweetreFaoertsliadnbngeyctleeooDcn--toewvdtqeihturahiattdaercndaoduawrnyr,Bee;oxsIppuaoelnomncdgtdinegihnedhagltdyonmiIhnaetdnhvmeoeeebtde2,bbr9eetfeehoonn.rf
Iplaced in an
                awkward position. . . .    have  seen  in  Paris,
    ' The most
                interesting thing which I
saw to-day at M. Libri's. He has acquired from an

ecclesiastic a box of Napoleon's juvenile papers, which

he had obtained from Cardinal Fesch, during whose

lifetime they had remained sealed up. Among them is

his commission in the army, signed by Louis XVI., and

                T
274                 THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                            [chap.

dated August 30th, 1792 ; essays historical and political ;
romances, one on an English subject, the Earl of Essex ;

letters on      Corsica ;  atoprcivoamtemitdiasuryic, idceo--ntaaitnitnhge   a curious
hint of an      intention                                                   age of 17 !

last, not least however, there was a geographical note
book, the last words of which, from their extraordinary
coincidence with his future fate, it was actually startling

to read in Napoleon's boyish hand. It concludes in the
middle of            page with   tPheistitefraIgsmlee."n--t oSuf raenly
                "a  St. Helene.                                             unfinished
sentence :                                                                   this beats
             '
romance
           !

   Travelling by Besancon and Pontarlier, he found time
to visit M. Studer, at Berne, and M. Charpentier, at Bex,
where he was both surprised and delighted by ' The
blocks of Monthey,' a series of remarkable boulders trans
ported thither by glacial action. From Geneva he travelled
by diligence to St. Gervais, and next day crossed the Col

de Forclaz on foot, carefully noting by the way the dis
tribution of the numerous blocks severally deposited
during their ancient extension, by each of the glaciers
which descend into the valley of Chamounix.

                    Journal, Friday, June 2ith.

   'Arrived at Chamounix at a quarter to twelve. Re-
commended myself to M. Lanvers, the cure-, in the name
of M. Charpentier, and met with a most kind and friendly
reception. He immediately hastened to procure for me

a guide who could remain with me at the Montanvert,

and, having found one, he obtained permission for him
to accompany me out of his turn. His name was
Auguste Balmat, and the same night we slept at the
Montanvert.'

                           To Miss Forbes.

I'                               ' Montanvert, Sunday, June 26tA.
   .
     .  .   have been fortunate enough to make the ac

quaintance of the Curé of Chamounix, and he has recom

mended a guide to me, who really promises to turn out
ix.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1842.                                                                    275

a second James Lindsay :--in short an admirable assis

tant. The weather, too, became delightful just as I
arrived here, and it is           pleasure to work amidst
                          a real
such scenes. Indeed, I     have   much to be grateful for ;
                                  about bringing my plans
and many doubts which     I had
for the summer to bear, are in a great measure

solved. . . .

  I' spent this Sunday morning quietly at home until

noon, just strolling down to the edge of the glacier, where

I read the morning service basking in the sun. What
a cathedral ! with all
                          tahbe"idHeaeigHugiisilvleefsrtohsftofor? r"thp.inH.nias. c'leicse,  the
glacier for a pavement.
morsels : who is able to                                                                      like

   The following details of the commencement of his
work are taken from his ' Travels through the Alps of
Savoy,' p. 129 :--

   ' I resolved to commence my experiments with the

very simple and obvious one of selecting some point on
the surface of the ice, and determining its position with
respect to three fixed co-ordinates, having reference to
the fixed objects around. . . One day, the 25th, was
devoted to a general reconnaissance of the Mer de Glace
throughout a good part of its length, with a view to

fixing permanent stations ; and the next I proceeded to

that part of the glacier which lies opposite to the rocky
promontory on its western side, called l'Angle. The

    ' James Lindsay, here alluded to, fulfilled the duties of mechanical
assistant to the Professor of Natural Philosophy at the Edinburgh
University for more than half a century, and has recently (1872)
retired from his post. He was then in his 73rd year, still hale and
vigorous, and made a most admirable reply, on the presentation to him
of a valuable testimonial, by the students of the class. He was in
the service of Sir John Leslie from 1814, until Sir John was trans
ferred from the chair of Mathematics to that of Natural Philosophy,
in 1819. Since that time he was mechanical assistant under Leslie
for fourteen years, Forbes for twenty-seven years, and Tait for twelve
years. He had acquired wonderful dexterity in many difficult ex
perimental processes ; and was, amongst other things, a most skilful
glass-blower. He constructed with his own hands almost all of Sir

John Leslie's original thermometrical and photometrical apparatus.
                                                T2
276               THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.            [chap.

latter presented a solid wall of rock in contact with the
ice, and upon this, as upon a fixed wall or dial, might be
marked the progress of the glacier as it slipped by.
    ' The instrument destined for all these observations

was a small astronomical circle,  or   4^-inch             theodolite,
supported on a portable tripod.          point            of the ice
                                    A

whose motion was to be observed, was fixed by a hole
pierced by means of a common blasting iron or jumper
to the depth of about two feet. An accurate vertical

hole being made, the theodolite was nicely centered on

it by means of a plumbline, and levelled. A level run
directly to the vertical face of the rock, gave at once
the co-ordinate for the vertical direction, or height of
the surface of the glacier. The next element was the

position or co-ordinate parallel to the length, or direc
tion of motion, of the glacier. This was obtained by
directing the telescope on a distant object, nearly in
the direction of the declivity of the glacier, which
object was the S.E. angle of the house at the Mont-
anvert, distant 5,000 feet. The telescope was then

moved in azimuth exactly 100° to the left, and thus
pointed against the rocky wall of the glacier, which
was here very smooth and nearly perpendicular. My
Iassistant, Balmat, was stationed there with a piece of

white paper, held with its edge vertical, which directed
him by signs to move along the surface of the rock, until
it coincided with the vertical wire of the telescope. Its
position was then marked on the stone with a chisel, and
the mark painted red with oil paint, and the date affixed.
These marks, it        niAsonbgselmelieav"lel doc,nurwitohisellityr2e7mtthhaa,int thIfeorredtyuaeryanresfo.dllo.two. itn.hge
   ' It was
             twhieth"
station of

the first observation. The instrument being pointed

and adjusted as described, and stationed above the hole
pierced in the ice the day before, when the telescope

was turned upon the rock, the red mark was left far
                  new position of the glacier
above  --;  the      more in advance --than             being 165 inches
lower       that  is,                                   had been twenty-

                                          !

                                                      it
six hours previously Though the result could not be
ix.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1842.                                                  277

called unexpected, it filled me with the most lively-
           The diurnal
pleasure.                           motion of a glacier was deter
mined, as  I believe, for          the first time from observation,

and the method employed left no doubt of its being
accurately determined. . . .'

It is not necessary to describe at length the observa

tions by means of which during the next few da)'s he
arrived at the following            conclusions,      which  are    found   in
his notes of June 30th
                                :  --

1. That glacier motion is approximately regular.
2. That it is nearly as great during the night as

during the day.
   3. That an increase of motion observed on the 28th,

29th, and 30th, was due to the heat of the weather.
                           tdhaeyp, uJruployse,1sth, ehaadvdinsg--examined
   And to these, next                                                       his
stations arranged for
4. That the centre of the glacier moves quicker than
the sides. These conclusions he communicated to Pro
fessor Jameson in his ' First letter on glaciers,' dated
July 4th.

                  To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                                   ' Montanvert, Chamounix, June 30th.

  ' When I        tell you that          I have been out              thirteen
                  glacier to-day,        and that I have            done not
hours on the
much less for several days, you will understand that,
what with active exercise and observations and taking
notes of what concerns my present inquiry, it is with

the utmost difficulty I can do anything else except eat
and sleep ! I rejoice to tell you that everything relative

to my glacier observation goes on in the most delightful

and favourable manner. 1 may literally say,

           " How  happily  the     days  of  Thalaba  went  by   "

                                                                !

Hitherto, the movements of glaciers have been reckoned
by years. Some thought they started on, moving at
some seasons or hours, and stopping at others ; but these
six days of hard work have enabled me to establish,
27K             THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                     [chap.

beyond a doubt, the regular and constant flow of
the glacier, not merely from day to day, but absolutely
...from hour to hour. You may believe how much this
result has delighted me.                   I am sorry to interrupt my

successful  aonpderIatitoankse,   but the eclipse  of the sun calls              me
to Turin,                        the occasion of   the trip to visit             the

glaciers of the Allee Blanche, and spend some days at
Courmayeur, in
periments. But             order to make some      meteorological ex
                                                   Chamounix before
                           I hope to return to
the 20th of July, and spend three weeks more in this

chalet. . . .'

     On the 1st of July he started for Turin, in order to
observe the total eclipse of the sun which was to take
place on the 8th, and was accompanied across the Col du
Bonhomme to Courmayeur by his guide, Auguste Balmat,

between whom and himself a strong feeling of esteem,

and even friendship, was already growing up. At Cour
mayeur he fell in with Mr. and Mrs. Airy, who were
bound on the same errand as himself, and they had a
pleasant journey to Turin together.
     The daybreak of the 8th found them all at their posts,
Mr. Airy on the Superga, and Forbes at the Observatory,
where he had arranged to remain with Sig. Plana.
On the previous day the atmospheric disturbance had

been considerable, and their hopes of favourable weather
for the morrow were mingled with fears : the Abbé BarufE,
however, who was one of their party, refused to admit a
doubt on the subject; he declared it to be 'impossible

that   thaewaeyc--lipsite  should  bneot"  tbreopspeoen.scelTehraegincelou"dsif  must
clear                      would                                                 they
did not ! ' Alas ! the good Abbess ideas of possibility

were destined to be enlarged.

                Journal, Friday, July 8th.

   ' Slept very little last night. Often at the window.
The dim misty veil grew thicker by degrees, and about
1 A.M. the sky fairly clouded over, leaving scarcely a hope
of seeing the eclipse, which was to begin at 5.14. Sig.
IX.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1842. 270

Plana, with Sig. Giulio, called for me at four, and we went

very hopelessly to the Observatory, arriving about half-
                                           relimttlaer,kewdi,th"
past four.   The sun showed     himself a                         very
rough edges                    Sig. Plana                         fonc-
             --indicating, as
tions diaboliques" in the theory of refraction. He then

waded through clouds, which cleared for a while, but, as

Ithe eclipse proceeded and the sun lost power, became
thick and motionless.          caught the commencement

between the clouds, but we then saw no more of it until
the moon was more than half off--and not even the

end. The period of total darkness was, however, suf

ficiently striking. It came on literally with frightful
rapidity, so as to give one the idea of a great movement
taking place in the universe, such as might well be

supposed to intimate the Day of Judgment. The shadow

plainly came from the west and rushed to the east,
which gave no doubt this feeling of motion --of some

Ithing passing with portentous velocity, and scattering

darkness as it flew. From our station could distinctly
see it sweep over the great plain of Lombardy, with an
actual velocity, according to Carlini's memoir, of l£

Italian miles per second. The effect was appalling.
                          transition surpassed  all expecta
                          darkness also.
...The suddenness of the                        It went off

tion, and I think the
with equal rapidity, and the rush of dawn moving over
the plain from the west with a velocity of 6,000 miles

an hour was grand !

   ' Mr. and Mrs. Airy were more fortunate at the
Superga, They saw the sun during the whole of the
totality, the mass of clouds which hid it from us being

above their heads. They saw a ring round the moon of
                  ith of  her diameter in breadth. After the
pearly   lustre,          in sadness ; but no one's disappoint
eclipse           to bed
         I went
ment was comparable to that of poor kind Sig. Plana,

who had taken infinite trouble beforehand, and was

Igreatly interested  in receiving  and entertaining us.
                     the evening   in conversation with him.
    ' spent part of
. . . Speaking amongst other things of Fresnel's wave-
surfaces, he observed how limited our powers of observa
280         THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.  [chap.

tion are !   There  isforamsunrofacgeenoerfalonglyeotmheetrfiocuarl thidedae--grewee,
of which    we can

describe it by points ; and thus conical refraction was

"disQcuoavnerdedje, vmeuaxnyimyaegarinserafDteier ut,h"eheeqwueantitonon,w"asj'imknaogwinne.
un Etre qui voit des surfaces de toute ordre." . . .
Yes, everyone has his own elhuXov of God !-- formed
according to the extension which they find it easiest
to give to their ideas of power and omniscience. The
Brahmin gives his Deity a hundred hands -- and the

mathematician can only arrive at a generalization :

which, however feeble, is at least, I think, more happy.'

    Re turning immediately to Courmayeur, Forbes resumed
his glacier studies, and passed a fortnight in the investi
gation of the Allee Blanche.

   A long and interesting day was spent on the summit

of the Cramont with Chanoine Carrel of Aosta, whose
acquaintance Forbes had made on his way to Turin, and
who was as great an enthusiast on the subject of
mountains and glaciers as himself; and they afterwards
succeeded in tracing the curious geological section of the
chain of Mont Blanc, in which the limestone formations

appear to dip under the granite, or protogine, which
composes the higher peaks, on Mont Saxe, and through
the Val Ferrex. Forbes also succeeded in obtaining
some authentic statistics as to the former advance and

retreat of the Glacier de Brenva, in the shape of the
builder's estimate for the repairs of the little chapel of
Notre Dame de la Guerison, which nestles among the
cliffs overhanging the lower extremity of the glacier, as
well as a certificate from the Syndic of Courmayeur
containing a statement taken from the archives of the

commune, how that in 1818 the Madonna was removed
from her chapel, which was then ' ecroulee par l'accroisse-
ment du dit glacier, qui étaifmonté au niveau de la

dite chapelle,' and carried processionally to Courmayeur,
where she remained until the glacier retreated, and her
chapel was repaired in 1822.
ix.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1842.                                                  281

                          To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                                ' Courmayeur, July 21«<.

'. . . . I have been hanging off and on for some
days, waiting for fine weather, with the             intention of
crossing the Col du Geant to Chamounix,
                                                     and I meant
to have written from the other side. Of my movements,

I have only to say that, with the exception of some
patience required in the matter of weather, my summer
life goes on   admirably. I     Isoon expect a visit from
M. Studer, at
               the Montanvert,  where propose to remain

until about the 12th of August, and then to take a

journey to Monte Rosa and its neighbouring glaciers,
                                                 in  September. As
rIetwurrontiengtoonycoeu  more to Chamounix      of  my observations
                          before, the precision
on the motion of glaciers, gives me great hopes of con
structing a sound mechanical theory, the bases of which

must be accurate numerical measurements, and not
d priori speculations about this or that structure of the
ice producing such and such consequences. Far from

such line and plummet      inthveessetigmatoiuonnstaindimmiansisshesin, gI   my
picturesque admiration of                                                   find
that each day brings with it a fresh sense of wonder, not
unmixed with awe, at the unknown fundamental laws

of the mighty movements of their glaciers, from a real

knowledge of which, I seem as far removed as ever. . . .'

On the 23rd of July, Forbes returned to Chamounix
by the Col du Geant, a route which
time, an interest -- an interest above             possessed,  at that
                                                 all to him    person
ally, which made this one of his golden days. It is now,

literally as regards the south side, a beaten path, while
the descent of the Glacier du Geant on the northern side
has been for some five-and- twenty years ' slowly broad
ening down from precedent to precedent,' until among
the series of alternative routes which can be chosen,

according as the weather or the condition of the glacier
renders advisable, there is now little hesitation, and no
delay. In 1842 it was otherwise. Although at that
time more than half a century had clapped since De
282         TEE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                    [chap.

Saussure had traced ' la route nouvellement découverte,'

from Chamounix to Courmayeur, and passed sixteen
days on the summit of the pass at a height of 11,000
feet, travellers had been few, and the last but one who
had crossed this pass was M. Elie de Beaumont, seven

years before. Forbes's admiration for De Saussure was
great ; and in the account of his own passage of the Col
du GtSant,1 he devotes no less than five pages to a sum
mary of the work done by the Humboldt of the Alps,
                              ' No system of connected
on this memorable spot.
physical observations at a great height in the atmo
sphere,' he writes, ' has ever been undertaken, which
can compare with that of De Saussure. At any time
such self-denial and perseverance would be admirable ;

but if we look to the small acquaintance which philoso

phers of sixty years ago had with the dangers of the

higher Alps, and the consequently exaggerated colouring

which was given to them, it must be pronounced heroic.'

                   To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                                                    'Chamounix, July 31st.

     ' I write to you, firstly because the bad weather
tempts one to the fireside, and therefore to the discharge
Iof one's debts of correspondence ;
                                     and secondly, because
although know not whether you                               aware of
the nature of the Col du Geant,      aryeect erItaminalyy,    without

undue self-love,   suppose that   you would not    be sorry to
                   extricated in  safety from its   rocks and
learn that I was
            Be it
glaciers.          known to you, then,  that the   very     night
succeeding    my                        forth at   1.30      a.m.,
                   last despatch I set

in a fine clear, cold moonlight, accompanied by two

guides, to mount the Col du Geant, a pass which has not
been crossed for several years, and which is 11,300 feet
high, beset with precipices on the south side and with
glaciers on the north. A very steep but not at all
dangerous climb brought us in six hours of good walking
to the top, from whence, in                    cold light of
splendid and perfectly clear      the calm  I   enjoyed one    a
                                  morning,
                                                              of

     1 ' Travels through the Alps of Savoy,' chap. xiL
ix.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1842. 283

Ithe most magnificent and certainly the clearest panorama

    have ever witnessed, extending from Monte Rosa to
the Alps, above Grenoble. Mont Blanc lies very near,

and apparently not at all at a great height above, while

towards the north stretch away the vast ice-fields which
it took us the greater part of the day to descend. We
reached a part of the glacier so excessively crevassed

from side to side, and bounded by precipitous rocks, that
it seemed impossible to pass. We were actually foiled
in several attempts, and had to retrace our steps, which
we took care always to make in such a way as to allow

an escape backwards. At last by the perseverance and
address of Joseph Couttet, my Chamounix guide (for I

had one from each side of the pass), we gradually extri

cated ourselves, and arrived in the well-known latitudes

of the Mer de Glace, which I had often traversed. We
Ireached the Montanvert at 4 p.m., where once more
took possession of my little chamber, and all my proper
           at once established in their  old places.
ties were                                 obliged to    confine
           day was fine, but I was
   'Next

myself on account of my eyes, which threatened inflam

mation, for we had passed all the hottest hours exposed
to the insupportable glare of very fresh and highly-

crystallized snow. I have changed the skin of my face
completely since, and the guides suffered still more,

but the whole journey    was so interesting and           beau
tiful, and we were so    favoured by weather,
                                                        that I

never felt so little fatigued by so long a walk, and next
morning was as fresh as a lark, excepting only my eyes.

I attribute this in a great measure to my having drunk
nothing but cold tea by the way, whilst my guides, who

drank brandy, were tormented by a raging thirst ; since

Ithen have not been able to work much, owing to very
Ichangeable weather, but still have made some progress

with my investigations.  of Ttoh-edawye, athhaevri,ngI  come down to
Chamounix on account                                    have the plea

sure of a visit from M. Studer, of Berne, who has come

here to see me, and with whom I may perhaps travel
later in the season. I have been fortunate in my occa
284               THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                  [chap.

sional companionships, which, without incommoding me,
have completely removed the feeling of solitude which
for a continuance of three months might have been
oppressive : and even when weather-bound at the Mont-
a"nmveonrtd,e I"  see, as you may well
                  of one kind or another,             believe, plenty of
                                                      and scarcely a day
Ipasses there, without
                        mthyemm. eetIifngthseomweeaotnheerwhpoermknitosw, sI
about me or about
Iam out from morning till night, and see no one but a

stray traveller from the Jardin, whom meet like a
                                                                I had two
chance   chamois on the      ngolatcietrra:vebllyersth--e  way
                                                           the  day before
within   shot-- chamois,

yesterday. . . .'

Notwithstanding the inflammation of his eyes pro
duced by the snow plains of the Col du Geant, Forbes
at once resumed his observations on the Mer de Glace.
' On the evening of the 24 th of July,' he writes,

I' the day following my descent from the Col du Geant,

   walked up the hill of Charmoz to a height of 600
or 700 feet above the Montanvert, or about 1,000

feet above the glacier. The tints of sunset were cast
in a glorious manner over the distant mountains, while
the glacier was thrown into comparative shadow, a
condition of half illumination which is far more

proper for distinguishing feeble shades of colour on a
white surface like that of a glacier, than the broad day.
Accordingly, whilst revolving in my mind during this
evening's stroll the singular problems of the ice-world,
                             vIerwyaspecceurltiaarinapthpaeat raInctehenof
my eye   was caught    by a                                                 the
surface  of the ice,  which                                                 saw
for the first time. It consisted of a series of nearly

hyperbolic brownish bands on the glacier, the curves
pointing downwards, and the two branches mingling
indiscriminately with the moraines.' ' They were marked
by merely a faint change in the colour of the ice,

and were          Ialmcolesatrlyimpsearwceptthibatle   when examined closely
. . . but                                             they were not properly
diversions of the true moraines, as I at first supposed,
IX.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1842. 288

but merely bands of a peculiar icy structure, which
retained and exhibited the dirt. This led me to a very
careful examination of the veined structure of the ice,

which I found to follow exactly these hyperbolic lines,

and to turn round their planes of cleavage very sharply
at the bottom of the bend, while a longitudinal section
of the glacier would show a dip inwards of 45°. This
is very important as furnishing the link between the

vertical, parallel, and clamshell stratification.' 1
A short interval of bad weather obliged him to
descend to Chamounix. But soon after M. Studer and
sunshine arrived together, and it is easy to imagine
with what pleasure Forbes conducted his friend to the

scene of his labours, and explained to him their results.
' Having conversed much,' he writes, ' with   M. Studer on

Ithe history of the glacier question, made    the following
Imemorandum of what claim as original        in my present
investigations, and submitted it to   him. He considers
it historically accurate. The points
                                      I claim are these :
' 1. The treatment of glacier motion as a problem of
mechanical forces, and its examination as such, from

exact data observed.
   ' 2. Two experiments
theories of De Saussure  for  dDisetinCghuaisrhpienngtierbe--twi.eee. nthothsee
                         and

of gravitation and dilatation. One being the exact
measurement of a space along the ice, to be measured
again after a certain time in order to ascertain whether

any expansion has occurred ; the other, the determina
tion of the lineal -velocity of a number of points along
the glacier, in order to ascertain whether their motion is

   1 These remarkable bands are here represented as they occur on
the lower portion of the Mer de Glace. The photograph was taken
expressly for this work from the summit of the TreJaporte, a buttress
of the Aiguille de Charmoz, which Forbes used as one of his surveying

stations (G*) in 1844. It rises to a height of nearly 2,000 feet above

the glacier, and he thus speaks of it as a point of view : 'The ascent

was somewhat difficult, but the view fully repaid us. It commands

the whole sweep of the glacier from the chapeau to the Col du Geant,

Iand to the foot of the Grandes Jorasses, as does no other point have

visited. From it the dirt bands on the glacier are beautifully seen.'
-- Journal, August 20, 1844.
                 THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                  [chap.

Iuniform, or bearing a ratio to their several distances from

the source of the glacier. The former experiment, have ,

uEsinsncschueeccrleesalasrsnfuteldlyy, e, ahhra,odwwbehevoeenra--ttseuomgnpgtetehsdteedLtao bupyteurtM-A.itaSritnuGdpleertarscctthioceerM.--.

    ' 3. The determination of the diurnal motion of a

glacier by reference to three co-ordinates.'
   After having arranged to meet Forbes at the convent

of the Great St. Bernard on the 12th of August, M. Studer
proceeded to make an excursion into the Tarentaise,
while Forbes vigorously prosecuted his survey, often
sleeping al fresco among the rocks of the Tacul, but
occasionally driven back to the friendly shelter of the
Montanvert by the weather, which was stormy and broken.
On the 11th he crossed the Tete Noire to Martigny,
and next day the two friends exchanged hearty greetings
before the hospitable fire which, even in August, is the
chiefest luxury in the domicile of the worthy fathers of
the Great St. Bernard.

                 To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                            'Orsieres, near Great St. Bernard, Aug. \3th.

   ' I am about to plunge into wild regions where

            " Posts never come --which come to all beside --"
Iit
   '   talk of   the summer as if it  was      to come ; and here
       slipping                                have been already
   is            through our fingers  !I

two months in Switzerland, and now scarcely a month

of true summer remains.

  I' have left the Montanvert for the present, hoping
soon to return for the purpose of making a tour with
Professor Studer, of Berne, through the wild valleys

between the great St. Bernard and Monte Rosa : we
                                tour of Monte
pI utrhpeonse    making the     to Chamounix.  Rosa together,  and
               return straight
   ' My experiments have been laborious, but successful.

I have such a quantity of unreduced observations, that
I am obliged to crave a general amnesty from my cor
Irespondents for poor shabby letters ; and as have a
prospect of sleeping in chalets for some time, pen and
IX.]                        ALPINE TRAVELS, 1842.                 287

ink will enjoy a sinecure.             It has been a project of a
                                     with Studer, and I have no
year's standing, this tour
doubt that it will prove most interesting, as he is a most

desirable companion from his local knowledge, his scien
tific attainments, and his pleasant, simple manners. He
has, very generously, taken my part firmly and strongly
in the recent disputes, notwithstanding his older friend
ship with Agassiz. . . . We spent last night at the Great
St. Bernard, which was fixed on as our rendezvous, and

whither we punctually arrived from opposite sides of the
Alps. We are to ascend the Val de Bagnes, cross the
Col de Fenetre into Piedmont, returning back
Swiss valley of Evolena, by the Col d'Aosta.                      to the

                                                                  I shall

then, perhaps, attempt a glacier pass of vaguely myste
rious difficulty from Evolena to Zermatt, then cross the

St. Theodule, and work round the southern slopes of the

chain of Monte Rosa. . . .'

                            To the Same.

                         'Zermatt, near foot of Monte Rosa, Aug. 25th.

      I' Here am locked in by a sore foot, which has
detained me already three or four days. There seems to

blaestsoymeearfaItawliatys  against  my passing the St. Theodule, for
                                     manner at its foot, but my sore
                            in like

       kept   me there.     leaNsotw,baydouthmereustist--akeanda  very good
      -- or  rather the                                           trace our
Ieyes

map
progress from Orsieres, where wrote you a hurried line

ten days ago.
    ' We ascended the valley of Bagnes, celebrated for the

terrible debacle of 1818, and saw the mischief-making
glacier, after which we passed our first night in a chalet.
Next day we crossed the Col de Fenetre, and descended
to the entrance of the valley of Valpellina, which we
followed up its whole length, and having again slept in
a hayloft, crossed a pass which has never yet got into
the way of tourists, and has a fabulous sort of existence

in some books : it is called the Col de Collon, and
brought us to the Val d'Erin, the capital of which is

Evolena.
288               THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

' It is a long and wild glacier pass, and while descend

ing its northern snow slopes, we were shocked to find the
body of a man, in his clothes, which were in good pre
servation, but the body was terribly disfigured. He had
lain there since last autumn ! His purse and clothes

untouched. We took his purse, which contained small
coins amounting to about three francs, and left it with
the Curé of Evolena to be given to his friends. . . .
Lower down, we found the remains of another man, of

much older date ; then the bones of two chamois, and

finally, the bones of a third man at some distance. Such

a thing never occurred to me before, and you may be
hsuoru'erTshthefarotvmawlleeSyiroenos,ufmthEeevdocleaonpuairtajoilsuroanfepyothpeusilVloeuansltlaoainsne--d--abwountelsyatraumcfoker.we

wretched place for an unlucky traveller to fall into, you
never met with ; no sort of comfort, cleanliness, or good

fare -- even the curé was reduced to, if not below, the
level of his parishioners. Having some notion of the
sort of places we were going through, we had fortunately
taken a provision of meat, rice, tea, and coffee, as if we
                  in             '
were  travelling      Siberia  !

                  Journal, August 17th.

   ' Our reception at Evolena was none of the pleasantest.
The curé, a timid worldly man, gave us to understand
that, owing to his mother's illness, we could not lodge in
his house ; and as we had no possible alternative but to
eat there, we were obliged to submit to the rudeness of

his sister, who appeared to be constantly drunk, and was
evidently the terror of this ill-regulated household. At
length it was announced that one bed was to be had in
               We inspected it ; room  fIorwotnwo!--whaasrdo,uat nodf
the village.
the question.    We drew lots for it.
knotty, and short it was, but tolerably clean. M. Studer,

who slept I know not where, came to me in the morning
with a rueful countenance, declaring that he would not
stay another hour in Evolena, and he accordingly went
oft' to the Val d'Anniviers. '
IX.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1842.                                                    289

              Continuation of previous letter.

    ' M. Sturler, whose philosophy was not proof against
the discomforts of Evolena, went round by the Val
d'Anniviers and the valley of St. Nicholas in order to
join me here, while I, accompanied by Victor Tairraz my
Chamounix guide, and two men named Biona and Pra-

long, natives of these valleys, crossed the mountains from

Evolena to Zermatt by a pass which has a great character
in                 fcoerleitbsrahteedightCoalnddulenGgethan, tin--bboythnoof
it   this country                                                             which
     exceeds the                                                              means

falling short of it in difficulty. There were only three

men, I believe, in the valley of Erin who knew of the
            of the
existence   former  --paPsrsa, loanngd  --buI thaodnebewehnofohrtaudnactreosesendougith  ;
one of the

to procure.
    ' We crossed most successfully, and I was rewarded by
...perhaps the grandest view which I have ever met with
in the Alps.        So you will see from the map that we
have pretty well zig-zagged through this -- perhaps the
least known part of the Alpine chain, but undoubtedly

one of the grandest. During all this time I have been
walking with a sore foot, which was hurt at Chamounix,
and which has now, during the time I spent here await
ing M. Studer's arrival by the valley, begun to take its
revenge. There is nothing for it but to lay up ; but after

superb weather the rain has at last come to assuage my

affliction. . . . How the summer flies ! It certainly will

not  have been for me either            unprofitable   or  uninteresting.
As   to my experiments and               conclusions,       am tolerably
                                                        I

well satisfied with them, so            far as they go ; as to  scenery
                                        more than satisfied.'
and adventure, I have been

    On the 26th, Forbes at last succeeded in passing the
St. Theodule, and crossed the southern spurs of Monte

Rosa from valley to valley, exploring their glaciers as he
went. The weather was broken ; and when they had got
as far as the valley of Gressoney, it proved too much for

the patience of M. Studer, who fled away by the Col de

Valdobbia.    Forbes, however,          lingered  a few days longer,

                              r
290              THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FOltHES.                          [chap.

and was rewarded by better weather, so that he was able

to make          aZnumexscteuirnsi--onwhoonsethneamLyes   Gletscher in company
with M.                                                  is borne by one of the
peaks of Monte Rosa, which he was the first to ascend --
and whose intimate knowledge of these valleys made his
companionship most valuable. He then crossed the Col
Turlo to Macugnaga.

                 To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                                                ' Chamounix, September 1ith.

     '     .  .  After my last letter     the            weather  soon  mended,

        .
and became very fine indeed, so I had a delightful day
on the glacier of Macugnaga, and a splendid passage of

the Monte Moro. I then descended quietly to Martigny,

           from that spent two days on the
           glaciers of Trient and Argentiere.
...and                                                   way      here, visiting

the                                                                I have been

detained here by a sore hand and arm, but my imprison
ment has been rendered agreeable by the society of three
                                     of whom, Lord F
gCaagminbgridygoeunmg emn,ano, nIe                                 , a most en
                                    knew slightly before.
                                                                  We managed

to pass       two rainy   days drawing          Ianhdadtahlakdinganvyethryingagrliekee
ably.                      months since
              It was two

a chat with an Englishman. . . .
     4 1 am still shut up by weather and my sore hand ;
                                          have left me, so I
my Cambridge friends                      I expect to-morrow       have time
enough for musing ; but                                           to shoulder

my pole,         barometer,         telescope,  and sketch-book, and to
be myself        again ! '

   It was indeed time that he resumed his work, for the

winter had already set in, and so much remained still to
be done, that not an hour of fine weather could be spared.
Having measured a base line for his survey of nearly 1,000
yards in length, he proceeded to examine the effects of
the first cold of winter on the motion and condition of

the glacier, which he had found on his return enormously
                                          the autumn sun. Its
fcooullnadps--edcoanntdrawryasttoedthbey  usual belief-- sensibly  motion, he
                                                                   diminished

during the cold, while on the return of milder weather,
which cleared the glacier of snow, and left it soakiugly
.X.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1842. 291

wet, it resumed its rapid motion. But the first snow
storms of winter came on with more and more violence,

and rendered further work impossible for that year. The
following account of one of his last days on the glacier,
will give an idea of the difficulties he had then to
contend with.

            Journal, September 25th.

' I had resolved, if to-day were fine, by no means to
miss the opportunity of going to the head of the glacier
and examining the motion of its tributaries from stations

[E] and [KJ, which I had fixed on the glaciers of Léchaud

and of the Géant respectively ; but the quantity of snow,
independently of the chances of weather, rendered this a
serious undertaking. Under David Couttet's advice,
however, whom I took with me as well as Balmat, we
started in lowering weather at 6.30 a.m. In less than
an hour it began to snow, and so continued the whole

day ; at times very heavily, with drifting wind, but not
intense cold. The snow was frequently knee-deep, and
it required all Balmat' s intimate knowledge of the glacier
to keep us clear of bad crevasses by skirting the moraines
as much as possible. While passing the icefall of the
Glacier de TaleTre, the weather became still worse ; and

when we were fairly on the upper Lechaud, the wind

blew so strongly from the Grandes Jorasses, and the snow

had so completely obscured our landmarks for exact

observations, that we were fain to crouch behind a stone

on the lateral moraine, and make an uncomfortable break
fast at about ten o'clock. At length the snow abated a

little, and disclosed the Pierre a Beranger, which was
one of my check-marks for the movement of the ice.
Hope revived, and a little wine and brandy restored some

- of Balmat's confidence : we therefore advanced up the
  glacier, but the storm again increased in violence ; and as

we got to the foot of the rock on which my station [EJ

stood, Couttet, who had been hitherto the chief encou-

rager   of  tbhee'tioeexp! e" d.itio. n.,  said  very quietly,  "Nous  allons
faire  une

                                           u2
292      THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                              [chap.

   'The wind was now driving the snow in our faces,

Ibut begged that we might at least stop* and take

shelter as before, in hopes of a better moment, which
indeed was not long coming. We then ascended and

planted the instrument, but the Pierre a Beranger,
although quite visible to the eye, was lost in the tele

Iscope owing to the intervening snow-storm. When
    was  begiiming            --toatdleesapsatir,so  however,   it cleared, and
became.  nearly fair                                 far as to  allow a sight of

the important mark, whereupon Balmat descended to the

lj,tghlaecoideor,litwe.hileI  Couttet held up        an umbrella    to   defend    the
                              thus determined         the motion    of   station
                                                                                   : [--E
     nearest the eastern edge of the Glacier de Léchaud

         '289ththAJuugluys--t --8t2h5tAhugSuespttem.ber.          Feet.  Inches.

                    Total (48 days) . .                            10      11
                                                                  45
           Daily motion                                                        1

                                                                    5(5 0

                                                                              In.
                                                                           1 1-3

     ' This observation was carefully repeated, and notwith

Istanding the unfavourable weather, is as trustworthy as

any have made. One thing struck me as being exceed
                                                     a 1],
ingly remarkable. The staff [E                              immersed to small
                                                                            a
depth in the ice, with twelve or fifteen inches of snow                          a

above,    having been exposed                        to great       cold for         Iasome
         the thermometer at the                       Montanvert      having       stood
days --
at 20° -- and the glacier having been covered with snow

for probably fortnight, was yet standing in water, and
''
quite loose in its hole.a
     The surface of the glacier generally was dry -- not

rill of water in the Moulins or elsewhere, yet this con

gelation appeared to be superficial, and to have penetrated
no great way into the glacier.
     Both Couttet and Balmat were afraid all the way of
breaking through the snow into water-hole, thing
                                                     :

                                                         a

                                                                it
thought very unlikely, but which, nevertheless, happened
to both of them during the day hence seems probable
      IX.j ALPINE TRAVELS, 1842.                                                               293

                                           "The snow keeps the glacier
      that, as Couttet expressed           a

      warm, as does the ground," and that even in the deptha it,
                a I it                              by a
      of winter, cold penetrates very slowly.                    is I     becomes most
                                                                      It
      important for Charpen tier's theory to ascertain the effect

      on   sthuerfamceo-twioanteorf--twhehigchlacoieurghoft,  the complete  freezing of
                                                              according to  him, to be
      its

      ...attended with great dilatation and movement of the
      glacier.          In endeavouring to sound the great Moulina

      opposite the Glacier de Talelre on the Glacier de Léchaud,;

      the line broke, and deprived me of my geological ham

      mer, which had used as plummet. describe
it it,    in case of the improbable circumstance of its

     'ever appearing again lower down. It of this
form, with globular and cutting end, weigh

      ing about 2\ pounds the handle about sixteen
      inches long. The moulin was stopped with

snow.
           '[June 22nd, 1858. -- By
      Alfred Wills, accompanied                               singular accident Mr.
                                                              Auguste Balmat, found
this hammer "not far below the Tacul" in 1857, when
           was at once recognized by Balmat. See Mr. Wills'

      letter  of Dec. 3rd, 1857.]          glacier,              was struck by the
               returning down the                             I
          In                                                       I

                                                                        I

                                                                                  it

                                                                                           is
exquisite blue colour of the snow, by transmitted light,

when pierced by stick to the depth of six inches or
                        I

                             a
more.         I It  was, think, quite as intense as have ever

seen in ice of the same thickness. The snow was quite
fresh, having fallen within the last few days, and was
Ttnhaeecituhlsea--rmveeoriybnsedlrorvywe,dernotrhreigsyieobtnlsu.veercyNoelmoauorirstt.ihnispopotolshinintokf awlsoat--ernthooetf
trifling depth on the glacier. . . We reached the.
M on tan vert at half-past three, for going up the Glacier    .

du Geant was out of the question.'

        couple of days more spent on the glacier, few finalA                a
observations to render the triangulation on which his

map was based more complete, and Forbes's summer work

was over. On the 28th he descended from the Montan
294            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                          [chap.

vert for the last time. ' It was a beautiful evening,'
he writes, 'the Dru and the
coloured by the setting sun,           Verte              were magnificently
                                                          rejoiced at leaving
                                       and I

Chamounix with       a favourable      Nimexprtesdsaioyn,I          after the        long
bad weather we       have had.                             where I   quitted         with

great  regret  that               wchhaicrhminIghasvpeot  now seen  have spent so
many   weeks,  and                                                  in every phase

of summer and winter.                    Undoubtedly       it deserves its
                                       every reason       to congratulate
reputation, and I have
myself on having made it my head-quarters.'
     After spending a week at Geneva, he returned to
England by the same route he had followed the previous
                                       M. Studer at Berne, en                  route,
year, and    while visiting            letter to his sister :--                        he
addressed    the following

                                  To Miss Forbes.

                                                          ' Berne, October 9lh, 1842.

     I'      spent the month of September, which was
        ...

Ivariable, chiefly at Chamounix, having a determinate
task to perform, which had               very considerable                           anIxiweatys
about accomplishing within             the time to which

limited ; and, in doing so, had to submit to considerable

riMnocooomnntvaentnovieen3rtc9,e°s--.thaendTthhIeermmsaondmoeweatlenaryefxteoclul srostmiooen20do°ev--petrhinthbemelMyowebrethddee
Glace in the midst of a snow-storm, which gave me a
good idea of an Alpine winter ; but these difficulties
                                       value of the
added   Isomething to the               be satisfied      results, and,              on the
whole,                                                     with what
            have reason to                                                           I have

done.

  ' I have determined the velocity of twelve points on
                                       interval of more than three
t--heinglafacciet r,adlmuroinstg  an   the accessible part of the                    months
                                  all                                                season.

Tahllesoethienrcltuhdinegms,orIehathvaenasicxotmy pmleetaesusruermveenytso, f  and   besides
                                                                                the
and its tributaries, for constructing a map.                                          glacier
                                                                                I    am not

sorry that the world should have an opportunity of com
paring the results of Agassiz' mode of working with those
of mine. His force consisted of a paid surveyor, a paid
ix.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1842.                                  295

dnworhatouwgahhlltosmlmivaebnde,soiadnecshteh--me iinsgtl,aacalilegrne. ionloeIgimsatva, ostiaedretsrd,umasnopcdeiteentyri,n--eaIngkdunidothewes
disturbances attendant on notoriety ; and with one assist

ant  sounmlym, ere'sxcewptorko--n  rare    occasions, have  performed all
my                                 my    ordinary expenses   being eleven

francs a day ! . . .'
CHAPTER X.

A LPINE TRA VELS, 1 843-- 1a:, 1.

During the winter months of 1842, Forbes was busily

employed in the reduction of his observations, and in
putting his notes into form for publication. The result
was his ' Travels through the Alps of Savoy,' one of the
most charming books ever written on Alpine travel, and
not unworthy of its confessed prototype, the travels of

De Saussure. It was published in the summer of 1843 ;
and almost at the same time another important event in

his life, his marriage, took place. Early in July he

started with his young bride to spend his honeymoon

among the Alps.

   It had been Forbes's intention to revisit his many
friends at Bonn, and then to travel by the Rhine to
Switzerland. But this was not to be. The hard work

of the previous session told upon him now, and for the
first time in his life he broke down. One Monday after
noon they travelled from Antwerp to Liege in weather
so sultry and hot, that Forbes could not bear the close

railway carriage, and at the first stoppage they took their

places in an open one. It was then near sunset, and the

sudden and dangerous change from afternoon heat to
evening chill soon came.   iNlle--xtatdainyt,erwvhaelsn
at Bonn, he was seriously                                they arrived
                                                         scarcely con
scious ; but he would not allow that he was so, and when
chap. x.]  ALPINE TRAVELS, 1843.           297

several of his old friends visited him the same evening,
he exerted himself so far, that they did not observe any
thing amiss : when they had left him, however, he became

much worse ; and when his anxious wife succeeded in

getting a doctor sent for, his malady was pronounced to

be gastric fever, complicated by severe pulmonary inflam
mation, and slight hopes were held out of his recovery.
She never left him night or day, but for ten days he did

not recognize her. It was a long and anxious time -- how
long, those of our readers only who have passed through

such a trial, can say. At last the crisis came, and the

doctor     was of opinion that he would    n--otliklievealtlhtrhoeugrhestt--he
night.       She spent that painful night

alone with him, and in the morning could thank God that

he still lived, but it was many days before she could

realize the fact that he was recovering. The fever lingered
about him still, and at last, about the middle of August,
a yearning for the cool breath of the glaciers came upon

him, and he told the doctor that he felt he could never,

get well unless he left the Rhineland, and travelled at all

hazards to the Alps.

The doctor stood aghast at the idea, and his prophe

cies of evil seemed likely to be fulfilled, for during the
slow journey from the Rhine to the valley of the Rhone,
Forbes's health did not improve. But once at Bex, with

glaciers within sight, and his old friends De Charpentier
and Von Fellenberg to talk to about them, his life and

spirits came to him again ; and he was, for the time,
almost his former self-- sketching the blocks of Monthey,
' and no less charmed with them,' he writes, ' than last

year' -- planning how much work he was still justified in

attempting under the change of plan necessitated by his
illness, and arguing with Charpentier as energetically

as ever.

On the 4th of September they crossed the Col de

Balme, and some time before reaching Chamounix they
were met by a crowd of guides and friendly people of the
place, who were anxious to welcome ' Monsieur For-beX'
and show him that his kindly, genial ·manners and
298  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                      [chap.

undoubted intrepidity had gained their esteem -- an esteem
with which his name is still mentioned there.

    The first week removed all doubt that the remedy
which Forbes had prescribed for himself, was the right

one. ' I have visited the Flegere, the Chapeau, and the

Col de Voza,' he writes, 'and my cough has gradually
disappeared. The climate agrees with me far better
than the soft air of Bex, and the hot sunshine is alone

unfavourable.'

    On the 11th he once more established himself at the

Montanvert, where he hourly gained strength and health,
and resumed his observations, accompanied by his faith
ful guide, Auguste Balmat, ' who,' he writes, ' to his

honour be it said, refused all remuneration for his trouble
last winter in watching the glacier, as well as for the
days spent with me last summer.'

    Forbes's chief purpose there was to ascertain the
progress which the glaciers had made during the winter
by measuring the spaces passed over by certain blocks
which he had marked, and which Balmat had from time
to time observed, during the spring and summer. In the
case of one of these, near the lower extremity of the
Mer de Glace, its movements had been too irregular to
give satisfactoiy results, owing to the broken character of

the ice on which it rested, and the fact of its having
been gradually shunted on to the edge of the moraine,
where it now lay stranded. Enough, however, could be

gathered to prove that, contrary to received opinions,
the glacier moved with considerable velocity even in
winter.

     Journal, September 12th.

     ' I walked up the glacier with Balmat and my small
Itheodolite. . . . The "Pierre Platte" was in every way

an unexceptionable landmark, and resolved to cross
the Mer de Glace for the purpose of observing it--an
exertion which I should hardly have ventured for a less
                                     It was easy to find the motion
i"ntPeiererrsetinPglartetesu"lt[.c]                                    of the
                                     since the visual line was fixed.  From
ALPINE TRAVELS, 1843.       2!)i)

June 27th, 1842, to September 12th, 184:1 = 442 days,

it had moved 320 feet, or 8 '7 inches per day.

   ' I then ascended the couvercle to the edge of the

Glacier de TaleTre opposite the Jardin, and corrected

some details of my map. Being anxious to obtain a
                            the Mer de Glace, and more
good bird's-eye view of
particularly its moraines,  I mounted a rock at the south

west foot of the Aiguille du Moine, which commands the

whole glacier magnificently as far as the Montanvert,

and was fortunate enough to make from there a very

interesting observation.

    ' The dirt-bands were beautifully traced before me, as

I saw them last year : but above the Trélaporte (beyond
which on that occasion I was prevented by a fall of snow
from tracing them), I counted six new ones on the lower

Glacier du Geant, after which succeeded a space of the

glacier which might contain three more, but these latter

were not distinguishable. Above this, again, came a

striking and beautiful appearance which was quite new
to me. Tbe immense fall of snow of the previous winter

had not been entirely melted during the whole summer,
and still lay in all the hollows where it could accumulate,

and accordingly the higher part of the Glacier du Ge"ant

was marked by broad snow-bands, evidently filling hollows

in the surface of the glacier ; and these bands corre

sponded precisely in form and intervals to the dirt-bands.

These wrinkles on the ice resembled those on a cow's horn,

and I am not sure whether they have not one point in

common -- the indication of annual growth. . . . Counting

t--fwrhoheamiclthTotrghdIeelatcphnooeinnrrsteiendi,denriereIttde-becaontunonddtfieorsdtrp-mbaacteneansdcspo,ornfettevitnrhimoueuasinsetilaoytsninnoogbowsfeoyrptvhpeweodrsifintoaekrbmloetvhseee,r
Aig de Blaitiere, and, as the distance is about 9,000 feet,

averaging 474 feet apart. . . . Auguste and I managed

to scramble down a steep couloir from my station on the

rocks of the Aig. du Moine : the forms of the neighbour
ing ravines were savage in the extreme, the rock of this

district being peculiarly hard and rough, but we regained
301)            THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                              [chap.

...the glacierfrom   pLaesssiEnggrathleetsg,reaantdMroetuulirnne--d   to   the Mont-
                                                                     this   year par
anvert.          In
ticularly fine -- I found a piece of wood, which on exami

nation appeared to have once formed part of a ladder, a
very stout one, as it had holes for the insertion of rungs.
This may probably have been a portion of De Saussure's
                            by the glacier. It was almost at
ladder, much       chafed  --fouIndfousnimd ilamryfsrealgfmerantths erinb1re8a3t2h.less
the same spot
                   that I
    'September
                     YMh.

from yesterday's fatigues, but not otherwise unwell. . . .'

After having fixed the position of numerous blocks on

the glacier, with a view to the future observation of
their winter progress, and determined the position of true
Inorth and the variation of the compass on the map of the

Mer de Glace, ' descended to the source of the Arveiron.
While                from thence to Chamounix, below the
chalet  returning
        of Planaz,   I was struck by a singular thought :

What is the origin of the mass of blocks which we ride

Iover every day on the ascent to Planaz, while on our

way to the Montanvert ? was struck with them from

having to consider the course of the torrents of Grepon
and Fouilli, or Blaitiere, which descend into the valley
of Chamounix, and which both struggle with difficulty
and by a crooked course behind the wall of debris which
lies along the foot of the mountain, until they join the
Arve in the plain below. What are these debris? are

they not  the   I  lateral moraine, corresponding to                        that of
Lavanchi            sent Auguste early next morning                        to break
          ?

a number of the blocks at random, and he brought me
twelve or fifteen specimens, all undistinguishable from

one another, and from the granitic blocks of Lavanchi.'

      Forbes's time at Chamounix was cruelly short, three
days only on the glacier : and then, with health at least

improved, he recrossed the T6te Noire to Martigny, where
he was joined by Mr. E. C. Batten, the companion of his
sojourn at Bonn in 1837, who was travelling with his

bride and her sister. They all travelled together to
Leukerbad and the Gemmi, on the top of which they

parted, and Forbes was able to revisit the glaciers of
x.]  ALPINE TRAVELS, 1843.                                        301

'IGrindelwald before the winter cold set regularly in.

there found,' he writes to Lord Cathcart,1 ' an exact con

firmation of the views which I have published respecting
the origin and structure of glaciers. I found the forms,
simple and compound, of the ribbon structure to be such
                                   including the gradual rise of
Iasha1vehacvaelleddesctrhibeed",  frontal dip," from a very low   what
                                                                  angle

near the lower end of the glacier, up to 75° towards its
                                   of
origin, especially on the glacier       th"eMSetrradheleGckla, ceab"ovoef
                                   the
the Zasemberg, where it forms

Grindelwald. The other principal affluent of that icy

sea, viz. the glacier descending from the Viescher Horner,
                                    as those which I
exhibits the same wrinkles exactly  Geant --perhaps               have
just described upon the Glacier du                                even

better marked. As the lower glacier of Grindelwald
furnished an excellent example of all the modifications

which I have elsewhere shown to belong to the canal-
shaped glacier, with branches, so the upper glacier is an
exact representative, in its lower part, of the oval glacier,

of which I have taken the glaciers of the Rhone as a
type ; whilst many of the tributary glaciers of Grindel

wald and the Jungfrau bear ample testimony to the
general fact that the structure of glaciers is developed

during their progression, and after their primitive strati

fication has been annihilated by their being projected in

avalanches over appalling precipices. . . .'

    On September 26th the winter snow began, and after

being delayed a day by it at Rosenlaui, ' we passed,' he

writes, 'some starving days at Thun.' They then tra
velled through Berne and Zurich, greeted by old friends
at both places, and at length arrived at Bonn with the
Battens, whom they had met at Mayence.

   The pure mountain air had served Forbes as a walking-
stick, but it could not serve him as a crutch : and as the
winter still came on, and he still was moving northwards,
it became a serious question whether he could continue
his journey to Edinburgh, and attempt to undertake his

                             1 Fifih Letter on Glaciers.
302      THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                       [chap.

winter's work there. Dr. Nassé, who had attended him

in the former attack at Bonn, and whom he again con
sulted on this subject, gave a decided answer in the
negative ; and Forbes, with a heavy heart, addressed a
letter to the Lord Provost of Edinburgh, requesting leave
of absence for the winter.

   His request was immediately granted. 'I have received,'
he writes to Mr. Batten, 'the most gratifying letters from
Scotland. Kelland and Henderson have done everything
with the best grace, and in the kindest manner. The

Principal writes to me that both he and the senators
have cordially endorsed my conduct ; the Lord Provost

and Council have been conciliatory and accommodating ;

and last, not least, my own family decidedly approve of
my remaining abroad, without, however, any unreason
                               All this comforts
... Iable apprehensions.doubt                      me   in  the highest
degree.                         not that all will   go  on  well under

Kelland's care, and that James Lindsay will be very
useful and in high favour. Even the grim Scotsman
has relaxed into a very kindly paragraph in my
         '
favour

   They turned their steps once more towards the South.
But they had only proceeded as far as Frankfort when
they were again stopped by illness. This time Mrs.

Forbes was the sufferer, and they were unable to attempt

any further progress until the end of October. At length,

however, by slow, and often weary stages, they reached

Naples.                 To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                                                            ' Naples, November 2ith.

   '. . . My former letters from Frankfort and Geneva
have explained the course of our tedious journey. My
dear wife has been not a little delicate ever since ; and
even when we had arrived at Aix, and had arranged to

go by Nice to Genoa, I was reluctantly obliged to give

up the idea, and take ship to Marseilles. At Geneva we
spent some pleasant days, but after leaving it we had a

very cold journey of three days by voiturier to Lyons,
and down the Rhone to Avignon. At Marseilles it froze
x.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1843.                                                                                                         303

in the night, and there was a bitter wind-- indeed,
it was not until we were within sight of Genoa that
we met with an Italian climate, which, however, has

since followed us. The Bay of Genoa was finer, and the

city far more splendid and interesting than I had ex
'

                                                       I a it,
                                                                   I
pected ; we had nearly two days to examine                                                                                        and

was quite delighted with it. . . .
The extraordinary beauty of the weather has kept us

much on the move in the way of sight-seeing, and my
n--umhaevreousfillegdeolomgyicanl oetexbcuoorskionasnd--
                                                          generally three                                                         week
                                                          my evenings.                                                            have

also had a heavy correspondence with my friends at
home, both scientific and otherwise, whose kindness at

the present juncture cannot sufficiently acknowledge.
       '

                      it

                       I

                                             a

                                      I

                                                                                 '

                                                                                                                               .

                                                                                  .'
My first and main anxiety when last wrote, was, that

my absence should be rightly construed, and my place-

efficiently supplied. All my interest in Italy was sub
servient to seeing with clear conscience. .

The numerous geological excursions in the environs
of Naples, which occupied him until the end of the year,

were chiefly devoted to revisiting and re-examining the
scenes of his Physical Notices of the Bay of Naples
       '

                                                                                                                                  :

                                                                                                     '

Astroni and Solfaterra, Pozzuoli, with its ruined temple
of Serapis, whose honeycombed pillars had recorded the

oscillations of level between the bay and the coast, and
lastly Vesuvius. This he visited several times, and accu
mulated mass of fresh observations on the structure of
I'

        it,

             a

                                                               :

                                                 I
its various lava streams, and the mechanical conditions
which had affected their course. In condensing the
following account from    his
are necessarily omitted        notes,                     these  scientific                                                       details
                         --

       Journal, November 30th.

       ascended Vesuvius under the guidance of Vincenzo
Gozzolino, and everything seemed to me just as remem
       only that an observatory was rising near the
bered

Hermitage, and that the cone was all streaked with the
ravaging lavas of 1836 and 1839, up the latter of which
304 THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES. [ciiAr.

we scrambled to the top. . . . The crater seemed very
like that of 1826, but filled up on the N.E. side, whence

the lavas of 1832, 1833, 1834, and 1839 flowed, and it

was also less deep. . . . We were surprised and delighted
to see a cone in the centre resembling a blast furnace,
which continually ejected stones and fragments oijiagro,

while another opening was emitting a steady liquid

current of lava 15 or 20 feet wide. I went down the
crater to examine it more closely. Its velocity I esti
mated at one foot per second, and it was consequently
in an extremely liquid state. I carefully compared the

phenomena presented by its surface with those presented
by the surface of a glacier, but not altogether with effect,
for the resemblance failed : firstly, on account of its great
liquidity ; secondly, on account of a crust which forms
as the surface cools, and which, beiug then broken up by

the liquid pressure below, produces peculiarly irregular

and fantastic appearances.

   'Nevertheless, I observed: 1. That the cracks which

form in the dark-coloured slag as the stream spreads
itself abroad, resemble the radiating fissures of a glacier

under similar circumstances, and are well marked by the

liquid fire, shining red through them.
   ' 2. That the slag, where solidified, presented furrows

along the surface, parallel to the direction of the structure
lines in glaciers, i.e. inclining slightly from the sides

towards the centre of the current.
   ' 3. That where the lava, having become viscid, forced

itself through the obstacles of its slag, it fell like a paste,

streaky and drawn out in the direction just mentioned.
   ' The lava filled the bottom of the crater, with the

exception of a large cone in the centre, whose  fantastic
form could be fitfully seen through the smoke.
                                                 It from

time to time ejected red-hot tears of lava, and cinders,
which fell to windward, after rising often as high as the
exterior walls of the great crater. The sound which
accompanied each explosion was not unlike the roar of

a blast furnace, to which, indeed, the whole phenomenon

had the most striking resemblance : and when the
x.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1844. 305

internal commotion was unusually violent, the lowest
mouth from which the lava welled out became disturbed,

and belched it forth with violence, scattering the semi
fluid fragments. The lava which had recently flowed
over that some days older, and which was still hot, had
the exact form of delicate woollen stuff fallen in natural

Ifolds on the floor.

   'When had remounted the sides of the crater, we
walked towards the eastern side, along a sort of terrace
formed within the Punta del Palo, collecting some good
crystals of augite among the disintegrated lava. We
thence saw very well the course of the lava of 1834
towards Ottajano, and then returned to the point we had
first left. As the night fell, the effect of the volcanic
fires became most splendid, and we would willingly have
remained, but the guides advised our descent, on account
of threatening weather. They were right, for before we
reached Naples the rain fell in torrents.'

Journal, January 1st, 1844.

' 1 went in the afternoon to Vesuvius with Vincenzo

Gozzolino. . . . He assures me that he and many others
Isaw wide fissures open in the Atrio del Cavallo in 1822,
and again in 1834.  ascended the crater by moonlight.

There was no lava flowing, but fine explosions, perhaps

400 feet high ; and from the principal cone I saw, many

times, and without any ambiguity, flames issue. The

whole phenomenon bore a wonderful resemblance to an
iron furnace, with the exception of the ejected matter,
which consists of drops of liquid lava, spurted out by

rising steam or gas bubbles, exactly as happens in boiling

porridge or polenta. . . . Next day I returned with Vin
cenzo, his son, and a gendarme to the Vallonc Grande,
above Ottajano, where there are pillars of Breccia, seem
ingly composed of lapilli and limestones cemented by
calcareous matter. We then went to the crater of 1834,

and entered the Ocreat crack which has divided the cones
apfatsesrintgheryigwhet rethrfoourmghed, thpermoceaelld--ingfivefroomr   Vesuvius, and
                    x                                                   six in number..
306           THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                                             [chap.

At one     Istpowt atsheexfiasscutlrye  may    be entered            by the help         of a
                                        three   feet wide,            and in one         part
rope.
probably twenty feet high, but very rugged and narrow.
I entered   it,preceded by Vincenzo's son, and at first had

to crawl on my very face, though afterwards becamea
                                    a                      it

higher, and we rose up again. The cavern at the end,
glistening in the light of the candle, was beautiful
was covered with crystals of specular iron, producing                                    :

                                                                                           a it

splendid effect, while greenish crystals clothed the general

mass of the lava, which assumed rugged and singular

forms. The chasm closed here rather abruptly, but kind
                                                                            I
                                                                                      a
of dome, like furnace, rose above our heads, which had

doubtless   once  formed cone,                 and         into      which        managed
to climb.         Returning to                 light        and               for we had
            ...                                                       air --

latterly   obuerencainndlethe--.  dark, owing              to the accidental extinc
tion of                           we had some               difficulty in clambering

up the precipice again, although helped by the rope
which Vincenzo held. . . We returned in heavy rain
                                        it .
to Naples.'                                        !
                                                        '
     Two days after, they started for Rome.                          :      week before,

Forbes had found in the travellers' book at                              Athe  hermitage
on Monte Epomeo the following entry --

           '  John    J1          Forbes, March 28th, 1827.'

             ICharles

              James

a      And all this time,' he said, has passed as watch in
    '                                                      I

                                                                              a
the night.        seem to stand where had been standing

     few days before  !'

                  To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                                                                     Komr, January 7th.! '.aI

       . . At last we are safely at Rome. The climate feels       '                 is

...damp after Naples, but oh what place Rome afterI

all must explain that we heard nothing of the
eruption of Etna until was entirely past, as believe
the Neapolitans took care not to make any sensation
about these things, for fear of disturbing strangers and
                                                                                 ;
                          ALPINE TRAVELS, 1844.                              307

the recurrence of an eruption of Etna after what took

ptolacmeaklaestmyaetater rhsawdonrseev, erI  entered my imagination, while,
                                             have multitudes of letters con
                                                        '
gratulating          me on my good           fortune
                                                      !

                          To the Same.

                                                            ' January 29th.

tChaer' dWJiencsaulsiht,avbaeonddyseI--ehntahvteehier macasedtrereomnthoomenyearc,qouftahimenitraankacinengtiqotuhfarersyeo,mneaenowdf
their preacher. The first, Padre Vico, has determined

the rotation of Venus, under favour of the skies of Rome;

the second, Padre Marchi, has made a wonderful collec

tion of coins of the Etruscans and others of the ancient

peoples of Italy ; while Padre Grassi, who is considered

tuhse--mmoyst   eloquent  of the mdst able            Jesuits, accompanied
               uncle and                              the Jesuit monastery,
                          myself --through

and gave us a discourse on Romanism which was, to say
               I
the least of most interesting. We passed many hours
with him, and in the course of that time there wereit,

few points           of doctrine on which he did not touch.     My
uncle -- as
                        rather maliciously alleged -- drew him  out

by hesitations and concessions, so that fancy he spent
                                             :

                                                        is

                                                      I
rather more eloquence and learning upon us than he

might otherwise have done he                               most amiable as

well as able, and well fitted to make proselytes, which,

it' is  said, he very frequently does. The impressions left

on my mind by the conversation were                   :

    2. 1.  How unsatisfactory was discussion, as a means of

arriving at truth!

'          That the Roman argument lends itself to discussion

on account of the definiteness of the things to be proved,
and the convenient manner in which many difficulties
can be thus solved. But definiteness and conveniency,
so far from being tests of true faith, seem usually to
                          a
                                          a
be denied to us, as trial of our faith.

'          That an English Tractarian could hardly have
    3.

escaped from our Jesuit's conclusions.'

                                             x

                                                  2
308              THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                 [chap.

                     To the Same.

                               'San Germano, April \5th.

     '     .  .  We left Rome two days ago by the Ceprano road,

        .

with a voiturier, and have been greatly repaid for this

deviation from the common route, as the country is ex

queYxenupseisetqiectuteraadlytlailoeyndbs,e,IaIuwstboieefunlislet,tvueatpo,nedniAndtlhaoIetutarsiil,nyan.rwse.hbiicyt. sh.noPTqehumleiateesavgniieescwxcisnereteaomdrleeeadrianmbsmol--esyt.
Idelightful, and such is the appearance of civilization and

comfort, that own myself to have been long labouring
                                                               this part of Italy, and
under         gtrheeatItadleialunssiognes nreersaplelyc.tingI
indeed                                                         feel that I should have

no hesitation in  I  trusting  myself alone with them, and
there is nothing      should   like better than a riding tour

in the Apennines. . . .

   They arrived at Naples on the 17th, and a week
after, Forbes started alone for Sicily, chiefly for the
purpose of examining and comparing the volcanic pheno
mena of Etna and Stromboli with those of Vesuvius.

                     To Mrs. Forbes.
                 ' On board the " Duca di Calabria," April 23rd.
     I' Not yet at Messina, but have had a very pleasant
Ivovage and the best bed
                               ever found on board a

steamer. We were however disturbed in the night by
stopping at a place called Paolo, and these touchings on
the Calabrian coast have greatly lengthened the voyage.
Stromboli is in sight, and so is Etna, but the latter, from
...esioSwtcnxoseoprlpretlgh,eecrentae.otnaoutdtet,rydraIetiscostettaehsnI--reocdeueafaog,yytrh,ogdtuleoo.IateIsstthsoInaaIodwtcteoplpasulleorllladomysdoeeeusuydteceheesitmnhtthgaahyetneswdeVwhelfifihmlfteleewacyntitaPhnwloiisdnteattehlnwepiiwnaaokvvtseusiiennlelerdggdy

so -- as the spot on Venus was seen in Delbrio's glass !
My tedious voyage has at least had the good effect of
completely calming my nerves, which were a little ex

cited by the bustle and heat of Naples, and otherwise
x.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1844.                                                     309

putting me into good condition. We are at this moment
             hills of
passing the  among           tChaelawbroioad, sw--hiachbaadrepcroovsepreecdt  with snow,
down even                                                                     for Etna.'

                                     To the Same.

                                     ' Giardini, near Taormina, April 2Qth.
   ' I am so far safely on my journey to Catania, having
spent more time than I wished at Messina, especially as
I may have to return and wait there again ; but I could
meet with no conveyance until this morning, and I have
aTat oarlml einvaentws elhl.appIily
                                      arranged  my main point,                of seeing
                                     travelled  with a chance                 party of

Sicilians, for strangers are scarce,               and   found the            cEotunnat--ry
rather monotonous, with now and                    then   a peep of

but then there was such a fine fresh breeze off the sea !

The vegetation in this neighbourhood is far richer and

more striking than near Messina, while the abundance
everywhere of the Indian
forms one main feature of            fig (cactus) is     astounding, and
                                     the landscape.
                                                             At Taormina

we found the loveliest wild flowers already in bloom ;
wild oleanders, and even palm-trees, growing in the

open fields. . . .

   'The ruined Graeco- Roman theatre at Taormina is a
fine thing in itself, but it would be little worth men
tioning were it not for its magnificent situation -- on
a promontory of rock, overhanging a very picturesque
town, with other villages around perched on the wildest
                                                curved bays on one hand,
crags, a    sewah-sohleore"  broken into
and the                      massif" of         Etna rising in front. I

never saw a mountain whose height deceived me nearly
so much : it rises more gradually than you can imagine,
...and in some respects Vesuvius might be called a more
striking object.                     On this side there is much snow,
but, as I am told, far less on the south side, from which
the ascent is made ; so I still hope. . . .'

                                     To the Same.

                                     'Zafarana, Vat, d*x Bue, April 'SQth.

'     .  .  I have just returned     from a most         delightful           and

   .

successful excursion to the Val del Bue. Although the
310  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                                                  [chap.

sirocco clouds were hanging about the lower part of Etna,
the upper portion was quite clear ; and as for the Val
del Bue itself, with its
                                                            einnovremsotiugsateadndit--coimn pfaliccat t"eddolnaeva"
fields, I have thoroughly
it well, with the assistance of an
                                                                       wexhcoemllenI tbrgouuigdhet                 recom
mended to me by Baron                                       Bruca, to                                              letters
from Monsignor Spada.
                                                            I found    the Baron a most kind-

Ihearted man, and his wife a really                                      nice person. They
                                                                         did not accompany
regret, believe sincerely, that you
me so far, and remain at their country-house during my

absence, and indeed this would have                                       been a delightful
arrangement for all parties -- especially                                for me, who would

give anything to have my dear wife within reach.'

Although Forbes still hovered about Etna, hoping
                                                            a

                                                                                by
                                                                                      it,

                                                                                                   a
against hope for an opportunity of ascending                                                                       change

of weather finally removed this plan to the category of
impossibilities. And after pleasant visit to Syracuse,

he rejoined Mrs. Forbes at Salerno, and towards the end
of May they left Naples and travelled
the Italian lakes.                                                       easy stages to

                     To E. C. Batten, Esq.
                                                         Bellagio, July 6th.

              Here we are at this delightful place, which
  have long and long thought of revisiting but our stay
must be short, for the advancing summer warns us into
Switzerland, and we must be in England about the
middle of September or soon after.

          enjoyed Venice as much as you could possibly
desire, and left with great regret. We stayed day at
Verona, and from Brescia went to Iseo, which we found
so charming that we spent couple of days there in
nice country inn. . . We then took to the little steamer
on the lake, and paddling up to its head, joined the fine

...road leading from the Camonica to Bergamo.

have become lazy traveller, and lazier correspondent

indeed have almost ceased to write, except to you. All

this excuse to myself on the plea that am here for
I
       '
             .
                   .
                        .
                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                ;

I I'                                                        a                                                      a
     I                                                                a                                                          a

                      a                                                  I

                  it                                                                   :I

                                                         .
                 ALPINE TRAVELS, 1844.                                   311

my health, and that a year of torpidity will, I trust,

renovate my constitution for fresh exertions.'

                       To the Same.                  ' Sierre, July 29lh.

   I'     believe I last wrote to you from Bellagio.
     ...
We went to Lugano and Bellinzona, thence to Baveno and

the Simplon, and you may judge of our rate of travelling

when I tell you that we took nine days to get across the
Simplon ! Certainly, four of those were spent at the

...village of Simplon, and the remaining five with the monks
at the hospice.                                            -

I   ' I feel more and  more that I                   owe my life   to the Alps.
                                                     the north of  Italy, which
   had a threatening   of illness in
left me, not ill indeed, but in a state which admitted of
no exertion with pleasure, as you may judge when I tell
you that I went up the Monte St. Salvatore at Lugano
one morning, and was so exhausted that I could hardly
reach the top, and had to rest a whole day after it.
The Simplon
              quite altered matters,                  and     from the hospice
I ascended a  mountain 10,500 feet                   high     with the utmost

smaotsistfagcltoiroino,usanpdanoeranmjoaysedI  from   the summit   one   of the
                                               have  ever beheld.   The  moun
tains in that part of the                      Alps                      almost
                                                      are, I may   say,
unknown, and it is difficult to obtain even their names.

Their heights, too, are in general much underrated.'

                 Journal, July 22nd.
   ' I started from the hospice, accompanied by Chamoine

Alt and a guide, to explore the Kaltwasser Gletscher.
After passing the glacier gallery, we attacked a steep

slope on our right, which brought us to the foot of the
apparently inaccessible precipices to the left of the glacier,

and the top of these we reached by means of a sloping
shelf below the Maderhorn, .finding ourselves perched

upon a steep but fertile pasture, so inaccessible, however,
that not even sheep can be brought thither. We con
tinued to climb until the slope became a moraine, and
this was succeeded by the smooth surface of the glacier,

which here forms the col between Switzerland and
312       THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                    [chap.

Italy. .  . . The weather was   smupaegrnbiflyic--enst,o  and the view
towards   Italy opened upon us                            superbly, that

we determined to ascend the Wasenhorn, which rose on

our left. The summit of this mountain forms a sharp

ridge running from west to east, although when seen from
either of these directions it presents the appearance of
an abrupt peak. It was along the edge of this ridge that
we now worked our way up, finding it excessively rugged,
without, however, being at all dangerous ; the northern
face is extremely steep, and covered with ice, but our

guide affirmed that once, when a young man, he had

Islid down this slope.                                  ever beheld, and

   ' The view was one of the finest
withal, remarkable in many of its combinations, while in
all directions it was perfectly clear, without cloud or haze.
   ' The Italian lakes were not visible, for the great ridge
of the Monte Leone and the Breithorn filled up a

large space towards the south, and then came the heights
beyond the village of Simplon, having the Fletschorn for

their culminating point : he towered above us, his height
seemingly increased by our proximity to him -- a magni

ficent mountain !  .  . . Through a narrow              gap on one side
                      saw part of the chain             of Monte Rosa,
of him, I thought  I

and further to  thaedmrigirhabt lyappgeraoruedpedth--e  magnificent moun
tains of Saas,                                          the Weishorn, the

Gabelhorn, and still further behind, the Dent Blanche.'

   The remainder of Forbes's stay at the hospice was
taken up with an examination of one of those small
isolated glaciers reposing in the cavities of high moun
tains, called by De Saussure ' glaciers of the second order,'
which hangs from the slope of the Schonhorn imme
diately behind the hospice. He established the fact of
its motion indeed, but motion of a very slow character,

averaging no more than one inch in twenty-four hours.

'This small result,' he observed, 'is quite conformable
with the dry and powdery condition of such elevated
glaciers, yielding little water, and capable of exerting on
their under parts a very trifling hydrostatic pressure.'
X.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1844.                          313

   Having thus measured the rate of motion of one of
the smallest glaciers in Switzerland, he next proceeded
to measure that of the largest, and descending to Brieg,
where he left Mrs. Forbes, he established himself at the

chalets of Marjelen, on the brink of the great Aletsch
Gletscher. His work was greatly interrupted by bad
weather, but be was able to recognize in this glacier a re
markable instance of the manner in which the centre of

an ice-stream can descend towards the valley with double

or triple the velocity of its lateral parts. ' I found,'
he writes, 'that while the velocity of the ice at 1,300
feet, or about a quarter of a mile from the side, was four

teen inches in twenty-four hours, at 300 feet distant from
the side it was but three inches in the same t ime, and

close to the side it had nearly vanished. Facts like these

seem to show, with evidence, what intelligent men, such
                     "Rmaepenwapdhseuuaicr,rehss,haphidaensrmo1inni8tly4sf2acs--itut ptaphtooacsteermdttahoeipndreeilc"veidiotusuoecsflltfyilgilttatyooci"ettrhhsoe,er
as Bishop

first exact
r"igviidscoassityit
ground over which it is forced by gravity : still retaining

its compact and apparently solid texture, unless, indeed,

the inequalities of the ground be so abrupt as to force

a separation of the mass into dislocated fragments.
This, it is well known, occurs to every glacier when the
strain upon its parts reaches a certain amount, as for
instance when it has to turn a sharp angle or to
descend a rapid or convex slope.'1
A few days afterwards, on arriving at Geneva, Forbes

learnt from Mr. Hopkins's published papers, which he then

saw for the first time, that that gentleman accounted for

the differential motion above mentioned, by supposing a
glacier to consist of strips or plates of ice, parallel to its
course. And that these, according to the pressure seve

rally exercised upon them, slipped past one another :
the central ones faster, and so on through the succeeding
strips towards the sides of the glacier, the comparatively
small motion of which was rendered mechanically

                     1 Eighth Letter on Glaciers.
314  THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.        ,,            [chap

possible by the increased number of these longitudinal
dislocations.

Forbes held the contrary opinion, namely, that the

forces by which this differential motion was produced,
found in the molecular structure of the ice, conditions

which enabled them to do their work without such tearing
or ' shearing.' He started for Chamounix, and proceeded
to ascertain the relative change of position produced by
the motion of the glacier, in a considerable number of
points fixed across an uncrevassed portion of the Mer de

Glace, at right angles to its axis. Such a spot he suc
ceeded, after some trouble, in finding between ' 1'Angle '
and the Trelaporte, below the little glacier of Charmoz.
On a space of extremely flat and compact ice about
seventy yards in width, and several hundred feet in
length, he fixed a series of marks, thirty feet apart, between

three of which he subsequently placed pegs dividing that

space into forty-five parts, measuring two feet each.
   ' You will probably                                   Pro
                        be   surprised,'  he writes to
fessor Jameson, ' when      state, that   in seventeen  days,
                        I
that part of the glacier ninety feet nearer the centre
than the theodolite, had moved past the theodolite
by a space of twenty-six     inches, and the interme
diate spaces in proportion.
                              When I was reluctantly

compelled to cease my observations on the forty-five

marks, they had, in the course of six days, formed a

beautiful curve slightly convex toward the valley ; and
as the vertical wire of the theodolite ranged over

them, their deviations from a perfect curve were slight

and irregular, nor was there any great dislocation
to be observed in their whole extent ; proving the
general continuity of the yielding by which each was

pushed in advance of its neighbour. . . . All this,

viewed in prospective with the theodolite, left no
remaining doubt as to the plasticity of the glacier on

a large scale.'1

   But this was not the only result of three weeks which

   1 Eighth Letter on Glaciers, August 30, 1844; ' Philosophical
Transactions,' 1846, p. 137.
x.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1846. 316

he passed between Chamounix and the Montanvert. He
had resumed work in his old style, and every day found
him on the glacier in company with Balmat and his
instruments. He took a variety of observations for the
improvement and extension of his survey, measured the
general daily motion of the glacier, examined the ' glaciers
of the second order' which overhang the Mer de
Glace, and made a vigorous attempt to fix a series of
marks in the side of a Moulin of immense depth, in
order to test the relation which the motion of the surface

of a glacier bears to that of its lower portions. The
experiment, however, was a failure ; for while engaged
in that chilly operation, a storm of wind and sleet burst
upon them with such fury that instant flight was their

only resource.
    During all this time he was not alone, for Mr.

and Mrs. Wauchope, who had joined them at Geneva,
formed with his wife a pleasant family circle, a bright
spot of sunshine at Chamounix when the storms drove
him from the glacier. 'In spite of hard work and expo
sure which must have tried his scarcely recovered health,
the broken autumn weather, and the necessity of ob
serving for hours together under a burning sun, while
standing ankle deep in wet snow, Forbes returned to
England early in September, with strength so far re
stored as to enable him at once to enter upon the
winter's work of his Professorship.

   Forbes spent the summer months of 1845 in the
western highlands of Scotland, but the following year
we again find him on his way to Chamounix.

                     To Mrs. Forbes.
                                           ' Annecy, July 11th, 1846.
'. . . Thank God with me that I have arrived in
             safeI tyamthuosncefarm--orIe                 the end of
health and                                 might say, at  fields and
my journey.                                 among green
bright streams, with white craggy cliffs, glorious to

behold, and even some patches of snow. It is indeed

a glorious country.
316         THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                          [chap.

' I arrived here yesterday from Lyons by a real " slow

coach," which took sixteen hours to travel seventy miles.

During the whole day the heat was most oppressive,
with a stifling sirocco breeze, the thermometer standing
above 80°. In the afternoon there was thunder, and to

cdlaoyudws i--ldadeblaudgesloookf-oruatin   are falling, with  low,  brooding
                                           for Chamounix !     But    at least,

Ihaving passed through such an ordeal of hot weather,

   feel no anxiety whatever as to the remainder of my

journey, trusting to the wonted goodness of God to pre

serve me from any unusual accident.

   ' My first business here was to sec Monseigneur Rendu,

and nothing could be more gratifying than my reception,

or more pleasing and engaging than the Bishop himself.
He was so cordial, so unselfish as to his own claims on

the plasticity theory, so much interested in my present
uI nadmertatokingd,inethawt itIhwahsimqutiote-mdoerrliogwh,tedandwitehxpehcimt .
                                                                                     .. .

                                                                                  much
pleasure from conversing with him again. I shall not

make any stay here, and hope to be at Chamounix on

Tuesday evening. . . .'

                   To the Same.

I'                                         ' Mostanvekt, July 20th.
   ...
            sent off my last letter to you this morning, in
consequence of my rather sudden move up here, and

very glad I am to find myself here once more, surrounded
by the memories of so many pleasant days, amongst
them those spent here with you. The air is much
                                           of Chamounix.
fresher  and more    bracing than that     and feel quite
To-day             far as the Moulins,
         I got as

freshened.

qwmuhoi'sitMleteaahdosealadamrt"eiFlyechCrdaoamiufnttoeateirnstd"viivsmaatanretthfaee"lmlyinm" eaUthn"efiinoaenhnod"ubsoel"od,omyak,enssdanueddpnoofenaasnsktnmseo,de"t
like my coming up here. But although consideration
                                           otthhienrgsp--lacaen--d yIetgeitt
and respect are  undeniably agreeable
enough of both   to spoil me for any
X.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1846.                                             317

is pleasant to exchange them for the quiet and comfort
of the Montanvert, where, as usual, everything is better
than at Chamounix : bread (most decidedly), butter
I(nmosshtoritn, coI mamparianblysu),ch  mutton,            tea,  cream, wine.
                                          good     honey,         my quarters
                                                 humour    with
that I shall find it very difficult to descend again.

A" uggouggstlees's  "  eyes continue    well, and    he finds    the  railway
                       of the greatest   service to   him.'

    Forbes's first care was directed to the examination of

the spaces passed over by the blocks which he had
marked on the surface of the glacier ; and he soon found
that one of them (Block R, above ' l'Angle ') had in two
years moved something less than a quarter of a mile,
while the ' Pierre Platte ' [c], in the neighbourhood of the
Couvercle, had changed its position by about half that
distance. He then entered upon a course of investiga
tions on the ablation or melting of the ice at its surface,
compared with the actual subsidence of the glacier in its
bed. The former was easily ascertained by boring a
horizontal hole in the wall of a crevasse, and observing
from day to day the gradual diminution in thickness of
the ice above it. The amount of the subsidence of the

glacier, or the difference between the geometrical depres
sion of its surface and the ablation, was obtained by
directing the level telescope of a theodolite on a measur
ing tape, the extremity of which was pegged into the
hole above mentioned, and then held vertically. When
the height of the eye above the hole in question was thus
ascertained, the level was then moved in the direction of

a fixed object (a cross which had been cut on a stone), as
a point of departure for the vertical height. The differ
ence in level of the eye above or below this fixed point
having been ascertained in a similar manner, the sum, or
the difference (as the case might be) of this measure and
the last, gave the difference of level between the spot
on which the theodolite stood and the mark on the

moraine. The mean results of observations at two
stations are given in the following table : --
318           THE LIFE OF JAMES B. FORBES.                                                 [chap.

                      Slope of    Daily     Daily     Daily    Geome     Proportion
                      surface.  progres   ablation.  subsi    trical de      due to
                                                     dence.   pression.
                                   sion.   Inches.                       A.b..lat,i.on     Subsi-
                                            8-62     Inches.                               dence,

                                            278                                         1

Station V, oppomte )            Inches.                       Inches.
   Montanvert . . (
                                187                  1-63     6-25       -69               -81
Station Q, between )
                                                     0-97 870
1'Angle and   Tre- [  2°J       21-2                                     74                -26
laporto . .
              . .)

     ' The last two columns,' he writes to Professor Jame
son, ' show the effects of the ablation and subsidence in

hundredth parts of the whole depression. As we do not
know correctly the slope of the bottom or bed of the
...glacier, it is impossible to

sidence is owing to the
                                estimate how                  much of the sub
                                declivity.
                                                                It is probable,
however, that the greater part of it may be thus accounted

for.' 1

   While engaged in these operations a remarkable cir
cumstance occurred, the results of which enabled Forbes

to calculate the mean annual velocity of the steep and
rugged icefall which forms the outflow of the glacier
basin of the Talefre. He was working on the Mer de
Glace with his instruments, when he was accosted by a
guide of Chamounix, named David Couttet, who informed
him that, while searching for crystals on the moraines of
the Glacier de Taléfre, he had that very day discovered,
at the bottom of its icefall, the fragments of a knapsack

which he at once recognized as one lost ten years before
on the glacier above the icefall. The next day, accord
ingly, Forbes went to the spot, accompanied by Couttet
and by his invariable companion Auguste Balmat, who
also, curiously enough, was able to assist in identifying
the lost knapsack.

   ' Now, to explain how Couttet and Balmat were in a

position  to  Ispeak so positively to the            identity of the frag
ments/    he                                         that David Couttet
              writes, ' must observe

was then, and has been ever since, lessee of the Pavilion

on the Montanvert, and that the knapsack in question

                      1 Eleventh Letter on Glaciers.
X.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1846.                     319

was his property, and was left at the Montanvert for the
purpose of carrying provisions for the small number of
travellers who then visited the Jardin. Auguste Balmat
was at that time servant to Couttet, and had very often

carried that identical knapsack on his back. The figured

stripe of green and purple on the shoulder-straps was very
...marked, and could not easily be mistaken.  I also
verified this statement by questioning Jullien Michel
Devouassoud himself -- the man by whom the knapsack

had been lost.

   ' The accident occurred thus. On the 29th of July,
1836, Devouassoud accompanied a stranger to the Jardin,
taking, as usual, the knapsack from the Montanvert with
a supply of bread, cheese, and wine. Having gained the
rocks at the top of the Couvercle, the guide, to shorten
the way, attempted to take an oblique course to the
Jardin, instead of following the usual track on firm
ground round the foot of the Aiguille de Moine, so
as to make the passage of the glacier as short as

possible.

   ' The ice was covered with snow, and also full of con

cealed crevasses : into one of these the guide suddenly
dropped, leaving the astonished traveller alone in this
wilderness of rocks and ice. After vainly calling to his
guide, and obtaining no answer, he left the place in
despair, and returned to the Montanvert by the way he
had come. Dévouassoud, however, having reached the
bottom of the crevasse but little hurt, managed, by the
aid of his pocket-knife, to cut steps in the walls of ice,
and finally, with great exertion and suffering, to make
his escape, leaving behind him his knapsack, of which, of
course, he had at first disembarrassed himself. Astonish

ing fact ! that the yet undecayed vestiges, together with
a part of the bottle which formed his burden, should be

brought to light on the surface of the ice after ten years'
friction and onward movement!'

   The knapsack had been carried in the interior of the
glacier over a distance of 4,300 feet, and down a
declivity, the angle of which was 14° 55'; the mean
320  THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.  [chap.

annual motion of the ice at this point was therefore
about 430 feet.

    After having finished this interesting investigation, as
it was only half-past 9 a.m., Forbes proceeded to carry
out an idea he had long entertained, of attempting the
ascent of the Aiguille du Moine.

   ' I had carefully examined it,' he writes, ' from the

rocks of the Tacul, and it was on that side that we now
proceeded to make the attempt. There is a great bed of

snow which, from a *listance, seems to present no diffi
culty, but which, on a nearer approach, we found ex
tremely steep, and its lower part to be in a glacial state :
had the upper portion been thus, we should have had
great difficulty in ascending. Once there, however, the
passage from the snow to the rock appeared to be the
most serious part of the undertaking, and even Couttet

tli ought that if we could accomplish this we should
succeed. At length we found a passage from the snow

to the rocks, which were very rough and steep indeed, and

after a climb of 2j hours from the Talefre, we attained

the ridge of the Aiguille, and this we hoped to follow to
the summit ; but an abrupt turret of granite occupying
the whole of this ridge, which is perfectly precipitous
towards the Glacier de Talefre, put a complete stop to

Iour progress at about midday. . . .

    ' then observed the barometer, which gave to our
position a height of 10,360 feet above the sea, or 740
feet below the summit of the Aiguille.'

   Shortly afterwards he paid another visit to the Jardin,
in company with Professor Schutz of Aarau, whose
acquaintance he had made at Chamounix, and on this
occasion was able to record some important observations
on the mysterious process by which snow is converted
into glacier ice.

                     Journal, July 3\st.

    ' Near the side and medial moraine of the Glacier de
Talefre,' he writes, ' the structure of the glacier is icy and
vertically veined, but elsewhere it is decidedly snowy,
x.] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1846. 321

presenting hardly any bands, either vertical or horizontal ;
and this is true even so low down as my line of stations
                                                                            From this
aI cgroastshetrh:e--glacier, not far above the icefall.
' 1. That the vertical structure comes too near the nevS

proper, to admit of its phenomena being explained by
a shifting of the strata of the
of 90°.                           neve, through an angle
                                  veined structure is not '
    ' 2. That, when the vertical

developed, the horizontal layers have vanished, and are

not yet replaced by another structure.
   ' 3. That the conversion of neve into ice, is simulta
neous and identical with the formation of blue bands.
   ' 4. That these bands are formed where the difference

of motion is at its maximum, that                                           near the walls of
''
    5.

                          ;

                             I
                                                                       is,
the glacier but being once formed, they still continue to

show themselves under the medial moraine, and this may
be traced in the centre of the icefall of the Talefre.

Its generally imperfect development accords with

the slowness of the absolute motion.

Whilst on this subject may mention that the
appearance of the crevasses between the Montanvert and
Trelaporte confirm exactly my observations of previous

years at this season. The falling together of the glacier,
the undulating forms of the angles of the crevasses, and
the choking of crevasses by falling together, all betoken
plasticity in the plainest manner. In particular, had an
a

               I
                                          I
opportunity of watching individual crevasses opposite the

Montanvert, and what saw incontestably showed that
the crevasses were then widening without tearing at
bottom, whilst the surface was losing at once by ablation

and subsidence of the masses forming the walls.'

   After few days occupied in various experiments,
Forbes, accompanied by Balmat, passed round by the Col
du Bonhomme to the other side of the chain for the pur
pose of re-examining the glaciers of Brenva and Miage,
in order to see whether the freshly discovered phenomena
of the Mer de Glace were presented by them also.

Y
322                THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                        [chap.

                               To Mrs. Forbes.

     '                                                     ' Montanvert, July 23rd.

        .    .  .  The weather  continues                  magnificent, the    scenery

as glorious as ever, and the air as refreshing. Such a

icmroawgdineof--ppeeoopplele  as come  here every day now, you cannot
                                       kinds, of all nations, and of all
                               of all

                   --; eavfearryaglaongouf atgoengyuoeus.  can       think of  at the
Icharacters                                                       .   . Last   night    break
                                                               .                       we had
fast table
a little adventure.             had strolled up the Charmoz with

Balmat to my favourite point for seeing the glacier at
sunset, and while there,               wJaerdsianw--tawovemryentirecrdosstrinagveltlheer
Mer de Glace from the

and a very young guide. They had evidently lost their
way, and as the sun was setting we saw them plunging
into a mass of inextricably intricate crevasses ; so there

was nothing else for it but to let Auguste go and bring
them out. They did not reach the Montanvert until

ten. . . .
    ' Some days ago Auguste and the chief guide dined

with me at Chamounix. The curé was also invited, but

being a little unwell he preferred to come in to coffee,
when he absorbed champagne with great apparent satis
faction, and sat chatting for a long time. The ease
and good manners of the guides in company is really

surprising.'

                                To the Same.
                                                    ' Chamounix, July 28th.

     '        . . Yesterday     I had   m--yhothweoodftoelinteI      on the Brevent,
             to-day on the                                           thought of you,
          .                    Flegere

and

and the happy days we spent together there ! To

morrow I go to the Glacier de Boissons, which will
mostly finish my surveying in the valley, and then back

IIt"othe           Montanvert  to look after my various                        e" xapseriBmaelmntast,
        y          a beaucoup   de choses commence"es !
says. I have real pleasure in telling you that good
Auguste is much the better for his excursions with me,

and his sight is now greatly improved. Farewell, my
dearest wife, may you receive my letters more regularly

than I do yours. I bless you and the dear children. . . .'
                       ALPINE TRAVEIJS, 1846.                         32:5

                                            ' Courmayeur, August 7 th.
  I'. . . The weather has been threatening, so could
not start for the Glacier de Miage as early as I wished.
         Wonderful,, most wonderful it is
..   .                                               in beauty,  but  for
        particular experiments I intended             to make    on   the
the

bending of the ice near the side of the glacier where it

Itouches the rocks without being crevassed, I did not find

it suitable. . . . But how shall describe the wonders
and beauties of the Glacier de la Brenva ! You must

come and see it some day, for it is a most ladylike

glacier, and all its beauties can be seen from a mule
path, after an exquisite ride amongst old fir woods : with
the icy pinnacles and magnificent veined structure, like

Pentelic marble, peeping through here and there. . . .
   ' Last Sunday was such a lonely, lovely, quiet day.

Everything was very peaceful, only I feel I cannot

spend   many           more Sundays away     from    you.      Sometimes
1 wish                  never left you, but  it was  for   the best, and
        I had
will be so, and I earnestly pray that it will please God
to bring me back to you again, and soon. My idea of

a route is this : to return to Chamounix, and from that

(spending a day on the way with Charpentier at Bcx^
Ito go to Sierre, and ascend the Val d'Anniviers to the

glacier at its head. Next must traverse the weary

length of the Rhone valley to the glacier of the Rhone
and the Grimsel, and having visited the glaciers of the
Aar and of Rosenlaui, to cross the Susten Pass to the

tSht.enG--othhoamrde,  : next   will come   Lucerne  and   Basle,     and
                       home    at last ! '

    Forbes was not alone during his stay at Courmayeur.
He was visited there by his old friends Chanoine Carrel
of Aosta, and M. L'Eglise, a canon of the Great St.
Bernard. M. Guicharda, Vicar of Courmayeur, made a
fourth, and they proceeded to examine the results of
some experiments made by the latter on the gradual
advance of the Glacier de la Brenva since Forbes's last
visit in 1842. On that occasion, it will be remembered,

he procured evidence that in 1818 the surface of that
                                           Y2
321                THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                  [chap.

glacier stood some 300 feet above the level at which he
then found it: but since  1842 it                                        had again increased in
size --a condition which                                                 to have been a general
                          appears
one among glaciers in 1846.
   'The extremities of all the                                           glaciers  of  which  I  have

obtained observations,' he writes,1 ' were advancing
towards their valleys during the summer of 1846. . . .
                   no doubt, to be sought partly in the great
The cause  is,
                                          is
fall of snow of the two winters 1843-4 and 1844-5, and

the cold wet summers which followed them. The

immediate effect of the snow to protect the ice, and

diminish the annual ablation. Hence the glacier shoots

...further into the valley before the waste suffices to
equalize the supply.      In 1846, however, the Mer do

Glace, in spite of the intense and continued heat, was
much higher opposite to the Angle in the middle of
August, than was in June 1842. . . Thus, its motion
           it it            it it,
Avas even accelerated by the great heat of the season.it
For though must increase the ablation of the surface,
                                  I.
and the melting of the terminal face, thus diminishing
                                           is
                                                                 a
the mass of ice, its immediate effect to fuse the glacier
into state of pliancy, such as to increase its motion
in very perceptible manner (as have established bya
direct experiment), and thus discharging its icy burden
        is a

          if

               it
into the valley faster than even the increased atmospheric
                                                                         spreads with velocity
heat capable of dissolving
which,             could be supposed to be continual, could not

fail to be alarming. Thus appears from observations
made by M. Guicharda, Vicar of Courmayeur, that the
extremity of the glacier of La Brenva has protruded into

the valley no less than twenty-two metres, or about

seventy feet during the two months of summer, being

at the rate of foot day. . . The same gentleman
                   I
                        a

                               1

                                     a

                                                                      .
has himself made, with considerable labour, observations

intended to test the reality of the movement of the

glacier during winter, which confirm in every particular
those which
                   have already published regarding the

glaciers of Chamounix.'

                   Twelfth Letter on Glaciers.
ALPINE TRAVELS, 1646.  325

    The remainder of this letter is taken up by the
description of a remarkable analogy between the condi
tion of a portion of the glacier which was embayed
behind a promontory of rock, and that of a plastic body

acted upon by hydrostatic pressure.
    Forbes had measured the diurnal advance of the

Glacier de Miage, and found it to be 9 9 inches-- the
very same quantity as he had obtained in the case of
the small hanging Glacier du Nant Blanc. The identity

of these results was curious, as proving that two glaciers
of incalculably different bulk might have the same rate

of motion, their conditions being different. In this case,

the motion of the smaller glacier was accelerated by its
great steepness, while that of the larger was retarded by
the slight declivity of its bed, and the enormous frontal
resistance to its exit into the Albie Blanche, already
encumbered with its ponderous masses of debris. He
also found on that occasion among the westerly moraines
of the glacier, specimens of dark blue lias slate, which
must have come from the very axis of the granite chain,
where its existence had been previously unsuspected by

geologists.
    Forbes then returned to Chamounix, and began a series

of difficult experiments for the purpose of determining
the difference of movement between the surface of a

glacier, and the lower portions of its ice. On the sloping
tongue, or extremity of the Glacier des Bois, where the
terminal face of compact ice was inclined at an angle of
about 40° to the horizon, three marks were made, one
behind (and consequently above) the other, in a direction
which was judged to be nearly that of the progressive
motion of the ice : any variation, therefore, in the motion
of these points, could only be imputed to the friction of
the soil, for by the motion of the glacier, each would
pass in succession over the same spot ; and it might be
supposed from the analogy of the lateral friction of
glaciers, and from the phenomena of rivers, that the

retardation of each lower mark upon the one above it

would be sensible, but that this retardation would decrease
326               THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.               [chap.

relatively to the height of the observed marks above the
supposed bed of the glacier. The results of Forbes's

observations confirmed this. The progress of each point,
as well in direction as in amount, was rigorously deter

mined by a trigonometrical process, reference being had
to two fixed stations, seventy-five feet apart. This was a
work of considerable difficulty, and even danger, as the
continual fall of blocks, which bounded with great
velocity down the terminal face of the glacier, placed
                             and his instruments in some
--botinhdetheed,  observer  the course of the observations,  jeopardy
                   during                                      Balmat

received a severe blow on the head from one of them.
In order to plant the wooden pins which marked the
points, it was necessary to commence by laboriously

removing the blocks and rubbish from the glacier above,
the fall of which would, at
the lives of his assistants,  any instant,  hBaveellinth--reaatwenoerkd
                              Balmat and

which occupied them for some hours.
   The results showed that less than fifty feet of

thickness between the lowest mark and the next, corre

sponded to an apparent acceleration of nearly half the
motion of the lower point ; the acceleration of the central
upon the highest point being less considerable. Their
heights were approximately, eight, fifty-four, and 143
feet above the bed or floor of the glacier.1

   Before quitting Chamounix, Forbes attempted to carry
out his project of a more complete exploration of the
Glacier du Géant, and the clearing up of some doubtful
points in the geography of that glacier. This time,
however, he was baffled by the excessive difficulty of the
ice-fall, and it was not until 1850 that he succeeded in

obtaining the observations he desired.

                       Journal, Augitst 1ith.

  I' started at five, with David Couttet and Auguste, for

the Glacier du Geant. The morning was charming, and
by half-past seven we were well advanced on the Glacier

    1 These observations are given in a more detailed form in Forbes's
Eleventh Letter on Glaciers, dated September 16, 1846.
«-] ALPINE TRAVELS, 1846.                                                        327

du Geant, which, by keeping well to the right, we managed
    mount without    "aPneytiptarRtiocgunlaorn,d" ifafincdultqyuituentoiln
to  the foot of the                                                         we   were
at                                                                            a  level

with the upper plateau of the Glacier du Géant. Here,
however, the tumultuous confusion of the crevasses was so

great that we were unable to proceed further, . . in fact,
we were entangled in a maze of vast polygonal blocks,
divided from each other by huge crevasses with perpen
dicular sides, and yet of dangerously soft consistence.
For three or four hours we persistently laid siege to these

obstacles, but after expending all our ingenuity on them,
Iwe were obliged to give it up as hopeless.  Without a

ladder we could not have proceeded, so        was most

reluctantly compelled to mount the      most accommodating
piece of ice within reach, in order
                                        to take the angles I

required. . . .

  I' had an excellent opportunity of examining a pheno
Imenon, the existence of which had suspected before,
namely, that the wrinkles, and probably the dirt-bands
also, of the Glacier du Géant take their rise in the great
                                         and in the following
ice-fall  below    its upper plateau,   the ice falls in festoons
manner           is quite certain that
          :--It

of alternate masses and vacancies, in the most striking

and unmistakeable manner, as I pointed out to my guide,
and tried to sketch. Seen with the afternoon shadow,

the effect was beautiful, showing bands of fallen pyramids,
and tables of ice, alternating with bands of ice crushed
and pulverised. Different causes may be assigned in

explanation of this     phenomenon, but the most probable,
                        of the summer velocity, which shoves
I think, is the effect
a great portion of the plateau beyond the limit of its
stability, thus producing a succession of rapid ice-falls.
(Query, does this exist elsewhere, and can it produce the

phenomena of the dirt-bands 1) It accounts, at least, for

the fact of the intervals between them corresponding
Iwith the annual motion of the glacier, or nearly so. . . .

Another fact observed was the small depth to which the

horizontal layers of the nSve extend, and the complete

annihilation of structure throughout the mass generally,
328               THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                               [ChAP.

just as I found in the Glacier de TaleTre. The first

appearance of structure is usually vertical, and the first
true ice is the mere result of the development of the

blue bands. It is probable, therefore, that the process of

glaciation consists in the pressure, and working or
kneading of the snow, in consequence of the differential
velocity of its parts.'

   In pursuance of his plans already stated, Forbes now

left Chamounix, and as the weather placed a decided
veto on his attempting, as he had wished to do, the then
unknown passage of the Glacier de Salena, he went to
Martigny by the Col de Balme, and established himself
for a few days at Bex, with MM. Charpentier and Studer.

                              To Mrs. Forbes.    ' Sion, August 22nd.

     I'           have got to Sion to-day, and that too by the
       .
      .  .  Yes,

pass of the Diablerets. It is a precious rule in travelling,

not to be too easily discouraged, and to risk somewhat ;

and accordingly to-day, although we lost the best part
of the ascent from Bex to the Col by thick wet fogs, on
the other side it
most interesting   w--asmucochmpmaroaretivseoly   clear,  and      the descent
                                                          had      expected--
                                                 than I
and we had hardly a drop of rain. So 1 am well repaid

...by finding myself          wIehllavoevegrotthethepashso, maend  so far    on my
                                                                   sickness     very
way as Sion.
bad, and dare scarcely think of the sweet pleasure of being
with  --yoeus,pleecsitalilty
                              should make me    quite miserable where
I am                                           to-morrow (Sunday) at
                              as I must spend

Sierre, to see what becomes of the weather, and once
there, how can I help thinking of the happy days we have
Ithere spent together.        am sure it will make me very,
Ivery sad. . . . But I do really think shall be home
to you soon now, very soon : for if the weather continues
indifferent, I shall give up the Val d'Anniviers, and go

straight to the Grimsel.'

   The state of the weather, in fact, rendered this change
of plan imperative. He lingered for a day or two at the
x.] ALPINE TRAVELS, lH4(i. 329

entrance of the valley, but at last, ' on the faith,' as he
says, ' of the universal report of the neighbourhood that
the weather was to be bad,' he passed on to Obergesteln,

and proceeded again to explore the glacier of the Rhone.

                      Journal, August 25th.

' I found the Rhone glacier much enlarged since I
            by        and now almost completely fills the
last visited     it,  it

                                                I                  was much
basin-shaped valley which contains it.
              the extreme purity of its ice, and the
struck

freedom of its surface from stones, its lateral and

terminal moraines being, in consequence, extremely

trifling but to this there  one exception, and very
a                           is

          !:                             ?

              a                      I
                                                  a
                                                                         a
remarkable one. Stones begin to appear on the surface
at considerable height on the terminal slope of the
glacier How came they there not stone the size of
a fist can be seen on the surface further up, and on

examining number of crevasses, could not see any
engorged in the ice. The explanation seems to be that
these stones are introduced into the ice at the bottom of

the glacier by friction, and forced upwards by the action
of the frontal resistance, which produces the frontal dip
...of the veined structure, until they are finally dispersed
on the melting of the ice.              then ascended to the
              I
                           I
                                     I
Grimsel hospice, where was once more most kindly

received by my old host Zippach.
   Next day started early for the glacier of the Lauter
'

Aar, and ascended the middle of the glacier as far
as the Abschwung. Opposite M. Dolfuss-Ausset's new

pavilion (which       very conveniently situated on
                 It                                                a
                                                                      is
                       is                                                  aa

                                     aI
grassy promontory called Trift)          saw the apparatus
for measuring the advance of the central portion of
                      consisted of
the glacier.                            board fixed parallel
to the axis of the glacier by means of two stakes

which are firmly planted in the moraine. There
painted cross nailed to the board, and the advance of
                                                                   man with gra
the glacier measured by sending
              a is
                                                                a
duated staff, which he moves as directed by signals made

by blowing horn. The instrument used for observing
330                THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                         [chap.

appears to be a good circle, carrying a powerful telescope,
Avhich is permanently fixed within the window of the

pavilion, and is adjusted upon a mark on the other side

of the glacier. . . . Besides the mark on the medial

moraine (700 metres distant from the pavilion) are two
others, one on each glacier.

   ' Close under the promontory of Trift, below the prin

cipal crevasses, and where the glacier, having subsided
considerably in level, has settled against the rock which
it closely embraces, is the apparatus for registering the
motion near the edge of the glacier. This is extremely
simple, consisting of a board fixed to the rock, while at
                                                      it
right angles to this, and nearly touching                 horizontal
                                                           is
                                                                 it,

                                                                         a

                                                                                                     :
lath fixed to two supports planted on the glacier and
     is
            is is
this lath of course slowly carried along the board by
the motion of the ice to which                        attached. This

apparatus          used for observing not only the forward

motion, but also any approach to or recession from the

rock by the ice, as well as any change of level. The

latter takes place continually, and with tolerable reguI
larity in an upward direction, as could judge from the
series of pencil marks registering advance and ascent
made from time to time during the last fortnight by M.
Dolfuss-Ausset. This ascent appears paradoxical from
the situation, the glacier being at that spot in the act of

subsiding into a hollow but imagine may be ex
            is                                        it
                                                   :
                                I
plained by an outward and upward pressure exerted by

the main current of the glacier on the ice which fills                                                  a
sort of bay on the lee side of the promontory of Trift. This

ice, which         exceedingly smooth and plane, would thus

be squeezed outwards and upwards against the rock, with
but little forward motion.

''   The apparatus and mode of observation were kindly

shown me by M. Dolfuss when visited the pavilion on
                   I

                              is

                                  I
my return from the Abschwung.
     On the whole, was greatly struck with the uncre-

vassed condition of the glacier in its central part. The

glacier of the Grunberg decidedly concave, while those
of the Lauter and Finster Aar are very convex near the
                   ALPINE THAVELS, 1850.                               331

Abschwung. At that spot their structural bands are cor

rectly divided by the medial moraines, but lower down
they seem to unite, and cut the medial moraines. (This
is  a' dTmheittreodckinofDetshoer's"  new work.) . . .
                                      H6tel des Neufchatelois  "
                                                                  has  split

in two, and half of it now lies flat on the ice where we

slept in 1841.  IOstpheenrtwiasepletahseanet nvhiorounrsonaroeurabpsooolurteolldy
unchanged, and
block. M. Dolfuss told me that he had made experiments
on the compression of fragments of ice, which he found

to mould together at a temperature of 32°, but at a lower

Itemperature they  were ground         to powder.  pleased        by   my
                   the Grimsel        exceedingly
    ' returned to
excursion. This glacier is eminently fitted for making
experiments on a line of stakes, while its cohesion to the
sides, and the manner in which it moulds itself to the

form of its channel, are admirable. Another point is
worthy of notice ; like the Glacier of Aletsch it is emi
nently crystalline in its structure, and large crystalline
surfaces, some inches in length, reflect continually the sun's
rays (as they did those of the moon during our descent
of the Aletsch Gletscher in 1841). Something of the
same is observable on the glacier of the Rhone, but

nothing or almost nothing similar on the glaciers of the

chain of Mont Blanc. It is undoubtedly a crystalline

action, which is prevented when the differential motion

develops the veined structure well.'

    Forbes returned to the Grimsel, and next day took
leave of Balmat. His work was over.

   Journal, September 6th. -- ' Happily arrived at Largs

at four p.m., and found all well. . . .'

    His home sickness was over too.

   Early in the May of 1850, Forbes was on the point
of starting for Germany, accompanied by Mrs. Forbes
and their two eldest children, when his second daughter
was attacked by a sudden illness, which caused her
parents the greatest anxiety. Her recovery was tedious,
332 THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES. [chap.

and their projected tour was given up : but at the end
of the month Forbes left England with his sister, Miss
Jane Forbes, and travelled with her to Kissingen.
   The month of June was spent at Kissingen, but on

the 4th of July Forbes started alone for Basle and Berne,
where he spent some pleasant days with M. Studer and
        VCohnamBuocuhn.ixO--n ftohre
Baron                                  10th Auguste   Balmat  welcomed
him to                                the last time.

The chief purpose of his visit was the correction and
extension of his survey, and he does not appear to have
occupied himself at all with glacier observations. His
first expedition was devoted to the Glacier du Géant,
and on this occasion he succeeded in reaching the point
which he had in vain attempted to gain five years before.

                      Journal, July 15th.
   ' I started early for the Glacier du Géant, taking with

me Pierre Joseph Simond, in addition to Balmat, and in
three hours we had skirted the rocks of the Trelaporte,
and gained the foot of the great ice-fall. We here
found a great deal of soft snow, which choked the
crevasses of the glacier and rendered the passage labo
rious, although not more difficult ; on three occasions,
however, we were obliged to creep under masses of soft
ice almost in the state of snow, which might have fallen
at any moment. AVe fortunately succeeded in passing
the point which had completely stopped us in 1846,

where the glacier descending between the Grand and the
Petit Rognon is crushed and torn with enormous violence.

Half an hour more brought us to the upper plateau, and

by keeping well to the right, where there was a great
hollow containing a watercourse, we got on without
difficulty, and deposited our instruments on a favourable

spot. . . . Having finished my observations, we walked
gradually upward towards the Col du Géant, and became

satisfied that there was really a passage between the
Grand Rognon and Mont Blanc du Tacul, and it is by

this passage that the ascent of the Aiguille du Midi

should probably be made. . . .
                  ALPINE T RAFELS, 1850.    333

   ' At two o'clock we turned to descend. We had
greatly enjoyed our day on the glacier, as the heat of
the sun was by no means excessive, and making use of

the steps by which we had mounted, we descended the
ice-fall, and regained the Montanvert without further
adventure.'

                           To Dr. Symonds.

                                     'Chamounix, July \<3/h.

I'       was more than fourteen hours out, and with
   .. .

the exception of about an hour, never touched earth, or

rock, or grass, but was most of the time on deep snow.
The day was very favourable, not very hot, but Auguste
and I are famously burnt ! . . . The effect on me was
surprising; I did not feel at all very strong or well the
               but I   returned so   vigorous and thoroughly
night before,  I feel  to-day quite  my old self again.
braced, that
' I am quite delighted with my Chamounix visit. At
first I fancied I took to it coldly, but the old spirit is
now quite returned. I have come to the Croix de Flegere
to sleep, and to-morrow Auguste and I mean to ascend

some of the heights forming the chain of the Aiguilles

llouges, which, as you may recollect, forms the eastern

part of the Brevent chain. . . .'

                       Journal, July \7th.

'After a thunderstorm in the early morning, the

weather cleared sufficiently to enable me to start for the
ascent of the Aiguille de la Gliere, one of the chain of
Aiguilles Rouges. We ascended gradually through a
beautiful pasture, filled with violet-coloured pansies and

other exquisite flowers. It is traditionally stated that
                        in the habit of
De Saussure       was    are called -- and  eating the aforesaid
' violettes,' as  they                      they certainly have

a delicious perfume, with a taste resembling vanilla.
Keeping to the north-west, we came into the couloir

up which the road to the Flegere ascends, and after a
fatiguing march over the bed of snow which filled its

upper part, we gained the crest of the ridge' a little
before ten. Then, turning sharply to the right, we
33 1  THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                                        [chap.

mounted, generally over snow, and by the back of the
Aiguilles, to the summit, which has a height of about
8,800 feet. There were many low clouds which spoiled
the view generally, although Mont Blanc and some of

Ithe higher summits occasionally showed themselves, and
   was able to make a careful sketch of the upper basin
of the Glacier du Tour, the only glacier descending into

the valley of Chamounix which I had not previously

examined, and across which a pass to Switzerland was
said to exist. . . . Having made some negus, much to
Balmat's satisfaction, we left about three o'clock, and

taking advantage of the snow beds in a steep couloir,
slid down with immense rapidity to the Flegere. . . .'

Forbes then took up his quarters at the little inn on

the Col de Balme, and after a couple of days of broken

weather, he crossed the pass to which he alludes, from
the Glacier du Tour, descending into the Swiss Val
Ferret by the Glacier de Salena. This was, perhaps,

the most interesting, and certainly the most difficult
expedition ever made by him in the Alps.
' Having determined to trace the Glacier du Tour to
its source, and, if circumstances allowed, to descend into
                                                                           which I
dSewristtzoeordlantdhatbyitthecoGmlmacuienricadteedS, alIenas,lepwt itaht            un
                                                                            the Col   de

Balme on the 19 th of July, in company, as usual, with

my tried guide Auguste Balmat. The weather proved

so stormy, that I expected nothing but a repetition of my
former disappointment ; but as it improved the following

morning, I started, taking Michel Charlet, the tenant of
the chalet on the Col de Balme, as guide (the route being
as new to Balmat as to myself), although it was already
half-past eight o'clock, with the intention of at least
exploring the Glacier du Tour.' 1
By sleeping at the Col de Balme, the party had the
advantage of starting from a height of over 7,200 feet,
and although the precipices which bound the Glacier du

    1 The following narrative is condensed from an interesting account
of this passage in the Appendix to ' Norway and its Glaciers.'
                             ALPINE TRAVELS, 1850.

Tour on its northern side rendered necessary that most
tiresome of delays, ' monter --pour re descendre,' they
got fairly upon the glacier at a high level. But instead
of skirting its northern rocks, the route now followed for
the Col du Tour (which would have landed them on the
Glacier de Trient, without further trouble) they wan
dered towards the centre of its basin, and only extricated
themselves from a labyrinth of crevasses by bearing to
their left : a course which eventually brought them to the
foot of a rounded, snow-covered eminence at the north
east corner of the glacier, where they found space to
breakfast on a small islet of rock. ' The chief part of
the ascent,' he writes, ' was now accomplished, and we
stood face to face with the Aiguille d'Argentiere,1 which
had a splendid appearance, being curtained with steep
glaciers on its northern side. We continued to advance
steadily, but with labour, over the snow fields which
still separated us from the rocky ridge of the Alps, but
our fatigue was soon forgotten in the pleasure of watching
the summits which gradually displayed themselves.'

   In five hours from the Col de Balme, they reached a
point at the head of the Glacier du Tour, a little to the

south of its north-east corner, from which they looked
down on the Glacier de Salena lying some hundred feet
below.

    ' The weather had still an unsettled appearance. Mists
concealed many of the summits behind us, and also the
more distant chain of the Great St. Bernard before us.
The snow had drifted with violence into this ravine, and
we took shelter from the force of the wind on a platform
of rock, a few feet below the level of the drifted snow.

   ' Having reconnoitred our position, I proceeded to ob

serve the barometer. By a single direct barometrical
comparison with Geneva (the barometers were carefully
compared by Professor Plantamour at Geneva, a few days

later), I obtained 11,284 feet above the sea, or 140

    1 In reality the Chardonnet. But at that time both the topography
and the nomenclature of that part of the chain of Mout Blanc was

 in a state of hopeless confusion.
33G  TI1E LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                    [chap.

feet higher than the Col du Geant, and nearly 1,200 feet
higher than the Buet, which lies towards the N. W.
exactly in the prolongation of the axis of the Glacier du

1 our.

   ' This unexpected result suggests some interesting con
siderations. There are few spots of the same elevation
so easily accessible, and it is unquestionable that some of

the numerous peaks which rise from this lofty platform
could be ascended without risk, to a height of some
hundred feet more. The rocks hemming in the Glacier
du Tour, present shelter against the severity of the terrific
gales which blow at these altitudes. An observer might

be- stationed here for meteorological observations, with a

degree of security and ease which Saussure never enjoyed
in his perilous encampment on the Col du Geant. Pro

visions could be regularly obtained from the elevated
station of the Col de Balme, which is within a walk of

which a mountaineer thinks little, and devoid of danger.
Even the extent of surface which the mountains here

present at so great a height, is itself very favourable to

several kinds of observation.

   ' I have called the fact of the great elevation of this
part of the chain of Mont Blanc unexpected, both because
it was entirely so to myself, and because the existing

maps and models gave    an   entirely different idea.  Even
the admirable model of   M.                            soon
                             Sene, which I inspected

afterwards at Geneva, shows a rapid depression in this

part of the ridge, which indeed might have been imagined
from the rapidity with which it dies out altogether in the
space of a few miles in the direction of Martigny.
' The temperature of the air, as we have seen, was
                                            As we
three degrees (Fahrenheit) below freezing.
turned round and, facing the north wind, clambered
from under the sheltering snow drift, we first perceived
its biting coldness, and at the same moment the strong
draught of air sstting through the gorge, nearly detached
all our hats in a moment, and actually carried Balmat's

over the precipice down to the glacier of Salena. We
were then struck, whilst looking in each other's faces, at
ALPINE TRAVELS, 1850. .                                                       337

the pinched and ghastly appearance which all presented.
Both the guides looked nearly bloodless ; but none of us
felt unwell. We took some brandy as a precaution

(probably a needless one) against the cold, and tied our
handkerchiefs over our ears. Charlet now told -us that

when here twelve years before, he had succeeded in

descending on the glacier of Salena by turning round

the north side of the peak under which we stood,
in the direction of the glacier of Trient. It was by
descending upon this first that he had gained the level
of the glacier of Salena afterwards.
    ' The question now was, should we retrace our steps to
Chamounix, or push on to Orsieres 1 Charlet feared that
our non-appearance at Col do Balme or Le Tour might
create uneasiness; but after some discussion it was agreed

that the opportunity of proceeding was too tempting to

be lost, especially as the weather appeared fine towards

Val Ferret. After scarcely a minute's delay, then, we

resolved to seek a safe place of descent to the level of
the neve connected with the glacier of Trient, which we

had to effect over an almost precipitous surface of

hardened snow (which in some places presented an
overhanging edge of alarming appearance), but which
admitted of a passage at one point with little difficulty
foorrmdaenrglyer.pasTsehdis--sannowinsctlainffcescaorfcethlye
                                                               existed when   Charlet
                                                               great changes  under

gone by the glacier regions. Being now on the level of

the neve, we turned towards the right hand, and found
a wall of rock cut through by a magnificent gateway,

flanked by two pinnacles of highly crystalline protogine

not many yards asunder, between which we passed with

the greatest ease, and, descending a snow slope of no

great height, we found ourselves on the neve of the

glacier of Salena. The abruptness of the change and
the beauty of the portal (like the ports of the Pyrenees,
but still narrower) rendered this a very striking and
peculiar pass. The basin in which we now found our
selves is enclosed by precipitous rocks, everywhere in

terspersed with glaciers and perpetual snow.
z
338        THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                 [chap.

     ' The iifve" of the glacier of Salena, seen from the point,
might well appear to have no issue. The formidable
barriers of rock, between which the glacier descends
almost precipitously, might seem to bar a passage in the .
           Cohfamthoeunvixa,llewy.homFroI mengMaugneider'isn
direction                                                     account   (the
guide of                                                      1846 for  this

excursion), it  appears  certain  that he did                 nwoteraette"mNptoutso
                 words   to me,
descend (his                      I recollect,

n'avons pas ose de descendre"), but he had preferred

crossing the lofty range which separates the Glacier de
Salena from that of La Neuva, by which he descended

near the Col Ferret. Trusting, however, to Charlet's

report of what he had actually done (for the advancing
afternoon left us no time for abortive attempts), we re

solved to descend as much as possible by the Glacier de
Salena. We accordingly secured ourselves once more

together by ropes, and soon came amongst newly open

ing crevasses as we approached the gorge which offered
the great obstacle to our passage. After dining, we were

ready to start at 3h. 45m. and again used the ropes for

a short space, but, soon clearing the snow, we abandoned
them, and following for a little way the left bank of the
glacier, as it got steeper and steeper, and began to break

into wider crevasses, Auguste volunteered to go on and
see whether it might be possible to effect the descent over
the broken ice. As we more than anticipated, however,
he returned to say that it was quite impracticable, and

that, therefore, we must submit to clamber over rocks to

a great height above the right bank, and to pass beneath

two small glaciers which seemed almost to overhang the
path we must follow, so steep was the mound of debris
which stretched from their foot. We could distinctly see

stones on their upper fronts, but the guides pronounced
them apparently safe, and recommended the precaution

merely of mounting the slope of dSbris, and slanting over

to the shoulder of rock as rapidly as possible. Its
summit was strewed with enormous blocks, tossed in

confusion, shattered and bruised by the mutual shocks

which they had evidently undergone no further back
ALPINE TRAVELS, 1850.  339

than last spring, when they had thundered down with the
early thaw, from the upper level of the little glaciers.
At present, however, there was no danger, and we
paused awhile for breath.

   'We were now at a great height above the glacier of

Salena, not only on account of the ascent which we had

made, but also from the steep fall of the glacier in a con
trary direction. Having passed the summit of the knoll
which had formed the great obstacle, we were now to
seek a safe descent to the main glacier once more. This
would have been, in all probability, a matter of small
difficulty, had not the fogs which all day had been
hovering on the summits, suddenly descended at 5 p.m.,
and enveloped us almost without warning. Our position
was not free from anxiety, for it was impossible to see
more than thirty or forty yards in any direction. Charlet
continued to advance until we found a small steep glacier
in front of us, descending from the heights above, and
completely barring passage in a forward direction. We
then attempted to descend the rocky ridge upon which
we found ourselves, which fell steeply towards the main

glacier, but a moderate distance brought us to imprac

ticable precipices. In these circumstances, only two

courses remained open, either to wait for the rising of the
fog, or to descend from the rock upon the moraine ai.d
rubbish which bordered the small glacier, and then

attempt to scramble down it. We followed the latter
course, and our descent was facilitated by long snow
inclines, over which we slid rapidly ; whilst so engaged,
the fog happily cleared for a few minutes, revealing our
entire position, and giving us an opportunity of resolv
ing on our ultimate route, for we knew that sooner or
later we must cross the main glacier. Fortunately we
had selected what appeared to be the only practicable
descent. On the one side of us was an impassable

glacier, on the other impassable cliffs. Having made
very rapidly a great descent, we diverged to the right,
passing (at a safe distance) under the termination of the
small glacier, and soon after reached the level of the

                                           z2
340           THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.          [chap.

glacier of Salena without difficulty, which we also
crossed with no great delay. We had then a tedious
descent over rough moraines, here and there diversified

by patches of the most superb vegetation, till we came

to a torrent which we understood to descend from the

glacier of Orny, where we halted for a short time at
6h. 45m. This stream we also crossed without difficulty,
and had now reached the limit of trees ; we had a stony
and laborious descent through woods nearly pathless
before we came to a certain track. By this time we had
passed the termination of the glacier of Salena, which
we saw distinctly below us. Amidst the wood were
vast blocks of the granite of Orny, and, looking back,
fine views of the glacier we had left ; but the mists
were again fallen below the level of the place of our
perplexity, so that, but for the momentary rise, we must

have remained in much anxiety. At 7h. 55m., we
reached the village of Praz de Fort, in Val Ferret, close

*******to the remarkable moraine which protrudes into the

valley, and which attracts the attention of all travellers.
An hour's sharp walking brought us to Orsieres, which
we entered at 9 p.m., 12^ hours from the Col de Balme.'
This was Forbes's last expedition among the higher
glaciers of the Alps. He left them, as he thought,
to return, but                   was it given to
with his bodily  never   again   everlasting hills  him to   see
                 eyes   those '                     ' which   he

loved so well, and among which he had laboured so

faithfully.

   He loved them to the last. ' My heart,' he has wist
fully said, ' remains where my body can never be. . . .
My
     yearnings towards  the  Coliuton  baanpkasr,--abnodth,towhoamrdes
the  Swiss mountains,   are  much on
sickness ! '
x.]                    TOUR IN NORWAY, 1851.                                      341

    One other scientific journey remains to be recorded,

the last ever undertaken by James Forbes. A total

eclipse of the sun took place in 1851, visible only in
northern latitudes, and he had fixed on Bergen in Norway
as a suitable spot for its observation : the more so, as

the journey would enable him to examine some of the

Norwegian glaciers, and ascertain whether their pheno
mena were similar to those presented by the glaciers of
the Alps. He sailed from Hull to Christiania on the
night of the 21st of June, and after an eight days'
journey overland from Christiania to Throndhjem, he
took the steamer for Hammerfest.

     Sailing down the Throndhj em-fiord they gained the

open sea, and threaded their way among the countless
islands which fringe the coast of Norway. ' We passed
the Arctic circle three hours ago,' he writes to Mrs.

Forbes. ' It wants but a few minutes of midnight, but

the sun has not yet set on a glorious scene : wild moun
tains, rocks, and islands of most fantastic form, with

wide snow-fields in the distance glowing with the red of
the midnight sun. . . . We have been singularly fortu
nate in weather; the sea, even in places where it is quite

open, as smooth as glass, and the nights so bewitching
that it is scarcely possible to drag oneself to bed. I
                                                          and although I
have seen        a great    monanyoneg,laIciehrasv,e                               have
not as yet        set foot                                 formed a very          exact

idea of them.'

                       To M. Bernard Studer.

   '. . .        The   earlier part of  ptrheevalveonycaegeofwa"srocchhieetflymoreu-
                  for  the surprising
mtoanrnktasb"le  all
                       along the coast, but as we approached the
polar circle, the fiords and islands assumed a grandeur
                  I                                       At   Alten        few
for   which            wHaasmnmoetrfpersetp) arIedle. ft       ship ;  (a         hours'
sail   short     of                                       the          for  as I   could
not    and
                 would not spend fourteen days                         there,     I was

obliged to take the         same  steamer on her return two                        days
after, during which         time                                                  little.
                                  I examined the country a
The vegetation astonished me, and the general character
342                    THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                       [chap.

Iof the scenery was so like that of the Scotch Highlands,
tInhvaet rnIescso-uslhdireh.ardIlywpaesrsguraedaetlymtyesmelpf tethdatto  was not in
                                                                          explore the
fiords between Alton and Tromso, which abound in true

glaciers, mentioned by scarcely any writer, and evidently
of the utmost geological interest. The vast interstrati-
fication of limestone and gneiss remind one of the Alps,

while the hypersthene formation here and there breaking
through, reproduces the very forms of the Cuchullin hills
in Skye. The necessity of returning to Bergen in time
for the eclipse, has prevented me from doing more than
Inoting the phenomena as I saw them from the deck of
the steamer, and       made careful drawings (some at

midnight ! ) of the glaciers, which evidently differ in
Ino essential particular from those of Switzerland. After

a return voyage of 1,500 miles reached Bergen, and
soon found that its proverbial bad character for weather

was richly deserved.'
     1 ' The climate of Bergen is notoriously the most rainy
i"nBNerogrewnasye.r,"  Its humidity is a standing joke against the
                        of whose wardrobe a greatcoat and um
...btuhrneewllimaseoasrttehiamatllpeoIgretsdahnotutolpdabreht,.aveevenstaiknIetdtmhemayyhbeseigechtohtnoduogf chhStaunimncdemeeeodr,f

seeing this great phenomenon (having been already disap
          at Turin in 1842), by                      a place of such
pointed   in point of climate.   f. ix.in.gBuuptonI  was unable to

ill fame

resist the opportunity of obtaining a sight of the Arctic

regions and perpetual day, to which may be added the
desirableness of observers being distributed along all parts
of the space of total darkness, as well for the chances of

weather as for other reasons.                                             I was con
   ' No good fortune attended me at Bergen.
soled for the disappointment, as far as possible, by the
unaffected kindness and sympathy of my friends there,
who, with truly Norwegian courtesy, seemed to feel
much more on account of a stranger who had travelled

   1 The following descriptions are condensed from Forbcs's 'Norway
and its Glacier?,' published in 1853.
               TOUR IN NORWAY, 1851.       343

so far, partly for the express purpose, than they did upon

their own. Some notice of my intention had, it seems,

Ibeen circulated in a Christiania newspaper some time

before, so that found my coming fully expected, and
all parties anxious to accommodate me to the utmost.

The commandant of the troops most politely reserved

for me a clear space on one of the old bastions, and

caused a tent   to be         erected for   the protection of my
instruments.                               shortly before the time
               Thither        I repaired

of total darkness, accompanied by my friend Captain
Lous of the Prinds Gustav steamer, whose courtesies

had by no means ceased when his comfortable vessel was

no longer my home, by several Bergen friends, and by

bcaeoneunEnntrgryalmitshhaenr,gebInrtilbgeehmltieaenvre,tihniannthtehseosmpaelmacepe.rheovtieTolhu, esthmoenoeorsnn--ilnygboetfhohareedr

--twebluvte  o'clock the sun  had even shone gaily at intervals
             the clouds were  throughout so menacing . that no

one derived thence much confidence for the afternoon.

The body of the sun was visible, however, for a little
after the commencement of the eclipse, but it soon

became more and more overcast, and a portentous sort
of calm commenced, exactly as occurred in 1842, the

clouds being almost motionless.

    'As the hour of commencing total darkness approached,
the whole sky became uniformly bespread with dense
Iclouds. The rapidity of the consummation was not so
great as     had observed in 1842, which was easily

accounted for by the diffusing effect of the thick curtain
of vapour which already absorbed so much of the sun's
direct light. There was a tendency on the part of those
near me to feel disappointed at the degree of darkness,

but this was because they were altogether unprepared

for the nearly sudden transition from day to night which

takes place at the instant that the moon's edge conceals
the very last portion of the sun's disk. When that really
happened, it was impossible to have any doubt to within
perhaps a half, or even a quarter of a minute, from its
mere effect on surrounding objects. Our position com
344            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                     [chap.

mandcd not only a general view of the country round,
but particularly of the town of Bergen itself. The houses
which compose it are almost all of wood, and painted
white ; and the particular hue of the scattered light

during the middle of the eclipse was remarkably brought

out by this circumstance. It appeared to me of decidedly
a bluish tinge, remarkably cold and unnatural. A fire
which happened to be lighted in a ship-builder's yard,

and which before had been imperceptible, now threw out

a striking red glare. Our countenances appeared wan

and colourless ; a chilly feeling caused an involuntary
shiver. One bat, escaped apparently from the rents of

the fortress, flew about us very energetically ; but some

sheep grazing near were remarked not to be sensibly dis
Iturbed. There was a considerable concourse of people

of all classes, but did not observe any signs of strong

emotion. It is not, indeed, the character of the people
to express it. The approach of the eclipse had been
denoted by the appearance of a great black cloud in the
N.W., which gradually rose above the horizon like an
approaching storm ; but its boundary (for it was merely
the shadow in the sky) was too vague to produce the
appalling sense of the onward movement of a real sub

stance, as I had observed on the plains of Piedmont on
          of                                  of 1842. But the restora
occasion       thlieghtto--tatl heeclinpeswe  dawn, when the shadow of
          the
tion of
the darkness had passed by -- was perhaps quite as grand :
a copper-coloured aurora rose in the N.W., shading off
the ill-defined limits of total obscuration, and in a few

seconds more we were left iu the dull dusky atmosphere
of Bergen, which soon resolved itself into its accustomed
elements of rain-drops.

   ' Before leaving the subject, I will mention a circum

stance which added considerably to the local interest felt
in this   intotNaol rweaclyipsIe.
visible                            am  When   a total eclipse   was   last
                                        now   unable to state,   but  the

popular mind, with singular fidelity to its time-honoured
traditions, at once recurred to one which occurred more

than eight centuries ago, and which, owing to the
                  TOUR IN NORWAY, 1851.                                    315

peculiar circumstances of the time, Avas recorded in the

Sagas, and has been traditionally recollected ever since.

It happened, as has been placed beyond a doubt by the

careful and ingenious researches of Professor Harsteen of

Christiania, on the afternoon of the 31st August, 1030.
King Olaf the saint (canonized for his efforts to introduce

at the point of the sword the doctrines of Christianity
among the heathens of Scandinavia) engaged in battle on
that day with his rebellious subjects, who were urged on
by Knut, king of Denmark and England, who desired
also to acquire Norway. Olaf was returning from Sweden

with the troops he had collected, and entered his own do

minions not far from Throndbjem. Meeting the revolters,
led by three powerful chiefs, at Stiklastad, in Vserdal,
about sixty English miles north-east of the capital, he
                                                 "Inthethweeachthroer
gave   them fight, was defeated     and slain.
nicle  of Snorre Sturlason, it is  related that

was fine and the sun shone clear, but after the fight

began, a red hue overspread the sky and the sun, and
             battle   ended, it was dark       "atsheniugnhct.l"oudeOdnesuonf
before the  or poets                    A it,
the skalds             thus expressed

refused to warm the Northmen.                  great wonder hap

pened that day. The day was deprived of its fair light."
The body of Olaf was secretly conveyed to Throndhjem

(then called Nidaros) and interred.            chapel was after
wards built over      it,    is

                                        A
                           which now included within the

east end of the cathedral.'

The day after the eclipse, Forbes left Bergen to visit

the glaciers of the Hardanger-field, on his way to
Christiahia. He was fortunate in finding companion
                           a
                                                                a

                                                                        a
for this wild journey in gentleman of Bergen, already
acquainted with the country, who was making tour in

the same direction. The rain fell with hopeless intensity,

and the affection of the people for their ponies, which

rendered them unwilling to expose their beloved animals

to the smallest fatigue, interfered greatly with their

progress. At Oos, however, they quitted their carriole
for large four-oared boat, in which they passed through
a

the splendid scenery of the Hardanger-fiord to Bond
346             THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                           [chap.

huus, from whence they visited one of the glaciers which
descend from the snowy range of the Folgefond.

   Forbes found the Bondhuus Brae (or glacier) in all
respects similar to those of Switzerland and Savoy,
showing, like most of the latter, unmistakeable signs of
former extension, in the form of ancient terminal mo

raines. After examining they proceeded to cross the
                                 it,

                                                        '
lofty snow-fields of the Folgefond to the head of the

Sor-fiord.

aI            was naturally curious,' he writes, to examine what
    I'
had seen so often described, as these Norwegian pla
             ateaux. The snow, fortunately for us, was of very good
consistence. Probably new snow does not frequently fall
                                                     but little above the
in summer,      for the general level                in the state of neve,
snow line.
                It for the most part,
                 is,

                                 it

                                          is
                                                 is
a term applied to the stratified slightly compressed snow
of the higher Alps, before
                                   condensed into the crys
talline ice of glaciers. The stratification here, however,
not particularly well marked. This neve moulds itself                  a
to the greater or less inequalities of the plateau, forming              a

large crevasses  here and there    --atnhde                       the            isgeneral form
of the ground       trough-shaped                                 two  edges of the
                 is
                      a

                                                                 ;

                                         I
fond (east and west) being commonly higher than the
centre, and the centre or trough inclining gently to

the north. One of the first objects saw was small

but true glacier of the second order, reposing on rock

having apparently very moderate slope near the middle
of the fond, and connected with one of the higher domes
of snow to the N.E. It appeared perfectly normal, with
intersecting crevasses (owing to the convexity of the
                  moved), somewhat like the dwarf
surface on which a

glaciers of the Trelaporte at Chamounix. think that barea it
                                       a
                              a
                                          I
rock, or at least ground where snow melts, may be con
sidered as almost sine qud non for true glacier, whilst

neve may or may not be so accompanied. Wherever
we have this, with good feeder or snow valley, and not
too great an elevation, and even very moderate slope,
                                   a

there glacier forms as matter of necessity.                            after
                                                                       I

                                                                                        '
wards saw many such in connection with the Folgefond.
x.]     TOUR IN NORWAY, 1851.             34

     Descending the Sor-fiord to the Hardanger-fiord, of
which it forms a branch, they proceeded northwards

through moorland and forests, to the Sogne-fiord, which

cuts deeply into the rock-bound coast about fifty miles

above Bergen.
    ' The arrival at Gudvangen takes one by surprise. The

walls of the ravine are uninterrupted ; only the alluvial flat

gives place to the unruffled and nearly fresh waters of this
arm of the sea, which reaches the door of the inn. After

dining and procuring a boat and three excellent rowers, we

proceeded to the navigation of the extensive Sogne-fiord,
of which the Narce-fiord, on which we now were, is one of

the many intricate ramifications. The weather, which had

fortunately cleared up for a time, was now again menacing,
and a slight rain had set in when we embarked. The

clouds continued to descend, and settled at length on the

summits of the unscaleable precipices which for many

Imiles bound this most desolate and even terrific scene.

Ido not know what accidental circumstances may have

contributed to the impression, but have seldom felt

the sense of solitude and isolation so overwhelming.
My companion had fallen into a deep sleep ; the air
was still damp and calm: the oars plashed, with a slow

measure, into the deep black fathomless abyss of water

below, which was bounded on either side by absolute walls

of rock, without, in general, the smallest slope of debris
at the foot, or space enough anywhere for a goat to stand ;

and whose tops, high as they indeed are, seemed higher
by being lost in clouds which formed, as it were, a level

roof over us, corresponding to the watery floor beneath.
Thus shut in above, below, and on either hand, we rowed

on amidst the increasing gloom and thickening rain,

till it was a relief when Ave entered on the wider,
though still gloomy, Aurlands-fiord, in which the sea had

a more natural and agitated appearance.'
     Before resuming his journey to Christiania, Forbes
visited the glaciers of Fjserland and Justedal, the former

lying on an unfrequented fiord branching off from the
        Of these the most remarkable was the
Sogne.
348                 THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                             [chap.

'ISuphelle Brae.       sketched it,' he writes, 'from the
hamlet of Suphellen, from whence, as from the sea, it
appears as if in complete continuity with the snow-fields
Iabove. But when 1 had mounted some way over the
ice itself,         discovered, to my surprise, that a very

lofty cliff of rock entirely separates the upper from the
lower glacier, the latter being in fact what is termed
by the later Swiss writers a glacier remanie, formed
altogether of icy fragments precipitated by avalanches

from the steep and pinnacled glacier above. It is an

exceedingly remarkable arrangement, which has no pa
rallel in the greatness of its scale in the Alps ; but it

recalls the glacier remanie" which is imposed upon the
glacier of La Brenva. Indeed, we have only to suppose

the declivity down which that glacier descends from
Mont Blanc to be somewhat greater than it in order
                           of
to cause complete instead
                               a
                                                     it, is,
     is                                 partial separation (for
there an island of rock in the centre of traversed
         is it a
by avalanches) of the lower from the upper ice. Like
the small superimposed glacier of La Brenva, the Suphellea
Braa presents distinct, though far from delicate veined
structure everywhere near the contact with the surface
on which rests, after the type of ordinary glaciers. The
                    of compact whitish                     glacier of
upper part          nearly amorphous.    iceI is(like the
Bossons)                                        dangerous  to ascend
                                        It
too high, on account of the frequent ice-falls from above.

I  was unable to ascertain clearly whether the upper

and lower glacier unite in winter.                heard rumour to
                                                     a

that effect, but scarcely think likely.'
                    I      it

   Having exhausted the glaciers of Fjaerlands-fiord, they
started on horseback for Justedal,
                                                  a  charming ride

through one of the few Norwegian valleys really com
parable to those of Switzerland. The first glacier we
visited was the Krondal Brae, which descends from the'

snow plains of Justedals Braeen in a magnificent sheet,
remarkably uniform, yet very steep. It                     of course
             it
                              ;
                        I
                                                                         is
                                                              it
much crevassed yet have seldom seen so abrupt an
ice-fall so unbroken in its character. When
                                                                             reaches

the valley compacts itself, and then commence a series
                            TOUR IN NORWAY, 1851.                                                                    349

Iof waves and dirt bands in the ice, near twenty in

number, which saw beautifully by the evening light,

and at a distance of several miles. It may be proper to

mention that by waves or wrinkles we mean alternate
ridges and furrows in the ice, on a very large scale, and

approximately transverse to the glacier, or running from
side to side, but more forward in the centre than at the

side, so that their ground plan is concave to the origin of
the glacier : by dirt bands we denote bands of cellular
or friable ice, in which mud and stony fragments find a
lodging, and thus faintly discolour the surface of the
glacier in the same wave-like forms as the ridges and
furrows just mentioned, with which they are so far

tidheent"icwarl intkhlaets  twh"heiaycrhearevtihsfeiobulen"ddaictrotansbdtaaisnntdatlsnyc"etoogcmceaathsinieolrny;.  so that
discoloration                                                                                                        by the

                                                                                                                         Ac

cordingly, the latter       were first observed by me at                                                             Cha-
mounix in 1842, the         former in the following year.
                                                                                                                     I am

not prepared to' affirm that the explanation of this
Icurious phenomenon is clearly made out ; but
                                                                                                                     have

elsewhere endeavoured to show that it certainly depends
upon the laws of motion of the glacier, and on the
peculiar consistency of the ice of
                                        which      glaciers are
composed. It is pleasing to find        features    long over

looked, yet apparently essential characters of a true
glacier, recognized in regions so remote as Switzerland
and Norway, and even in the gigantic mountain chains

of northern India.
    ' The Nygaard Glacier, which is of great length, de
scends the valley which contains it by angular zigzags,

resembling a carefully constructed but gigantic highway,

embanked at the turnings by its own moraines, and there

are three such turnings quite distinct. It is in all pro
bability the most regularly developed glacier in Norway.
Comparing it with the Swiss glaciers, it somewhat
resembles the Mer de Glace above Montanvert, but in

    a

                                                          ;

                                                          it,

                                                                                        a
picturesque effect falls far short of owing to the want
of
in    fine background the view here     "teFromnidn,a"tingpoasorucsounal
    the flat-topped snow-fields of the
350                   THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.              [chap.

trast to the noble buttresses of the Jorasses and Tacul,

and the pinnacles of Le Géant and Mont Mallet. The

lower termination is also quite unlike, for the glacier

spends itself on nearly level ground at the expansion or
embouchure of the valley which it occupies. And here
we have evidence of the immense fluctuations in dimen

sion to which glaciers are subject within periods by no

means remote, probably more striking than is anywhere
to be found in Switzerland, not even excepting the case

Bofla'ntIhce,mwgadlhaeiccihethreIobhf easLvteaovfBerrmeynyvfuawl,layoynilloutnhsterhaostroesudetbhaeclsskiedweahceorrfoes.Ms othnet

stony desert which separates the roadway from the foot

of the  DNiysgmaoaurdntinGgl,acieIr,    slanting  towards its   southern
                                      scrambled    along the    moraine
edge.
bordering the ice, in company with the man whom we

Ibrought from Ronneid, and who said he had been once
on the glacier before.                proposed to cross it from south
to north at a convenient place. This is always a matter

of some difficulty    wanhdichunI cuesretdainttoy,    and but     for my
geological hammer,                                  cut steps,  we must

have abandoned it. The character of the ice was very
highly crystalline, such as we find characteristically in

such glaciers as that of Alctsch which have run long

courses. The ice was very hard, rough, and sharp, pre

senting many angular prominences ; and the sun                  wglhaincchedI
from the plates of crystalline texture in a way
do not recollect to have seen so strikingly except in the
Swiss glacier just named. Farther, the general surface

of the glacier showed the gradual obliteration of the

more salient outlines, which I have particularly noticed
late in autumn on the Mcr de Glace, and elsewhere, as

o"npelasotficittyhe"  most familiar    and evident proofs       socfalet--he
                      of the ice of   glaciers on the great

the ridges between crevasses sink, the crevasses them

selves are gradually    cemented by               thteheicrohoewrningweoigf htth--e
material of the sides   bulging under

all the forms pass gradually from serrated into undula
ting. This was so well marked on the Nygaard Glacier,
                     TOUR IN NORWAY, 1851.                           351

that I have no hesitation in concluding that, notwith

standing the high latitude and the long winter, the

Ntthiocer"wAaersgctitahiconsceigroclfalecS)iewraistrzee(irnIlanasdlple--raeksipnenocottwhaesrof"wovtrihsdcosos, uews in"llo,oter qw"uipathllaiitsny

of size being supposed, move quite as rapidly upon a

given slope.

  I' Owing to the peculiar condition of the ice which

have described, it was not to be expected that the veined

Istructure would be strongly marked, especially as the
                             was in the act of spreading
glacier, where traversed     it,
                                          is
itself abroad, ceasing to be confined by the walls of the
                                              I
valley and, as have shown by many instances collectedI
is
                  ;                                                           a
               I                                                                a
in the Alps, the veined or ribboned appearance of the ice
    unquestionably connected with intense lateral con

straint. It was, however, by no means wanting, and

was well developed -near the contact of the ice with the

soil, on its northern bank.

'  On our return from Justedal to Ronneid, noticed

fact which appeared to me to be incontestable, namely,

that the level to which the roches montonnees extend on

either side of the valley progressively lowers as we ap
proach the sea. This fact, which also observed in the

Swiss valleys, held to denote, on the glacial theory,is

the highest level which the glacier at any time attained.
From Ronneid we took boat to Solvorn.
                                                                     spent day
of welcome rest with my former friendly entertainer

there, and   proceeded       oFnillem-fyielndo--w sosloitliatrayr,y   journey to
Christiania  across the                                              because Mr.

D.'s engagements at Bergen required him to take the
....steamer from Lserdal to Bergen, which sailed this season
but once     week,           leaving me to perform the
             a
                          a
remainder of the journey to Christiania alone, by
carriole (except
                             small space by water) without any
prospect of communicating with single individual by
                             a
...the way, except through the few words of Danish which
                               I

                                        a
I  had acquired.             At Christiania was fortunate in

meeting many friends, both Norwegian and English,
which proved welcome change after long compara
                  a
3S2      THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                          [chap. X.

Itive solitude.  returned to England with little delay,

except a day or two spent at Copenhagen, crossing the
North Sea from Hamburgh to Hull.'

     The tour had been a fatiguing one. The constant

changes from excessive heat to intense cold, and from

active exercise on foot or on horseback to hours of

exposure in an open boat, severely tried Forbes's strength.
Still worse, the realized wish of an indefatigable observer
for 'a day four-and-tvventy hours long' had constantly

tempted the mind to cheat the body of its rest, and, as

he often said, he found it impossible to sleep among the
glories revealed by the midnight sun. All this sent him
back but ill prepared for his work, and soon after he
         it,

                                                                            :
resumed  his overtasked energies broke down. The tale

must now be told of an illness, which put an end to his

active life, and compelled him to break off, at once and

for ever, his glacier observations leaving unsolved more
than one problem which still awaits solution.
                      CHAPTER XI.

                      FAILURE OF HEALTH.

The end of September 1851 found Forbes in London
purchasing models at the Exhibition, which he had seen
with Mrs. Forbes soon after its opening in May. When
early in October he joined his family in their summer

home at Craigieburn, he complained of a bad cough.
November brought a new session, and though the cough
had by that time left him, he confessed that he entered
on his work with a sense of weariness never felt before.

   Of this  to him    --ev'eTnhtefulcomldonatphpehaisrejdougrnraadlucaollnytationssuthbe
following   notice :

side. Lectured for four weeks without inconvenience.

28th, much exhausted by class and a Royal Society
Council Meeting. 29th, gave an extra lecture. 30th,
seized with haemorrhage, the commencement of a long
and severe illness.'

   Here are the thoughts he wrote down at the time :--

                      I spat blood.  'November 30th, 1851.
                                       It was
   ' This morning     any cough,               neither caused nor
accompanied by                       so that
                                               I incline to take
a favourable view, and to believe that it does not come

from the lungs. Nevertheless I felt on the 28th great
exhaustion after lecturing. There is enough in this to

make me serious, and when I consider that I have lately
found it an effort to fix my thoughts on anything beyond

and above this world, and that the regulation of my

thoughts generally has been far from strict and effectual,

                      AA
354         THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                           [chap.

I ought to  thank  God for  this reminder of            feebleness and
             This
mortality.         I hope    I do sincerely,             still   praIyrineagd,

however, that this visitation be not unto               death.

the Bible and other books, with an interest and                  applica
                                                                 and my
tion to myself which I have not felt for long,
neglect of my greatest good appears very strange and

wicked. I do pray earnestly my God to bless to me

this reminder of mortality ; the more striking as it
recalls my illness now of eight years ago, which, alas !
has left so little impression. The chief good thoughts
which have passed through my mind in the last six
months are connected with the memories of John

Mackintosh. May the same Saviour, to whom he com

mended me from his dying bed, be my support too, when

my hour shall come. Supposing this symptom, for it is

a mere symptom, were really to harbinger fatal disease,

were it not best to act so now, as to prepare myself for
such being the case ? The symptoms of fatal disease will
and must come some time. Will they be less unwelcome

then than now ? Probably not. More unwelcome as
their interpretation is less equivocal, unless God will
paolmfeawsfeoorrtlotdhlceyhagtnhrgeineagtsmc, hyaannhgdeea.rmt,akIseowamislleteotarwruneleaynstfliyitttepfrrroatmyhatnthhaeIt
                                                                                                                               love
                                                                                                                               now
                                                                                                                               this

day's reflection may be a step to that change.'

     In two days his illness assumed a still more serious
                                                        in pencil
aspect. On the 2nd     :D--ecember     he       writes             to                                                          his
most intimate friend
     I'
         .
     .  . I am sorry to grieve you as           fear this note will.
I have had a smart attack of blood-spitting. The cause was

Iobscure, but the immediate effect much fear will be to
Iincapacitate

and prayers.
            me for duty.               rely  I  much    on your  affection
            In all probability                   shall  be able  to write

you a better letter in a day or two.'           The wear and tear of
    The crisis had at                           devoted to his class,
more than twenty       yleeanrgs t--h  come.
                                       winters

summers still more trying to the strength, travels far
and near in search of knowledge, close application at
XI.] FAILURE OF HEALTH.  355

home, or bivouacs on the glaciers -- these had all done

their work on a frame which if more than usually
muscular and agile, had in it probably some inherent

weakness. Since the illness in the summer of 1843 he

had never maintained the same unbroken health he had

enjoyed before ; ailments from time to time had told
him that he ' was not now that strength ' he once
had been, yet much hard work both bodily and mental
had been undergone since. He had passed through the
trying Alpine summers of 1844 and 1846 ; with the
exception of one session, he had carried on his winter
work as vigorously as ever ; and his experiments on

heat had been, if intermittent, never abandoned. But

that rapid and severe Norwegian summer had strained
his strength to the last fibre, and his health, perhaps
already undermined, suddenly gave way. On the
free use of his energies a hand of stern arrest was
laid at once and for ever. As far as scientific discovery

was concerned, it was as though he now heard a voice
that said, ' Thus far and no farther.' Hitherto side by

side with his scientific compeers he had scaled the hard
steep of discovery, intent mainly on the truths to be
attained, but not insensible to the reputation that waits
on their attainment. His foot was already on all but the
highest ridge : one step more had placed him on that

topmost eminence. But that step was not allowed. It

was a severe trial for flesh and blood. We are now to

see how he bore it.

   All December 1851 Forbes lay hanging between life and
death. About the middle of January 1852, he was so far

recovered as to be able to move, attended by Mrs. Forbes
and his family, from Edinburgh to the milder air of
Clifton. This became his head-quarters for the next two
years, and there under the kind and skilful care of the
late Dr. Symonds his condition gradually improved.
The physician to whom he owed so much soon became
his firm friend, and continued so to the last.

    The summer of 1852 was relieved by a sojourn of
nearly two months at Ambleside and Grasmere, and the

                                               AA2
356                   THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.         [chap.

summer of 1853 permitted him to make a short tour for
health's sake on the Continent, and Basle, Zurich, St.
Gothard arc names that occur in his journal.

   During his enforced leisure, when not prevented by
illness, he was constantly engaged either in writing a
dissertation on physical science for the ' Encyclopaedia
Britannica,' or in preparing for the press a work on
'Norway and its Glaciers.' In the summer of 1853 he
was called from Clifton to Oxford to receive the honorary
degree of D.C.L. at the Commemoration at which the late

Lord Derby was installed as Chancellor of the University.
   During these two years and a half of absence from

Edinburgh, his health, though on the whole improving
underwent several vicissitudes, and there were anxieties
besides about the health of Mrs. Forbes and other mem

bers of his family. Allusions to these occur in the letters

which follow.

                       To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                                                       'Clifton, April 23rd, 1852.

   '. . . All this makes me feel that I am in a shaky

state, and the completion of my 43rd year at the same
time makes me regard things and events as far more transi-

tory than they used to appear. At the same time I have

a sad deficiency in the power of realizing, and thence
taking hold on the unquestionable realities which are

unseen. As for ambition, 1 feel as if I had almost worked

out that powerful motive to action. Do you sometimes
withdraw your mind from the exertions of business and

...dchomo' leys,tipcleIaansdixnoigetinrieedsceoetldolectcrtoiyonnctsourorefian"lizydeoeuatrrheWrseeiglsrteohtnisn,.g"sa?nHd ismienlfalun

ence as a man of high principle will be long missed in

 Edinburgh. Ferrier is a candidate for his Chair.'

                            To the Same.

                                           'Grasmere, August \9th, 1852.

     '     .  .  Our  life  passes  in  a  quiet, and not  unpleasing
        .
uniformity. With the aid of Dr. Davy's library, I
find my time anything but heavy on my hands. Our
XL] FAILURE OF HEALTH. 367

situation on the east slope of Grasmere is very delight

ful. It is perhaps the prettiest of the smaller lakes, and

the points of view and rides very varied. We have had

I Isome very stormy weather, but also some delightful days.
To-day we were hours on the lake.    fear am not

pswurhifvefiricleeieghneetsly--wroeW.tgeo. rttdhosewh"oarvEtehxicauWnrsoirodtnosw"obwrethit'hswinorotarhbigyoiuntaolf20c0oatltlyagaemr,d1ys

of where I now write this piece of prose. We are happy
in having our dear children all together, and so healthy

and happy, enjoying the complete country.'

                       To the Same.

                                     ' Clifton, April 3rd, 1853.

' I have been wishing to write to you often since you

were here, and always hoped to have a more cheering
account to give of Alicia. But we have been making
slow progress, and with some serious drawbacks. She

has only been twice out of her room this year, and her

weakness is extreme. May God give us grace to tru&t
in Him, and hope to the end. Dr. Symonds is kinder

than ever. . . . God has visited us with very great trials
Iin the way of sickness, but has hitherto carried us through
without serious loss.     feel sure that the lesson was

needed, and trust it may work a due effect, though the
tcdhheearfsuGtleluynainrudgniaiifsnor.gmri.evIoluiIks.ewatshMemyDucuohkwenoobhfligeAaerldgthybllcyomynuoticunhru,esasenndwdoiwnneg

correspond occasionally.
'                                             ad eundem
   .  .  . The  former recommendations about

degrees at Cambridge, proposed a year ago, were much
more limited, and expressly excluded Scotch Uni

versities, whereon I remonstrated to Dr. Whewell, and

sent him a copy of our examination papers. The gross
ignorance and studied neglect of what goes on in Scot-

   1 There must be some mistake here. Wordsworth wrote the greater
part of the ' Excursion,' not in the ' original cottage,' but at Allan
Bank, a large house to the west of the Lake of Grasmere.
358             THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.        [chai\

land is highly irritating.  For instance in the Times, &c.
the professorial system is
                            described and discussed as if it

existed nowhere but in Germany,
     ' We had a most agreeable visit from Auguste Balmat.'

                       To the Same.

     ... 'Clifton, February, 1854.

     ' In all our trials, be they greater or less,
wrenching the memories of the past or embittering the
enjoyment of the present, let
                                                     us strive to realize the
great   blaenssiinngcrseaasnindgcoomnefo--rtsthwate
surely                                               have ; the conviction --

                                                      a life of mere worldly

enjoyment does not conduce, as we imagine, to even

temporary happiness, and that the time is surely coming
when all these things will sink immeasurably in import
ance in our eyes.'
                       To the Same.

                       (Written in pencil.)          ' Clifton, April.

     ' We have indeed been in much trouble, but are now

relieved and better. My disorder was pleurisy, quite

Idistinct from my old complaint. George has had severe
gastric fever.  could not ask you to come and see me for
more than half an hour. We sleep in the drawing-room.

These continued afflictions are heavy to bear. May we
learn to read their intention aright ! We have received
much kindness from persons we knew but little : but to
Dr. Symonds and the G. Fowlers, we are unspeakably
indebted. We are brightening now, and may yet see

better days if such be good for us.'

     In June 1854 Forbes' health was so far restored that

he was  able to leave Clifton and return             to Edinburgh.
        days after,' his journal records,            'Dr. Symonds
'A few
joined us, and we spent a happy week in his company
and that of other friends. His letters to me at that time

and after showed    a  depth and sincerity of attachment on
his part, of which     had previously no idea ; while acting
                    I
simply as a physician he concealed it.'
xL] FAILURE OF HEALTH. 359

    The summer was spent in visiting relations and friends
in Scotland, until once more he returned with all his
family to the home he had quitted in so precarious a state
nearly three years before. ' On the 20th September we

Ireached our own comfortable house in Park Place, for

which,' says his journal, ' thank God humbly and
sincerely.'

   ' 0 God, who has visited us with many trials, and led

us like the Israelites of old from place to place without
any certain abode, bless, we beseech Thee, our return
home, and mercifully grant that the afflictions and
anxieties of that long probation may bear fruit in a more
self-denying and godly life ; and that we may have our
hearts fixed on a yet more abiding resting-place, eternal
in the heavens, for Jesus Christ's sake.'

   The two following short letters, written soon after his
return home to that friend with whom he shared so many
of his confidences, refer, the first to the impression made
by the perusal of the beautiful memoir of the late John
Mackintosh, written by the late Dr. Norman Macleod ; the
second to the friendship he had formed with his physician
at Clifton, one of the last and firmest he ever formed.

           To E. C. Batten, Esq.

I'                               '3, Park Place, October Uth, 1854.
   .
.       .  am now reading Mackintosh's life very slowly,

hwaivthingmed, eavnodureI damit  at first with a rapidity quite unusual
                                 enjoying it afresh. His buoyancy in

hI isfefltirstthetocuhrsarmawsaokfennsatmurye  own   early recollections, when
                                                and   solitude with a rapture
not a whit inferior to his, though I never recorded them.
They were perhaps the most thrilling hours and days of
my life ; and to read his vivid pages makes me young
Iagain.
           can indeed thank God for having disclosed to
Ime the hidden charms of His beautiful world ; and
could live content to any age in the joyful recollection of

them.'
                                                                                                         f

360           THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                       [cha*.

                               ' 3, Park Place, October 12th, 1854.

     '     .  . He-- Dr. Symonds --is a man such                                   as  few are.

        .
IYou can have no idea, for it astonished myself when
     a

           it,

              II

                       it

                                                           I
learnt of the warmth and depth of his feeling for me

and for Alicia and the children, knowing how doctors are

circumstanced, and how used-up their feelings are.
never credited till he left me no room for doubt, which
was not till his professional relation to me was drawing
              feel to Dr. Symonds as to very few indeed
to close.

besides, and scarcely expected to form such another
friendship in this world.'

     During the two sessions of his absence, the work of
his class had been conducted by his faithful colleague
and friend, Professor Kelland, with the aid of younger
              '

                                    it,

                                                                                           a
                                                                                              a
assistant. When November 1854 brought the opening
of another session, Forbes was once more in his place.

He was generally able to lecture three days week,
being assisted on the other days by Mr. James Sime,

and he found the fatigue much less than he expected,
                               verifying Dr. Symonds' opinion
and no injury from

and justifying his excellent advice.'

                   To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                               Park Place, December 10th, 1854.
'

 I.
      .I

                          is

                                                            '
                                                        3,
                                                                                .

                                    I
              . am very thankful to tell you that things
are going on well with us. . .
                                                                                   am surprised how
well get through my lectures. But the difficulty
                   with people coming to see me after,                                           II
...and being kept conversing an hour longer.
at present have

am sometimes exhausted for that day, and even the
next. . . . Alicia so much better than she has been
                it
for long, that                 matter of great ease and thank
                     is
                         a is

fulness to me and the dear children are all so well.
                ;

So our minds, by God's mercy, rest calm after long
                                                                                       a

time of tossing. How long      it  may last we feel to be

in His fatherly hands.'
xi.]                                       FAILURE OF HEALTH.                                        '
                                                                                                                361

                                           To Dr. Symonds.

      I' . . .           have  finished,                         or   'Edinburgh, December           1"8thD, is1s8e5r4.
                                                                     all but finished, the
                                                                      hands, and will begin to be
tation."           In fact it is           out                   of  shall carry it slowly through
printed          immediately :             but
                                                                 I

press for the purpose of revisions. As you kindly take an
interest in and indeed have had considerable share in;
                    !                                                   a
                                                                            a
                    I it,
                                                                            I
the fact                 of its production, you will know be glad of
                                           to about 600
this. It                 extends                                        pages such as you have
                                            It has been                    very useful as well as
seen me                  wlarbitoiunrg--.
                                           useful, mean, as an employment of
pleasant                       a

irnetceeriveest--        and  gtuhieneavse--ryithandsome honorarium                                  I  am to
                         400
                                       is I                      by no means matter of indif
                                                                        a

ference. What profoundly striking event this death of
                              hope will be the dawn of better days for
the Czar

Europe, and this country in particular.                                        I                     trust indeed

we have learned lesson in the humiliation to which
                                           a
                                                   is
England has been and reduced, and which will not be

forgotten for one generation at least.
      do not follow the Times in their recent out
I'

cry about England being governed by few families,
                                                                               a

ruined by its aristocracy, and plebeian talent kept
down. Show us the talent Who has been named to
                              is
                                                                     !
meet the crisis, who cannot get into power The House
of Commons                                                              it
                                                                                                  ?
                                           not elected by the aristocracy yet
where the commanding talent possesses? In fact                                                       A;
          is

the Times only exposes its own inconsistency.                                                            few

weeks ago the single man could name to be the saviour
of his country was Lord Dalhousie.         is
                                              a is                             II                    cannot help
thinking Layard, who                                             the present Times hero, rather
                                                 it               rare event when enter upon             a
light horseman. It
                                                                ;
politics, so pray forgive me and believe me, with Mrs.
Forbes' kind and cordial remembrances.'

   About the middle of the session he writes thus
    can give you good report of myself. With trifling
oscillations my health good, and feel really up to my
work, and the better for it. take, indeed, extreme care
to avoid cold, especially since east wind set in, which
I'

                                  a

                                     is

                                  I
                                      I

                                                                                                                                                                         :
362            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                              [chap.

Iit did some days ago. As am much in the house at
Ithis season, get in the Times for two hours, which is

an amusement, though at present a melancholy one ; for

no one can read about the Crimea and Scutari hospitals

Iwithout shrinking from the future. The last Quarterly

is not comforting, though very interesting : mean the
Crimean article. Is it by your friend Kinglake, whom
IDr. Symonds wrote me he had been telegraphed to attend
some time ago ? We fancy so.  have not yet seen the
Edinburgh, which defends Government.'
     As soon as the work of the session was over, Forbes

and Mrs. Forbes repaired to Clifton, to pay a visit to
their much valued physician and friend there. After

a stay of more than a month they returned, stopping at

the Observatory at Greenwich, and at Cambridge, on
their way to Scotland. About the middle of July the
whole family set out for Braemar, where they had taken

for their summer quarters the Free Church manse.
With its owner, the late Rev. Hugh Cobban, a man of
more than common cultivation, an acquaintance began,

which quickly ripened into friendship. Tis thus that
               to Dr. Symonds during                                     in
Forbes writes                          his   sojourn
                    To Dr. Symonds.
Braemar : --

                         ' Braemar, Aberdeenshire, July 29th, 1855.
' . . . Our friend the Free Church minister has honour

ably acquitted himself of his undertaking. . . Our manse

can hardly be said to be in the village. It is at least the
last house in and open on all sides    stream, tribu
        a                            :

            it,                         a
                       a                      a

                                                          a
tary of the Dee, in     adpdledienleeiegrp,harotonfocdtkfhytbihsireccchhcoahu--ninlndtaerrlyelmn--o, s--latittttlthemheeewaebanxaycctlkhuine
front, and wood of                                                       :

sive trees, except the                       I
both of which are the

wood and the river. We hear much of Edmund's and

George's fishing excursions, though we have not as yet
seen any results. The village small, and irregularly
built contains two general shops and good inn, Free
and Established church, and very pretty Roman Catholic
chapel, built under the auspices of the Duchess of Leeds,
     ;                    a

                                is
                                            a

                                                                      a
...xi.] FAILURE OF HEALTH.                                                                                                                     363

half the population being Romanists.                                                                                      St. Swithin

has been  a great deal   more gracious than we ventured to
expect.
          Both Alicia    and I have been trying to revive

our dormant     skeItcshhionugldpohwaveers,mtehnotuiognheads                                                       yet without any
great success.                                                                                                     that Braemar is

said to be 1,100 feet above the sea, and within a short

distance of the house we can see Ben-na-muic-dhui, Cairn

gorm, and Lochnagar, the first, as you know, nearly the
highest mountain in Britain ; and many of the hills have
still patches of snow, which, though hardly picturesque,

have a certain charm for people as crazy about the Alps

as myself.'

   After that   sojourn  was  over,          it was                                                                thus  he looked  back

on it :--

                To the Rev. H. Cobban.

... I' Edinburgh, September 22nd, 1855.
nsaeocntt'iswveeithosfetxpaeIlnenrcdaisislnouegro,ek.inIsgodmSobiennaccoeakt nItxkohineatothvwieeest,tbihmeaeIetn     spent at Braemar,
                                                                                                                   do so with a keen

                                                                                                                   Iinceavepracfitealttetdhefroemx
quisite enjoyment of natural scenery, and the fresh air of

Ithe mountains more than       during              our drives about Brae
Imar.     do not except       my last              visit to Switzerland in

1853.     have also formed a very favourable opinion of

the climate of Braemar, which is surely one of the best
in th is country during summer.'

The close of the year 1855 found him doing, with little
interruption from illness, the same amount of work, and
with the same assistance, as in the previous year. He

thus  deaxyproesfstehdatthyeeafree: --lings  that  rose within                                                            him  on   the
last

                To E. C. Batten, Esq.

  'I                          ' 3, Park Place, Dec. 31, 1855, 9 p.m.

most   shall write you my last letter of                                                                           1855,  aynedarw--ishmaynouy
       cordially many returns of the                                                                                new

blessings for yourself and your family, and much health to
364           THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                [chap.

enjoy them. When I think of my state in   tIhewsoenvdeerry toroofimnds

four years ago, when you were with us,
myself still
              here, and truly  thank God  wfohrichhavIinsgtilgl ipvoesnsemsse.
the measure    of health and   enjoyment

How solemnly and imperceptibly the shade of life draws
round us ! how gradually we learn to think not indispen
sable all that we once most coveted ! How the ranks of

friends and relatives are thinned, and how even people

that we have no personal regard for, when we meet them
casually on the streets, tell us by the singular change in

their appearance how the world is getting older, and how

we, too, must pass through change to the unchange

able.'

     With Dr. Symonds Forbes henceforth kept up an affec
tionate intercourse by visits and by letters. In him he
found not only a skilful physician and a devoted friend,

but one who could enter into all his scientific interests

with the sympathy of an adept.

   In May 1856 he visited Dr. Symonds for a fortnight
at Clifton, and this visit Dr. Symonds returned by a visit
to Forbes and his family in the autumn of the same year
at a pleasant spot in the Perthshire highlands, where they

had this year chosen their summer abode. The village
of Pitlochrie, then much less frequented than now, com

bined for Forbes many attractions not easily to be found
elsewhere in Scotland. Lying on the great Highland road,
just at the entrance to the Killiecrankie Pass, screened,
by the high mountain wall which flanks the Tummel
valley, from east and north winds, and surrounded on all
sides by romantic scenery, it had the especial advantage
of a mild and salubrious climate during the summer
months. To that     stretch of                  with
change be applied  those words  Athole might              slight
                                 of Shakspere  :--

        ' The climate's delicate, the air most sweet,
         Fertile the vale, the mountains much surpassing

         The common praise they bear.'

    Another great advantage which this neighbourhood
offered was the presence of a skilful and wise physician,
XI.] FAILURE OF HEALTH.                                        365

Dr. Irvine, in whose advice he could trust. Here, too,

as at Clifton, the confidence of physician and patient

soon passed into sincere friendship. The first summer
spent in a hired                            pleasantly, and suited
Forbes and his     house  passed so
                          so well,         that he determined if
                  family
possible to find there a permanent abode. On the ap
proach of the next summer he obtained from Mr. Butter

of Faskally a lease of Dysart Cottage, beautifully situated
on the Faskally estate, on a bank, scattered over with

birch trees, and looking down on the deep vale of the
Tummel. The village of Pitlochrie and the vale of

Athole lie immediately to the south. On the north the

cottage commands a romantic view of the wooded braes
of Faskally, and of the gorge whence comes the river
formed by the combined Garry and Tummel. This
became the summer home of Forbes and his family for

the rest of his life.

   The following  letters to Dr.           Symonds  show  how  largely
Forbes confided
                  in him :--

                       To Dr. Symonds.

... ' Edinburgh, May 9th, 1856.

' It was a touching proof of your kind fellow-
the        purchase of those               octavo volumes of De
            am afraid you will             distrust Mr. Kerslake's
!IIfeeling,

Saussure
use of my name again. Yet do own a strong feeling

towards the respectable old Genevese. So steady and

persevering, so acutely observing, so precisely yet often

picturesquely describing ; and amidst all his lithology

and topography, such a glow of honest enthusiasm at

times reveals itself through his occasional, but innocent
pedantry. The ascent of Mont Blanc and of the Col de
Géaut in
           tIhehalvaettelrateployrtiohand  of the book    are  the most
readable.                                   to vindicate   De   Saussure

and the Swiss geologists, as well as myself, from the im
                  Mr. Daniel
pertinences of    notoriety --   Sharpe,   I  an English geologist
of some little                  likely,        am told, to be the

next president of the Geological Society, who made a

scampering tour through Savoy, and denounces all his
3G6                      THE LIFE OP JAMES D. FORBES.                                 [chap.

predecessors.            It    wwilhl enscaprucbelliysheadm.useI  you  much, but I
                                                                  was
will send it to          you                                           preparing for

it when at Clifton, but never found time to write it
down till the few days' holiday at Christmas.'

                               To the Same.
                               'Bridge ov Allan, Stirling, 12th May, 1856-
     '
            .     . You  will have  received the commencement
        .

of the chapter on electricity in my work. My wish
has been to give you a specimen of each of the divisions
of it without boring you with too much. Galvani, Volta,
IDavy, which am
Iall rather favourite
                               now in the course of               sending you,         were
                               subjects when was                  doing them,
                                                                                      and I

found reason to rate Galvani higher, and Volta, perhaps,

not quite so high as is commonly done.
     I' The work is now all in type, except a few pages ; but
there is still a         good  deal to revise. do not know whether
                          you
I should send                  any more --Faraday, for instance? I
                                                It seems a fatality
shall       try to  get him to revise himself.
that                not only write but revise   this work at a dis
            I must
tance from books. In other respects, Bridge of Allan

suits me well enough.'

                               To the Same.

                                          ' Chester, 17 th June, 1856.

     '         .  . It is hardly necessary  for me to repeat                          how

         .

very        greatly      awme iabhlaevefamenilyjo.yedFoyr oumrysehlofspIitaslhitayll  and
that        of your                                                                   ever

feel grateful to God who has given me such friends at a
            of life when new friendships                          with difficulty.
time        must suffer me to add that      are made               have profited
You
                                            I hope I

a little by the lessons of benevolence, unselfishness, and
singleness of purpose which your daily life conveys.
That you may be rewarded for all your disinterested
kindness to us is the wish and prayer of your faithful and

attached friend.'

   When at the close of the year his Dissertation in the
'Encyclopaedia Britannica,' which had been the main occu
pation of his available working hours from October 1852
XI.] FAILURE OF HEALTH.                                                    367

till August 1856, was at last fairly published, he sent
ltehtetefrir:s--t copy of it to Dr. Symonds, with the following
                             ' Edinburgh, November 30th, 1856.
   ' My impatience
                          to send    you a copy                  of my Opus
Magnum, of which                      a few from                 my publisher
                         I received
last night, will not allow me to wait to have its exterior
made a little more                                                 Your first
                         comely by the binder.                   insignificant
impression will be, I    am sure, its small and

'Iappearance,  othf o"utghheseitderegperneesreantets   the best  part  of  three
                                                      days."
years' work
     owe you triple thanks connected with it ; first, for
' originally encouraging me to undertake it ; secondly, for

your valuable revision of the language ; and thirdly, for
your kind sympathy and encouragement during its pro
gress, when a little mild approbation was much needed

to get up my flagging spirits.

   ' It is now finished and embalmed in that dreadful

stereotype, and sent out 1,600-fold into the                     world, for
such is its circulation in the Encyclopaedia alone
                                                                 ! I calmly
Iawait the award of the public so far as it may be expressed,

knowing that have done my best ; but so well aware of

its  deficiencies, that  no  critic could write a     sharper review
of                                                    up to its weak
     it than I could.    In  short, I am well

points.

   ' It is not only published but paid for ! and Black

said yesterday as much as it is in his nature to do, to

gratify me.

   ' . . . My Pedestrian article has been at an absolute

standstill for some time, but I have good hopes of re

suming it.'

  IIn his journal he writes, ' received £420 for the copy

right.' During the session of '56-57 Forbes' health seems
to have been better than it had been during any winter
since his severe illness. For this year and the two follow
ing years he was assisted in his class work by Dr.
Balfour Stewart, who lectured twice a week, and was
present daily at the class for a great part of the session.
308              THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                       [chap.

The   following  letters give         some of the        --subjects  which
were  engaging   his thoughts         at this time
                                                    :

                 To Dk. Symonds.

                                      'Edinburgh, January \st, 1857.
                 Day I was resolved should
   ' New Year's                                          npoatrtipcauslsarwlyit--h
out conveying    to you from myself more
Alicia having already written -- my sincerest and warmest
good wishes for health and prosperity for you and yours,

both for the present and many future years ; and may
you long enjoy in their fullest extent those domestic
                                      for which
pleasures and   consolations          may add,    you are so pre-emi
nently fitted,                                   the arduous nature of
                and which, I

your professional duties render a necessity not a luxury.
Sympathy and support at home, so needful to all of us,

are more peculiarly earned by. those who spend their days
in the immediate service of their fellows, and more than

this, who    relieve by  aancdtucaallryes.shaArilnl gthwisitIh  them their
sufferings,  anxieties,                                         had in my

mind to say at this time. Your truly kind remembrance
of us all in your letter to Alicia, received this morning,
brings it still more readily before me.'

                         To the Same.

I'                                    'Edinburgh, January 3rd, 1857.
   .. .
             was very much obliged to you indeed for
mentioning the article in the Saturday Review, on

IGlaciers, which might otherwise have escaped me.
am inclined to think that probably it was written by
Mr. Alfred Wills, a young barrister in London, whose

very  pleasant narrative  of his Swiss adventures forms              one
text  of my article for                                              our
                          the Quarterly. If it be so,

mutually speaking well of one another has at least been
                                                                     little
         "cWollaunsidoenr. ingsThien
Iwithout

book is
                                      title of his very  pleasant
                                      the High Alps."
' Regarding Mr. Tyndall and his theory, have received

no such precise information as to       enable            me to speak
                                       as yet,           expect that it
confidently about it ; but I do not,
will be  found materially at variance with anything that
         advanced. Almost all that is mentioned in the
I have
xi.] FAILURE OF HEALTH.                                                              3C9

Saturday Review, had been said by me, or by otbers

years ago ; and I suspect that it is to be, in part at least,
              up of
a dressing            old ideas   in new phrases.                      No one can
              that I   have not    acknowledged                     the difficulties
fairly say
and mysteries which attend processes which I have as
certained to take place, though I shall gladly acknow

ledge any advance in this direction on the part of Faraday,

Tyndall, or any other.
   ' My first knowledge of the London world being stirred
on the glacier theory came in not the most pleasant
manner. Two letters arrived one after the other from a
London celebrity, whom I shall not at present name, to
my colleague, Balfour, evidently glorying in my coming
defeat in terms sufficiently provoking, but which showed
that it was to be made a regular party question in scien

tific circles there. I wrote to Sir Charles Lyell for some
                      a it,
information about which he kindly gave me in letteris
with which also trouble you. .                              All can do to sitis a
              I                                             .
                                                                 .

                                                                  it

                                                                   II
still till the indictment made out, and cordially wish

my enemy to write book and print speedily, as any

thing better than inuendo and suspense.
   '

          is
       On the whole can thank God that take these things
                 II                                         I

more coolly than once could do.'

                              To the Same.

                                  'Edinburgh, 10 11 March, 1857.
                                                            a
   ''  . . Now will say something of our plans or                  &
       .

        I
               I
prospects, still rather indefinite.
      'Since                     on the subject, the then scale of
"                 last wrote  "  has certainly been inclining rather
     home "   and " abroad

towards the latter and this not as vague impression
                      ;

merely, but in consequence of circumstances not under

our control. . .
              .

       Alicia thinks, perhaps, more strongly than do, that
the invigorating air and scenery of Switzerland might                      I it I I

restore the power of my           limbs,                    and, of course,        cannot
help having some hope of             too.                                           other
it                                                          If you consider

          a

                                    1

                              B if it

                                                         B
wise safe experiment, cautiously made, as, of course,
                                                                    . What feel
     would be, shall think about it.                        .
                                                                 .
370                THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                       [chap.

to be the great drawback to the intended                                                              journey  is
leaving the three youngest children behind                                                            us, and
                                                                                                               I
cannot even now make up my mind to say that we will
do it. We talk of taking Eliza and Minna with us,

if we go, by way of making the journey less lonely,

and relieving the responsibility of leaving them behind ;
though of course it will add heavily to the expense.
Aannodth. ethrispoainntxi,ewthyichaboIutmulesat vninogt
                                                          the  children bears on
                                                         pass
                                                               over --your truly
kind invitation to Clifton,                                  it is
letters of your excellent             backed             as                                           by the friendly
                                      ladies.                 can                                      only say now
                                                          I
that our wishes are all on the same side, and that

the only obstacle would be the long journey, and the
long absence from our dear little ones. Of course we
                                                                                                        or probability
fohaafmvemilyeae--lwtinainygsSywsopiutez--ceurlalaantneddd.wohnyAtnhndeotpaolptshasrotiub, gilihatyt
                                                                                                       least, of your
                                                                                                      your last letter
seems to throw a sad bucket of cold water upon this

admirable scheme, we are by no means willing to despair
of its ultimate consummation at one part or other of the

summer, if our journey ever comes off. But so many

things  thmaat yI  happen one way or other between                                                    this and
June,              hope we need not consider the die                                                   must as

yet be cast of Forbes at Clifton, or Symonds at Chamouni.
I. . . With the
                   Isomewhat presumptuous hope of whetting
tybioyountr--hisaappproeostuittg--eh
                   for accomplishing the impossible,                                                  send

                   partly, must own, under female inspira
                   copy of my article on pedestrianism in

Switzerland.

    The hope, here alluded to, of once more looking on

the Alps was not fulfilled. In June 1857, Forbes and
Mra. Forbes with their two eldest children left Edin

burgh, and got as far as Folkestone ; next day they
were to have sailed to Boulogne, but that was not to
be. The friend who was waiting to welcome them again
in Switzerland was Mr. Wills, an Alpine explorer, to
whom Forbes had been drawn by strong mountaineering

fsryommpaathleyt.terHoofwthethfeoirrmaecrqusuamintmanerce:--first began appears
XI.] FAILURE OF HEALTH. 371

               To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                                                         ' Edinburgh, June 2§th, 1856.

bm"aWar'nra.isnot.def er.trhoiIenfgrhsyiagovuhienrts,stbhteAueeflnffHr;eiegdInhsjWohAyoiillunlpslgsd,."loaikf etlHihteettoleMmkinubdosodtwolekbheTibmeaym. ypaoleuTcn--rogy-
to hear something of him and to see his book, which is
modest, sensible, and spirited. . . . The perusal of Wills'

book  thoastasinteflatmheedairmyonAcelpimneorea.ssoIciawtieonnst   and made me
long                                                              yesterday with
mmwiyitnhncohtwhileds,mreananldotontgothtebhuepialdrpivecerars'mstleiblslaanintksCt,hoewlinhateiorrn,e,IIabunesdlieedvsect.r'oamcabtlcehd

Kindred tastes quickly brought about this acquaint
                                   in the summer of 1857.
ance. They were to      have met   his disappointment : --
                        announces
It is thus that Forbes

               To A. Wills, Esq.

                                  'Clifton, Bristol, July 19<A, 1857.

   'You  Iwdiallte.proIbakbnloyw  be surprised    at the                  place  from
                                   that you will  be sorry                when
whence                                                                           I tell

yonoumthyatwhaayvianbgroreaadc,heI dhaFdolkaenstiollnneesws itwhhpicahrt  of my family
                                                                          though to a
person in better ordinary health than myself it might have
              slight detention, debilitated                               much that
caused but a  reluctantly to give up my           me so                   of visiting
                                                    plan
I was forced
Switzerland, with, I must own, but feeble hopes that
the state of my health will allow me even another year
to go abroad with that freedom from anxiety to myself
and others which alone can give even to our highest

pleasures more than a precarious and doubtful value.

All hope of meeting you under the shadow of Mont Blanc

is therefore   at an end ;         departed  blyikeslowothdeergrepelesa--salnett
hopes which    we have to         surrender

us trust, not without extracting some good from dis

appointment.'

From Folkestone, taking Clifton on the way, Forbes

                                             BB2
372           THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                   [chap.

returned with his family to Scotland, and the rest of
the summer was spent in the cottage at Pitlochrie, which

had now become his home.
     The following letters will suffice to carry on the narra
tive down     to18th5e7-c5l8ose: --of                    and to the end    of
                                       the  year  1857,
the session

                           To Dr. Symonds.

                                            ' Pitlochrie, August 29th, 1857.
     ' Your kind letter reached me when I was laid on my
back and unable to revolve through the smallest of the
aliquot parts of a right angle without a tremendous
twitch in the   ribI s.haveButmadduerinhgapthpey
                                                  few days   which have
since elapsed,                                     progress
                                                             -- especially
yesterday, and am now nearly convalescent, and hope to

be able to drive out on Monday. It is a week to-day
since my accident, which took place in the most innocent
way, of sliding down a grassy bank, while vigorously
engaged in making a trigonometrical survey of our
estate 0), whereby the oak handle of a heavy hammer
                           with
...was dug into my ribs                     a pressure due to the whole
                               I            had enjoyed my country life
weight of my body.
very much, and become engrossed in training rose-trees
and other horticultural operations ; the extremely fine
weather making us live very much in the open air, to
the manifest benefit of our health. The acquisition of
this place is quite a new kind of interest to me, and

whatever may be my regrets at missing Switzerland, it is
undeniable that many important advantages have arisen
from our being on the spot.'

                           To the Same.

                                            'Edinburgh, October 22, 1857.

     '     .  . About the  very moment that this torpid      or deadly-

        .

                will       be going on in Alma Mater (11 a.m.
                           that a much more interesting and
lively process  hear

INov. 3rd), I
hope more lively solemnity will be taking place in your
house. We sincerely desire happiness to all concerned.
To part with a member of your cherished household must
XI.] FAILURE OF HEALTH. 373

                                                                  I hear the

                                                                  them if
under

Ihappy
every circumstance           creIatecoualdpaengn.vy
pair go to Naples.
allowed myself to dwell on it. After we were married

we too spent a happy winter there. Oh ! the charm of

the long mild   aDdeocenmkebyeranedveI noinngsfootwirtahmbrloesdy    sunsets,
when Alicia on                                                     for hours

among the woody craters of Agnano and Astroni, and
the charming shores of Posilipo and Baiae ! The spring
is the worst thing everywhere/

                To E. C. Batten, Esq.

     '                       'Edinbubgh, January 17 th, 1858.

    I.                                of four sheets from
IeWgiolls"
. . had a       charming letter      if he were an " alter
 some weeks
                ago.        feel as

when he describes his feelings and doings in the
Alps. He has bought a few acres in Savoy, and intends
                a               suppose, living with him
to build. Auguste Balmat
                          iIs,
                                 I
....now. Do you know anyone who knows him?
He was educated at University College, London. Sin

gular to say, he and Balmat picked up last Summer on
the Mcr                                                           had dropped into
"moulin  d"e   Glace, hammer which                                                  a
              in September 1842.'

                To the Same.

                             'Edinbubgh, January 25th, 1858.

. . The hammer ought to have travelled nearly 5,000
'

   .

             it

                          I I is

                                                              aG
feet in fifteen years. This consistent enough with its

having been "opposite the Talefre" when lost, and "below
the Tacul" when found.       conjecture that Wills must

have picked up near where line H of my map crosses
                             find full entry of the loss
the centre of the glacier.
in my journal of September 25th, 1842.'

                To A. Wills, Esq.

                             'Edinbubgh, January 18<A, 1858.

        feel much indebted to you for your delightful letter
of the 3rd Dec. Though have personally known very
many Alpine travellers, and have corresponded with
more besides, have never met with one who entered
I'
            I

                          I

so thoroughly and instinctively as yourself into what
374          THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                              [chap.

Iapapelwpdeaeaysrstritaosno mlteirvaetvoleylb.eantdhefisnpodecaiudnlmiatirhreasboplyuargceeesxsporoeffsyseeondujor--ylmeatnetenretsc--hoof

of what 1 have myself thought and felt. I seem to live

over again years long past, and            twohicbhecoImehavyeouinng    and
robust in the vivid participation                                      your
adventures and successes. But let me add that it is not

Iin these last alone that feel a deep sympathy ; it is even
more in that quiet tone of reverential admiration of Alpine

scenery to which your letters so perfectly, but unobtru
sively bear witness. Your last arrived at a moment of

Isobmaaomeunymesdnleiyuensxqauucufnnaiaitxtielwreimecehtoeslyeolunartass,ltetnhrSda,ohosneffqgIa.luietshiictgane.tvuuoeer.awes.es; .anFgMljoimororsysdoSte.,sidntoFwcsfwoehinrBeebclaCnleelhmsaIr1giab8saatet5i.vnmi1no, agiad:sInfrdIaaahtlmhelIhaefivmgsareityvwisgsienniuertogielhtf
...you, pray give him my affectionate remembrances and
sincere good wishes.             It would give me true pleasure

to see the worthy man once more, and great pleasure to
receive him in my native town ; but it would be
in me to urge so long an additional journey when                       selfish

                                                                       I con
sider how little 1 can do in my present state of health,
and with my present engagements, to make his stay
agreeable, or to provide him with society and occupation.
                         of our              it frequently happens
tBheaint gI  the middle  whole   long term,  strength in lecturing,
             spend my             available

and can neither walk nor talk at any length afterwards.
Balmat, were he here, would necessarily be thrown on his

I Iown resources during the       day, but could always spend

the evenings with us, as         Inever go out then. This is all
that could fairly propose
                                 to him. . . . Once seriously
I Iblamed you. Your going alone to the Petit Rognon was,
think, not justifiable.          have stated my fixed opinion
on the subject in the Quarterly : though, of course, it
                                                                       of solitary
gives me a high  oIpdinoiomnosot ffuylolyurshaaprpere: csiatitliloint  may be too
grandeur, which                            of feeling.
                                           you my old
dearly bought, as a mere         luxury                 hammer,        for

   ' I am almost ashamed         to offer
xI.] FAILURE OF HEALTH.                              375

Iwhich, alas ! have   no further       use, as a gift ; but pray
                                       gratified by the thought
do not send it back.   I shall be

that it is in the keeping of one having kindred feeling
Iwith its old master ; and many an ice-step may it yet cut

for you ! copy out on a separate leaf an extract from
is                                     written in September 1842,
                                             .my journal regarding
                                                  .
                                    it,
                                  I
                                               aI a
which you will see gives perfect identification of the
                     . Mr. Euskin, of fine art celebrity,
circumstances.

has just sent me drawings of sections artificially made by
him of the contact of gneiss and limestone, which amply
confirm my assertions in my Travels, and in later paper
in reply to Mr. Sharpe, which
                                              believe sent you.
Professor Studer of Berne writes me that pupil of his

has fully verified my section at Courmayeur, so that point

         settled.'

         The foundation of the Alpine Club in 1858 was hailed
by Forbes with great interest, as promising to continue

the work which he had begun and his name headed
the list of its honorary members. But although his;
         endeavours to lead its founders into paths of scientific'
observation met, as he good-humouredly complains, with
great obstacles in their passion for unbounded muscular
exertion, and unfettered freedom of range,' his sympathy

         and advice  were ever freely  hgisiveAnlp, inanedcgorlaredslpyonadcecnetpsted--.
            He thus  writes to one of                a
                                                               :

                                                           it
it            . . congratulate you on having so sincere tasteI
         for mountain scenery and as your acquaintance with
   is '  and with physical geography increases, trust that you;1

     it .will be able to make further and still more valuableis
         observations, for there still much to be done with the

         glaciers, as well as other subjects. The state of my own
         health prevents my renewing my active explorations
         but very great pleasure to me to hear from you
         and others of the prosecution of Alpine research and
         my advice can be at any time and in any degree useful,

                much at your service. Robust can never again
         expect to be. The mountains are for you and your
           is                                 I
                                                                            ;
                a                                                  if ;

cotemporaries.'
376 TI1E LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES. [ChAP.

Four letters bearing on Alpine matters may here be
inserted, although their dates belong to a somewhat later

time.               To F. F. Ttjckett, Esq.

I'          thank you much for your sketch map of the
   ...
western part of the chain of Mont Blanc, which very
                         expectations in point of complete
much exceeded       myI  have spent some pleasant hours in
ness and interest.

mastering the features of the country, and comparing

your map with my own notes and those of others. In
deed, now that I cannot myself explore such scenes, it is

...one of                                        them in
                                                 be long,
nation
        Imy greatest  enjoyments to survey                        imagi
                      strength, it would not                      believe
        ; and had
me, before I was on the ground.                  I was not before
                                                 in reaching Mont Blanc
aware   t"haBtosysoeuduhaDdrosmucacdeaeidreed."    The interest of the feat
by the

as a tour de force is far exceeded by the important light
wwdehitcihclihviwtieihtsicthohfroIMwossanwtupBtolhanantct.hgeloIrtiocoapunosngoragtpltahecylileyroofuvatthlhleeeypwleoeasfsteutrhrnee
                            first time, in its true importance.
...Miage,I  shown, for the  to read the details which are to
             am impatient
accompany your map, and I hope you will not spare topo

graphical minutiae while your memory of the localities

is fresh. The accounts of expeditions which I have seen
are sometimes very deficient in that precision of which

De Saussure so well estimated the value.'

                            To the Same.

'      . . Thanks to you, the mystery            of the  Pelroux  group

  .

seems   now thoroughly      solved.  atdhmeIti"rawMtaioosnntmawogshnteenadgIr'Oeseukaerbstclienheet,d"o
        find that my old    friend
me to   filled me with so   much
which

... Iit from Les Etiaches, proves to be the veritable culmi
nating point, the Pic des Arcines.                       allowed for

the fact of coming upon such scenery unprepared, and
Iwith almost the zest of a first discovery ; but your testi
mony seems to show that                          had not overrated the

sublimity of these Alps.
xi.] FAILURE OF HEALTH.                                                                        377

' I must not omit to express my admiration of tbe
beauty and evident fidelity of your mountain outlines.

It is surprising how much light drawings like these

throw on the topography of an intricate country, and

how much          pleasure they give   to one's self a,nd              others.
No part of        my notes of travel                                   oftener
                                       have I consulted

than such panoramic sketches, or with a stronger wish

that I had multiplied them more.'

                  To A. Adams-Reilly, Esq.

   ' I must take      the chance of    tIhisfeasrt--ill jufisntditnog   you at
Chamouni --not        a great chance                                   acknow

ledge your letter from Courmayeur, and to say how much

I appreciate your indefatigable energy in the investiga
tion of the topography of Mont Blanc, and to give you
my warmest congratulations on your success. With

what zest you must have booked your mountains one
after another -- old friends with new faces and in new

associations.

   ' I do not pretend to judge of the precise import of

your triangulation from the slight, though attractive,
sketch which you gave me of it. You must have

measured          manadnythaensgelesI  which you do not mention nor
set down,                              trust will be sufficient to make

the triangulation a connected one, for it is not so in your
sketch. For you are aware that it is not enough that
adjacent triangles touch at one angle : they must have
a side in common. There are two breaks in the con

tinuity of your sketch : one at Mont Joli and one at the

ICol de la Seigne.                     think,  to triangulate          the Aig

   ' You would be sure,

du Geant from the Cramont and the M. de la Saxe :
                                                               the circuit--
for  by  means    of  cthheiscky--outocoCuhldamcoomunpil.ete                                   so
far      to be                                                Another year
     as            a                                                                           it

wa o"ubldaseboef  vveerryificaadtvioisnab"leintothemevaicsuinreitywohfaCt osuurmrvaeyyeoursr,  call
                                                                                                for

which the ground is well adapted.
   ' And now, my dear sir, let me exhort you to take care

of yourself. You have gone through immense fatigue ;
378             THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                  [chap.

Iand if you begin afresh with fresh companions from

England, must say that you run some risk of knocking
up, without great self-denial. For my sake and the sake
of your survey, pray do not risk your health nor your
life on the Matterhorn.'

                      To A. Wills, Esq.

' I think the new series of " Peaks, Passes, and

Glaciers," an improvement on the first. The light

thrown on Alpine topography is very material indeed ;

the classification is much improved, and the illustrations
leave little to be desired. The frontispiece of Bernina is

Ia glorious rendering of an Alpine scene.

    ' regret to see Balmat's name never alluded to in
these volumes. Do you think him really too old now
for heavy work 1 No doubt the Alpine clubbists are
enormous walkers, and it would try any one above
thirty-five to keep up with them. Indeed they don't
agree with it themselves, as is plain enough from their

own admissions. There is no doubt they would enjoy
Imore, and learn more, by doing half as much in the

same time. Yet for all this, hope Auguste will not
sink down yet into a mere lady's man : he would still be
invaluable to any man with ever so slight a tincture of
science, such as would prevent him from scampering
Ifrom col to peak with an almost insane restlessness.
Iknow the feeling myself, but always struggled
                                                              "aagsaciennst
it.   H"anvoew  you ever any longings yourself       for  an
sion                                              '
                that  your  health is restored  ?

   These letters will suffice to show Forbes' interest in
the Alpine Club and its objects. From this short Alpine
digression we now return to the regular sequence of his

correspondence.       To Dr. Symonds.

.At I'                      'Edinburgh, January 2ith, 1858.
   .
      .         times my electricity takes a good deal out of

me, and, to own the truth, have had a physical mathe
matical speculation connected with the temperature of the
xi.] FAILURE OF HEALTH.                                                   379

globe        in hand · from time to time         for several weeks, on
which                                            small available stock
             I now and then lay out my
Iof thinking power. The end of this week have a
Ilarge examination, in which, however, receive ample
                   fIrosmhalml ymeafkfeiciennot  coadjutor, Mr.   B. Stewart.
assistance                                                        nor should
                                                 more apologies,
And now
I have said so much but that it tells so much of my
story. I am in fair health ; no indisposition, but little

strength.'

                          To the Same.

I'                                   'Edinburgh, February 28th, 1858.
   .
          .     .  expect, however, shortly an electro-magnetic

coil from America such has never yet been seen in Europe,
to give eight-inch sparks in air from electricity excited

by  '  only        three galvanic pairs.         lain  in
                   own speculations have
       My                                                  a  different   line,

Iconnected with a more favourite subject of my own, the
climatology of the globe.                        expect to be able to deduce
some interesting laws of a numerical kind.'

                          To the Same.

                   I. am             ' Bridge of Allan, April 26th, 1858.

    '        .            of course  much        interested       in the  Lord

       .

Advocate's Scottish University Bill, though the House of

Commons            rather uncivilly  indicated         a  cosnotrathryatfe"enliontgobney
talking all        the time he was   explaining
                                                 a

                                                      I it,
complete sentence reached the reporters' gallery." pre
sume the object to be to appoint commission with large            I
powers, as at Oxford and Cambridge. As am now entirely                 I
passive on such matters, look on, though with nearly
as sincere interest, with none of the painful anxiety whichaI

prevails when one feels responsibility to act to one's
utmost, knowing how little the probable effect of acting
will be.
                   probably told you, when wrote last, that
                   I                             I
                       I
had great reason to be satisfied with my class last winter.

It was one of the most diligent, proficient, and best con
ducted which ever taught. It was disappointment, to
                          a
                                                a
be sure, to break down fortnight before the session was
380  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                     [chap.

over, and to bring it to a close, give prizes, <fec. by deputy;
but as far as usefulness went, my work was almost done.

1 believe I had been only four days absent from the class

all the previous part of the session, though lecturing
only three days a week.'

   Two letters must here find place, though one of them
belongs to an earlier date. To Cambridge men they may
probably be interesting, as they were written, the one to,
the other by, the late Mr. Leslie Ellis.

' My DEAR FRIEND      'Edinburgh, March 16<A, 1856.

     ... I' It gave me very great pleasure to hear from you,
and that on more accounts than one.     should have
written to you ere now had I felt sure that the thought
of a letter which you might be expected to answer might
not oppress you, however little. My belief is that it is

good for us all to keep up our ties in this world, even

while we are striving to prepare ourselves for that other
to which we are visibly hastening. For this purpose we

osehvweonnuldtihfanwtoetinadtrtothipims esIsoacfmeieetlypcrpneioaiercthnicenosgsrrewosuphorantdgerIenacdteeostnaosltotolagacelewt.haeyrsI,

practise.

   ' Your letter brings me back in spirit to your quiet yet
Icheerful room, which it pleases me to have seen, because

  can picture you there. And often after since we met
has that scene of suffering patience arisen in my fancy,

and to see you again would be by far the chief pleasure
of another visit  totheCamvebrryidgseli,ghotef stwhpircohsp, echto. wevIeor,fteant

Ipresent see not
wish you could have your bed raised so as to see out of
the window without the intervention of a mirror. This
is a parenthesis. In that small chamber you are working

out, my dear friend, a problem greater than you ever
grappled with in the
any military hero's.  Senate-house ; a  vtihcattor"y   as real as
                                                      tribulation
                      You have found

worketh patience, patience experience, and experience

hope," -- a happy climax. I, like you, have wandered near

the confines of the dark river. I have felt the trial of
XI.]             FAILURE OF HEALTH.'                                                                                          3*1

shrinking humanity whereof you speak.             I have striven
to pierce with sharpened eyesight the            Ideep abyss.

wonder, has your subtler and more exercised spirit

penetrated farther than mine, and can you communicate
Iany share of the insight which fancy you may have
I Iattained 1
                 never wrote thus to any one before : and
feel confident that you will trust, or at least forgive me.

IThere are few whose thoughts on such subjects would
be worth possessing.            feel as if there must be given to
you, in compensation for your greater trials, more know

led'gBe utthaIn  others.    no  more  of  this.  Let me rather
                 shall say

thank you for your kind, and to me always valuable
present of a paper of yours, however short. In a work
of some labour and anxiety which has absorbed the

ltmaimsatjeor7p5pasaytre--taraosf--smkIeythcahsvmeaolfgl raitnthtiefeielledhcistmtuoayrlsyelafocftmivsocirtieeyncftoehranoaf  long
                                                                                                                               the

                                                                                                                              once

...by citing you, (1) in connection with Gregory,  I(2) on
                                                      have
probabilities, (3) about higher order of forces.
been lecturing regularly all this winter, and on the whole
Ifeel in better health       than for four
                                            winters previously.
With care suppose           I may weather    some years more,
and do some little work yet ; but hard thinking is as

much beyond me as hard walking. I feel very deeply
for Dr. Whewell. He wrote me a manly and touching
letter two days after his wife's death.'

                 From R. Leslie Ellis, Esq.

' My DEAR FORBES,               ' Anstet Hall, March 26th, 1£59.

      I' You have heard enough of me since October to
be willing to excuse my silence.            wonder often, and
Iperhaps you would if you knew all, that I think as much

as do of the subjects in which we used both to take an
interest. But this is part of the, to me, great wonder
how my life has lasted so long, with probably almost
every organ diseased, and in a state which makes the
conditions of health impossible. Fix a man as immove-

ably as Prometheus for four or five years, keep him
382                    THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                     [cnAr.

in the dark for two or three, and however healthy he
was at first, what a wreck you will make of him ! Your

essay was read to me or nearly so, and gave me great
                       with a           of how much my life has
Ipleasure, mixed        know,  sense    hope allow, for your con

been wasted.                   and I

     I

                                   if,

                                                 if
stant partiality; but                   writing as an historian, you
could feel yourself justified in mentioning my name,

surely might have achieved something, the earlier

years of my life had not been wasted, partly from want

of settled purpose, and partly from griefs and cares which

came upon me early, and which felt more than most
                                        I

                                                   it

                                                                                        ?
men, and the last ten years had not been consumed by

disease. Yet after all, what good would do now It
               I if
                                        to tear oneself from vain and
                            it

                                    is
is   hard enough as

worldly thoughts. Your preface seems to me admirable
in tone, and am sure right in substance. Did ever
                                        a

                                                      ?

                                                                is

                                                                it it
occur to you that there may be connection between the
permeability of rock-salt to heat, and its being equally
soluble in water at all temperatures       How
                                                                        with

other salts    \       think this hint might suggest something.

                I

With my best regards to Mrs. Forbes,
                                           Ever you'rRs, L. E.'
                                        '

   This last letter bears the date 26th March, 1859. The

writer died on the 12th May in the same year.
   Early in the summer 1858, we find Forbes, when

relieved from college work, still reverting to his old
pursuits, and making experiments on the freezing-point
and individual temperature of blocks of ice. Here are
some of his findings thereon --
I
      '
              .
                         .

               I

                                             is
                                                                                          :
                                                              a
                                                                                            is,
                                                              I
                       To A. Wills, Esq.

                                  'Bridge of Allan, near Stirling,
                                                April 26th, 1858.

            .    This  arises partly from  th"erecgierclautmiosnta"nce  that
               now,    believe, show that
     can                                                                as

have for some time suspected, correlative and necessary

proposition from that other, that the transition from
water to ice in congelation gradual. In my 16th letter,
a] FAILURE OF HEALTH. 383

I think, printed in January 1851, 1 attributed the softness
of ice to the fact, then recently stated, that water

gives out its latent heat during congelation down to a
temperature sensibly below 32°. Connecting this state

I Iment with certain experiments have lately made,

am  in a condition   to show that a film        of water     ready to
be  converted into                              soft ice --  between
                     ice --viscid water or
two surfaces of ice in a thawing state must solidify. I

shall     send  you by    and  by a short paper on the subject.
          am    correct,  the  cementation or "regelation" of
If I
thawing surfaces of ice is merely another phraseology for
the assertion that ice softens, or it absorbs latent heat

gradually, about 32°, where all substances do, such as
wax, spermaceti, &c., which soften by degrees. Of course
the fracture may be molecular as well as finite, and then
Iit is termed properly plasticity.

   ' am truly glad to know that your visit to us was not
altogether a failure, notwithstanding our disappointment
                       My inactive
about Balmat.        it is only after    state   makes me      athabtadI
entertainer, and                        years
                                                of discipline
can bring myself to acquiesce in a mode of life, which as
you may fancy is strangely at variance with my whole

previous habits down to the age of 42.'

   The summer was spent at Pitlochrie, varied only by a
visit to Fettercairn and an expedition to Loch Rannoch.
From his highland cottage he writes to Dr. Symonds.

                           To Dr. Symonds.

    '                                   ' Edinbubgh, May 30th, 1858.

       .  .  .  You  must  not  forget  that we  too have      a very

respectable Sleepy Hollow at Pitlochrie, where our

friends can lie on the grass and read poetry and listen to

the murmurs of the Tummel. Seriously, we will take no

refusal about coming to Dysart Cottage this summer.

The whole season is open to you to choose. All times

from the middle of June are alike to us.'

   During this same summer Dr. Whewell and Lady
Affleck, whom he had lately married, visited the
384              THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                     [chap.

Forbes' at Pitlochrie. It will be observed that Forbes'
correspondence with the Master of Trinity slackened

after illness put a check to Forbes' scientific labours, but

their friendship continued unchanged.

     During the latter part of 1859, Forbes was subjected
to not a little annoyance by discussions which were going
on in London regarding his viscous theory of Glaciers.

By some of the disputants not only was his claim to
priority in discovery denied, but doubts were thrown
on his straightforwardness in making that claim. The
question as to originality was insignificant to him com

pared with the imputation thus cast on his character.
The grounds of these charges will .be weighed by more

competent hands in another chapter. Forbes felt the
imputations deeply, but from the thought of them he
was called off by a very heavy personal bereavement in

the death of his brother Charles, who in the beginning
of November died at Canaan Park, near Edinburgh.
This was the brother nearest himself in age, from whom

his boyhood and youth had been inseparable, and for
whom, even after their homes were divided, he retained

a quite peculiar attachment. The following letters con
                                                                                       in
tain allusions   to  these  and  other              incidents                               this  year

of his life :--      To Mr. Wills.

                                                    ' Edinburgh, April \2th, 1859.

     I'       could  not    be   indifferent        to                                 the  injustice
        . ..
          taslasotsretelySoaf atutthrdeaayrdeivswaiehdwivcahnotfIagmreeyadIbolaaomskt  in the Athe
and bad
naeum of                                                                               evening. I
felt how
                                                                                       placed with
relation to the scientific world of London. Your sym

ppalatyhy--aanlldI yaosukr--wtiolluincghneedssmeto  assist me in  oIbtaasisnuirneg                 fair
It                                                  a good deal,                                  you.

let  is close on post time, and as                   Balmat's affair                        is urgent,
      me discuss that now, and                                                              the other
                                                    I will return to

subject.

   ' What you tell me of Balmat's feelings towards me
was another pleasant revival of old sympathies. Sorry

as I am to interfere in any degree with your well
                     FAILURE OF HEALTH.                         385

devised       plans for his photographic education, you will,

I trust,     not dissuade him from accepting the invitation I

Ienclose for him, open for your  perusal. After what            you
                                 good fellow again ;            and
say really thirst to see the
considering that all his other friends are within easier

reach, and that yourself and many others have the road
to Chamouni open to them in prospect, my position with
reference to him is very different indeed. Looking to the
uncertainties of the  future, it is very doubtful whether
                      meet more if not now. So if you
he and I shall ever

find his heart as much bent towards Scotland as you
suppose, do postpone the photography for a week and .

let him come.

  ' Do not think me too selfish in all this. I have not
a moment more, but will finish this letter another day,
perhaps to-morrow.'

                     To Dr. Symonds.

                                 ' Edinburgh, April 1859.

I'
    .
.         .  Now  must take my first leisure time to assure

you that we were very grateful for your kind invitation
to stay with you, and that it is not without much
hesitation that we have decided for the present, at least,

to deny ourselves this gratification. The plain state of
facts is this : putting economy out of consideration for

the present, when our session draws near a close I have

such a longing for absolute rest that other inducements
seem for a time to have little weight. True, indeed,
you have always made Clifton Hill House
                                                             a  Iplace of real
repose, and such, through your kindness,                           have often
iIf
         I

                       it,
                                                c

                                                          c

                                           I
...enough found but, had we gone to Clifton we must have
gone still farther,   to London especially. Though

my presence there would be very favourable to obtaining
the attention towards my theory which wish, even that

personal gratification might easily be too dearly bought,
      were agitated in mind and exhausted in body. And

thus, as have said, languor has in the meantime pre
vailed over even the powerful stimulation of both friend
ship and ambition.'

                                                                                r
3^6                  THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                            [chap.

                     To the Same.

                                   ' Pitlochrie, September 25th, 1859.

     '     .  .  We  returned  on  Wednesday  from    Aberdeen,

        .

...havingI    hesitated about going even to the very last hour.
              spent the morning in Section A, and made no
                                          poafpearb--ouJats.haTlfhoamn sohnou--r,
communications except           a speech
arising out of another         person's
on the Properties of Ice, which was well received, and

there was no painful discussion whatever. Tyndall was
not there. About two o'clock some hungry philosophers

were generally willing to attack a cold pie which we
had provided in our lodgings close to the Sections, and
which enabled us to see some real old friends in a quiet

way ; such as Airy, Faraday, Vernon Harcourt, Lloyd,
William Thomson, &c. &c.'

                     To A. Wills, Esq.

                                   ' EmNBVRGU,^November \ith, 1859.

     '     .  . To-day is the first day, for several  weeks, that

        .
I have had any remission from a heavy and wearing
correspondence, which has been thrust upon me by
the coincidence of a variety of affairs of an anxious
kind at one and the same moment. The illness and
                                                                              --not
somewhat         syuodduensawdeaatthAboefrdmeyenn--exatndeldtoerwbhroomtheIr
him whom                                                                       have

from infancy been deeply attached, has closed with its
solemn warning this period of mixed disappointment

and success.
     ' As regards the Royal Society affair, the mere irritation

occasioned by apparent neglect and jealousy subsides
under the visitation of
-- a moral imputation,         mortality ; but the deepest sting
reiterated disclaimers          from  wIhihcahv,enortewceitihvestda, ndIincgannthoet
                               which
conceive the recent attacks to have been wholly free --
remains behind with something like a leaden weight.

The generous support which 1 receive from yourself
and a few old attached friends, diminishes1 even the

residuum considerably.
                           FAILURE OF HF.A1AII.                  387

  I' believe that the effect of the struggle --though

unsuccessful in its immediate object-- will be to render
Tyndall and Huxley and their friends more cautious in
       fuwritthhedrrapwronceefdroinmgs.MurrFaoyr'sins"taimncmee, dTiaytneda"ll'lsist,bowoikll,
their
again

probably be infinitely more carefully worded relative to

Rendu than he at first intended.'

                               To the Same.            »

                                            'Edinburgh, December 2ith, 1859.
                                     " Holy
'         .     .  Bishop  Taylor's          Living and Dying,"  a

   .

book         wonderfully     adapted to      readers   and thinkers of
every        class, and    from which
                                            I believe   I have derived
more comfort and instruction than from any book, what

ever of a similar description and character. There is no

book less controversial or more intensely practical. The
vigour of the writer compels our attention. And this is

an advantage. To have our thoughts drawn off for a

time from the cares, the pleasures, the ambitious projects,

and even the praiseworthy employments of this life must

be to us all a matter of unspeakable importance.'

                               To the Same.

                   I am                     ' Edinburgh, February 13<A, 1860.

'      .     .           glad you  take an  interest in Jeremy Taylor.

   .

You ought            to make   --gerevaetn  allowance for the    style of
writers and          thinkers                                   his time.
                                            the greatest -- of
Redundancy, quaintness, and ingenuity in devising
arguments, were inbred in all men of mark of the seven
Ifteenth century, who had any imagination at all.
                                                                old

Jeremy had written like Bishop Butler, all hard argu

ments, should we have thanked him for it % not I for
one. Let us take what our taste and right reason
approves, and recollect that in the very many-sidedness

of his views he may bring conviction to another though

Inot to         us.    Thus, for example, about the fear of death,
   must         say
                     that I differ from you. I feel its universality
to be one of its greatest alleviations. A singular lot is
full of bitterness. The fellow-feeling mitigates distress,

                                     Cc2
388  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                       [chap-

whether it be the fatigue of an exhausted army, the
visitation of cholera, or the breaking of a bank.'

     In the autumn of 1859, an important event took

place, which turned the remainder of Forbes' life into a

new and unlooked-for channel. The Principalship of the
United College, in the University of St. Andrews, became
vacant by the transference of Sir David Brewster from

that post, which he had held for more than twenty years,

to the Principalship of Edinburgh University.

    Forbes was induced to offer himself for the vacancy,
and his eminent achievements in science as well as his

long and faithful service in his own University deter
mined Sir Cornewall Lewis, then Home Secretary, to
recommend him for the appointment. This choice is

the more honourable to the justice and impartiality of
Sir C. Lewis, that Forbes not only had no personal
acquaintance with him, but, in as far as he belonged to
any political party, it was to the one which opposed the
ministry then in power.. Others of the then ministers
interested themselves in Forbes' promotion, -- his some
time student and faithful friend, the Duke of Argyll,
and Mr. Gladstone. Besides these public men, Forbes'
colleagues in his own college, as well as his many friends
and former pupils, rejoiced, not only because it placed
him in the position which he desired, but because in

his appointment they saw an act of public justice done.

   It is clear that ever since his illness the duties of his

Professorial chair must have been a burden. To appear

each day at a stated time, to lecture for an hour to a

large class, to see students afterwards and answer

questions, to prepare experiments or superintend their

pparepperasra--tiothne, seanddutietos,  look over masses of examination
                                        which effectually task a. man in the
prime of vigour, fall too heavily on one who feels that
life within him hangs by but a slender thread. All this,
no doubt, Forbes felt from the close of 1851 till the end

of his Professorial work.               --Thfeor  change   from    the  daily
class-room to his own study                       there a  large  part  of his
XI.] FAILURE OF HEALTH. 3h9

work as Principal could be done --was just the thing

that suited him. His duties out of doors lay mainly in
attending College and University meetings, and in ad
dressing students now and then, at times which he could
generally choose for himself. His weak health seldom
unfitted him for the duties of the new office he under

took. And the daily, hourly sense of the frail hold he

had on earth, only made him feel that he must labour

the more earnestly while his day lasted.
   The date of Forbes' commission as Principal of the

United College is December 2nd, 1859 : his induction
took place in the Hall of the College on the 10th.

   He did not, however, at once, resign his Professorship
and migrate to his new position, but continued, with the
assistance of Mr. Keith, to carry on his class-work till

the close of the session 1859-60. From time to time

during the winter, he visited St. Andrews, to attend
meetings of the United College and of the University.

   On the 1st of April he sent in his resignation of his
Professorial chair in Edinburgh, on the 10th delivered
his last lecture to his class, on the 16th received from his
own University the degree of LL.D. in company with
Mr. Gladstone, Dean Mansel, Dean Ramsay and other

distinguished men, and on the 25th delivered an address
to the graduates of arts, in which he bade farewell to
that University which his own labours had so greatly

benefited and adorned.

  The attempt, even if I could make
                                                 :                    to sum up what
                                                    '
these labours amounted to, and what were their results,
                                                                 it,
    happily not required. Some letters from those who
studied under Forbes, at different dates in his Profes

sorial career, will convey their impressions of his charac
teristics as teacher, and will fitly close this portion of

his life and work.
is

                      a

   Mr.  Thomas           MCrlse.ghFoorrnb,esno--w  Sheriff            of  Argyllshire,
writes  thus to

                                                       Edinburgh, August 2ith, 1869.'

     My recollections of the Natural Philosophy Class
in 1835-6 and 1836-7 are very fresh, and among the
390           THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.          [chap.

most delightful of my life. I have vividly before me
the form and features of our then very youthful Pro
fessor, as he commanded with his dignified bearing the
respect of a large and miscellaneous class of somewhat
rough students, while he charmed all by a most elo
quent, polished, and skilful exposition of his subjects.

It was quite the kindling of academic life for me, and
I doubt not for many others ; and it was not only by his
lectures and examinations, but by the most constant

and varied endeavours to interest and attach his

students, that he inspired into very many of them an
enthusiastic love of the                         delighted in him
Iself.                       studies he so       gatherings at the
              well remember  the evening

Dean House, and those delightful breakfasts there, to

which his students were by turns invited, and how he

was ever stimulating us by exhibiting his apparatus and
objects of scientific interest, by walks in the neighbour
hood to test philosophical instruments, and by stirring us

up to form societies  amI onwgasoudrseeelvpelys  for scientific experi
ment and research.                               impressed with his
kindness to myself, as I had no introduction to him but

the class-ticket, and ultimately our intercourse ripened
into a lifelong friendship/

     Mr. J. T. Harrison, civil engineer, says : --

                             'London, July 31st, 1871.
              .As Professor of Natural Philosophy,
     '     .                                        Mr. Forbes

        .

not only gained the esteem of all the students by the
great interest he evidently took in them, and by the
great pains he bestowed in the preparation of his lectures,

and on the experiments, illustrations, and mathematical

solutions, which enabled all those who were really anxious
to do so thoroughly to master the subjects of them, but

he endeared himself to them by his kindly and genial
manner, and by the assistance he was ever ready to

afford those who asked for further explanation of any
'Itdifficulty they were unable to overcome.

        was, I believe, his greatest pleasure to see his

pupils striving to acquire information, and to help them
xi.] FAILURE OF HEALTH.                                                   3!)1

in doing so. Many of his pupils thus became sincerely
attached to him. His breakfast parties, and the delightful
excursions with him into the country for the purpose of
taking barometrical and other observations, will ever be
remembered by me and many others with the greatest
pleasure ; on these occasions he was the joyous spirit of
the party, and he not only instilled a real love of nature,
but be was instrumental in forming and cementing many
sincere and lasting friendships among his pupils. His
          in                   a striking feature in his cha
interest      old pupils  was  without his
racter.   I   never met   him                inquiring about
                               he thought I  could give him
some one respecting whom

information. Although ever anxious to encourage the
love of natural philosophy for its own sake, he was fully
alive to the great importance of sound theoretical know
ledge as the basis of the education of the civil engineer,
and he showed his high appreciation of that profession

by choosing it for his son. It gives me great pleasure
to note down these few remarks in affectionate remem

brance of my dear master.'

Professor Balfour Stewart, who, besides being a pupil,

was for   thsuesvegraivl essehsissiornescolalescstisiotannst-:l--ecturer  to Professor
Forbes,

                          ' Pendtffryn, near Conway, May 1th.

  ' . . . I believe it was during the session 1845-6 that
I attended Forbes' lectures as a student. Two things
struck me : first was the gentleness of his manner, united
with something that carried authority, so that he was
Inot only perfectly obeyed by his class, but also venerated
and beloved. Had he been a general,                                       conceive he

would have been worshipped and beloved by his men.

The next thing that struck me was the noonday clear
ness with which he explained everything, especially

points requiring explanation. The truth was conveyed
to his hearers in the best possible words. He was more

gifted than any man I have met with in diffusing light.
I am certain that in his own mind he was not content
392    THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                      [CHAP.

with merely apprehending a truth, but he viewed it in
all possible lights, and finally selected some one as the
best point of view from which to paint it to his class.

There was thus engendered in the minds of his pupils,
not only the effect directly due to such a description, but
the indirect feeling that their teacher had taken great

Ipains and care to produce this result. Perhaps you are

aware that acted as his assistant during the sessions

1856-7, 1857-8, 1858-9, during which time it was my

duty to lecture on mechanics and the more mathe
matical part of his course, while he lectured on the
subjects which are generally embraced in treatises on

Iphysics.

    ' had the benefit of very full notes of his lectures,
and I often think that it would be to the advantage of
science if his lectures could be published.
poi'n1tslearerngeadr,dindgurinhgimthtehattimIe          I assisted him,
                                                 that                    several
                                                had    not previously    known.

He was among other things very clear in his pronuncia
tion, and he told me that in order to obtain it he had
Itaken lessons

used to assist
                  from   Mhriss.exSpidedriomnes.nts,DIurleinagrnetdheto  time
                 him in                                                   notice

the caution combined with sagacity, the union of the

centripetal and centrifugal principles, that was an emi
nent characteristic of his mind. He was not satisfied

in his own researches with viewing a thing in one light,
but he insisted on verifying his conclusions by corrobo

rative evidence derived by regarding the subject from

Ianother light.
    '  ought not to  ofnorgraedt iahtiiosngrweahtichkinIdnmesasde  to me   in
some   experiments                                                   when
                                                                            I
Iwas his assistant, and for which have since received
the Rumford medal of the Royal Society, London. He

very generously gave me many hints, and allowed me
to use not only his own apparatus, but to make use of
     tvhaelsueabflaecilsiptieecsi,meI nsshooufldroncok-tsahlat.ve  Had it not been
his                                                                succeeded in the
for

investigation to any extent.
   ' These are my chief remembrances of Principal Forbes.
XI.] FAILURE OF HEALTH. 393

IHe combined to an eminent   feaaxrnteyanstsIutchcaeemspshpiewlorhssoiocnphahlelyIr  with

the man of science ; and so                                                          con
                                                                                     have
cerned, I know that owe
attained in a very great measure to those habits of
thought which a man like Forbes was so well qualified

to communicate.'
                   CHAPTER XII.

                   LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.

The University over whose oldest and largest College
Principal Forbes was now called to preside, is one of the
few fragments which survived the wreck of the Scottish
mediaeval Church. Whatever the shortcomings and cor

ruptions of that Church for two centuries before the

Reformation may have been, it ought not to be forgotten
that it is to her that we are indebted for our Univer

sities. Three out of the four Universities of Scotland had

Catholic Bishops for their founders. This was pre-emi

nently true  owfasSt--. AHnednrreywsW, atrhdelamwo--st wahnoc,iennet aorf  them all.
                                                                           the open
A Bishop it

ing of the fifteenth century, founded that University, and
the accomplished First James smiled upon its infancy.

Each of the three Colleges which were successively
           ;
incorporated into  owed their origin to a separate
                a

                          it,

                                                               a
prelate. The oldest of the three Colleges, that of St.
Salvator, was founded and endowed by the successor

of Wardlaw, Bishop James Kennedy, kinsman of the
king, and the wisest man of his time, both in Church

and State    prelate of such pure and beneficent cha

racter that even George Buchanan, prelate-hater though
he was, has no word but praise to speak of him. To
him, in the old sea-tower at St. Andrews, his cousin, the

Second James, turned for counsel when the violence of

the three banded earls, each almost king, had all but
chap, xii.]  LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.  395

driven him from his throne. The next College in order
of time was that of St. Leonard, founded by the youth
ful Archbishop of St. Andrews, Alexander Stewart, and
by John Hepburn, prior of the monastery. One of the
charters of the foundation was signed by the young arch

bishop, and confirmed by his father James IV., the year

before they two, father and son, fell together on the field
of Flodden. The foundation of St. Salvator's College by
Bishop Kennedy, was one of the many efforts made by
that wise prelate to counterwork the corruptions of his
Church, and to reform those abuses which he saw were

eating out its life. In the original charter he states the
aim of his foundation to be ' the strengthening of the
orthodox faith, the increase of the Christian religion,
and the removing the pestiferous schisms of heretiks.'
And in conclusion he requires and exhorts ' in the
bowels of Jesus Christ our Saviour, who is the Patron

of the College,' that there be appointed pastors and
defenders, who shall conserve the said College for the
purpose to which it was devoted. Again, Archbishop
Stewart in his charter states that his object in founding
St. Leonard's was his desire to preserve ' the tempest-
tossed bark of St. Peter, and to uphold the declining
state of the Church.'

    This last College was scarcely founded when it became
the nursing-mother of many of those ardent spirits who
bore a chief part in working that Church's overthrow.
To have drunk of St. Leonard's Well, was another expres
sion for having adopted the principles of the Reforma
 tion. When the Reformation had got itself established,
 George Buchanan became Principal of St. Leonard's,

 which he adorned by his scholarship more than by hia
 character. He received one pension from Queen Mary,
 and a second from Queen Elizabeth, for slandering his
 first benefactress ; so that, as has been said, though he did
 not serve two queens, he at least took wages from two.

    With the Reformation these two Colleges, which
 had been founded mainly for the rearing of clergy
 and the teaching of theology, were so far secularised that
396  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chat.

they were devoted exclusively to instructing students
in classical literature, science, and philosophy. Instruc
tion in theology was handed over by the Reformers ex
clusively to the younger College of St. Mary's, which,
having been founded and endowed" chiefly for this pur
pose by the last three Roman Catholic archbishops, James

Beatoun,' David Beatoun, and John Hamilton, was soon

after the Reformation presided over by those two stout
anti-Prelatists Andrew Melville and Samuel Rutherford.

    The two older Colleges, restricted to the more peaceful
pursuits of classics, mathematics, and philosophy, were
less heard of in the turbulent conflicts of the seventeenth

century than their younger theological sister.
    About the middle of the eighteenth century, the

finances of St. Salvator and the tenements of St.

Leonard's having fallen equally into disrepair, the more
flourishing finances of the one were transferred to the
better buildings of the other, and the two Colleges were
by Act of Parliament conjoined, under the prosaic name
of the United College. From that time, 1747, there
have continued to be two instead of three Colleges in
the University ; and at this day St. Andrews remains
the only place in Scotland where native Scots have an
opportunity of learning the distinction between a College
and a University.

   In the later years of the last, and the three first decades

of the present century, the names of certain families recur
so frequently in the roll of Professors, that one is almost
tempted to imagine that the spirit of the St. Andrews

vCeurlsdietyesoof fthteheeieglhevteeentnhth--censotufrayitshtfiullllysuhrvaidvetdheinPrtohfeesUsonris

copied from these old secularized churchmen their practice
of handing on their benefices from father to son. Yet

among these frequently recurring names, some there
were who served their University so well, as to suggest a
doubt whether their disappearance in modern times has

been pure gain.

   At the time of the Reformation, in his ' First Booke
of Discipline,' John Knox, when laying the foundation of
xii.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                                                                                397

Stnhcoeotntlyaenetxdi'ssatpinpsgyesatrUeemndiv--eorsfspiteeiaedksusc--aotioffon'r,     and naming the     three
                                                                                     that of Edinburgh      had
                                                                                    the First University    and

Principal, viz. S. Androes.' The primacy which Knox
isattributed to St. Andrews then undoubtedly held, not
                      it,only by right of antiquity, but also of mental and theo
logical eminence. In the interval between Knox's time
and our own, the Universities of Scotland, like all other

things, have greatly changed. The three younger Univer
sities, owing to their situation in the heart of large and
rapidly increasing populations, have far outgrown in size
and number of students their elder sister, placed as she
apart from throngs of men, and amid stationary com
munity. But during these three- centuries St. Andrews                               ;
has not failed to contribute to the service of her country
an amount of ability and trained intellect out of all                                     a
                              tchoremepadriasttiivnegunisuhmedbercso. nteInmptohrearieges,n--e
proportion   to her
ration just  gone,

one, the greatest preacher and divine which Scotland
has, during this century, produced another, the Lord
                                                     third, the Lord                             Justice-
Chancellor   oSf coEtnlagnladn, --d    and        all alumni of the                               United
General of                           were
                                   a
College.
   These historic details are not out of place in this;
account of the life of Forbes. For him the ancient
                                           it

                                                 a
records, monuments, and traditions of his newly adopted

University possessed peculiar charm, and called out
faculty and taste which had hitherto lain dormant
a
           a
                           a
within him, only because                                                            had nothing to feed on.
Among the predecessors of Principal Forbes for more

than century, no distinguished name                                                          is  to be found

till we reach that of the venerable Dr. Hunter, famous

in his day as scholar and philologist, who, after filling
with great success the Humanity chair for nearly sixty
years, was, towards the close of his long life, raised to the
Principalship of his College. Him followed, after brief
                                                                                                 a

interval, Sir David Brewster, who, during his twenty
years' tenure of the office, any remains of the family
                                     if

system still lingered, scattered them, somewhat turbu
398  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

lently, to the winds. The reputation of Sir David's name
was, of course, an honour to St. Andrews, as it would

have been to any University ; but he laboured under a
delusion, of which he could not dispossess himself, that it
was the peculiar calling of St. Andrews to train practical
men of science, especially engineers, for the whole nation.
So illusory was this idea, that it may be doubted whether
so much as one student ever came to St. Andrews in

quest of training for this profession. Principal Forbes,
devoted though he was to his own subjects, did not share
this delusion. He saw clearly enough that in St. Andrews
these could have no special prominence ; that it must
continue, as in the past, to give a general education to
young men meant for any one of the professions, and

that if it had a specially professional calling at all, it was

to prepare ministers for the several churches, and teachers
for the borough and parish schools. But to Sir David's
unflinching opposition to all jobbery in choosing Pro
fessors, and his determination to elect the best men that

could be found, Principal Forbes owed it that he found
his College equipped with a staff of Professors not then
surpassed by the staff of any other Scottish University.

Prominent among these was the late Professor Ferrier, who,
by his subtle philosophic genius, expressing itself in a
perfect style, not only adorned his own chair, but main
tained for another generation his country's ancient fame
for metaphysical genius. Two others may be named
who now adorn other Scottish Universities. Professor

Sellar, now Professor of Humanity in Edinburgh, then
taught with great power from the Greek chair in St.
Andrews, and Professor Veitch had just then begun
to teach in St. Andrews that vigorous course of
logic and metaphysics which he has since transferred
to the corresponding chair in Glasgow University.
Others might be named who were the colleagues of
Forbes in St. Andrews and still occupy the chairs they
then held.

   Just before leaving Edinburgh to reside at St. Andrews,
Principal Forbes had wound up a letter to a friend with
xii.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.  399

this remark : ' All things become solemn when the past

perspective of life is the predominating object.'
   This was the prevailing tone of feeling with which he

entered on his new duties. He felt strongly the frail
hold he had on life, and whatever his hand found to do
he set himself to do it with his might.

    The time at which he entered on his new sphere was
a momentous one for St. Andrews as for all the other

Universities. The Scottish University Commissioners
were in full session, busily framing ordinances which
should control the course of study, the University
finances, the library privileges, and the Professors'
salaries for a long time to come.

   To supply the Commissioners with the information

they required, and to offer his own suggestions for their
guidance, was one of Forbes' earliest tasks.

   The finances of his own College he found in a con
fused and dilapidated state ; and to understand these, and

devise measures for their restoration, he first addressed

himself. At whose door the largest share of blame for
this confusion lay need not now be inquired. Suffice it
that it mainly arose from a long habit of dividing among
the Professors the annual rents of the College lands,
without laying by a reserve fund adequate to meet the

necessary outlays for repairing farm steadings or other
such contingencies. To unravel the tangled mesh Forbes

applied himself with characteristic diligence, method,
and business faculty ; and it was mainly owing to
his exertions that the Commissioners were enabled to
place the finances of the United College on a footing

which, if somewhat burdensome to the present gene

ration of Professors, promises to provide for their suc

cessors ampler incomes than those now living are likely
to enjoy.

   The next subject he had to tackle with was the Uni
versity finances, or the contents of the University chest.
These he found in a much more flourishing condition than
those of his own College. But this prosperity was mainly
owing to a source of revenue which the Universities'
400             THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.             [chap.

Commissioners were understood to regard with             ndoegfrreieesn--dlya
eye. This source was the granting of medical
function which St. Andrews, though it possessed no tho
roughly equipped medical school, had yet, in virtue of its

original charter, been accustomed to exercise time out of

mind. It is said that there had been a time, extending

down to the early years of this century, when these degrees
had been granted, without sufficient examination, to per

sons but poorly qualified. This practice, indefensible if
it ever existed, had, however, long ceased, and under the
                               of the late Dr. Reid and
able  --msauncacgeesmsievnet  occupants of the Chair of  the late Dr.
                                                         Medicine in
Day
the United College-- a system of examination had been
instituted in which the candidates were thoroughly tested,
and the granting of degrees to none but duly qualified
persons was adequately secured. With the St. Andrews
Medical Professor as Chairman, a Board of able examiners,

sanctioned by the University, had been got together,
consisting of the best of the extra-academical medical
lecturers in Edinburgh and Glasgow. To the half-yearly
meetings of this Board flocked, in ever increasing numbers,

medical men from England, who, having begun practice
without possessing the degree of M.D., found by expe

rience the advantage they would derive from such an
addition to their name. In later years the candidates
were numbered by hundreds, of whom, while a sufficient
percentage were rejected, not a few out of the majority
who passed now stand high in the medical world of London

and elsewhere.

At the date of the Commission, and for a long time
      it,
                               it
before the examination was such that no fault could

be found with it. Still was so far an anomaly in the
Scottish system, that in all other cases candidates for
degrees of any kind were required to have studied at the
University in which they graduated. Traditions, too, of  a
bygone time and laxer state of things were freely urged
by its opponents to discredit the improved system. Toa

Edinburgh medical Professors especially, the existence of

the St. Andrews privilege had long been standing offence.
                                   a
LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.  401

These urged, it may well be believed, with no measured

vehemence on the Commissioners, the former abuses and

the present anomaly : and the Commissioners were known
to sympathize with the views of the Edinburgh men.
Principal Forbes, too, while he saw and felt the great
benefit that accrued to the University revenues from
medical graduation, shared, though from no interested
motives, the dislike of his former colleagues to the St.
Andrews system, so that he would not defend the reten
tion of the old privilege unimpaired. The whole subject
cost him much anxious thought. The result in the end
was that the Commissioners sanctioned a compromise
limiting greatly the exercise of the right in future, but
allowing it to continue under certain very definite restric
tions, which, while they meet an acknowledged need in the
medical profession, are still a source of some revenue to
the University.

   A third project which early engaged the attention of
Principal Forbes, was the founding of a College Hall.
In St. Andrews, as in the other Scottish Universities, it

had long been customary for students to live where

they chose in lodgings in the town. All that the Uni

versity requires of students is regular attendance at the
Professors' lectures, good conduct within the College

walls, and without them to keep the peace. In old
times, St. Andrews had been resorted to as a place of
education by the sons of many persons in the higher

ranks. Indeed the shields attached to the silver arrows
in the old College, attest how largely it was frequented
by the sons of the oldest and most honourable families
in Scotland. This had, however, almost entirely ceased
more than thirty years before Principal Forbes' advent
to St. Andrews. The Professors who had once been
in habit of taking boarders had ceased to do so, and the
general set of the educational tide southward had
borne from St. Andrews to England almost all who could

afford to go thither. It seemed to Principal Forbes

and others, that the idea of a University, as originally
held in Scotland, was not fulfilled, unless it contained

                                                           DD
402        THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.          [chap.

students of all ranks ; and it occurred to them whether
by providing a fitting place of residence under proper
superintendence, some of those who had left to the
loss of the University and of themselves, might not be
lured back. St. Andrews, with its noble historic me-a

ories, its academic aspect, its healthy climate, and itsit,
fine Links, which have been for ages the Elysium of               aa
Golfers, seemed to offer peculiar outward advantages for
the trial of such an experiment. But for the energy
and business talent of Principal Forbes, this idea of
College Hall might have continued till now only
dream. As soon as                   was mentioned to him, he
a
adopted "
              it
                                it
           with all his energy and less than his
usual caution, and straightway set himself to realise
it. The result of his exertions was the formation of

     company, whose members subscribed for sufficient
number of shares to set the institution on foot. With

in two years from Forbes' appointment, the Col
lege Hall was opened, with twelve students in the
first, and an increasing number in the following
session. These lived in             hired house, one of those
               a
                                a
which occupied the old site of St. Leonard's College.

Over them was       warden, an Oxford graduate, who

superintended the discipline and management, presided

at the common meals, and assisted the students in pre

paring their College work. During the first four or
five years, the College Hall prospered so well, and at

tracted so many desirable students, that Principal Forbes
conceived the more ambitious project of building large
                                                 a
Hall which should be specially fitted for its purpose, and

should accommodate greater number of students. As
      it

                     a

                          it a
the institution itself possessed no funds except those

necessary to carry              on from year to year, and as no

University revenues could be used for this purpose, the

venture was bold one. There         were some    who thought
      was too bold --that the       institution  had not yet
that

struck its roots deep enough to warrant so large an
experiment. But Principal Forbes was not to be turned

from his purpose. By his almost unaided advocacy the
XII. J LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                                          "103

old shareholders were induced to take more shares, and

new shareholders were added, and by the joint contri
butions of these, a sum was raised which proved nearly
sufficient to erect a large and commodious Hall within

what was the ancient Garden of St. Leonard's. The
completion of this structure will be noted in due time.

Whether the venture was altogether prudent or not, is a

question which time has not yet finally answered.
   A fourth project which deeply interested Principal

Forbes, was the restoration of the College Chapel of St.
Salvator's. This chapel is not only the oldest unruined
fragment of ancient St. Andrews, but along with the

noble tower of St. Salvator's, which rises above formsis
                                           a
the earliest piece of University building still extant
in Scotland. Tower and chapel had both been built byit
the good Bishop Kennedy, and are the only remnants
                                                    A it
of his workmanship.   The original     roof   of the chapel          is
said to have been of   peculiar and                          is it,rareconstruction,--
                      a
                                    a
massive blue stone, deeply engroined. Within the chapel

    the tomb of the founder, Gothic structure wrought
in Paris, of blue stone, in the middle of the fifteenth
is
      itcentury, which must originally have been of wonderful
          itbeauty, since even in its cruel defacement still shows so
fair. As the old stone roof said to have been nearly
                           a

                               is
flat, the Professors, about hundred years since, either

themselves conceived, or were persuaded by some architect,
that would one day fall in and crush them. They there

fore resolved to have removed, and common lath and
              it
plaster ceiling placed in its stead. So solidly, however,it
was the old roof compacted, that the workmen, in order
to remove it, had to detach from walls and buttresses
                           it

and let fall en masse. The fall said to have shaken

the whole city. But however this may be,                             only
too certain, that shattered the richly wrought columns,

canopies, and pinnacles of the founder's tomb.  maimed

and mutilated fragment that tomb now stands, beautiful
still in its decay, proving that Professors of the eighteenth
century could be more ruthless and insensible to beauty
than were the ruder Reformers of the sixteenth or seven

                        D  n

                                2
404      THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                     [chap.

teenth. But besides the mutilated tomb, of which no

restoration was possible, parsimony and Philistinism had
combined to make the rest of the church hideous. High
bare fir pews, an unsightly gallery at one end, lath, plaster,
--andugwlihnietseswacsohu,ldflonoodsfaortfhhear rsgho.               many windows,
                                                        light from  removal of these
                                                           To the

deformities and the restoration of the church, not to its
                                                               -- but to
ancient  bseeeamultiyn--essth--atFowrabsesnogtapvoesshibisle  undivided   somewhat
greater                                                                    attention
for one whole winter. At his earnest advocacy, a more
liberal government than we have of late years enjoyed
undertook to restore the body of the church, and what
with seemly oaken seats, a raftered roof, and more
appropriate mullions and tracery in the old pointed
windows, the work has been so done as to render the

College church, if not as perfect as might be desired, at
any rate a great improvement on what it was. By his
solicitations, the College and private persons were stirred
up to substitute for the former common glass, with its
untempered garishness, new painted windows, which, by
toning down the light, give at least, solemnity to the
church. As the result of call these exertions, the College

church, if it has not re-attained its pristine beauty, has
certainly lost its former repulsiveness, and been rendered
one of the most soothing and attractive places of worship
in which Presbyterians at this day meet.
     But though the church was restored, Principal Forbes'
troubles with it were not yet over.
     The chapel of St. Salvator's had been used for a gene
ration or two as a parish church also by the congregation
of St. Leonard's. This had come about in the following
way. When the old parish church of St. Leonard's fell
into disrepair,, the Professors of the United College, who
were the chief heritors in the parish, being loth to incur
     it
                     it

                                       it,
the expense of renewing                     offered to accommodate St.

Leonard's congregation in their own College chapel. And
so came to pass that the congregation, after they had
worshipped in for some time along with the Professors

and the students, came to believe that the College had
Nr
xii.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.  405

denuded itself of its original ' propriety ' in its own chapel,
and made it entirely over to the parishioners of St. Leo
nard's. This belief, which had been growing insensibly,
was startled into distinct consciousness, when Principal
Forbes challenged the right of the congregation to any
thing more than mere accommodation, and proceeded to
readjust the sittings, on the assumption that the chapel

belonged of right to the College alone. A controversy

between the congregation and the College arose, accom
panied by some not painless collisions. But Forbes was
resolute to maintain the rights of his College, which were
at last confirmed by a decision of the Court of Session
entirely in their favour.

    Such were some of the enterprises in which Forbes
engaged for the good of his College and of his Uni
versity. Besides these, he lectured as Principal to the
students in the Hall of the College from time to time on
subjects which had been long familiar to him, such as
' Glaciers,' ' Climate,' ' The History of Discovery.' These
lectures were numerously attended by residents in the
town : not so numerously by the students as might have
been expected from the eminence of the lecturer and the
excellence of the lectures. Young men in their igno
rance often undervalue privileges which in after years
they would give much to recall.

    One of the latest labours in which Forbes engaged
was an examination and arrangement of all the ancient
charters and other documents preserved in the charter
chest of the United College. To this his attention was
turned by a disputed claim of feudal superiority which
the College was called on to defend in court. This
led Forbes to plunge deep into the charter chest, in
which he found materials of daily growing interest.

Gradually he taught himself to decipher and read the
crabbed characters and strange contractions of the me
diaeval documents. Had he lived to complete this work,

he would no doubt have extracted from these a large
amount of valuable history and curious antiquarian loic.
As it was, he completed an inventory of all the College
40(i           THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                  [cnai\

records, and left them arranged and ordered as they

never had been before.
      All these various subjects of interest, as well as others
which engaged his time and thoughts, will best be illus

trated by the following selections from his St. Andrews
correspondence :---

                           To Dr. Symonds.

                                           ' St. Andrews, January 6th, 1861.
                             I believe, of
      '     .  . You heard,                       our  frsipeennddsi--ngata  fort
               in Edinburgh  among our           old                         least
         .

night
those of them who still remain there -- for death and

change have    now    materially             diminished   their number.
                       the two             boys stayed   with my sister,
My wife and    I and
and the three girls with Mrs. Wauchope. Notwith
standing the excessive severity of the frost, we spent

a pleasant time, and the change to Edinburgh was very
much in favour of the children, especially Eliza and

George, who have returned to St. Andrews quite well.

My chief and almost daily business was sitting for

my picture, for the Royal Society, to Sir J. Watson

Gordon.        IFdoirdtunnoatteglyrudhgee  is a  pleasant informed old
man, and                                   him
                                                 the time I spent, as he

was well satisfied with his work, and he took the greatest

pains with it. It is considered a good work of art, and
siissomtnoeootgfoaqovudoituejruadpbglleeeas.setdhHinoinwk etthvheiesr,lriekisetpniesecsta.snexhIcoenblleoeluniertv, eobf muwtyhsAieclilhcf iaiIt
am very sensible, to be handed down to posterity in such

good company as that of the worthies of the Royal

Society. My duties and occupations here employ me

Isufficiently without being burdensome. I believe that

  enjoy the confidence of my colleagues on most points.

A very searching examination of the financial state of

the College, which has landed property to the extent of
nearly £3,000 a year, has occupied a great deal of my

serious attention : and I have of course a great deal to

learn on such matters ; but we have taken the highest

professional advice, instead of working on with our own
crude notions. The sitting ,of the Commission, and the
xii.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                                                           407

influx of younger men into our body, have been favour

Iable circumstances for a remodelling of our finance, and

   have reason to hope some of the main difficulties are

now past.     Christmas I delivered      four lectures on the
    ' Before
Art of Study -- homely, practical advice to students.
To-morrow I commence a short course on Climate, a
subject with which I am familiar. They will be alto

gether oral, delivered twice a week, and they impose
no feeling of burden on me, since                     even if
        I  should                                                   frcoomurseb--ad
health  I  hope is  nhoatvelikteolyin--tenrorupotne  so short a
which                                                                academi
                                                      would be

cally or professionally a loser by it.'
' You will not expect any general news from our nearly
peninsular and out-of-the-way abode. A curious circum
stance occurred last night. In the course of an incredibly
short time a heavy sea began to beat on the coast, it

being all the time a dead calm. The fishing-boats which
had gone to sea a few hours before, ran in wherever they
could get shelter, with much peril and some loss.
    ' The thermometer is at 20°, or lower, every night.                              It

is now three weeks since this severe snow-storm and cold

commenced.'

           To the Lord Justice Clerk (Inglis).

                      'Edinburoh, April 10< h, 1861.

    ' On considering  the conversation                              which by      I  your
Lordship's kindness                                                 Saturday,          feel
                      I had with you on
desirous of adding some explanatory statements. Though
they will probably not affect your Lordship's views on the
imnearitjus sotefrthpeoiqnutesotifovnsiewdistchuasnseId,fetahr eIy
                                                                    may possibly  place
                                                                    succeeded in  doing

my own position with reference to the affairs of the
University and Colleges at St. Andrews.
' From the time of my first acquaintance with the
duties and responsibilities of my new office, the state of
the finances and debt of the United College attracted

my anxious and I may say alarmed attention. Any
services which I could hope to render to the College
408                THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

appeared insignificant for the time, compared to the

duty which I felt devolved upon me of first ascer

taining the extent of our liabilities, then the cause of

the annually increasing debt, and finally the means
of diminishing or extinguishing this, and of at least

putting a bar to its seemingly indefinite increase.
My own experience in,
                         or aptitude for, such   financial
arrangements were very                           in every
                        inconsiderable. It was
respect an unwelcome task, especially as it might seem
                   or less upon the conduct of   those with
to reflect more    first time became intimately
                                                 associated.
whom I for the     of those gentlemen, I must
                                                 say that I
To the honour

received no discouragement, but the contrary, in making
the investigation ; but it is not the less true that the
inquiry, except in so far as it was conducted by the ac
countants, fell chiefly upon myself. The scheme for

reducing the debt by a grant from the University chest
and by means of a terminable annuity, to be defrayed
by all the Professors of the United College alike, was

concerted between Mr. Jamieson and myself. It was

ultimately acceded to by my colleagues, and also by
the Professors of St.  Mary's, in
in the University was              so  far as their interest
                       concerned.      had a very sanguine
                                    I
hope that it would be favourably regarded by the Com
missioners also, and that my tenure of the office of

Principal would have been inaugurated by a complete
relief of this noble and ancient foundation from the
burden of debt under which it laboured, and the pro

fessors from the painful conviction that they were every
year burdening their successors with a yet more insup

Iportable load.

   ' You will grant, hope, my Lord, that while aiming at

such results, I was not actuated by personal or selfish

motives in feeling and expressing an anxiety about the
                   arrangements of the University and Colleges,
psuecchunaias ryI  never either felt or expressed in any matter
affecting my personal pecuniary interest. It is easy to
see that if through the miscarriage of the system for

granting medical degrees or from any other cause the
XII.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                               400

£4,000 from the University chest should not be forth
              it is not to
coming,     -- insufficient   be expected      that the   terminable
annuity                                      then be --
ceeded                       as it would                 can be pro
            with, and that the scheme which I              have been

now for twelve months promoting, and which had been

adjusted apparently to the satisfaction of the parties
more immediately concerned, must fall to the ground,
to the infinite discouragement of all who had part in
' it,  and who felt perhaps that they were at some small

personal sacrifice lending their aid to effect           public
                             'I
                                          a
                                                I
                                                                   a
                                                                     a
                                                                        it is al
benefit.

   It will be proportionably still more painful and dis

heartening to me, should have to announce to my col
leagues, who have reposed so much confidence in me

ready, that the hopes of adjustment which held out as
the result of their proposed relinquishment of proportion

of their annual profits are at an end, and that the debt

immediately to be increased to larger amount than

has ever stood at since the foundation of the College.'

                To A. Wills, Esq.

       ...  am  very  glad     Near Crieff,      September 1861.
'
                             that the " Eagle's  Nest " has so
      I

completely answered to all your hopes and expectations.
The picture which you draw of your complete enjoyment

there, presents itself somewhat in contrast to the more

prosaic and less Elysian character of my own summera
experience. We have had summer and autumn of

unusually broken weather. Since the middle of July
we can count but few days without rain, and none of

genial warmth. Our plans for residence and occupation
have been very much upset. Proposing to return to St.
Andrews early in August, we let our cottage at Pitlochrie
for three months. But scarlet fever and small-pox having
become somewhat rife at St. Andrews, we did not like to

return thither with our children, and after an anxious

search we secured lodgings in farmhouse near Crieff,
                :

                                          a
where we still are but other circumstances as well as

weather have rendered our stay less pleasant than we
410       THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                 [chap.

hoped -- though the country itself is delightful -- and we

are now anxious to get away. St. Andrews, however,
has not yet a perfectly clean bill of health ; perhaps it is

vain to wait for such, but we shall probably go first to
Edinburgh for a time. Thus without any of the heavier
ills of life, the           "oEf agouler'ssuNmesmt e"rishaliskebeaenglimmpusceh
interfered with,   amenity
                   and the

of fairyland, or a return of one of those happy Alpine

summers which I used to know some twenty or twenty-
five years since. But life does not always pass so

smoothly, and the chariot- wheels become clogged as we
advance ; of which we ought not to complain.'

          To the Duke of Argyll.

                                            'December 3\st, 1861.

   '. . . Your Grace asks what is thought of the Ordinance.

Always excepting Dr. Tulloch's peculiar case, it has, I
think, been generally accepted as a fair solution of a
difficult case. No doubt our Professors complain a little

that the entire burden of extinguishing a debt which few
of them shared in contracting, should be thrown entirely
on existing lives, and their
both principal and interest,    successors   gain on a sudden
                                            by the rent-charge
                                 I mean

for  the  principal ceasing at  the same time     with the interest
on   the  debt. Still it is a                     should think, to
                                relief to all, I

see this discreditable debt question fairly buried, and the
                                                       In
Irepetition of such transactions expressly prevented.
my own case am slightly a loser by the Ordinance, the

extra rent-charge being deducted from my salary as
recently augmented by the Treasury. But your Grace

will give me credit, I hope, for not being a grumbler.
   ' I am surprised, and a little amused, to learn that my

old colleagues in Edinburgh University, who very justly
and rightly get the lion's share of the £10,000, are
much more discontented than the poorer brethren at

ISt. Andrews.

   ' hope your Grace will kindly take an opportunity of
lending your powerful aid with Mr. Cowper in favour of
completing the restoration of our beautiful .College chapel.
in.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.  411

Now that the mullions arc partly in the windows, and
the roof is visible through the scaffolding, the grandeur
of the whole is really conspicuous. The wretched fir-
boxes of pews cannot, we hope, be allowed to remain,
but will be replaced by the open seating, for which Mr.
Matheson has sent an estimate to the Board of Works.

  ' It is also an encouragement for the Board of Works

that there is every probability that several of the windows
will be very soon filled with painted glass through
private exertions. The Lord Justice-General has under
taken to fill one ; another has been nearly subscribed
for to the memory of Dr. Chalmers ; and two more
have been undertaken. Considering that it is the last
relic of old St. Andrews which admits of thorough

restoration, I think it is to be desired on public grounds

that it should be well done.
   ' Your Grace may perhaps recollect that you are presi

dent of a literary and philosophical society here. We
have recently memorialized the Board of Wbrks to put
up a bulwark against the encroachments of the sea on
the eastern side of Beaton's Castle, which are annually
becoming more desperate. Lumps of the masonry on the
eastern side of the Castle are annually falling on the beach
below, owing to the excavation of beds .of soft shale by
the waves. In a few years the fourth side of the castle

court will be no more, unless promptly protected. Will you
be so good as to plead this too 1 I sent a photograph to

Mr. Cowper, clearly showing the state of matters.

   ' Will you have the goodness to say to the Duchess
that the St. Leonard's Hall continues to prosper, and that

we like Mr. Tthoades more and more. We have now

fortunately secured a thorough housekeeper, who has put
the whole establishment on an excellent footing. We
have also got a five years' lease of the premises, subject
to the life rent of Lady Play fair.'

   The destruction by the waves of the fine old sea-tower,
the palace of the Primates of Scotland, goes on apace.
The ruin belongs to the Crown, and is perhaps more rich
412              THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                       [chap.

in historical associations than any other castle iu Scot
land. Forbes' pleadings had some effect at the time ;
but to all antiquarian and historical appeals the present
heads of the Government Department turn a much
deafer, more defiant ear than their predecessors in office,

to whom Principal Forbes eleven years ago addressed

his remonstrance.

                 To the Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                            ' St. Andrews, January \2th, 1862.

     ' In answer to your inquiries, I can state with confi
Idence that I have found every reason to be grateful for
the change of position which                     made two years ago.
             of a duty                      be imperfectly, and in
The burden   performed  f--eltwittoh         the almost certainty   part
vicariously                                                         that
         iymepaorsistibwlei--ll bise        severely felt, until it becomes
year by                               more
simply                                one   which was to me crushing
Iboth to body and spirit.

left many pleasant and
                                            In coming to St. Andrews  I
                                                              But
                                      lifelong associations.
found a practicable sphere of not unwelcome duties. The
                 at all worse than that          of Edinburgh, and
climate is not                                   considerable resem
at this season,  I should think, has a

blance to that of the very country where you now are ;

the winter isothermals running as they do nearly due

north and south. Moreover, as a general rule, I am not
obliged to go out in bad weather ; and having a tolerably
comfortable old-fashioned house in a sheltered situation,

with my books about me, I feel that Providence has in
                      kind to me.            My health is
every way  been very  than even                               cmeretta.inlyI
better on  the whole                        when we last

have not attempted experiments. This place is singularly
Iunadapted for them.                             of assistance,
                                                  have always
locality, apparatus,
                         There is the want

                      and artists, which I

tthboaearedcyno--tmhametlmwecinococseuetraalaguewxsehuteorokira,tdncootofluymrwsuhescuichophfpwlleIieictdethunorcwuelostistehothn, eaGmasl.naydclliaebIrusas--hm.avveaoblunonoutt
   ' You kindly ask                              success of our College
                     concerning             the  succeeded beyond our
Hall. I rejoice to   say that it            has
XII.] LITE IN ST. ANDEEWS.                                                   413

expectations. A commodious house, fortunately vacant,
                                                                             with
was fitted up   f--orsotwmeelvpeeoypoluengsamy etnooancdomafoWrtaarbdlye.n,  The
every comfort
Warden, Mr. Rhoades, of Rugby and Oxford, proved to
be all that we could wish, and the institution promises

to be permanent.

   ' I can warmly enter into your feelings on the loss of
                      Even in this
the Prince Consort.  you describe            irte--moatefamplailcye,   the loss
was indeed felt as                                                    affliction
coming home to everyone. I never remember an im
pression at all approaching to it. Your closer relations
to the Prince, and also to the Prince of Wales, must have

made the shock still more severely felt. The poor Queen
must find a melancholy joy in the perfect sympathy with
which her truly hard case is regarded by her subjects

at large. I hope and trust that the Prince of Wales has
the character requisite to rebound to the blow and not

sink under it.
' When your letter
Plato                  arrived the           Isecond volume of your
        was  lying on                                have since begun
it. I   had  read the    my table.
                       first when            it originally came out
                              It was entirely
"from cover to cover."                                      new to me,
                              apprehend that
and very interesting. I                                     yoIurshatrlleabte

ment of the author must be very skilful.
greatly obliged if you will present me,
                                                        as   you      kindly
proposed, witb the third volume, which                      think      is the
                                                        I

one     Iyotuhinmkentthioen.appointment  of  the  Duke  of  Devonshire

     '

a very fit one. How well I recollect seeing him write
for a College examination in the gallery above the
Hall of Trinity, shaking back his long hair from

his eyes !
   ' With many kind remembrances to Lady Affleck,

believe me. . . .

   ' P.S. The Duke of Argyll, who is Chancellor of this
University, was here lately with the Duchess, inspecting
otir new College Hall, and intends to send his two eldest

sons to reside next winter.'
414             THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                 [chap.

                To E. C. Batten, Esq.

     I'         ' St. Andrews, February 1 6lh.
        ...
              should say that four hours in the day fatigues
me more than nine or ten U3ed to do ; and as I have

been having meetings about five times a week, and as

a meeting at St. Andrews nominally lasts two hours as a
minimum, you see at once how much of my brain-juice
              iistinmIcneobruefeadnc,tpts,lathtfyooa-rttmimwaIekoe,mrkouafpyduoaernticseaee.slls,itthIIye.hahfvareveIfesahIethrhpa. radepspemAenlyntl
is expended.
to breakfast

after dinner

to dine out

lectures once or twice interrupted from simple incapacity
to deliver them. To a large mixed audience, an hour's

lecture even on a familiar subject must be carefully pre
Ipared.       think that they have been pretty successful.
IThen have, secondly, my own College work, meetings,
                                                    This is not at present
committees,   ahnedavcyo.rresTpohnirddelnyc,es.I  have University work,
particularly

which is and has been very heavy.                 The Commissioners'
Ordinances have turned our finances
                                                  topsy-turvy, and I
have been the chief actor in making a scheme of expendi

ture and     inecigomhtee,enanqduawrrtootepawgeitsh--mnyowowpnrihnatnindg.a  finance
report of                                                                      Much

of it  lies  ionnchd.ebaFtoabulrethglyro, uIndha, vaendthwe ilclhhuarvceh  to be fought
inch   by                                                                  restorations

chiefly on my   onhawndhsi,chwIhichhaveditvoidedeainl towitthwoGopvaertrsnm: ethnet
architectural,

people ; and painted windows, in which many private
parties and my own colleagues are concerned. We are
making progress in both departments. Fifthly, there is
the College Hall, which cannot be expected to progress

always   with perfect smoothness.                 When any hitch              occurs
-- and                                            otherwise most
        it is sure to be when I am                                           busy --
as Chairman of the Council, I have to take an active

part, and last week we had three long meetings
about it.'
XII.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                                                                                               .115

                         To the Same.

                                    ' Pitlochrie, July 20th, 18C2.

'     .  .  Mr.  Jcrram  has  sent       me two copies                                                         of his

   .

"Thoughts on Revelation," and his "Thoughts on Mira
cles." 1 admit to you that it is an effort to me to sit down

to read carefully books on    religion professedly contro
                              had pleasure                                                           sinincme aIkindgid
versial. But in this case, I  all the better                                                                             the
                                                                                                                          so.
effort, and like Mr. Jerram
I like his style, which is very plain, earnest, unaffected,

saninoledtncreseeahldfi-s--coonhpvepinomcneaedyn.tsc--oTnhfwiorhmuog-shehiwshreiftriinecgnasdns,I    hardly hope to
                                                                                                      have purposely
                                                                                                      and by feeling
the stability of his own convictions may be thereby
much more fitted for a minister of the Gospel in these

troubled times.

  I' I think agree with him as to the reasonableness of

his argument on every point. On some he expresses

convictions which have long been peculiarly my own :--
as at p. 12, &c., that a revelation must, to be of use, be
kept within the range of what it is possible for us to
know and in terms which mankind can understand ; and
at page 38, that as we accept the opinion of eminent
lawyers on points of law and astronomers on astro
nomy, so the convictions of theologians and of the Chris
                                             thweeig"hTthwouitghhtesveorny
tian  world   ought    to have the greatest
man   not    inflated
                        with vanity. In

Miracles," p. 21,1 find a very striking analogical argument
from human interference with the ordinary course of

laws of     nature to the impossibility   at least of                                                dIiswpraosvitnhge
Divine      interference in ordinary     providence.

Tm" yoRnreedflaeslclt'tsriuobcnoksok"wictmahollsettdhis"in, Mapbopeucrnoatpuasriineaeteethrlyienrge  is a chapter          of
                                                                                                                         Dr.
                                                                                                     thrown    in" toon  the
                                                                                                      in 1861

folly of prayers for fine weather, &c., which even from

a purely scientific point of view seems to me far from

convincing ; and which, if carried out, would suspend
prayer in almost every human contingency ; such as the

extreme illness of a child or a parent, when, mercifully,
the heart over-rules the judgment of the head and -- as
416                  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                      [chap.

Mr. Jerram justly says -- the common voice of mankind
protests against the logic of the metaphysicians.'

                     To Dr. Symonds.

                                             ' St. Andrews, October 12th, 1862.

   ' . . . We reached          our St. Andrews   home          yesterday
                                most thankful   to say          that we
afternoon, and I am

are all quite well, and have been so for the greater
part of the summer. We had, as everywhere else,

rainy months of June and July and a good part of
August ; but since that time, and especially latterly,

wduecehsav--e  had   as fine   an autumn     as Scotland ever          pro
               some     truly   delightful   days, in which             the

country looked far more beautiful than in the height of
summer, not merely from the tints of the foliage, but

from the slanting lights which contribute so much to
the effect of country in high relief. The last day the
        were with us                                            school --
boys  September-- we             before returning to           excursion   the
8th                            had a very charming                          to

Tummel Bridge, between Loch Tummel and Rannoch.
One day we went a large party with Mr. and Mrs.
Airy and their two sons to Glen Telt, and lunched
dp--aalomysyioetissiv,nteliyoPtnerhitstohhtseshiaixrssepoythetsaainrwtschede!----areybb--euwftotehreeid.rteidwhTaaahsselibekeqdeeuanayalclnytwoassspiuxlecnahoystaehnaotsr.ost
We had not visited the place in the interval. Alicia has

told you, I believe, that we took a good deal of interest

in the navvies, whom we found an interesting and grateful
set of people. Though they quarrel occasionally among
themselves, no instance of dishonesty or rudeness has

occurred at Pitlochrie, which is saying a great deal ! A

Itemporary hospital was erected just above the Pass,
which          avnisditewdhernegIullaerflty   ; but the cases   were   not nu
merous,                                      there was not a   single  patient.
You will be amused, I think, to hear that only three or
four days ago a delicate clergyman from the south of
England came with his wife to look for winter quarters

at Pitlochrie, as a sanitary measure. The gentleman has
XII.J LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                                                  417

a bad cough, and our friend  had told him to
pass the winter in a bracing climate, and mentioned
two places to choose between, Pitlochrie and some
place in Westmoreland. As he has eight children
and heaps of servants, they found Westmoreland out
of the question, and Pitlochrie not much better. So
much for Pitlochrie. You ask where my popular

articles on Glaciers appeared. It was in Good Words,
the editor of which, Dr. Macleod, is an old friend of

mine, and asked it with an urgency I could not well
                his publisher remunerated                           in
refuse,   and                                                  me  not  a way
which    seems  almost extravagant. But I                      do       intend

to allow myself to be led into the snare of much

popular writing, the effects of which on the quality
of the product are too lamentably apparent in all
Ithe magazines, even those of most name. You have
seen,    daresay, in the Times that our poor friend
Auguste Balmat is dead ! It was to me almost like
                          and has removed one of the
a family bereavement,
lifelong hopes to which   I clung of revisiting Chamouni
in his company, with his sympathy and help. He was
devotedly nursed by his friend and mine, Mr. Wills, in
the very chalet at Sixt in Savoy, which he had con

tributed to construct and embellish for Mr. Wills. I

trust that you are now quite relieved about your son's

health,  frteheoufgrohmyoaunr xliaestty.menI tihoonpeofyohuim   seems not   abso
lutely                                                                       him
                                                               will induce

to let his fellowship alone for a year or two, and to
                          . . But I must wind                      up. Our
put himself to grass.  .                                             Though
College Hall is quite     success -- overflowing.
                       a

we have added four rooms, at least two pupils, pro

bably more, have been refused already.'

         To the Right Hon. W. Cowper.

                                                 ' St. Andrews, February 9th, 1863.

   ' I feel much obliged by the attention you were so

good as to give to my suggestions relative to the excava
tion of the moat of the Castle of St. Andrews, where it

is bounded by Mr. Hope Scott's ground. Mr. Scott has
                                               EE
418                      THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                     [chap.

agpropuonindt,edandhisI     architect to meet Mr. Matheson on the
                            hope that Mr. Matheson will soon have
Itime to inspect it and proceed with the work.

   ' am going to venture upon another request in behalf
of our old College. Of late there has been a plan on
foot for providing a common table at a low rate for such
of the students as choose to avail themselves of it. The

Duke and Duchess of Argyll, when here in November,
'
                                        is

                                   it

                                                                a

                                                      it,

                                               I
interested themselves very much in and have cor

responded with them about since.

   ItThe great difficulty to find suitable locality.
has only lately occurred to me that an open corridor with
arches, which forms the south side of the quadrangle of

the College, and immediately adjoins the College chapel,
now under repair, could be converted at small expense
into hall very suitable for dining in, and which might
easily be warmed by the same hot-water apparatus which
a
    '
         a

                                                   is
has just been erected in the chapel.

      The corridor at present universally allowed to be
of no use whatever, and could be at once converted into

      hall suitable for the purpose suggested, by putting
windows and doors into the open arches.
                                                                   would be
                                                                   It
also useful for other purposes besides dining, as for exa
minations and the like.                                                Ia
'                                    have reason to believe that

 It

         is

                         I
Mr. Matheson sees no difficulty or objection in the way
of the proposed alteration.

           much wished to begin the dining scheme next

sessiou.'                   To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                                                       Pitlochrib, July 10th, 1863.
                                                       '
      . . have had considerable trial in the course of last
      '.                    a                               is it
week.      had return of haemorrhage on Thursday, to no
        it it I I             is
great extent, indeed, yet with accompanying indicationsis
                         aleave little orno doubt that came from
which   lungs -- such             my able doctor's opinion.              vessel
in the                                                                    have

been kept very quiet since, but having had no return,
nor indeed any uncomfortable further symptoms of any
kind,      likely that the trouble over for the time.

But leaves me with depressing conviction of per
                                  a
xIi.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                                                   419

roanent disability, which a complete remission of such
symptoms for a good many years had enabled me in a

measure to shake off. It is ascribed to a very moderate
exertion which I made on one of the late warm days,
to which in this country we are strangely unaccustomed.
We have not                    heat to speak of here since 1857
                    had any    Dr. Irvine at least will never give
until now. I        am afraid

hwihsicchonsIehntadtoemveyr  venturing on the Continent             in  summer,
                             looked forward to.'

                             To A. Wills, Esq.
                                             ' Pitlochhie, July 13<A, 1863.
I'                                       spent most of the month of
  .
       .  .  Mrs.   Forbes and
                    Andrews, I being
aMratiycleatonSt".                        engaged in                writing  an
                    The Antiquity of     Man," which,                        are
                                                                     if you
curious about you may see in the forthcoming Edin
             a

                        it,

                                            It

                                                              is

                                                               it
burgh. It was not volunteered on my part, and, in fact,
             signrgeualtardesatloroyf--stourdcya.use
cost me                                                     rather  unfortunate
that the                                              cSUbre as         has been

called --    of the human jaw of Abbeville was developed

after  the article was in great          part written, and          new   facts
       rather assertions -- kept         pouring in up to            the  final
-- or

correction of the last proofs. There perhaps in conse
                             I

                                           it

                                                  is
                                                              ; is

                                                        I
quence some want of homogeneity in the article. My
own belief from the first was favourable to the genuine
ness of the relic, as confess                         still but am assured

that the oral traditions of the Geological Society of
London are now decidedly contrary, and the editor, as

he was quite entitled to do, made some modifications at

the very last moment.        I         do not know whether you have

                                      ;
attended to the question but the fact, admitted on all
hands, that many genuine flint weapons have been found
in the sand formation with elephantine remains seems to
              matter of comparative indifference whether the
make   it

           a

human jaw found in similar circumstances was genuine
or not, so far as any scientific argument
                                                      a is          concerned  ;

and consequently the excessive anxiety displayed to
elude the admission seems to me to show very need
less scepticism. However, probably all this concerns you
very little.'

                               E
                                   E
                                         2
420 THE LIFE OF JAMES 1). FORBES. [ChAP.

              To the Lord Advocate.

              'Piixochbie, August \Oth, 1863.

' Dr. Cook has intimated to me his intention of resign
ing the charge of St. Leonard's  parish, St. Andrews,
towards the end of next month.
                                 I cannot help stating
to your Lordship that this appointment, though small in
emolument, is one of much importance to the United

College and to the students.
   ' Not only is the United College by far the largest
heritor of the parish of St. Leonard's ; but what is still

more important, the College chapel and the parish
church being one and the same, the interests of our body
and the religious instruction of many of our students

depend materially upon the good sense and high character

of the parish minister. A good incumbent may be a
real blessing to the institution, whilst one not gifted with
discretion as well as zeal would be extremely the reverse.

  I' 1 do not know of a single candidate as yet for the

expected vacancy, therefore write to your Lordship on
behalf of no individual ; but simply to request that the
qualities and aptitude of the person to be appointed to
this peculiar and interesting, though not wealthy, cure,
may receive mature consideration, with reference espe
cially to the academic body with which it is so intimately

associated.'  To the Duke of Argyll.

              ' St. Andrews, February 6th, 1864.

' Mr. Cowper had the kindness and courtesy to write

to me lately about the proposed conversion of the

College cloister into a dining-room for students.

   ' I have just learned that a private individual is going

to start a restaurant in the town for students and

others : and our plan being so far forestalled, it will be
Iprudent to allow a fair trial of the experiment thus to
be made.      am, however, not a little desirous that the

alteration of the College cloister, so far approved of by
your Grace and by Mr. Cowper, should not be allowed

to drop.
XII.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                                  421

' The dinner scheme may yet be revived at any time ;
but the benefit of the change would go much farther.
The cloister is universally regarded
                                          as a useless deformity.
It is a cold, shivering, miserable         place. By inclosing
and heating it at a moderate expense, a common room

would be obtained for the resort of students between
class hours, and it might be furnished with books and

periodicals. It would be available for their debating
society, which at present meets in a room far too con

fined, and urgently required for other purposes. For
these and other objects the conversion of the cloisters
would be hailed as a great boon to the College, and as it
             Iunderstood by Mr.           Matheson that it was to go
was   quite                               hope that your Grace will
into  this   year's estimates,

use your always friendly influence in having it retained

there.'      To Sir Charles Lyell.

                                         'St. Andrews, July 19<A, 1864.

'I was exceedingly gratified by the proposal made

tAossmoceiattihorno,utghhatyoIu   by the    office-bearers  of the British
                                 should   consent to be     nominated as

President of the meeting intended to be held next year

Iat Dundee.

  ' It is with unfeigned regret that feel it my duty to

relinquish the hope of holding so honourable a position.
The objection arises solely from the uncertain state of my

health. This acts in two ways. In the first place because
with every precaution the personal risk would be con

siderable ; and secondly I feel that, even under the most

favourable conditions, my powers of endeavour would

fall short of what would justly be considered necessary
by those most interested to be the President's duties.

   ' I therefore beg most respectfully to decline the

nomination which you so kindly propose, and which

under other circumstances would have been so congenial

to my wishes.

   'Allow me to add that the office-bearers of the Asso

ciation could not have made their proposal through a

channel more gratifying to me than through yourself.'
422                   THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                          [chaf.

                                     To the Same.

                                                      ' St. Andrews, July 26fA, 1864.
  II' received your kind letter of the 20th, and in

compliance with your wish have carefully considered
again the question of the Presidency. The natural
promptings of ambition did not fail to urge me in the
direction which you and Sir R. Murchison are good
                                            But in honesty as well as
pernuoduegnhcetoI     recommend.     to     act on my original decision.
                      feel bound

To hold out to others or to myself hopes of efficiency,
more than likely to prove delusive, would only bring
anxiety and disappointment to all. Allow me, then, finally

to decline the flattering proposal. I shall ever gratefully

remember your friendly offices, not only on this but on
                      tooccmaesi--onsm. emoWrahbelen  I made,  in the spring of
many          other                                            to London in the
1831,         the --                                  journey
character of a scientific aspirant, I made very numerous
acquaintances and friends. Of those who survive I look
upon you as one of three who have during the long
period since elapsed been unswerving in their friendship

towards me.'

                      To Professor Studer, Berne.

     '                                                   ' October 30th, 1864.

        .  .  .  The cause           of my  forgetfulness probably          was a

tedious illness, though not of a severe kind, under which

I Ilaboured for many months last winter and spring.

caught        ofcoitldforonmaCnhyrimstomnaths-sd--ays,o  and suffered   from the
effects                                                  much so, that
                                                                        I thought
it advisable to remove in March to
                                                         my    old   quarters   at
Clifton, where I remained till June.
     I' have now pretty much recovered my usual health,
though perhaps I lose a little as years roll on even in my
diminished average state of bodily vigour. This last
summer there was at one time a prospect of realizing my
cherished plan of revisiting Switzerland. Being already
with most of my family so far south as London, and with

our house manage broken up, my                        family were    very   anxious
           --I smhyousltdregnogttho                   : but just at   that
that                                 Switzerland                            time --
May                                  was reduced
                                                      by long confinement and
xii.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                                                         423

illness to its lowest ebb, and my courage finally failed
Iin the face of a long railway journey with a party of

ladies. Besides, the accounts received of the changes
of travelling in Switzerland in the last twelve years, the
enormous pressure of tourists, want of lodgings, and
general absence of repose, seemed to me to deprive it of
most of the advantages which it formerly offered even
to a confirmed invalid. So in the middle of June with
Ireluctance we turned our faces homewards.
                              I                                                    have no

reason to doubt that             I    acted  wIissehlya.ll   But it was            sad :
the more sad because             I                          never think
again, unless indeed                  fancy                                        of it
                                       were
                                             to begin by passing a
winter in the south. Excuse so much about myself

and my health.'

                      To Prof. Wm. Thomson.

                                         1 St. Andrews, December 2nd, 1864.

    ' 1 hope very soon now to complete the careful reduc
cttthoilooanspteuolbtyhfliesmthhyerethseaeuxmplptps.erroiwmxIiniemllnatthtsceeoonmnfrieermtashune--lttismceoevnIedInbucecafntnoiuvrsemittyaetpreiuocbcafollilisnyrhofi--endd,e.vnaetnlryydI
think that the diminution of conductivity with tempe
Irature will also approach nearly to the coefficient for iron

given by Mathieson for electricity. For myself surrender
                                         of present justice on the glacier
to public            clamour  any hope   strength for and perhaps
theory.                       no longer      I                                     ;
                     I have                       I
                                                                                       II
                                                             it,

                                                                           .
can bear disappointment better than once could but
feel little of the old fire when see an old acquaintance
likeI' aRuskin take
         am going --          up the  pceurdmgiettlsingfor--mtoe.     .       .          of
                              health                                               Duke
                                                                   hear       the

Argyll's address on Monday but shall be returning here
                                         ;

almost immediately, and hope to hear from you when

you have time.' To Alfred Wills, Esq.

                                             'Edinburgh, December 7th, 186-t.

    '.               My interest in Mr. Reilly's map and its

             .
                  .

suitable and prompt publication              is             not unnaturally a

strong one. The best, and possibly happiest, years of
my life were spent in work more or less connected with
424        THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.       [chap.

the exploration of the chain of Mont Blanc, and I

fondly, perhaps too sanguinely, expect to be  remembered
not only by the theory of glacier motion,
                                              which I still

call my own, but by the execution of the first detailed

map ever made of a glacier.
   ' Surveying was with me from early boyhood a passion.
To improve and rectify and extend my map when made
was a subject of reasonable ambition, and a labour of

Ilove. When disabled by hopeless infirmity from doing

more in this way, have tried year by year to incite
                                           anIdtriuendrafovrelyetahres
Iyounger men to take up the      work
                                Blanc.
remainder of the chain of Mont
in vain. At last see it done in a masterly manner by

an amateur like myself, based on a system of triangula-

Ition of my own, which, being unpublished, furnished
Ito Mr. Redly, and also advised in great detail as to the
Icourse to be pursued in carrying forward the work.
I Isee all this done, and what is even more difficult and

surprising, see it embodied in a map, which have no
hesitation in saying
and draughtsman.       would  do credit to a  bred engineer
                              the way paved   for its appear
                       I see

ance as a British work, the first true delineation of the

most interesting ground in Europe ; and then some

Iindefinite and shadowy obstacle seems to be interposed

in the way of its appearance, and see that the really
later French work, in a mutilated form, embracing but

a section of the chain, will, if more energy be not used
on this side the Channel, be actually laid on our tables

while the  AIlpainske   Club are talking   about the proposed pub
lication.              you, therefore, as  a friend of my own, and

as one unquestionably deeply interested in the subject,
teaoansdiolybintacitnahne----carnes odyitodudo,uuebfrttofouml BrdyiteoicsuihsriopenontseoitrfipornitsheeasinCPlrutehbsisidoemnnatt,ttehsris,o
Isubject, and trust that you will have the kindness to
Igive me early information of what is intended.  will
Ianswer the other part of your letter, in which am also

much interested, at another and more fitting time.

   ' P.S. -- I intend returning to St. Andrews to-morrow.'
xii.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                                                        425

                To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                                      'St. Andrews, Easter Day, 1865.

'    .  .I  cannot  resist            writing you         a line       to tell you

  .
how happy I felt to-day in kneeling at the altar with my
dear boy beside me. How vividly it recalled the like
anniversary of 1838. To think that nearly a generation
of men have passed since that ! We are indeed shadows,

and have no abiding stay.'

                    To Dr. Symonds.

                                      ' Fettercairn House, April 23rd, 1865.
' I am afraid it is a very long time since I have
written to you, but I                                                  will never mis
                                      sfionrcerIelsyhahlol peneyvoeur  cease to value
interpret my silence,

your friendship, and to feel grateful for your great and

steady kindness. I have chosen the tranquil oppor
tunity of writing to you from my brother's house and
one of my old homes, where, in this quiet country scene,
which you recollect, and removed for a time from daily

cares and anxieties,                  Ionheavloevensottonroewcaltlhtehepopwasetr  and the
absent. Indeed, as                                                                to visit

the real home of my childhood, Colinton, near Edinburgh,

Ino place can bring back to me the scenes and the friends

of early years so much as this, where spent two or three
months most years, from the age of fourteen to twenty-
four. It is a district which has been
                                                          altTehreedhosuinsegsu--laralyll
ltihtetlepribnycipvaiol leonnteso--r  obtrusive changes.
                                      are the same, only  their tenants are a

new generation, or new comers. The woods and gardens

and fences and  roads                 are the same, only               the trees and
shrubs, which                           remember being                 planted, have
                I well

grown to a startling height, and seem to reflect visibly
my own age ;                          and hills are
and with the  the rivers              an old pony    aIbscoalnutegleyt  unaltered,
               help of                                                   to places
where I used
sad, it is      to take my solitary walks.                                 Though

anything I   indescribably pleasing, and brings,                                  beyond
             know, a tranquillizing influence and                                 refresh

ment. . . .
420                   THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.         [chap.

     ' Our visit is a very short one, at least Alicia's and
mine. Our boys, who are with us, are to spend their
fortnight previous to the summer session of the College
Hall, and they
of the localities     too are  Iacquiring the same deep     love
                       which                               their
                                  did forty years ago at

age.'            To Professor Stcjder, Berne.

     '                               ' Pitlochhie, October 1865.

        .  .  .  You  will  believe  that the catastrophe  of the

Matterhorn powerfully affected       me.                HaI visnugfferferdienfdosr
in the district, particularly Mr.
                                     Reilly,

some moments intense anxiety, and the whole details

fmBoofiuermtntdhRieneesgtihlalaycinmctiadenermdensteWtetawhinneygdrmeproeefogrfrt,heteaa. nBdkriIifntridohsmahvtoeAthsleosacotceclaailaysttitoeibonrene,InthwleeahaetrrpnetrehodeI-

privately every detail. Whymper's letter to the Times
was in excellent taste, and he has most prudently
abstained from the temptation of being made a

hero of.                             than usual, I ventured

   ' Finding myself rather better
Ito attend the meeting of the British Association at Bir

mingham, where saw some friends, but found a large
Ipreponderance of new faces. Sir R. Murchison and M.

Von Dechen were staying in the house where was.
There was not much original matter brought forward
Iin any branch of science ; but the meetings were inter
esting.          returned home very tired, but not otherwise
                                                        President ; Sir C.
the worse for it.           foPrhiallipdsay,wasbuttheI  did not see him.
Lyell was there

The Cambridge men were mostly absent, which was a

disappointment to me.

  I' In about a week hope to be at St. Andrews for the
Iwinter, where hope you will write to me and tell me

the scientific news of central Europe. There is a curious

book, full of clever drawings, published, called "Frost
and Fire," by Mr. Campbell, not a professed geologist,

but a clever fellow. He ascribes much to the action

of icebergs carried by ocean currents. - Ramsay-- who is
xii.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                                                       427

wilder than ever about ice--praises it highly in an article
in the North British Review.'

                   To the Duke of Argyll.

                                                ' St. Andrews, November 6th, 1865.

  ' When I visited Birmingham at the meeting of the

British Association in September, Sir Roderick Mur-

chison called my attention to the extreme importance
of having the science of Geology thoroughly taught in
the Edinburgh University, with which is now connected

the Geological Survey Museum there.         aware  that I had
   ' Sir Roderick, when he spoke, was

long lamented the decay of the study and teaching of

IGeology proper in the Edinburgh School, to which had
an opportunity of specially adverting in an address de
livered two years ago to the Royal Society of Edinburgh.

Considering the immense impulse given to the science by
the Edinburgh School of Geology, the present torpor
of the University as a source of geological knowledge
cannot be too much regretted. Sir Roderick as a Scotch

Iman, though unconnected with Edinburgh in a direct

manner, feels it keenly, as also do, and many more.
It may be in your Grace's recollection that at the time of
the death of Edward Forbes, the division of the chair

into two departments, of Geology and Natural History

pro'pAer,grweaast  seriously discussed.     and  increasing                      col
                   part of the magnificent
Ilections of the museums is rendered unavailing for
students.          do, as a Scotchman and as an old Edin

burgh man, feel keenly the reproach, and desire to

see it removed. Sir Roderick has in view for the post
an admirable man -- Geikie -- who is believed to be most

I'
         a
           if
                  It
                           is it,
                                       a
                                 it
                                                     is
                                                                             a
                                                                             is
desirous to accept  and all that wanted a mode

rate pecuniary endowment, which cannot, we think, be
                   your Grace will give the proposal your
withheld,

active support.     sad thing to see study dying

out in       country where  formerly so conspicuously

flourished.

        trust that your Grace will excuse me for urgiug
4ih          THE LIFE OF JjtMES D. FORBES.                              [chap.

upon you these considerations, and that you will

use your deserved influence towards obtaining an en-

do svment.'                   To Dr. Symonds.

                              ' St. Andbews, December 24th, 1865.

     ' The close approach of Christmas is an agreeable
call to write to you. We have not
from your house for some little time.          hIeahrodpeveyroyurdihreeactltlhy

has been good,    wnhoictwhithIstasnindcinegrelyyouhropeculypaobule    neglect

of a holiday,                                                        will not
again suffer yourself to omit. You will no doubt be
drawing some of your olive branches round you for
Christmas time. Our dear Edmund came home from
Wimbledon last night, looking, I must say, strong and
          thIoudgohn'tjuastt            from a whirl of examination
hearty,                       emerged   as yet what opinion to form
papers.                       all know
of the result of his going to school : but I expect it will

be on the whole favourable.
'
      ..  George  is going    on        very steadily and            well  at
   .

Ithe College Hall : mending his classics, and going for
ward with his mathematics.                   suppose he will go to

Cambridge in October 1867: the question of Trinity or a
small College will come very soon.

   ' Eliza and Alice are at home, Minna with Mrs.
Wauchope -- all well and sweet and good. . . . We arc too

large a party to migrate to Edinburgh, and therefore
spend our Christmas at home.
    ' Not to omit myself from           the    family  tableau,      I     can
ltIahshatanvtkwefuolmlymooresnathyeslaths--taiftcuiltIlyyhaa--vnedthbaleensesnfolriianbasitllroitonynggteotrimcheoeldapslrt.ehvifooFurosrltyh.ea
considerable part of that time, I had indeed a feeling of
health unusual to me. Such breaks always keep me
from desponding : and my lectures on the History of

Science on seven successive Saturdays were only a
pleasure to me and no drag. They were well attended
                                           As
considering  all circumstances.                asyoIu  kindly         interest
yourself in  my reputation,             and            always        consider

myself as in part owing to you the measure of health
xii.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                                                   429

which I have got, and power of work, you will be
pleased to hear that the Royal Society of Edinburgh
have given mc the Keith prize for my paper on the con
duction of heat, which                                    last tough job
                                  is  probably       the
I shall do in physics.
   'Our students, by a                                                  elected John
Stuart Mill the Rector            strange    freak,  have              office more of
                                  for three   years
                                                     -- an
duty than show, in fact quite prosaic. It must be a
great bore to Mill, who has begged off delivering his
address till January 18(57. But the business of the
University cannot stand still till then.'

              To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                                                ' December 31 st, 1865.

             The return of the anniversary is               not needed
I'     .  .                                                                  to
   .
make me feel old.                 have lost nearly all the elasticity of

youth, and much of its hopefulness : and the thoughts of

perhaps living on a few years more, are intensely associ
ated with the anxious prospect of my sons' settlement in
       It is
life.         aanndanIxfieeetyl,  asloasg!reahtowaslitttoleabIsocrabn  almost every
other  care,
-- now do for them.'                                                   --as situated

                      To A. Wills, Esq.

                                              ' Edinburgh, January 2nd, 1866.

' I met your brother at Birmingham at the house
of Mr. C.     E. Mathews. There
party, and                                   was a large                Alpine
              I had the melancholy                                     hearing
                                              pleasure of

from Mr. Whymper's own lips the details of that awful
accident. For a long time it quite haunted me. Mr.
Whymper's letter to the Times, so perfect in taste and
tone as well as in narration, raised him immensely in my
estimation, and the impression was confirmed by his
bearing and behaviour at Birmingham, which was every

thing that could be wished, though he was subject to
Ithe temptation of
                                                                       But
going to say that                                                      from
                   bI eiwnags     violently lionized.                         was
                                    concerned to hear                        your

brother that Mrs. Wills' health had prevented her ac
companying you to Sixt as usual. It must have thrown

a damp over your autumn excursion, but I hope you will
430         THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                     [chap.

be able to give us good accounts of her now. I shall

like to hear whether you extended your walks this year
into any new regions.'

            To Dr. Joseph Robertson.

                                     ' February 3rd, I860.
'The references which I have frequently been forced
to make of late to old                                            twhhericeh, --I
am unable to read, -- or   charters and documents
                          but a few words here and

have led me to wish to make an attempt to learn the old
Ihands of the period, in particular from 1450 to 1600. I

fear am too old to learn, and I feel that it may prove
                                I think of making a short
to be a waste of    time ; but  not
                    you may be       unwilling to -give me                   a
trial, and I think               I   have been told that
Ihint of how to set about it.
might begin by comparing some published facsimile of
an old hand with the printed interpretation, as set down
IsiInfom'stAehucinshsypeibsocoitmoyhkoeesunrrsahsionatphtbsieonuiIBotnast,hnhaneplaletpymrehrraeuipocsdhCluvIyabomluubeeo.nwotkoiosuRnleod. mr reseomcmobemeromtheendrod.
            mI yasmelfatlmo opsetrsdeveesriero, usfortoittrmy.ay  prove a loss of
not pledge                                                        Another point
time : but    your opinion upon. Do you                            know of any

may I ask

silversmith who could safely be entrusted with our
ancient mace, which is really in a very shaky state.
You will know its value. The artist would need to be

not only a man who would do no mischief, but who

would not charge exorbitantly.'

                    To Sir R. Mdrchison.

                                 'Pitlochrie, August 29<A,1866.

I' Many thanks for your kind letter, and for thinking
of me for the vice-Presidency, which                              most readily
I Iaccept. As the meeting is to take place, it would be

inexcusable if held back from doing the little can,

and promoting its success    in a small way                       amongst    my
colleagues at St. Andrew's.                                       necessary  for
                               It will not be

me to engage to attend every day, nor at dinners and
xii.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                                                 431

evening meetings in general, which are what I am afraid
of. You are quite right in saying that my health was
                   of my                                hsaodkiIndnloyt
the sole cause     should  declining the Presidency
                           have been disappointed
Ioffered, and

been allowed at least to show my goodwill by appearing

as a vice-President.
   ' I congratulate you
rtheepoDrtukIefeoafredBuictclmeuigghht  on  your  gWehneenralsIhifpirsitn   getting
                                        to                                 saw the
                                            act.

                                        not be true.'

                   To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                                            ... I' St. Andrews, November 4th, 1866.
. ' Your kind letter crossed mine.                     inclose a frag
ment of my opening address on Wednesday, but it will

appear as a pamphlet. It is quite historical and statis
tical, and gives an account of the origin of the                           British
Association and of the first meeting at York.
                                                                           I have

not for  amnadnyI  years  been busier than during the   last three
weeks,             have   a large arrear of letters to
                                                        write. I
have had the whole arranging of the new constitution of
our College Hall. The general meeting of shareholders
was on Monday ; and went off well. We have had the

plans also to consider, and our factor having very inop

portunely taken to his bed, I have had the whole common
Ibusiness of the College and                the Hall to look after. How
                                             You will be glad to hear that
ever, have been very well.
the old shareholders of the College Hall are not likely to
Ibe called on afresh for perhaps nearly a year. We have
about 75 new shares taken.                        am much pleased with

William Thomson's honours. Cholera is occurring near
Dundee and elsewhere. One of my many engagements
has been inducing the Provost and baillies into getting
up a cholera hospital ; in which we have partially suc

ceeded. I must now stop.'

                   To Professor Studer, Berne.

                                            'St. Andrews, November 17th, 1866.

I'       hope your health continues good,               and that
   ...

you are still able to make your geological excursions,
-132            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FOKliES.  [CHAP.

to your own pleasure and to the benefit of your pupils.
My own health remains exceedingly stationary ; has
Irather improved within two years ; but still compels a
Icomparatively inactive life.  was in London for some

weeks in May and June.         had not attended a meeting
of the Royal Society nor indeed seen anyone almost in
                           year of
London    since 1851, the  seemed   the first Exhibition ! so
you will                            to myself and others a
          imagine that I
sort of resuscitated antediluvian, or one of the stone

weapon people come to partial life.
   ' The occasion of my visit was sad : my eldest and last

remaining brother, Sir John Forbes, whom I think you
Islightly knew, died in London on the 28th of May, after

a painful illness, and came to be with him.
    ' The British Association meets next year at Dundee,

not far from here. Shall you not take one trip to Scot

land and see us all ? my family now nearly grown up

would alone be a reason against attempting to travel,

Ibesides my infirmities. My eldest son is with a civil

engineer at Newcastle. My second son hope to send

to Cambridge.'  To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                                                     ' St. Andrews, April 6th, 1867.
    ' Weeks pass by almost unperceived by me, and anon

I find myself reminded by a letter from you that I have

been remiss. Tt is curious how much miscellaneous

business falls into my hands, perhaps from having more
normal leisure than most people. Setting aside a not
inconsiderable correspondence, it is surprising how many

reports, drafts, minutes, advertisements and circulars

Iit falls to me to write out with my own hands; the

number of these things do, gives me of course a certain
facility in doing it. One of the last things is organizing
a subscription for an entertainment of a select party of
the British Association here on an excursion from Dundee

in September. It must be done, and as well done as we

are able. Then our new College Hall and the manage

ment of the present one costs me no little anxiety. We
are told it is not at all known, and the Englishmen we
XII.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                                                                             433

have had have liked it so much. Then it is the fate of
this College never to be out of some legal or financial

botheration and slough of despond : and just as I am

Iseeing daylight through some complicated trouble, have

some new set of ideas to master, and claims to meet.'
Now it is Teinds ; dreadful word ! with its titulars and

tacksman and underpayers and overpayers, its localities

and decreets. It is enough to drive one wild, with claims

of interest exceeding the whole amount of principal, and
accumulating with no regard to even forty years pre

Iscription !

    ' am not very well, and the long consequent confine
ment to the house has told upon me rather severely.

                                ' Ever affectionately yours,
                                                  ' James D. Forbes.'

                  To Professor Innes.

                                  ' St. Andrews. April 9th, 1867.

wI og'rudCeos"sulFidtertmoyoomuraeraifanav:eo"iuthrIetrhmi"enfkawrimtitehisryoy"fotuohrre   opinion of the

                                                                                           "firinstfirdmeaclreyns;io"n.it
was an appendage to the Priory of St. Andrews, within
           wall,        might well
the Abbey  find   and  such word    enough be                                              either one  or
                  no                either in                                              Ducange     or
other. I

IMaigne's Lexicons. . . .
   ' have now nearly completed my examination and
          of the old
analysis                Chartulary from                                                      the advocates'
library.  The notes I  have made would                                                     materially assist

any future searcher.'

                       To Mrs. Forbes.

                                    'London, May 22nd, 1867.
'

 I.
.  .      The weather is really beyond precedent.                                          was
Iawakened in the night, last night, by the cold, and
see by the papers that the parks this morning were as
white as in January. It is this partly I suppose which
Ikeeps up

feel less
           my cough,   which  is  still troublesome, and                                               .
          active than             week or two ago. . .
                       I did   a

George talks of going to A nan for a few days; he is a
434                   THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                 [chap.

Iclear boy, and miss him much ; never a shadow came

over him with all the hitches about his plans.'

                   To Sir Roderick Murchison, Bart.
                                     ' Pitlochrib, August 5th, 1867.
     '
             .  .  . The burden of my letter must be to tell you of
        .

how little         avail my co-operation is             likely to  Ibe at Dundee,
if indeed                                               The fact
                   it is not absolutely nil.                       is have been
Iand still am much out of health. You recollect what the

weather was in London the last fortnight of May. was
only beginning to recover from a long winter's cold, when
it                  under the severity of that aggravated weather.
    recurred       Scotland with some difficulty, and was imme
I   reached

diately confined by an illness at St. Andrews for some
Itime ; my recovery from which has been slow and uncer
tain. How often have                 --connogtraatnulaintceodnsmidyersaeblfleonohnaev--inogf
withstood the temptation
the Presidency. I must have surrendered it absolutely.
Even as it            iIs,
                                  dare not count with any certainty on
being able to appear at Dundee, or even -- what still
more essential -- to take official part in such hospitalitiesa

as we can offer at St. Andrews to the excursionists.                  is

if           am happy to say, however, that Mr. Geikie takes in

  I'
hand the entire scientific conduct of the excursion, which,

     the weather be fine, will, believe, be pleasant and
interesting one. . . . Your efforts on behalf of the AssoI
ciation and of Scotch science are invaluable. May they beI

long continued                    I  hope your walking powers have im'
                      II
proved since had the pleasure of dining with you at the!
R. Club, which was almost the last day of tolerable
health which enjoyed.''
       1 S.
                                  To Professor Fischer.

                                                        PitLOCimiE, August 28th, 1867.

                must once again offer you my cordial thanks
for your important services to George in the promotion
of his studies, and for your and Mrs. Fischer's kindness

to him. am sorry that must now formally give up any
                   I

idea of attending the British Association at Dundee, or
of receiving our quests at St. Andrews.
                                                        I          have not been
XII.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.                          435

so well, and the effort of conversation is plainly in

I Ijurious. . ..    obliged  to  you  for  sending  the " Comptes
    ' was
             much

Rendus."       have read the greater part of the Pascal
papers and controversy with attention. It is a question
of some magnitude and importance. The mass of con
temporary documents in M. Charles' possession is evi

fodofergncetolyuarlsvleet--rhyotslheaa.rgt eM.soymIcetonwpcoolsuussledisosnobrewowofuolrtdhthebenmo--asopsnreoo'vsfiswgioehnnilaeulilnyt,eo
contemporary correspondence, to give it piquancy and
value, has forged a number of Pascal's notes on gravita
                     all of
                     that
Ition, and

I cannot
          probably           those bearing Newton's signature.
            believe          Newton would write in French

instead of Latin. Sir David, see, makes the same re

mark. The exact masses of the planets, and, above all,

...the exact flattening of the earth given by Pascal appear
to me incredible.    It is all very strange and bewilder

ing. Photographic fac-similes of Newton's letters ought
to be asked for by competent authority.'

When Forbes entered on his duties as Principal, it was

with high hopes of what might be done to make of the

United St. Salvator's and St. Leonard's a College which
should be a model of its kind : and with this view he

took the whole thing more in hand and threw himself
Ifmore earnestly upon it than perhaps any Principal ever
before had done.     the results he achieved fell far short

of his first hopes, this was not from any lack of zeal or

energy on his part. It is no more than what befalls most
men in their ideal aims. Of newly appointed Bishops
some one has said that they must spend the first years of
their office in learning how little power the law has left
in their hands. The same may, perhaps, be said of Prin
cipals. Forbes, with his ceaseless activity, found this ;
he had his own      share of     stohicapotafrteeexenpiver--qieunotctheeadtw--hdiicrIxheOsltHcmepr)aoidn6o,&tvuvttso)
                    Arnold
expressed and
7ro\\a <f>poveovTa    firjSevcs

fhave many thoughts and no power to realize them.
                                            F2
436        THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.     [chap

      With aims so highland so unflinchingly pursued, it
could not be but that Forbes, in acting publicly with
other men, should meet with much to thwart and disap

point him. These things, from his earnest and anxious

temperament, he no doubt felt severely. It was not in

his nature to take things easily. He could not, like some
men, pass off a serious matter with a humorous jest. In
his pursuit of public objects, those who worked with him
may sometimes have felt as if his demands on them were
exacting. But none could ever say that he asked for any
labour or sacrifice in others, of which he had not first
set the example. And so it came to pass, that however

much some may have felt the strain which his rigorous
pursuit of duty imposed, and however widely others may
Ihave differed from his views of duty, all were compelled

to accord him sincerest respect, had almost said reve

rence, for the purity of his motives and the elevation

of his aims. The example of high moral purpose and
energy which he left behind, will survive in all who
      if

           it,

                       a
witnessed  as salutary and bracing memory.

      But the course of public life did not always run
smooth with Forbes any more than with other men, he

found, when College meetings and business were over,
abundant comfort and refreshment in the quiet of his
home. His children had reached that age at which they
could be more or less companions to him. And his
necessary abstinence from dining out left his evenings
the more free to enjoy the society of his family circle.
      high authority at St. Andrews used to announce that
it A  was one of the first duties, whether of Principal or

Professor, to receive and reciprocate hospitalities. Even
had Principal Forbes agreed with this dictum, his health

would not have allowed him to carry out on so large
                            it

                                                               a

scale as the author of the saying might have approved.
But in quiet and informal way he and his amiable
      a

family to dinner or in the evening gladly welcomed
friends and neighbours who appreciated that refined and

unceremonious intercourse.

      The correspondence given above forms the best nar
XII.] LIFE IN ST. ANDREWS.  437

rative of Principal Forbes' active life at St. Andrews.
In the spring of 1867 his health sensibly declined. His
old enemy, the cough, got a firm hold of him, which he
could not shake off. The last public act he performed
at St. Andrews was to preside at the ceremonial of the
laying of the foundation stone of the new College Hall, a
building which owes its existence entirely to his single

exertions.

   A great concourse of people from town and country
had assembled to witness the ceremony. What with free

masons, professors, town-councillors, volunteers, bands
of music, all marching in procession, and flags flying

from windows and housetops, it was a gala-day such as
the quiet old city does not often see. In painful con
trast to these festal attempts was the pale, worn look of
him who was the chief inspirer of the whole movement.
Yet he braced himself for an effort which he was little able
to make. After Mr. Whyte Melville, as Grand Master
of the Freemasons, had laid the foundation-stone in due
form, Principal Forbes delivered over it an elaborate

address, detailing the objects of the building they were
met to found, the brief history of the institution, and
his hopes regarding its future. This was his last public
appearance in St. Andrews or elsewhere.
CHAPTER XIII.

                        THE CLOSE.

In May 1867, though his cough continued unabated, he

undertook a journey to London, and two journeys to and
from Cambridge, with the view of choosing a College for

his son George, who accompanied him. It was a more

than usually cold and ungenial May, little likely to
benefit the health of an invalid. On returning to Scot
land in June, instead of retreating at once to the shelter
of Pitlochrie, he made a detour by St. Andrews for pur
poses of business, and in doing so met with one of those
bleak north-easters which St. Andrews alone can blow
in June.

    Summer and early autumn passed at Pitlochrie with
not only no improvement, but with a gradual decline of
strength. A winter abroad was recommended by the
physicians on whom he relied. Towards the end of
September the Principal left his home at Pitlochrie,
passed through Edinburgh, where he halted for a day
or two, and thence set out with Mrs. Porbes and his

three daughters for Cannes.

To E. C. Batten, Esq.

                        ' Villa Josepha, Cannes, France,

 ... I October 22th, 1867.

' As am tired of the labour and expense of
moving, it is probable   that we shall remain here, unless
driven to Mentone or
                        San Remo by the spring winds. I
OHAr. XIII.]              THE CLOSE.                   439

cannot tell you how I feel the difference between wintering
here and at Rome or Naples. The charm of antiquity and
historical association is here all wanting ; and though

the scenery is certainly very pleasiug,   I  and   the climate
beautiful, and the vegetation exquisite,     fear
                                                   that I shall

soon feel a stagnation of interest, which reminds me more
and more it is an exile on account of health merely.'

   There nearly the whole of November was passed, but
with no benefit to the invalid. The parching drought
of the air irritated his lungs, and brought on one of his

attacks. In the last days of November Hyeres was

resorted to in search of softer air, and though the weather
proved unusually severe, yet the cLange did good.

               To Dr. Symonds, Clifton.

                                         'December Uth, 1867.
                                               here -- at least
'     .  . We  have  now been fully ten  days

   .

Alicia and I.   The girls we  left under     the kind care of
Mr. and Mrs.   Symonds, and                  girls --joined us
                              they-- the

on Monday. Since we came to Hyeres, the weather has

been nearly as unfavourable as possible, snow having
fallen over all this district as well as over almost all

vluoetanshisdleeeridrrr.pitthaaerttiNnscgohotafwntihgEtaheunsr;toaaptnthedCa.iatnnginsCeostlo,dthasinnsa,odyr, tIIhI ehfarcolveyuerntwadniionntlhdydesouiahmbairtvperwmohvpuarecethd
ever that this is the case. Indeed, the fact that we are

seventy       miles from  the snowy Alps sufficiently  accounts
for this.                  idea until quite recently   that the
               I had no

snowy range so completely predominates over Cannes,
and by making a permanent current of N.E. wind, set
from their cold summits to the shore of the warm

Mediterranean Sea, at once produces that preternatural

clearness and dryness of atmosphere which belongs to
Cannes. The screen of low wooded hills, which shelters

Cannes from the immediate force of the Alpine blasts,

is not high enough or extensive enough to change the
quality of the air. In these respects Hyeres is in a
440  THE LIFE OF JAMES IK FORBES.    [chap.

totally different position, and has the advantage of
being farther from the sea.'

     At Hyeres, Forbes' health continued to improve till
towards the middle of January 1868.

    On the 13th of January, feeling stronger, he was
tempted to go out for a longer ride than usual. His
youngest daughter accompanied him on foot. They
went up one of the heights in the neighbourhood,
and feeling well, and enjoying lovely views, and
delicious air, instead of returning by the usual road,
he fixed to make a round. This road turned out to

be both very steep and very stony. The animal he
was riding had to jump from stone to stone. This
shaking was most fatiguing, and he came home about
five p.m. much exhausted. The second day after this,
the 15th January, a slight spitting of blood commenced.
From that day till he died, nearly twelve months later,

he never was again able to be dressed, or to be out of

bed beyond an hour or an hour and a half at a time.
Towards the end of March he had another severe attack,

and he never again sat up at Hyeres. He generally
wrote what he wished for in pencil, as he dared not raise

his voice ; but latterly at Hyeres he could hardly do even

that. At this time he was offered the Presidency of the
Royal Society of Edinburgh, which he refused. His cor

respondence now almost ceased. Some letters on business

he dictated, and the few that there are to his family
and to Mr. Batten were written in pencil by himself.

   As May approached, it was felt that to remain at
Hyeres and meet the summer heats there must in his
weakened state prove fatal. To attempt a journey home
seemed hardly less perilous. Yet a choice had to be
                          coaulmt lfyoranCdlidfteolnib.eraItfelyh,einwfeurlel
made, and he determined
view of the risk, to set

allowed to reach that place, he would there be in a good
climate, and under the care of his true and tried physician
and friend Dr. Symonds. The journey, under all the
circumstances, was hazardous in the extreme, and must
XIII.]                  THE CLOSE.              441

be described in the words of one who kindly shared in
this and in all the other anxieties of that time.

   ' I shall, as requested, endeavour to give you in this
letter a few particulars of the journey home from Hyeres,

made by the Principal and his family in May 1868. It
was throughout a most remarkable one. Of those who
Iwitnessed

am sure,
         our departure from               tHhayterebso,ththienrvealidwser--e, for
        few who anticipated
his eldest
tinued and  daughter    wailslneaslsso--  suffering from long-con
             dangerous                    would reach England in

life ; and fewer still, who had the slightest expectation
that in little more than a week we should have ac

Icomplished the journey in safety. But so it was ; and

  believe that our doing so was in a great degree owing
to the intense desire which the Principal had to be
once more, and as soon as possible, within reach of
Dr. Symonds, of Clifton. The distance from Hyeres to
the station is about five miles. This part of the journey
he had to perform in an omnibus and over a rough road,
and this, in his weak state, was perhaps the most anxious

part of all. A return of the haemorrhage was very likely
to occur, and had it occurred would in all probability have
proved fatal. So fully was he aware of this himself, that

the day before we started, he wrote in pencil, and placed
in his wife's hands a paper with clear and distinct direc
tions as to how she was to act in such an event ; and

having done this, and feeling that he was in God's hands,
he quietly left himself in them. Nothing during his long-
suffering illness proved more completely his entire acqui
Iescence in whatever might be ordered for him.
                                                There
was no shrinking fear or dread of the future.    have

seldom seen anyone who had the same simple and almost
childlike confidence that all was right, so long as he
submitted and trusted himself entirely to his heavenly
Father's care. One great lesson was to be learned from
him in this : he knew what a wonderful gift of God life
is ; he could not but be aware of the great intellect
which             cgoinvteinnuetothhaimt li;fea--ndthtehelreeafsotrethhinegdwidhicahll
in his  had been
        power to
442        THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [cnAP.

was ordered for him, being taken with a view of pro
longing that life, and yet withal being fully ready to
yield it up whenever the end came.

   ' His weakness was such that it was necessary to have
him carried down-stairs on a stretcher. He gave his
own directions to the porters as to how this was to

be done ; and from the stretcher he was placed in the

omnibus. It was a lovely afternoon and evening ; and

when he reached the station he saw, for the first time

for two months, his beloved eldest daughter. He recog
nized her with a gentle smile, for they could not speak
at that moment, being in separate conveyances. As
soon as the saloon carriage was ready, both invalids were
it

                  it,

                                                             ;

                                            it
                                                          it

                                                                                                                                                                    ;
placed in  with an ample supply of such food and

medicine as was thought might be required on the way
and waited for the arrival of the train from Cannes.

Several hours elapsed before  came up, some accident

having occurred on the bine. We were to have continued
our journey through the night, but on reaching Marseilles,
   was found that the express train for Paris had started

without waiting for ours and therefore was impossible

to proceed further till the following morning. All that
could be done was to have the saloon carriage placed
under cover for the night. This was explained to the

Principal, who as usual quietly and cheerfully submitted.

We started for Paris at eleven o'clock next forenoon, but

another day and night had to be passed in the train
and was not until nine o'clock on Saturday morning
     it

                                                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                                     ;
the 1st May, that we reached the station in Paris and

then came the slow drive to the hotel, through the busy
streets, thronged with people even at that early hour.
During all these hours the Principal maintained the

same calmness and self-possession. Once during the
night, when all was quiet, one of the party noticed how
faint he was looking, and went to him and administered

some brandy he said himself afterwards, he had felt
           :

sinking, but had been too weak to call out. Three days
were passed in Paris, namely, from the Saturday till the

following Tuesday morning. He seemed to enjoy the
xiii.]        TIIH CLOSE.                                  443

comparative rest and comfort of these days ; but he felt
he must not linger on the way, and was well pleased
when the time arrived for starting for Boulogne. We

arrived there at five o'clock ; and our intention was to

remain only one night, and cross the Channel on the

following day : but a gale having sprung up, and the

sea being so rough and stormy, it was deemed advisable
to delay the passage till Thursday, when fortunately

the wind had abated, and the voyage was made quietly

and easily. Thursday night was passed at Folkestone,
and then came the last part of the long, anxious journey

to Clifton, which was accomplished successfully, and he

reached the house which had been prepared for him there

at seven o'clock on that day.

   ' It is almost impossible for anyone who did not witness
the difficulty of this journey, to understand the wonderful
presence of mind and resignation of the Principal during
the whole of it. There must have been so much resolu
tion to struggle with his increasing weakness -- moments
when he must have felt almost incapable of any exertion,

and ready to wish just to stay where he was. But
the indomitable perseverance of the man, and his firm

conviction that an overruling Providence ordered all
things, were shown throughout. This would never have
resulted, had he not during his early and later years,

done all for God ; and it is a lesson which the young
men entering life in the pride of their strength and
intellect would do well to follow. Theirs may not be

accompanied by the long-continued suffering, so patiently
and yet so manfully endured by the Principal, but it
must come to all in sOme form sooner or later. May
they take an example from this great leader in the paths
of science, and in entire submission be led by their God
and Father.'

   Arrived at Clifton he   t:--hus  wrote  in  pencil  to  one of
his most attached friends
                                                     'Clifton, May 13th, 1868.

  I' am deeply thankful to be on British soil again,

and am not solicitous about forming future plans. It is
444          TUE LIFE OF JAMES 1). FORBES.                                                        [chap.

a limited future, I think, and I leave it contentedly, so

far as I may, in God's hands.'

     When he reached Clifton his inclination was at once

to resign the Presidency of the United College, as he
felt convinced that he would never again revisit St.
Andrews. But from taking this step he was deterred
by the advice of Dr. Symonds, who suggested that the
Principal should wait quietly for four months and see

what change the summer brought : if it were not a change
for the better, he might then resign. On this advice

he acted implicitly. Meanwhile that his College and its

interests were not absent from his thoughts the follow
                             in: --pencil           of
ing letter written                         to  one                               his  colleagues  then
in England, shows

                      To Professor Campbell.

                                               'Clifton, May 18tk, 1868.

     '     . I learn  that you are likely                                        to be  here      before
       ..

Ilong.     PIrahyapgpiivlye  me some notice of                                        your coming.
                             be then as free from                                     urgent illness,
Should
     could hold cautiously some conversation with you
on matters of importance affecting St. Andrews, but
Iwhich I could not have held sooner without extreme
imprudence.           began this letter under the impression
that you intended being at Clifton shortly, but Mrs. C.
now writes of the 30th June. This is a long time for

me to look forward to, and I may either be better or

aywrooeur' shIetehtrebheyo--dutrgohifhnattttohtftheimtahtCeeo.Illnemogteiegshtwhohplidecrihnhag1psshaivnbeeSmat.baldAeentd--oreaewnxsdp.lawin.hic.tho.
tInha'tImtIycisapnrvepesureytntadllosutthbaittsefuilnofwwhrwietetianhkgenr.esIs  it is vain to
                                                                                                  hope
                                                                                 could convey
                                                                                                  it to

you in a few desultory conversations of uncertain
Ilength, carried on somewhat in despite of the doctor.
But   you  will easily       I  understand the                                   --anaxnidetywhichhaviet
that  the  materials              have gathered
XIII.]             TUE CLOSE.                  445

may almost certainly be predicted, no one will ever
                   from the beginning,
again work out                          thdoonueg--h tshheoyulmd ignhott
follow up what     I have thought and

be utterly lost.'

By the beginning of October the four appointed months
had expired, and then Principal Forbes, finding his weak
ness gradually increasing, with the full consent of his
physician, sent in to the University Court his resignation,

with the request that it should take effect on the 15th

November. On acquainting the senior Professor that
such was his intention, several of his colleagues who
were then in St. Andrews sent him a joint letter,
requesting that he would postpone his resignation.

Having, however, acted thus deliberately, he abode by
his resolve, and his connection with St. Andrews ceased

on the day he himself had named.
With this last act his connection with the outer

world may be said to have ended, and he lay calmly and
devoutly looking forward to the close.
On the 5th October, to his eldest daughter on her
wsicrikttebnedwaotrdPs it:l--ochrie, he wrote in pencil, these his last

' Dearest Eliza,   ' Clifton, October 5th, 1868.

          ' I am glad to take up my pencil again to write
I Ito you.
          hardly know why have not done so sooner.
I need not tell you, my dearest girl, how deeply I have
been interested in the reports of your changing condition
of health, and my sorrow that you have been such a

sufferer.

   ' I rejoice to hear that you have borne it all with so

much patience and cheerfulness. We are much indebted
to Dr.    Irvine and Aunt Jane for their full
letters,                                       and frequent
          and I fondly hope that the latest    improvement
will be the beginning of better times.
' I myself have had many ups and downs ; but at
          Ibeamgetrtaintghecrobldetatetr.PitloWcehrihea,vebustomI edoconldotnikgnhotsw.
present

It must
446  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.           [chap.

where you would be better at present. We expect
J. Mackenzie back from Bournemouth to-day.
                                            I remain,
   ' With much love to you and Aunt Jane,
my dearest Eliza, your affectionate father,
                                                   ' James D. Forbes.'

   What remains cannot be given otherwise than in the
words of her, who for five-and-twenty years had been
the companion of his life, and during the long decline,
his unwearied attendant and consoler. ' He saw with
calmness the slow but certain progress of his decline.
He had no doubts, no anxieties ; there was no earthly
excitement in his death. Every day to the last he lived,
so far as increasing weakness allowed, as he had done for
seventeen years, thinking of others and taking the same
interest in every subject that he ever had done, yet look
ing always steadily in the face of death. During these
last months at Clifton, each afternoon, when his religious
reading was over, he would lie and listen, while his
children, to fill up the long intervals of enforced silence,
read to him various books of travels, history, biography,
and the Waverley novels. But during the last month
and more, even such small diversions as this were no

longer possible.
    ' On Christmas-day he had a very bad turn, and on the

27th he sank so low that Dr. Symonds scarcely expected
him to live through that day. On Monday he rallied
somewhat, but on Tuesday, the 29th, he was so much
weaker that he appeared barely conscious, not knowing
wsdWMuaeaedytdhsfereraenoripdslmy,licero"ndomi.uTgesuhseetd".asdtRhateiwAymm.eb"seloevmule"ftbWoaee'nrclh,edl"oavcetaknhshketoeooud-'ccd,rloao1n"yc"t.kWi"n,"uhaMe.Eamdltre,..,vdMeah"nyaotwtihhsoeea'vtcrthesloirsc,wMkh?ar,"e.s"
the clergyman who had attended him, and my husband
had settled a week before, when no immediate change
was expected, that he should come on Tuesday, the 29th,
to administer the Holy Communion. None present will
ever forget that solemn hour. His four children and
XIII.]               THE CLOSE.                           447

myself all received it with him. He answered to all the
responses, and those who heard will remember, while
they live, his last Amen.
   ' After that he called his two sons, and told them he

could give them handfuls of advice, but that they knew
all his wishes so well he would not. After giving them
a few last directions about his watch and other things,

he asked them if they would like to consult him about
               he was still able to listen and
                 came into the room, he said,
I Ianything, for                                    t"o   advise
                                                           leave
them. When

you two good boys, keep them so, and don't leave me.
It won't             now."    A                     this  he told
          be   long  a doubt      few days  before
me " he   had  not            or  a fear."
' The 30th of December was a day of sad suffering from
breathlessness, but of clear consciousness. He was sen

sible of myself and his children, and watched with a

silent look of love all the efforts to help him.
   ' On the morning of the 31st he took the hand of his
eldest boy, as he stood beside him, and five minutes

afterwards, at eight of that Thursday morning, the last
day of the year, he passed away, still holding his son's
hand. To the last moment he was perfectly conscious,
and seemed to prolong his latest breath that he might
have us a little longer with him. On January 5th he
was buried in the Dean Cemetery, in a lovely spot
chosen by himself the last time he was in Edinburgh,
before he went on that last journey to Cannes. His

grave is shadowed by the yew tree which overhung his
window when his home was in the old house of Dean.
In little more than four months his eldest daughter was
laid beside him in the Dean Cemetery. A year and a
few months passed, and his second daughter, who had
spent her last strength in nursing the two dear ones
gone before her, followed them to the same grave. The
sisters, one in life, in death were not divided ; and
words, used by a friend in writing of the elder, are
equally true of both, they "being made perfect in a
short time, fulfilled a long time, for their souls pleased
the Lord. ''' '
448          THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                              [chap.

   Tlm Memoir may perhaps be fitly closed by the
letters of two friends of Principal Forbes, to whom he

had probably opened his heart more than to most.

             From Dr. Symonds.

                                       'Clifton, October 17th, 1819.

    ' . . . When he was writing, nothing was more remark
able than the perfect ease with which he executed his work.
His manuscripts nearly always went to the press just as
they were first written ; almost without a blot, or an

Ierasure, or a correction. I asked him one day, when
saw his table covered with sheets of the fairest manu

script conceivable, with lines so even and interspaces so

Iregular and orderly, and words so irresistibly legible,
asked him how he had acquired the power of writing off
in that singularly finished manner. His answer was that
from early studentship he had made it a rule not to put
pen to paper till he had mastered his subject, or at all
events till he was sure that he had something to say, and
that he had a clear notion of what it was that he wished

to say.
   ' With                                                              of conver
sation, it  mreugsatrdbetoremPrairnkceidpatlhaFtorIbeosn'lypokwneerws  him as at

best a valetudinarian, so that he was not robust enough,

had he been disposed, to take a leading or animated part

in the discussion of a dinner-party. In a tete-d-tete he

was most agreeable and instructive. Perhaps nothing
was more remarkable than his liberality or tolerance of
differences of opinion. One knew that he held very
decided views in politics and religion, and that they
were of a conservative character, but they never seemed
to tincture his mind so as to prejudice his opinion of
individuals in private life, or of scientific workers and
writers. However little he might have exerted himself
in company,                                                            of gentle
wisdom and   huerbaalnwitayy--s  left  an   impression                  courtesy.
                                 nay,   of   high-bred

Indeed, nothing could surpass the gentlemanliness of
his manners and deportment. His amiability, together
with that quietness of sympathy, and penetration into
XIII.]  THE CLOSE.                                        449

character and motives which constitute what we call

tact, both disposed and enabled him so to recognize and
adapt himself and his words to the feelings of those

about him, that it was impossible for him to neglect

the very faintest nuance of kindly consideration and

forbearance.

  I' It was a serious loss to me when he left this neigh

bourhood; but had, in subsequent years, by visits
with which he and his charming wife favoured me, and

by visits which I had the privilege of paying to his hos
pitable home, as well as in frequent correspondence,
abundant opportunities of ripening my knowledge of him
and of his never-failing virtues and attractions.         It

        presumptuous in me
        mind and character ;
Iwould be                                         the portraiture
                                                  asked to state
of such a
                              tbouat twteemreptI
in one or two words my sense of them, should say that

intellectually Principal Forbes was distinguished by
comprehensiveness of details, accuracy of memory, clear
ness of insight, and strength of judgment ; and that in

the emotional part of his nature he was pure, high-

minded, gentle, and affectionate.
    ' But those who knew him as intimately as did the
writer of this scanty memorandum, will feel that no

words, however multiplied or carefully considered, could
afford an adequate idea of that which inspired in their

hearts so deep a reverence and so warm an affection, and
the remembrance of which will never allow them to

cease from deploring that so much genius, knowledge,
and wisdom could not have been longer vouchsafed to
the world of science, nor an embodiment of so much

goodness and benevolence and love to his family and
his friends.'

                        Bishop Forbes' Letter.

                                          'Dundee, 1872.

'You ask me to put on paper anything that occurs
        regarding the interior life of
to me   the greatest difficulty in doing  my gifted kinsman.
                                          so, from the obvious
I feel

reason that the intercourse of a sick man with what
the ancient Celtic Church beautifully described as "his

        OG
450                THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.      [cnAr.

soul's friend " is too sacred for publication, and no one
would have shrunk more from any manifestation of his
religious feeling than he. Still it is due to the cause

of truth in this sceptical age, that I should put on

record the impressions which a series of years of
affectionate intercourse with Principal Forbes have left

Iupon me.                                have read of in history, no

   ' Of all the characters

nature  seems      --to wmiteh  so like  that of my  friend, as that of
Blaise  Pascal,                   many    important  modifications be

it said. There was the same sensitive organization ; the
same intense love of truth for its own sake ; the same

fearlessness in facing facts, however they might militate
against preconceived notions, or established theories ; the
same bright intelligence which to the end triumphed
over the exhaustion of the bodily frame ; the same
unquestioning submission of will and intellect to the
Supreme Being ; the same lowly acceptance of the super
natural truths of religion, how incomprehensible soever to

man's weakness. On the other hand, there was absent

from him that dark and ascetic side which            distinguished
                                                     rigour about
Pascal-- there was nothing of jansenistical
Ihim ; his was a religion rather of hope than of fear.
never saw in any man such fearlessness in the path of
duty. The one question with him was, Is it right ? No
dread of consequences, and consequences often bitterly
felt by him, and wounding his sensitive nature, ever
prevented him from doing that to which conscience
                   His  sense of right amounted to chivalry.
pro'mIpcteadn.not       silent with regard to that exquisite  ten
                    be

derness that ran through all his home relations. To see
him at the head of his own table, surrounded by his
family that adored him, after a day of hard mental work,
or of worrying College business, and to observe how, in
the sanctities of home, he took interest in the sports and

Ioccupations and studies of the children, was what can

never be forgotten by me. Neither can fail to re
member the intelligence and eagerness with which he
threw himself iuto lines of thought foreign from his own
xiii.]                      THE CLOSE.                                                             451

specialities, always        seeking for the good and                                        the    true in
whatever presented            itself to his cognition.                                             my re
             of the life at St.                                                             If

collections  I say of that, to                                                Andrews are thus edifying,
what shall                                                                    me never to be forgotten,
month I spent with him at Hyeres, when his illness

was so developed that his return to England was as un
l--eaxnptdehecedtebdifrrtohamps laittcheewaoCsfruMgsraaadstesiifly--loinnIg,       To that interesting spot
                                                                               ?   port at which St. Louis
                                                                                    summoned by telegram
                                                                              the
                                                                              was
                                        11th, 1868. I found the
from    Paris on            February
whole    family in           a state  of great distress -- the eldest

dtoauhgehrtefarthmeor --st  dangerously ill, lying                                  in the   next  chamber
                            and the rest of the                                    party    worn   out with

continued watching. The brilliant sunshine, the bloom

ing almond, the graceful palm-trees, ministered no com
fort to the sick man. He was a close prisoner to his bed,
and weary nights succeeded to exhausting days with
a perfect monotony : and yet all the time the spirits
fainted not. His delight was to be read to. The works
of Walter Scott were a never-failing resource. He took
the keenest interest in the fortunes of the Presidency
of the Royal Society of
declined. Nor was his       Esdoiunlbnuergglhe,ctewdhi:ch"                                  he reluctantly
                                                                                            Now minister

to me," he would say after a conversation on the things

of the world, and then he would have prayers read to.
him, and the Psalms in the beautiful rhythmical Prayer-
book version. Night after night it was so ; but the most
touching scene of all was, when the door was opened be

tween the two sick rooms, a temporary altar fitted up, and
the Divine mysteries celebrated. The rites were indeed

maimed, the invalids too weak to bear the entire service,
but they who knelt at that lowly table will never forget
the devotion of those who communicated these blessed

days. Three are now withdrawn within the veil, and
we who remain, retain within our hearts the never-

fading memory of these hours, revived in all its fresh
ness, whenever in holy church we bless God's holy
name for all His servants departed this life in His faith

and fear.'

                            0G 2
459,         THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

      The outward work which Principal Forbes did in the
world has, it is hoped, been sufficiently set forth in the
foregoing pages and those which are to follow. His

character, as that appeared to men, if it does not shiue
out in the narrative and letters already given, would not
be made clearer by any condensed estimate of it. None

such shall here be attempted. It is probably true of
most men, but of Principal Forbes it was more than

usually true, that his moral nature and his mental were
entirely of a piece. The basis of both was thoroughness :
it did not seem possible for him to do anything slightly
or carelessly, or by halves. Akin to this was his defi-
niteness and exactness of thought, which, as has been
said, is a special form of the love of truth. Springing
             fundamental    hroimot--wmereethothdr,eepeqrsueavleitriaensce,whaicnhd
from this    distinguished
especially
conscientiousness. In the manner in which he thought
out any subject, in which he carried on any work, in
                   --arirnangsheodrt,hisinmathteeriaolsrd, earlnindespsresoefrvheids
which   he wrote,
them   afterwards
whole life --method was so conspicuous that it could no

farther go.
      Then whatever may have been his natural endowments,

their power was doubled by his perseverance. As long
as health and strength lasted, his tenacity of purpose
was carried to an extent that must have severely taxed
his bodily frame ; and when health failed, and the body
could no longer second the mind's requirements, this
power of active perseverance was turned into its passive
form of silent endurance.

      These same qualities, seen on their moral side, became

conscientiousness so rigorous, and carried into such small

details, as to seem to some over-anxious and excessive.

s--Seoqiunsetrntahcieegshp--turdssoiudiltithtoelef gtdohiidstoshoewehsnahttriirnhekewfabrosemlhieisvoepddpisowrseaigtsiaortndh,eokfereicgonhnlyt
                it,that, as Bishop Forbes has said, this
though he felt
                        a
amounted in him to very chivalry of duty-doing. To
those who met him only in work and business he seemed
THE CLOSE.  453

a man too much on the stretch, too intent on duty ever
to relax into a more playful or humorous mood. But
on those within the more intimate circle of friendship
or family life, he turned another and tenderer side
not apparent to casual observers. When the strain of

business was removed, the deeper affections had time to
unfold ; and these in him partook of that intensity which
belonged to his whole being. Indeed, during all his later
years, when Alpine work was over, it was in these
affections that he found a shelter which more than com

pensated for the loss of the ambitions which stirred his
youth. To afford a glimpse into his heart's secrets, a few
extracts from his journals have been given, but not more
than were necessary to a faithful representation.

   From these extracts it will be seen that he was a

devout man before he became scientific, and his scientific

habits of thought never seemed to have disturbed or cast
the shadow of a doubt over his faith. Religion and
science in him were so far independent that he never
troubled himself to build bridges of reconciliation between
them, such as are so common now-a-days. Still less did

it ever occur to him to import into religion those physical

modes of thought now so much in vogue. I think I can

see the look of grave contempt with which he would
have regarded any one who proposed to trace the
origin of all things to the working of a blind, soulless
force, rather than to the ordering of a living and All-wise
Mind. With Faraday he believed that no man by reason

ing or science can find out God ; and if any tried to do

so, they would have got little help from Forbes. But in
him they would have seen one well acquainted with all
that modern science has really made good, and with all
the methods by which it works : one who had himself
added real contributions to scientific discovery, and who
looked forward hopefully to far greater things yet to be
discovered, but who yet held by the religion of the
Bible and the great Christian verities as the anchor of
his hope : and this in no dim struggling way, but with
the most practical and ennobling faith. The outward
4.->4  THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.      [chap. XIII.

form in which these truths came home to him was that

in which they are presented by the Church of England
Liturgy. This he was content unhesitatingly to accept.
                              ;           and had small sympathy
He never sought to rationalize
with those who did.                  it,

   About his religious convictions he never argued, but

acted on them silently and consistently. In this way,

while his own mind was not disquieted, others took
note of him, and received more good from the silent
transpiration of his character than they could have got

from any arguments. There were those associated with

him at different periods of his life, who owed to his strong
but unobtrusive faith the deepest and most lasting effects
on their own character and that faith which had

guided himself, and influenced others, in the days of his
activity, did not fail when the great trials of life fell
upon him. During the long shadows of declining life,
as earth with its interests receded, the things unseen
came closer to him, and continued to be his strength
and consolation to the end.
FOEBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.
CHAPTER XIV.1

FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.

It is not easy, in a chapter necessarily short, and as little
technical as possible (because this work is throughout
intended for the general reader), to notice, with sufficient
exposition of their object and of the advances made in
them, even the more valuable of Forbes' scientific
researches. The titles of all his published papers will be
found in an Appendix to this volume, and we must refer
to the preceding chapters for some general account of
them, especially the earlier, and those which treat of
questions connected with geology, mineralogy, and
meteorology, with which we cannot attempt to deal.
   In addition to his M.SS. Lectures, in which the whole

range of Natural Philosophy was gone over--lectures
fully written out, and scrupulously kept up to each
ahdisvanecxeecuitnorsscietonced, esbturtoyw--hiFcohrbehse
                                                           unfortunately  ordered
                                                           distinguished  himself

as regards the general subject by writing a very remark
able Dissertation on the Progress of Mathematical and
Physical Science, principally from 1775 to 1850. This

was published in the last edition of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica. Such an article is necessarily of a his

torical character, and could be attempted only by a man
of very extensive reading, as well as of great knowledge
of the subject. But it also requires for its successful

    1 Tn part reprinted from the Scotsman, January Gth, 18G9.              The
remainder of this, and the whole of the following, chapter,               were
written in January 1872.-- P. G. T.
453  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

execution a calm, clear, and perfectly unbiassed judgment.
In this respect, no man could have been found more
excellently qualified than Forbes. No man was ever
more strictly conscientious, or more thoroughly dis
passionate ; as is amply proved by the Dissertation
itself, in which he had to deal with several very delicate
matters -- such as, for instance, the discovery of Neptune.
In this work the author himself is one of the few to
whose claims substantial justice has not been done. He
detested controversy and, though (as is usually the case
with peaceful men) often forced to take part in it, did so
solely for truth's sake, never for the exaltation of himself
or for the humiliation of his adversary.

    Perhaps the most prominent of Forbes' investigations
is that long series devoted to the nature and motion of
Glaciers, which he pursued with intense application, and
to the serious, possibly the lasting, injury of his health.
The result was an account, of the structure and nature
of the motion of these marvellous ice-masses, so full

and luminous that very little indeed has since been
added to it. While preserving what was true in the mass
of statements made by his predecessors, he replaced an
immense amount of nonsense by many new facts of the
very highest order of importance. Critics have attempted
to show that he had been anticipated in some of these ;

but they have produced only vague statements, probably
meant in a totally different sense. Considerable con
fusion seems still to obscure the common apprehension of
what Forbes really did. His careful observations led him
to the general proof that a glacier moves like a viscous
or plastic mass, though ice is usually regarded as a very
brittle solid. Here no physical explanation is involved.

In virtue of what property the ice behaves in this way

is quite another question, and one the answer to which
is even yet in some parts obscure, though there can be
no doubt that a very important contribution, at least, is
furnished by the beautiful discovery of James Thomson
regarding the lowering of the freezing-point by pressure.

It is not very easy to discover which theory appeared
XIv.]  FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.                  459

from time to time to Forbes to be the correct one, aud it

seems to us that a good deal of the hostile criticism

which has been lavished on his works is due to the

erroneous supposition that in his earlier papers he at

tempted to propound a physical explanation ot glacier
motion. Another cause seems to lie in a mere verbal

quibble about the meanings of viscosity, plasticity, and
other similar terms. But the description of the ribboned,
or veined, structure, of the shearing motion throughout
the mass, and various other important points which must

have been seen, though not observed, by thousands before
Forbes, forms one most   important part of his   claim in

this matter. If mankind  had till now neglected  to notice

the annual rings of growth in trees, would not the natu
ralist who first should call attention to their existence

and importance deserve immense credit ? The veined
structure of a glacier is as profoundly and intimately
connected with its formation and motions as are these

successive layers with the growth of a tree. There are
several very singular peculiarities of this veined structure
and its relations of position to cracks and crevasses,

which appeared, especially as shown by Hopkins, to be
inconsistent with the well-known dynamics of stresses.

A very recent observation of Sir W. Thomson seems to

promise an explanation of this difficulty ; for he has
shown that, in a viscous solid, continued shearing,
parallel to one set of planes, gives rise to rupture along
one of these planes. As the subject of glaciers admits of

being more easily popularized than any of the other more
important scientific work of Forbes, and as it is not
difficult to select from his writings enough of simple but
comprehensive passages to enable us to let him tell the
story of his own doubts, of his determination to solve
them by direct measurements, and finally of his un

equivocal success, we shall devote to it another chapter,
instead of unduly expanding in favour of one particular

topic the present general sketch.
   The first experimental work of real novelty in which

Forbes successfully engaged was with reference to the

                                                              -
4(30          THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                       [chap.

Polarization of Heat, the excessively modest account of

which in the Dissertation above mentioned forms one

grand defect visible to all who are acquainted with the
immense value of Forbes' discoveries, and with the ex

traordinary difficulties under which, although he had the
very best instruments of the time, his experiments were
necessarily conducted. Yet, even from his own modest

statement, the reader     may see that     something of import
ance was discovered.                       have just referred to
' my own                  He says: ' I
'likewise
              early experiments    on the  subject  (wthhaitchit  were
              inconclusive), in  order to  explain                 was
' natural, on hearing of the application of the thermo-
' multiplier to measure radiant heat, that I should wish
' to          them with the new instrument.         This I did
      repeat
'in   1834.    I first succeeded in proving the     polarization

 ' of heat by tourmaline, which Melloni had announced
' did not take place ; next, by transmission through a
' bundle of very thin mica plates, inclined to the trans-
 ' mitted ray ; and afterwards by reflection from the mul-
'  tiplied surfaces of a          of thin mica
'  the polarizing angle.  pilIe  next succeeded  plates placed at
                                                  in showing that

 'polarized heat is subject to the same modifications
 ' which doubly-refracting crystallized bodies impress upon
 'light, by suffering a beam of heat, even when quite
' obscure, after being polarized by transmission, to pass
 ' through a depolarizing plate of mica, the heat traversing
'  a second mica bundle   before it
   As the plate of mica              was received on the pile.
'                         used for   depolarization was made

 ' to rotate, in its own plane, the amount of heat shown
' by the galvanometer was found to fluctuate just as the
' amount of light received by the eye under similar cir-
' cumstances would have doue. This experiment, which,
 ' with the others just mentioned, was soon repeated and
' confirmed by other observers, still remains the only
' one proving the double refraction of heat unaccompanied
' by light ; and though somewhat indirect, it will hardly
 ' be regarded by competent judges as otherwise than
' conclusive. Iceland spar and other doubly refracting
 ' substances absorb invisible heat too rapidly to be used
XIv.]            FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.            461

'for effecting directly the separation of the rays, which
'requires a very considerable thickness of the crystal.

' I also succeeded in repeating Fresnel's experiment of

'producing circular polarization by two internal reflec-
' tions. The substance used was, of course, rock-salt.'

Taken in conjunction with the experiments of Melloni
and others on the absorption, &c., of radiant heat, this

splendid series  of researches  afonrdmeludmtihneoucsonrcalduisaivtieonpsr--ooaf
of the identity    of thermal

fact of the very greatest consequence to the further
progress of one of the most fascinating branches of

physical science.
The discovery of the polarization of heat will certainly
form an epoch in the history of Natural Philosophy.

Most of Forbes' experiments are now easy to repeat,
even on a large scale, as class illustrations, so much

have galvanometers been improved since dynamical
notions of construction have been introduced by Sir W.

Thomson. The astatic pair of stout, long, needles com
mon, till very lately, to all the better instruments, has
within a few years been rapidly disappearing, and the
repetition of Forbes' experiments need now give no one

any    trouble ; but the discoveries     he made  are not the
less   meritorious on that account                 than Fara
                                      --any more

day's grand discovery of magneto-electricity by a feeble
motion of a delicate galvanometer is rendered of less

account by the tremendous currents developed of late
in the machines of Wilde and others. Rather let us be

ashamed that, with the more perfect appliances at our

command, we have not added to Forbes' results others

of equal or greater value, certainly now within our

reach, if we knew where to look for them, and destined,

perhaps, to be the class experiments of the next gene
ration.

Of great importance also are Forbes' researches on
the Conduction of Heat by iron bars, and his quantita

tive measurements of the conductivity of iron at various
temperatures. He had called attention, as early as 1833,
to the fact that the order of metals as regards thermal
462        THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.       [chap.

conductivity is the same as that for electric conductivity ;
and one grand result of his new inquiries was to show-
that, in iron at least, increase of temperature diminishes
the thermal conductivity as it had long been known
to diminish the electric conductivity ; and, curiously-
enough, in something approaching to the same propor
           Langberg, of Christiania, writing to Forbes in
tion. [M.
November   1853, says: 'Some days since I got the Report
'of the British Association for 1852, from which I see
' that you have experimentally proved the important fact
' that the conductivity of iron for heat diminishes as the
                            I have felt much interest in
4 temperature increases.   as I think I have myself shown
' reading this statement,
' (Po(/g. Annalen, v. 66, p. 1, 1845), that the conductivity
'of tin, lead, and steel, is a function of the temperature ;
' but the nature of my experiments did not allow me to

'find if it increased or diminished with the tempe-

'rature.'] The method employed by Forbes, which was
entirely devised by himself, was a singular improvement
upon that adopted by Biot and others, who, having
assumed the conductivity to be unaltered by temperature,
and having adopted for all temperatures an empirical
law of cooling by radiation and convection, deduced by

Fourier's methods the corresponding stationary distribu
tion of temperature ; and then, by the method of least

squares, endeavoured to make their observations agree
with it. Forbes deduced, by separate experiments, the
rate of cooling of his bar for all temperatures afterwards
to be observed. He also carefully measured the distri
bution of temperatures in the stationary experiment,

and used Fourier's method only for elementary portions
of the bar. His results are of great value, and accord
well with those since obtained by Angstrom by a totally
different, but also very ingenious, process.
     Another result of the same investigations, and one
of great interest and importance in modern science, is
his determination -- the earliest of much real value -- of

the absolute conductivity of a metal ; i.e., how much
heat passes per second per unit of surface through an
xiv.]  FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.                       463

iron plate of given thickness, whose faces are maintained
                                 As a proof of the
at constant given temperatures.

value attached by scientific men to these ingenious ex
periments, it is only necessary to mention that the
British Association has given a grant for their repetition

with the best attainable instrumental means, and for

their extension to other substances than that to which

Forbes was obliged by failing health to confine himself.
There is one point of Forbes' observations in this

matter which is so exceedingly curious and unlooked-for,
that in spite of Forbes' scrupulous accuracy and expe
rimental skill, we must hesitate fully to accept it until
it is confirmed by other observers : especially as he may
have been led to it by the imperfection of his ther
mometers, or the exceeding difficulty of properly con
ducting this part of the experiment at very high
temperatures. The result in question is that, while (as
has long been known) the rate of cooling of a body by
simultaneous radiation and convection increases at first

faster and faster as its excess of temperature over that
                            is true only for a
of the air increases, this  the rate of increase  range of

150° C, or so, after which                         becomes1

slower and slower as the excess increases. In other
words, if a curve be drawn whose abscissae are the

excesses of temperature, and its ordi nates the corre
sponding rates of cooling, this curve will be concave

upwards till about 150° C, and will there have a point
of contrary flexure.
Another extremely valuable investigation of Forbes
is that of Underground Temperatures. The principle on

which to proceed had, however, been here clearly pointed
out by Fourier ; and had been made use of by various
observers in France and Belgium, and even by Sir John
Leslie in this country. The value of Forbes' results
                                 ;

                                                    is,
nevertheless, very great. The five-year series of obser
vations on the sets of thermometers buried in three

totally different surface-materials near Edinburgh gave,
by comparison, very important information and, sepa
rately, enabled him to give, we believe for the first time,
464                      THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.       [CIIAP.

a satisfactory absolute determination of the thermal con
ductivity of three different materials. In his reduction

of these experiments, Forbes unfortunately followed an
imperfect and inconvenient rule given by Poisson. Sir
W. Thomson has, however, applied the correct analysis,
and finds results not very different from those obtained
by Forbes. Another important feature in this inquiry
is that the series of thermometers buried in the trap-rock
of the Calton Hill, within the grounds of the Edinburgh
Observatory, are still (with the exception of the twelve-
foot one, which was broken by the intense cold of the
winter of 1860-1) read once a week, and have recently
furnished materials for a remarkable paper by the As
tronomer Royal for Scotland.1

    We may next mention Forbes' elaborate paper, On the

Transparency of the Atmosphere, and the Law of Ex
tinction of the Solar Rays in passing through based

chiefly on valuable series of experiments made in the
of                             ;

                   4, a                            it,
Alps by means of the pyrheliometer which had the dis
tinction of being made the Bakerian Lecture for 1842.

   In a paper entitled Hints towards a Classification

     Colours, read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh
                         1848, and January 15, 1849, Forbes called
December

attention to the importance of method of defining
colours with precision both for scientific and for artistic
purposes. In this paper he adopted from Lambert and
Mayer not only their arrangement of colours in pyramid
                               aa
                                                         a
or triangle, but their choice of the colours which are to
a

be regarded as primary, namely red, yellow, and blue.
He afterwards attempted to form permanent diagram of

colours selected from the collection of artificial enamels

employed in the Vatican fabric of mosaic pictures, by
comparing these enamels with the tints formed by the
mixture of the primaries on rapidly revolving disk.
                         ;

                                   a
                                                         a
He found, however, on attempting to form neutral gray,
by the combination of red, blue, and yellow, that the re
sulting tint could not be rendered neutral by any com
bination of these colours and the reason was found to

     1  Edinb. Observations, 1860-70. Proc. It S., 1871.
xiv.l  FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.                               4G0

be that blue and yellow do not make green, but a pinkish

tint, when neither prevails in the combination. It was

plain that no addition of red to this could produce a
neutral tint. The fact that green cannot be formed by a
mixture of blue and yellow was pointed out by E. C.
Wiinch1 and by Young,2 but the contrary was still be
lieved by the highest optical authorities. The reason why
mixtures of blue and yellow pigments are often green
was soon after explained by Helmholtz ; and Clerk-
Maxwell, who was one of Forbes' pupils and witnessed
his experiments, was led by them to make experiments
on the mixtures of the colours of the solar spectrum,
which showed that a yellow, equal to that of the spec
trum, can be produced by the mixture of green and red

light.
    Of some other physical investigations by Forbes, such

as those upon the Trevelyan experiment, and upon Am
pere's experiment which exhibits the repulsion between
elements of the same straight current, with various other
questions connected with heat and electricity, we need
not say much. There can be little doubt that Forbes
did not so clearly apprehend the nature of the questions
at issue as to be enabled to bring his unquestioned ex
perimental skill properly to bear upon them. Con
sequently he was led to oversights, and, in one case at
least, to serious mistakes. Some of this may be traced
to a singularly erroneous idea, as to the nature of the
relation between heat and electricity, which seems to
have haunted him all his life, and occasionally to have led
him to waste a great deal of time on experiments which
physical science enables us to say could not possibly lead
to anything in the direction in which he was seeking to
go. He possessed, indeed, untiring energy coupled with
rare sagacity and experimental skill, and everything he
published may be fully relied on as a faithful description
of what he observed. But it must be recollected that he

   1 'Versucho und Beobachtungen iiber die Farben des Lichts  '
Leipzig, 1792.

  2 Lecture XXXVII.
                                      II H
400           THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [CHAP.

was to a great extent prevented from fully appreciating
such a theory, for instance, as that of Ampère, by the

fact that he. does not seem   to have had   any special talent
for higher mathematics.                     to his credit that,
                             It is greatly
almost without assistance, he mastered sufficient mathe

matical knowledge to lay amply that solid foundation

which is absolutely essential for the true scientific teach
ing of every branch of physics. But he did not wield
the higher analysis with facility in original investigations.
In fact, considering the natural bent of his mind to such
studies as mineralogy, geology, and meteorology, it is
wonderful to find him so very high in the list of original
experimenters ; and it would not have appeared at all
strange had he been totally ignorant of all but the
elements of mathematics.

   Forbes' Correspondence (which his executors have
placed in my hands) cannot fail to prove, some day, of
very great importance to the future historian of the
progress of physical science, alike in this country and
abroad, during the last forty years. Every letter he
received, whether from a great master or from a mere
amateur observer or critic, he carefully docketed and
preserved. Every letter he wrote was transferred by
copying ink into his letter-book. Sufficient extracts
from his own letters have been given in the preceding
chapters. Among his correspondents, not to mention
any still alive, we find such names as Brewster, Cauchy,
Ellis, Faraday, Herschel, Mclloni, Murchison, Powell,
Rendu, Whewell, &c. &c. ; and several of them give de
tailed remarks upon subjects at which he was working, or
which happened to form the novelty of the day. Unfor

tunately, so far as this collection relates to great parts
of Forbes' own work, it is yet too soon to try to avail
ourselves of  except in very incomplete manner.
              it,

                                         a

The reasons will be obvious to those who think of the

numerous controversies into which he was dragged.
For, though many extracts, and even entire letters, may
be selected which arc free from controversy, yet in general
these would give but an imperfect notion of the import
XIv.]       FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.                                                                                    467

of the whole. Others, again, cannot be published at
present because the writers supply him with details of
that mysterious wire-pulling which seems to be in
separable from every transaction involving honours

(scientific, in common with all others, it is humiliating

to have to confess). The value of this unique series
     however, so great, and its preservation so complete,
is,

     it

           is

                                      it
that   to be hoped that                               may be safely deposited

(under seal) in the care of some scientific society or
institution, to be opened only when all the actors have
assed from the scene. The hasty glance which have
                                                                                                                     I

estowed upon these less scientific letters has shown
me that Forbes attached great importance to mere
honorary distinctions, as well as to the opinions of others

regarding the value of his discoveries. It has opened
up view of to me totally unexpected feature of his
a
                     a
                                                   a
character, and enables me to understand many of his

remarks which had previously appeared either mean
ingless or inconsistent. But, throughout the whole of
the collection, the fearless honesty of the man shines
out conspicuous. And his correspondence also shows
that, though he was exact to halfpenny in every pecu
niary transaction, he could on fitting occasion be almost

lavish in bestowing money upon struggling worth. It
must be left to another generation, however, to decide
whether the details of all this shall be made public.
   In 1849 Forbes sent to the editors
                                                                                                           o--f the  Philosophical
Magazine the following short letter
a' '
               '

                 I

                          ir

                                                                                        '
                                                                                                          :
On the, alleged Evidence for a Physical Connection
   between Stars forming Binary or Multiple Groups,
   arising from the Proximity alone.

Gentlemen,                                                                                                 Melrose, July 13, 1849.
       In conformity with usage and with the spirit
of your journal, may perhaps be permitted to suggest
doubt as to the legitimacy of certain reasonings with
respect to the evidence for the physical connection of
binary or multiple stars arising from the mere fact of
their juxtaposition, as stated and applied by some of the

            HH           2
468                  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.         [chap.

Imost eminent writers on sidereal astronomy.              should

Iprobably have hesitated to oppose my solitary opinion to

that entertained by the eminent writers whom am

about to quote, had I not found it to be entirely
Isupported by the eminent authority of two friends to

whom separately proposed it.
   ' Nearly a century ago Mitchell computed the chances

to be 500,000 to 1 against the stars composing the group
of the Pleiades being fortuitously concentrated within

the small apparent space which they occupy ; and he

thence infers the probability of a physical connection
between them. Struve has pushed this consideration
much further. In his classification of double stars he

has applied the same argument to estimate the improba

bility of the occurrence of even single pairs of stars in
close proximity. He "calculates the odds at 9,570 to 1
against any two stars from the first to the seventh magni

tude inclusive, falling (if fortuitously scattered) within 4"
of each other. Now the number of such binary combina

tions actually observed at the date of this calculation

was already 91, and many more have been added to the

list. Again, he calculates that the odds against any two
stars fortuitously scattered, falling within 32" of a third,
so as to constitute a triple star, is not less than 1 73,524
to 1. Now, four such combinations occur in the
                     Sir   John Herschel, from whose Outlines of
heavens."
                     I    take this statement of Struve's results,
aAdsdtrso, n"omthye  conclusion of a physical connection of some

kind or other is therefore unavoidable."1

   ' Now, I confess my inability to attach any idea to
what would be the distribution of stars or of anything

Ielse, if "fortuitously scattered;" much more must
regard, with doubt and hesitation, an attempt to assign
a numerical value to the antecedent probability of any
given arrangement or grouping whatever. An equable
spacing of the stars over the sky would seem to me to
be far more inconsistent with a total absence of law or
If I1 ' Outlines of Astronomy, p. 564.
                                        recollect aright, tho passage
does not occur iu the edition in Lardner's Cyclopcedia.'
XIT.]           FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.                             469

principle than the existence of spaces of comparative

condensation, including binary or more numerous groups,
as well as of regions of great paucity of stars. Thus,
to take a familiar instance : No bad representation of

stars and their distribution may be made by sparking

viscid white paint from a coarse brush upon a dark
ground. It is impossible to
                             conceive   a             nearer approach
to a "random scattering."              am               assured by an
                              But I
ingenious friend, who has used this contrivance in aid of
pictorial effect, that such an artificial galaxy will present
every variety of grouping, with double and treble points

Iinnumerable (as I have indeed myself witnessed) ; nor

can well see how, upon any reasonable theory of chance,
it should be otherwise.

  ' I wish to restrict this letter to the end proposed, that
of nakedly setting forth a serious difficulty in an infer
aelnstoiacluminutelarptirveetaatiuotnhoroiftyn. atuIres, haslal nnctoitontehderefboyrehiagthtemanpdt
now to enquire more minutely into the history of the

error, if error it be, nor to insist on the great importance
of arguing correctly in cases which admit of so very

extensive application.

                       ' I remain, Gentlemen,
                             ' Yours faithfully,
                                    ' James D. Forbes.'

In 1850 he communicated to the British Association a

paper on the same subject, which was not immediately
published. Meanwhile, in July 1850, appeared in the
                           atrhteiclseubbjeyctS:i--r  J.  Herschel,  who
Edinburgh    Review an
thus writes  to Forbes on

' My DEAR SlR,               'Colungwood, July 27, 1850.
       I' had hoped to have been able to have sent
you a copy of an article in the last No. of the Edinburgh

Review, in which an objection advanced by you against

the argument from probability of a physical connection

between the individuals of a double star, drawn from

Imere juxtaposition, is attempted to be answered. But
470         THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                 [chap.

athmattoIldc,anonnoatppbelicastuiopnp,lietdhatwitthhe  type  ciospiberso. kenAlul pI,  and
                                                       any                             can

do therefore is to call your attention to the passage in
the article in question (page 36, Edinburgh Review,
No. 185), as, though you are not named as the author

of the argument in question, it will no doubt be recol

lected by many readers as resting on your authority.
     · Whether you may think the answer to your objection
a valid one, or not, it seemed worth while at least to set

Iin a clearer light than believe had been heretofore
done, the gist of the argument itself ; and at all events

I hope you will not find that the writer of the article in
question has in any way distorted or misrepresented

your meaning.

  ' Believe me, my dear Sir, you'rsJ.vFe.ryWt.ruHlye, rschel.'

     The passage in the Review is as follows :--

     ' Astronomy affords us a very remarkable example of
this nature, which we adduce, by reason of a singular
misconception of the true incidence of the argument
from probability which has prevailed in a quarter where
we should least have expected to meet it. The scatter
ing of the stars over the heavens, does it offer any
                          Icnalledpar"ticduoulabrl,e         "indo
indication   of law ?                                               the  apparent
proximity   of the stars                                             we  recognize

the influence of any tendency to proximity, pointing to
a cause exceptional to the abstract law of probability

resulting from equality of chances as respects the area

occupied by each starf To place this question in a
clear light, let us suppose that, neglecting stars below

the seventh magnitude, we have measured the distance

of each from its nearest neighbour, and calculated the
squares of the sines of half these distances, which there
fore stand to each other in the relative proportion of

the areas occupied exclusively by each star. Suppose
we fix upon a circular space of 4" in radius as the unit
of superficial area, and that we arrange all the results
so obtained in groups, progressively increasing from 0 by
XIv.]                   FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.     471

the constant difference of one such unit. Now, the fact

to which M. Struve originally called attention, and on
a

       of

                                is

                                     of

                                                         is ;
                                                                                                                            ;
                                                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                  is,
                                                                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                            a
which we believe all astronomers are agreed, that the

first of these groups out all proportion richer than
any the others, and that the numbers degrade in the
groups adjacent with excessive rapidity so that, for

example, calculating on the numbers given by Struve,
we find the first group to contain 180 cases the
next three 68, or on an average 22 each the next

twelve 70, or six each on an average and the next forty-
eight only 94 in all, averaging two to each, while
general average would assign ouly one star to 540,000
such units of area. The case, then, parallel to that of
   target of vast size, marked out into 6,700 millions of
equidistant rings, riddled with shot marks in the bull's
eye, and with a tolerable sprinkling in the first 50 or
60 rings, beyond which the whole area offers nothing for
remark indicative of any particular local tendency,
though dotted all over with marks, in the sparing
manner above described. Anyone who could view such

   target, bearing in mind what  said above, must
a                                is
                                         it
feel convinced that totally different system of aiming
had been followed in planting the interior and exteriora
balls. Such we conceive to be the nature of the argua
ment for physical connection between the individuals
                 a

of double star prior to the direct observation of their
   a

              ;
orbital motion round each other. To us appears con

clusive and         if  objected to on the ground that every

attempt to assign numerical value to the antecedent
probability of any given arrangement or grouping of
fortuitously scattered bodies must be doubtful, we reply

that this be admitted as an argument, there remains
   if

no possibility of applying the theory of probabilities to
any registered facts whatever. We set out with cer
                                                  a

tain hypothesis as to the chances, granting which, we
calculate the probability not . of one certain definite
                             of no importance whatever, but
arrangement, which      is

of certain ratios being found to subsist between the cases
in certain predicaments on an average of great numbers.
472  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                      [chap.

Interrogating Nature, we find these ratios contradicted

by appeal to her facts, and we pronounce accordingly

on the hypothesis. It may, perhaps, be urged that the
scattering of the stars is unfait accompli, and that their
actual distribution being just as possible as any other,
can have no a priori improbability. In reply to this

we point to our target, and ask whether the same reasoning
does not apply equally to that case ? When we reason
on the result of a trial which in the nature of things
cannot be repeated, we must agree to place ourselves in

idea at an epoch antecedent to it. On the inspection
of a given state of numbers we are called on to hold up
our hands on the affirmative or negative                       hoef stihteatequ?e's
                                                         side
tion, Bias or no bias ? In this case who                 can

     On receipt of this letter, and on reading the above ex

tract, Forbes seems at once to have set about rewriting

for the Philosophical Magazine his British Association

paper ; and for that purpose to have impressed into his
service as many of his scientific friends as possible.
Several of them furnished him with numerous letters
                                     of the question --
omnetvaaprhiyosuiscala--spescotms e   of them adding     mathematical   and
                                                         remarks not   very

complimentary to his critic. From these, which are all

extremely interesting and characteristic, we make as
many extracts as our space, and the nature of their

contents, will permit. We choose, in preference, those
which bear most directly on the nature and extent of
Forbes' own knowledge of such subjects.

                    From Prof. Kelland.
      I ' September 5th, 1850.

     ' will do my best to answer two of your questions.
     ' 1st. Is not
     _1             P(P ~ *) u · (P ~ n + 1)

                                    p"

approximately represented by

and why not ?                        P
XIv.]          FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WOliK.                                     473

' Take aps(impp-lel)c(apse-, 2n)=(p4.-3) _6             11 6

                  p* p p p*
_ _But
        1      <£_p^>*=  £     24 32                    16

                         p             +                P

                               P 2>
a totally different thing ; having (when p is very large)
to the former the ratio of 4 to 3.
' And why is this ? Simply because the large term
lipgoes out, and you take a false mean for the standing
terms,         is very large, and n very small,

                               p"
will be very nearly correct, but only when n is very small
compared with p.
iop4nrf2o5'ccc2o4oenms6mds0m.p2(uiwtttaiYhninnoigcgduhlao4ynag2osa5uker4ri3rtcoh7farom2n.r.srBetthpuoNeetao1tIw2,low,fgopiallrIlar,ictIaeihnmsmsf,etseaanarndode,otrfrgIvoirevesare, ymyoaosfnakudmfirlltauehiodlde-f
tipUcation and division) of finding the value of [your
Ilewaxripgllreefsisnnidounmtbheiitrsssecl--fo, rtrwheechti.cchalIcitnuvlaiostlivomensoreftohlellaobwraostr]ii.oousontlhyhaonopfeetihtyheoesure
difficult or complicated. It   is,
                                                     in fact, mere matter of
                                 if
multiplication and division.'                      '
                                                   a
               From Sir William Thomson.

....mean by                                             August \5th, 1850.

'              "Inphtyhseicafilrsctonpnleaccteio, n  "  we consider  what    we
                                                        between two  stars,  we
            a

find that unless we are to speculate upon the cause of

their being created near one another, or at least to
speculate as the nebular theorists have done,
                                                                     it  means

merely the stars being near enough to sensibly influence
one another's motions by their mutual attraction, and not
having vis viva enough in their relative motions to cause

at any subsequent time an enormously greater separation
474  THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                       [chap.

than they have at present. Hence, what we see of
double stars, and of groups of
tions, one purely geometrical   s(ttaors,whsuicghgesIts   two ques
                                                         alluded in

Section A), the other mechanical (which has only
occurred to me definitely since the meeting of the

 Ass' o1c. iaAtiroen)t.he stars of any individual group excessively
 near one another as compared with their distances from

 the earth ?
    ' 2. Are the vis vivas of different stars of a group

 estimated with reference to the centre of gravity of the
group, so small that they will always be excessively near
one another (unless disturbed by a body foreign to the
group) as compared with their distances from the earth ?

    ' The first question gives rise to some very curious

Igeometrical considerations, which I think (so far as

know of what has been written) have been overlooked
by those who have entered upon the probability calcu
lations. Let us for a moment conceive that the

individuals of a double star subtend an infinitely small
angle when seen from the earth. Then, either the stars
must be close to one another, or they must be in a
line passing through the earth. Now, in general, any
arrangement that may be made of points in space oj
three dimensions will be such that no two lines, each
joining two of them, will intersect. In a particular case
two of these lines may intersect, but there may be no

other two which do so. It will be only in more and

more special cases that there are more intersections
than that of one pair of lines, or that there are three or
more of the lines which have a common intersection.

Question 1 then resolves itself into two : -- Is there any
position in the universe where n (the number of double
stars usually reckoned) lines joining pairs of stars (of

such and such brightness as seen from that position)
intersect, or so nearly intersect that they all pass through

a space of which the lineal dimensions are small com
pared with the distances and the difference of the dis
tances of the two individuals of each pair from that
xiv.]            FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.                 475

position ? and is the earth at present in that position ?
These two last questions would be excessively impro-

hably answered in the affirmative if we merely knew
that there are stars and an earth in space ; and therefore
the supposition that the individuals of many of the
double stars are far from one another as compared with

their distances from the earth is d priori excessively
improbable. I scarcely tbink the calculations which
have been made have any reference to the probability of
aTQnhueeaysntisoawnll,ers1o,tobfauertitahIseraImokfntnohowet,secreoslnuaftbiedseidtnioat rsyuinbjqeucthetssistioonofspwinohiroicnoh.f
the scattering of Band upon a surface, from a sieve,
Iwhich you adduced, is an illustration, but
                                             doubt

whether the three dimensions of the geometrical question
have been properly taken account of.
    ' Question 2 gives rise to some excessively curious con
siderations regarding ' the motion of a system of points
acting on one another according to Newton's law. "Will
it not be only in special cases that any two will ever

come to be extremely near one another as compared
with their distances from the others, unless they are so
initially ? Again, it is certainly only in a special case
that a pair, at any time far asunder, shall come to be
very near, and that another pair shall come to be very
near at the same time ; and that numerous pairs may

come to be very near, two and two, at the same time, is
still more special. Hence it is excessively improbable
that Question 2 could be answered otherwise than in the
affirmative. Would it not be altogether futile to at

tempt to estimate numerically this improbability ? . . .'

                 From Bishop Terrot.

' DEAR PROFESSOR,  'Edinburgh, October 1(Hh, 1850.

your     '       . I was from home  when Prof. Kelland    left
found                                                     and
             ..   dated August 30.    I returned home     the
                 October 5 ; this date I have written on
       paper

       it on
back. I will take care both of the letter and paper.
476               THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                           [chap.

     I'Of the latter       have read a few pages respecting
IMitchell. You hold as do that he makes the atrocious
blunder of saying that the antecedent improbability of
an event is the consequent probability of its having a

physical cause, e.g. that if the odds against throwing
aces with two dice be 1 to 35, then (the aces having
turned up) the odds for the dice being loaded or some
Iequivalent cause is 35 to 1.
                                                                 can scarcely
   ' But then this blunder is so gross that
believe it could be swallowed by Herschel or any of the
men of science who have endorsed Mitchell's argument.
This leaves a sort of vague suspicion upon my mind that
we do not do Mitchell justice.
   ' I am
            gratified by   y--ouforr  qIuohtaatdionwrfirtotemn   Laplace  as to
regular     distributions                                          down   some

thing to the same purpose, with the addition that it is
regularity which induces us to believe in design, and
that as there is no unit of perfect regularity there can be
no definite expression of imperfect regularity by means
of such     fractions  as Mitchell gives.
                       my dear Sir, yours
              I' am,                       faithfully,
                                      ' C H. Terrot, Bp.'

                   From Sir George Airy.
                'Royal
'.   .   .              Observatory, Greenwich,              October Wth, 1850.
            " Article
                        23, beginning." This                is the only place
Iin which you have adverted to the long run of many

trials as entering into a chance-problem : and think
Ithe want of more energetic reference to it is a defect
in your paper.          think that that consideration is the
                       calculations of probabilities.
foundation   of   all
   'Article         "  IAn axiom which cannot be admitted as
             2.8
                  :      think in discussing Mitchell on chances

certainly true."
you must admit it as certainly true. It is the mathe
matical expression of chance. The denying it amounts
simply to saying that there cannot be any chance,
in a shape for mathematical consideration, in the whole
matter ; and it    m"igThetndasinwg elul ltbiemsaatiedlyin
   ' Article 30 :                                            so  many words.
                                                            to   uniformity of
xit.] FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.                                                477

effect over given areas." I think you are quite wrong

as below.

  'Article 31 : "It is in fact convertible with this. Every
                 will include as many stars as any
portion,    &c.  think you are here most absolutely                           other."'
Negatur.                                                                      wrong.
              I
All that is meant by being as likely to be in one situa
tion as another is this, that if the experiment of creating

a starry firmament were repeated a great many times,

and if you took the mean of the number of stars found,

at all the times, in each particular square degree, the

greater the number of such creations, the more nearly
would the mean contents of each square degree approach

to uniformity.                                                           If   I might
   ' This
            atoffeicntds icsaetveerawlhatthinIgtshiwnhkicah   follow.  fault  in your
presume                                                      radical

paper, it is this misunderstanding of the doctrine of
                                it well.
chances.    A.P--rayI  look to  (but will not assert)        that there is
    ' Note             believe
                                Iyou have remarked           : if so, it also
an error in Mitchell, as
                                 which sent you.
affects the investigation
' And so end my comments. . . .'

                 ' Royal Observatory, Greenwich, October 26<A, 1850.

'     .  .  I have     had  no  further  opportunity                   of writing,

   .

and do not see the least prospect of leisure sufficient for
calm consideration of Struve and. Mitchell. Therefore,

do not reckon on that. Meantime I send you my

remarks applying to the three things which you say
a Mitchellite must believe, and you can judge whether
1 am Mitchellite or no.
' 1. "That there is a definite probability against two
stars being within a certain distance."
' Certainly there is : errors in calculation always ex
cepted. But this is to be taken in the sense which I
have before explained, that if it was possible to have a
great number of starry firmaments created, the average
number of the double stars would be determined nearly
by the law asserted.

   'But after finding that the chance
            if,
                                                                        is

                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                       10,000 to
478       THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                                  [chap.

against a double star, anybody           :in"feIrts     that    the existence
of a double star leads to this                          is a    probability of

10,000 to 1 that the existence of that double star is                    --dueI
to a cause unrecognized in our chance-calculations,"
say that such person is under a mistake. There is no
logical connection between the two. Possibly it would
Ibe so on the average of the great number of firmaments

as aforesaid, but on this am not able at this moment

to 'spIetahki.nk that  the  existence     of that double star        gives a
                        of  law, but                                 to give
small probability                        I am not in a state

an '2es.tim" aTtehaot fththeerepirsoba ambailtithye.matical certainty of cause or
design if two stars and the spectator are in the same line."

   ' Certainly not. The chance of it is, as we say, in
finitely small (a bad word), which means that if a million
of money depended on finding the thing, the chance
when you are turned adrift in a new cosmical system is
not worth the millionth part of a farthing, but it is as
possible as ever, without special cause or design.
'There are, in this neighbourhood, four conspicuous
objects sensibly in a straight line (three church-spires
and the centre of           Iawcilol nwspailckuoyuosu           of   trees or
"spinney"), which                                       clump        the next
                                                        to see  on
clear day that you are here : everybody who sees it
remarks, "How curious," but nobody insinuates either
that they were so set on purpose, or that it was im

possible that they could have so come by the mere
Iaccident of

would offer
          four independent               local selections. But
          a very large bet,
                                         I mean very large odds,
that you will not find such a thing near Edinburgh, or

even      an"yTwhhaetreaelusenifnoeramr  London.    of  the   stars  is  more
    ' 3.                                   spacing

probably the result of chance than any other observed
order of distribution."
' Certainly not-- as a consequence of any theory of
probabilities. Surely Mitchell cannot have said any
thing so absurd. There is nothing in the result of pro

Ibabilities that bears on it except in the sense that
xiv.]             FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.                      479

have said, that you must take a great number of starry
heavens, and take the average of all.
' The number of persons on the different parts of

London Bridge at any moment, when there is no spec
tacle of any kind, is a pure matter of chance (i.e. depends
on laws which we are not considering) ; yet, as 1 know
well, they are most oddly grouped, without any sort of
                                                          of 100 different
uniformity.     But,  dtaayk,inIgaptphreehaevnedratgheat  the mean would
states in the  same

be a very uniform treading of the pavement. . . .'

                  From R. Leslie Ellis.

                            ' Axglesea House, Great Malvekn,

' My dear Sib,                                Sept. 3rd, 1850.
       I'
          ..   .  am  glad  to see by what you have             sent

me, for which pray accept my thanks, that you have
begun to say something touching one of the popular
applications of the theory of probabilities.

   ' The simple view of the matter seems to me to be,

that whenever we perceive a relation among phenomena
we are disposed to infer the existence of a relation among
their causes, and that the strength of such an inference
varies with an infinity of circumstances, and in particular
Ifwith what may be called the d priori conceivability of
the existence of the causal relation.                     in the midst of

the stream of people whom you meet in the Strand you

see a group gathered together at a particular spot, you
infer that they are interested about the same object,
whatever that may be : the strength of the inference
varying with the size of the group, the similarity of their
appearance, &c. ; and in this case you know that a

common cause may very well have produced what you
observe. To set this last condition aside, and to attempt
to estimate the force of the inference by the theory of
probabilities, is to leave out something which is essential,

and to introduce something which is irrelevant to the

matter in hand. Everything which exists is d priori
infinitely improbable, as that this sheet of paper should
480          THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                               [chap.

be the precise size that it is of all the infinite variety of

possible sizes, &c.
    ' Consequently the improbability that the actual angular
distance between Aldebaran and Arcturus should be

within certain limits may, if the limits be taken narrow

enough, be made to exceed as much as we please the
improbability that there should be 91 cases of stars

lying within 4" of each other. If, therefore, in the case
of double stars we are bound to believe in physical con
                                             priori improbability       of what
nection because of the              a                                   of man
                                   do        not see how the wit
is observed to exist, I
can escape from the conclusion that we are bound also to
Ifbelieve in a physical connection between Arcturus and
Aldebaran.                         it be said that the cases are not parallel
except quoad the numerical calculation, I answer that
this is undoubtedly true ; but then the remark admits
that the numerical calculation is in itself no ground for
inference in either case. And so, as they used to say in

the schools, eadit qucestio.
     ' Avec des chiffres on pent tout demontrer, ought to be
the  motto    of   most of the               philosophical    applications of
the  theory  of   probabilities --           which in its   own nature and

according to the plain view of                  it,     only development
                                                    is, is

                                                               .
                                                                     .

                                                                  .'
                                                                    a
of the theory of combinations. To attempt to constitute
     into the philosophy of science,                    in effect, to destroy
' it

                '

                                ;

              it I
the philosophy of science altogether.

My DEAR FORBES,                              '  Belgrave Place, October 8th.

     . . . am greatly pleased with your argument
in general                       expresses what have long thought. The
                                             I

                                                    is
foundation of all the confusion the notion that the

numerical expression of chance expresses the force of
                                   it

                                          a
expectation, whereas only expresses the proportion of
frequency with which such and such an event occurs on
the long run. From this notion that chances express

something mental or subjective, derived the assump
                                                is

                                                           it
tion that the force of belief touching past events admits
of numerical evaluation as well as the force of expecta

tion touching future. If this were true, would be a
  xir.] FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.                                                                         481

  legitimate inquiry to try to assign" numerical values to
  the force of belief in any given cases. All this folly, for
  one cannot give it any other name, grows out of such
  statements as "certainty is equal to unity," and the like.
  tIitonbaelilsotnsg--s  to the school of Condillac
                         they were in the ascendant       and                  the                        sensa
                                                        when                   the
                                                                                                         theory
  of probabilities received its present form, and there has

  not      Iyehtopbeeeynouphwiloilslonpohtyiceentohueghextqoueisxipteel   it.  sequitur                  in
        '                                                                non

  Mitchell's argument. All that it can tend to prove
                                                                               a is
  that there some reason why so many stars appear very
           a                                                                        a
                    is                                                                        ? is,
  near one another. Let this be granted, and that you
  have numerical expression of the cogency of the con
clusion. What connection there between this and the
                            is
                                       is

                                                     ?
  conclusion that they are near -- or that there                                                         phy

  sical connection, to use Herschel's phrase, among them

  How the observer drunk There will then be reason
           if

  enough why he should see double stars, and reason
which applies to all the stars he looks at. Mitchell's
conclusion, therefore, would be justified in the case of

such an observer. Only the common reason here apply

ing to all the stars merely subjective and phenomenal.
               V

                            .
                               .

                                 is
And to set aside this illustration, how are we in any case

numerically to estimate the chance that the common
reason really belongs to the essential nature of the

question                 .

                                     'Belgrave Place, Brighton,

  My dear Forbes,                                       October \0th [1850].

I'                   . send you the second sheet, on which
  have less to remark than on the first, little as that was.
           '                                                                                             I

               .
                    .

                 I

    should rather have liked you to insist more on the
point that such phrases as mere chance, at random, and
the like have really no meaning at all except with
reference to the knowledge of the observer and with his
system of classifying phenomena. For everything which
                                                                         what
exists there                definite reason why                                                          and as
it

    is

            ;

                   is

                            a

                                                                                                      ;

                                                    it

                                                                   is

                                                                   it

                                                                                     is
           the only question being what analogy exists among
the causes of analogous phenomena in other words, what
4S2              THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                           [chai\

general propositions can be affirmed about them, or,

which is again the same thing, what law or laws they
fulfil. However the stars had been fixed in the visible
heavens, each of them must have been fixed there by an
                                     it just                                     i"t   is. "Random
adequate      c"ause,       fixing                where                               nomen rei quae
scattering                 to use   Bacon's       words,
is,
                      is,
non est, aut confusae et male terminatae." The question
     Do the phenomena suggest to us the idea that the

causes which placed the stars as they are, are connected
Ifwith certain regions of the sky rather than with others

    e.g. all the stars lay between the tropics, there could
be no doubt as to the answer. As                  : it                                  is

                                                       is,                                  a

                                                                                                                     ?
                                                                                 there  certain

presumption from the observed lists of double stars.
oBfutevianluathteionfi--rstnoplparceesutmhipstiopnresduomesptioannddoseesconnodtlya, dmit
                                                                                        if

                                                                                           it

did, the evaluation could only relate to the phenomena,
                                           of the luminous points
viz.,  to the    aIpfpawreentdivpildacees                                             multitude  we
call   stars.                              space into                            a                of

cones whose vertices are in the observer's eye, there

would, according to the probabilitarians, be a numerical
expression of the presumption that certain of these cones
favour the existence of stars rather than others. But

while the earth was supposed the centre of the universe,

people would have been contented to say that stars
tended to lie rays converging towards it. No one
                 in

                     it a

                           is
                                                                              ;
now would offer this explanation but no one, on the
other hand, gives numerical estimate of its improba
bility. And yet
                                    only because we reject                              that
                                                                                        ifc
the supposed calculable presumption in favour of a ten
                                                                                                is
dency in the stars to apparent nearness leads us to any
inference as to their real nearness. Nevertheless the

transition from apparent nearness to real nearness
the very essence of the matter in dispute.
     Do not think that any of this or of my marginal
notes in the nature of contradiction or even criticism.
   '

          is

More    l"ikcealcthueluslaotfteprrobabilirteiems a"rkseemws ilol bjaedcdt,ionthaabtle            the
phrase                     is
                                a

                                        I

occurs in      thtehelawsot rdpa"rtcawlchuicluhs  r"eianchmedathmeemastiniccse          I
to write)
                                                                                                   (it
                                                                                            began
              :                                                                         seems to

V
xiv.]              FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.                              483

express a mode of calculating -- a method rather than a
theory. One does not say the differential theory, but
Ithe differential calculus, and e converso should rather
Ipsahyrastehe"otrhye
            of probabilities than  calculus.              like your
            laws of random." . .
                                   .
                   ' Yours very truly,
                                                        ' R. L. Ellis.'

    To what extent these and other very numerous sugges
tions and criticisms were taken advantage of by Forbes
in finally preparing his paper for publication we can only
roughly guess, inasmuch as we are not in possession of a
copy of the original proof submitted to the critics. Forbes
himself says in a postscript that several modifications
and additions had been made, and that he had profited
by the kind criticisms of several friends to whom he

submitted the argument. The paper as it stands, in the
Philosophical Magazine for December 1850, is well
worthy of careful perusal, but in no wise from a mathe
matical point of view. Experiments, indeed, performed

by dropping rice-grains through a sieve upon a chess
board, and counting the number on each of the squares,
are given in illustration ; but, so far as we can see, the
paper is much too diffuse, and one or two pregnant

sentences from the letters we have quoted might here
and there have been substituted with advantage for whole

sections    Ftoogrebtehse'r.ownThweordcosn:c--lusions,   however, must be
                                                        of Mitchell is erro
giv'en in   The fundamental principle
                                                         it is an altogether
      (1.)
neous ; the probability expressed by
different probability from what he asserts. His calcula

tions are also apparently inaccurate, in some instances at

least.1
'           All the numerical deductions
                                                        of his successors are
 (2.)
equally baseless.
   '(3.) Were Mitchell's principle just, a perfectly uni
form and symmetrical disposition of the stars over the

  1 ' It would probably be more correct to say that all   Mitchell's

calculations are wrongly deduced from his own premises.'

                                      II2
481                THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBhS.                        [chap.

sky would          possible) be that which could alone afford
                   (if

                                    a
do evidence of     c"a--usatiroens,ultorpaalnpyabilnytearfbesruerndc.e  with the
laws of "random

     '  (4.) Special collocations, whether (a) distinguished

by their symmetry, or (/9) distinguished by an excessive
crowding together of stars, or the reverse, inevitably force
                                     mind more or less vague impression
on      cthaeusarteiaosno, n--ingan   impression necessarily vague, havinga
of

nothing absolute, but depending on the previous know
ledge and habits of thought of the individual, therefore

incapable of being made the subject of exact (i.e. mathe

a    matical) reasoning.
    '      (5.) The form of error into which those have been

     led who had stated numerical probabilities against given
     arrangements of stars being the result of accident,
                                              a
     twofold. First, confusion between the expectation of
       given event in the mind of person speculating abouta

     its occurrence, and an inherent improbability of an eventit a
                   I
                          a                                                                                  '
                                  '
                                 p.                                                           : is
     happening in one particular way when there are many

     ways equally possible. Secondly, too limited and

     baerbinitgra"rysccaottnecreepdtiobny  of the utterly  avs agume igprhetmhisasppoefnst"a--rs
                                           mere chance,

a    statement void of any condition whatever.'

     He next recapitulates in succinct form some of the

     precediug arguments, and then proceeds (without naming
     Herschcl as the author in question) to show that an
     ingenious writer in the Edinburgh Review' has repre
     sented him as making averments foreign to his thoughts

     and has overlooked the precise objections contained

     in his letter (ante, 467), and the precise statements
     there quoted from Herschel's Astronomy. 'The* re
     viewer,' he says, charges me with singular miscon
     ception of the true incidence of the argument from
                                                           a

                                                                      if
                                                                                  it
     probability.  can only say that my error,                          such

     be, one sanctioned by Sir John Herschel, to whom
I

        is
     referred as my authority.'               .  .

     'The necessity of such definite citation has become

     Ifevident from the misapprehensions to which have beenI

     exposed.      Mitchell's deductions had remained buried
XIv.]                      FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.                           4*5

in the   I         heavy quartos of the "    Philosophical Transac
tions,"             should not have thought   that the refutation of

them was so important.'
The extracts and quotations we have given will suffice
to show that Forbes, from a mere common-sense point
of view, though with quite unnecessary elaboration, hit
upon a real blot in Mitchell's argument, and rightly
denounced its revival in Sir John Herschel's justly cele
brated text-book. But they also show that in dealing
with the subject, he fell, at first at least, into mistakes

quite as grave as those he was endeavouring to expose.
The following account of Forbes' geological work is

quoted, by permission, from an excellent obituary
notice by Professor Geikie, in the ' Proceedings of the

Geological Society of Edinburgh.'
   ' Principal Forbes was born just twelve years after the
                               H"utIltlouns,traotniolyns
death of the great                                        seven  years after the
publication of the                                           of  the Huttonian

Theory," and he was already a boy of ten when Playfair
died. Many of his friends had been personally ac
quainted with these philosophers, and the memory of
the fierce Plutonian and Neptunian war was still fresh
in their minds when he began to give himself to scientific
pursuits. These early influences are traceable all through
his life. He was profoundly impressed with the origin
ality and truth of the views propounded by Hutton, and
                                     In one of his earliest papers he
illustrated        by   Playfair.  Huttonian theory which Playfair
refers to "        the  splendid
undertook so ably to illustrate." 1 In one of
                               with enthusiasm of the              "hipsrelcaitoeusst
lwesrsitoinngs s"  he speaks   of his friends had drawn             from the
                   which one
lips of Playfair and of Hall.2 I shall never cease to
remember with gratitude that it was he who introduced
                                             "ofIlltuhsetsreatimonassterso.f  He
me, when           a boy,  to  the writings
used to            speak   of    Playfair's                                   the

Huttonian Theory," as one of the best books ever
written upon the first principles of geological science.

                    1 Edin. Jour. Science, New Series, i. p. 274.
                   2 Proc. Roy. Soc. Edinburgh, v. 63.
-18fi        TIJE. LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.              [chap.

       ' Forbes' first effort in scientific literature, so far as I
hyd"aeaEvateedr.dinbbefruIeotrnmgthaoboRlkeoJomtthuoeer,ndsiashwclaoiptvheeorfo,thf ewSaactislieetlntwectereirt"teRton(e1mt8ihn2ae8rhk)eis,s"dieotoinagrnhdtMoefoenuwttnhahets
              It formed, however,
Vesuvius."                           m"ePrehlyysicthael  prelude  to
a series of  eight papers, entitled                      Notices  of

the Bay of Naples," which were sent at intervals to the

same journal.

   'This series of papers is one of singular merit, con
sidered as the work of so young a man. He describes

with considerable detail his personal explorations in the
volcanic districts, digesting at the same time the pub

lished information on the subject, and presenting a
clear narrative of the physical features of that interest
ing region. Of special excellence is the fifth paper of
the series, in which he enters learnedly into the history
of the Temple of Jupiter Serapis at Pozzuoli. After

enumerating the different hypotheses which had been
proposed in explanation of the remarkable geological
features of the ruin, he adopts and enforces that which

has since been universally acquiesced in, and has become
familiar from the writings of Sir Charles Lyell. He
shows very clearly that the evidence points to oscillation
of the land with respect to the level of the sea, and that
other proofs of the same fact are furnished by adjacent

parts of the Mediterranean shores. In his concluding
paper he offers a resumS of the information he had been
able to gather relative to the formations of the volcanic

Neapolitan district.
   ' No one can read these, the earliest productions of the

late Principal, without recognizing in them evidence of
that scrupulous carefulness and caution which distin
guished their writer from first to last. They show, too,
the pains which he always took to make himself
thoroughly acquainted with the literature of a subject

before venturing to write upon it himself. Nor was
his reading confined to his own language ; it extended
to the ancient and modern tongues in which the subjects
XIv.]             FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.                -187

he happened to be studying were discussed, or through
which collateral   information might be gathered.
   ' Another of   his early contributions to geology  is  in

the form of a short letter to Professor Jameson, on the
                         greenstone boulder in
occurrence  of  a large  from Colinton House,   the  Pentland
            is  dated                            3d   August,
Hills.1 It
1829, when its writer was a little over twenty years of
age. It gives an account of the position of the boulder,
its composition, dimensions, and specific gravity. But
the chief interest it possesses lies in the broad generali
zation which the young observer drew from the facts he
had so carefully noted. The boulder lay upon the side
of a small, steep ravine, and its position there was such
           lead him to regard the induction as undeniable,
a"sthtaot  the excavation of the valley must have taken place

subsequently to the deposition of this boulder." He

remarks further, that this inference as to the lateness of

the erosion of valleys is forced upon us by many other
instances, which intimate the gradual degradation of the

soil. Those who have watched the progress of geological
discussion in recent years will see at how early a period
our departed friend had acquired clear views upon this
subject, and had based them upon the results of actual

observation. This early paper is further interesting, in
asmuch as it serves to indicate the special field of geology
into which Forbes' natural instincts turned him, and in

which he was destined in later years to reap so abundant
a harvest. He had often read, and treasured in his

memory, the eloquent passages in which Playfair, follow
ing in the path of Hutton, had expounded the erosion of
valleys, and the universal decay and waste of the conti

nents. He saw that the happy suggestions and sagacious
inferences of these philosophers ought to be regarded in the
light rather of an outline of what remained to be dis

covered, than as the epitome of a completed philosophy.
Whatever related to the forces which work upon the
surface of the earth and effect geological changes had a

special charm for him. It was this tendency which led
          l Edin. New Phil. Jour., vol. vii. p. 259 (1829).
488  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.      [chap.

him to wander, with more than a tourist's curiosity,

among the glaciers of Switzerland ; which first suggested
to him the idea of working out, by accurate observation,
the real cause of glacier-motion, still, in his opinion,
undiscovered, and which brought him back, year after
year, to these great mountains, where he toiled with a

devotion that told at last upon his physical frame.
   ' The lessons which he had laboriously learnt among
the living ice-rivers of the Alps bore fruit when he came
again to wander among the more mountainous regions of
his own country. In the year 1840 Agassiz had made
the startling announcement . that the British Islands had
once been deeply buried under a vast mantle of snow

and ice, and that the traces of its seaward motion were

yet fresh and clear upon the sides of the countless valleys
among the uplands. Following up the observations of
the Swiss naturalist, Buckland and Lyell had pointed out
the former existence of glaciers in the Highlands and
other parts of the country. When, however, we look
back upon the early discussion of this subject, we are

forced to admit that conclusions were often based upon
                                       In particular,
very hasty and imperfect observation.
glacier-moraines were often recognized in places where
no geologist would now be able to find them. Much as
Forbes knew of the geological effects of ice, his natural
caution kept him from taking part in this discussion for
a time, until he was able to produce more accurately
determined data than had, in many cases at least, been
available. In the year 1845 he visited the Isle of Skye.
and his eye, already trained to recognize the traces of
vanished glaciers in Switzerland, was at once struck by
the identity of the forms assumed by the rocks at Loch
Scavaig with the roches moutonni'es of the Alps. Further
investigation led him to obtain complete demonstration

of the former presence of a group of glaciers descending
from the rugged scarps of the Cuchullin Hills. He
walked over mountain and glen, filling in a rough
sketch-map of the glacier valleys as he went along, and
in December of the same year he read a narrative of his
XIv.]  FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.           48'J

observations to the Royal Society of Edinburgh. This
was the most detailed and satisfactory account which
had yet been given of the proofs that the Highlands of
Britain once nourished groups of glaciers.1

   ' In the year 1851 Professor Forbes undertook a journey

to Norway, partly to make observations of the great
solar eclipse, and partly drawn by his love of physical

geography, and notably of glaciers. It was his design

to compare the phenomena of glaciers in Northern
Europe with those already so familiar in Switzerland.
This he has done in a masterly way. His pages contain,
in a clear and succinct form, the sum of all that was

known at the time regarding the snow-line and the

existing glaciers of Norway. I have myself gone over

much of the ground he has described, and can bear
witness to the accuracy of his sketches, alike of pencil
and of pen. His two chapters on the physical geography
of Norway have always appeared to me to be a master

piece of careful yet rapid observation, broad generaliza

tion, and clear description.

   ' But though the tendency of his researches in geology
was mainly towards the investigation of the phenomena
connected with changes in the outline of the surface, he
did not neglect the study of minerals and rocks, in which
he had been trained under Jameson. Previous to 1836,

with the view of learning more of the history of ancient
geological upheavals, he had examined "the trap-rocks
of our own island, the ophites of the Pyrenees, and the
serpentines of Anglesea and the Lizard ; the porphyries
of Northern Italy, the granite veins of Mounts Bay and

Glen Tilt ; the ancient volcanoes of Auvergne, the Eifel,
the Siebengebirge, and of Rome ; and the modern volcano
of Vesuvius."2 In December 1835 he gave to the Royal

Society of Edinburgh a narrative of his researches in

Central France, dwelling more especially on the analogies
between the volcanic rocks of that district and the

trappean masses of his own country. Throughout his
narratives of foreign travel, also, we everywhere meet

1 Edin. Xew Phil. Jour., vol. zl. p. 76.  2 Ibid., vol. xxi. p. 2.
490      THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.            [chap.

with indications that, though busied with what had
become his own more special branch of the science, he
remained no indifferent observer of the rocks among

which his journeys led him. He retained his fondness

for mineralogy up to the end. When I last saw him at
St. Andrews, he showed me a collection of veined agates
which he had accumulated in the course of years, and
with which he used often to beguile a little leisure in
trying to speculate upon the manner in which the con

centric siliceous coatings might have been formed.

   ' But it is not from the nature or the number of
Principal Forbes' contributions to geology that his in
terest in our science is to be measured, or that we can
learn how much he really did for its promotion in this
--couanntroyf.ficeAswSheicchrethaeryhetoldthfeorRomyaalnySoyceiaertsy--ofasEdPirnobfeusrsgohr
here, and finally as Principal at St. Andrews, he had

numerous opportunities, which he was ever anxious to
use, of encouraging, by a kind word or deed, those who
were devoting themselves to geological pursuits. He had
watched, with a sadness which he used often to express
to his friends, how the halo which shone round Scottish

geology in his youth had slowly faded. The last time
                                            ofwEorddins b:--urg"hO, fthailsl
that he addressed   the  Royal   Society
feeling found vent       these  expressive
                    in

the  changes which have befallen    Scottish   science during
the  last half century, that which            deeply deplore,
                                    I most

and, at  otfheoursamonecetimilleu,strwioounsderGeaotl,ogiicsaltheSchporoogl."resx siveI
decay

may add that among the last letters which he wrote

before leaving this country for Cannes was one to myself,
in which he referred anew to the desirability of reviving
the active prosecution of geology in Scotland.'

   My own, almost schoolboy, recollections of Forbes as
a lecturer are still quite vivid. His clear, cold, un-
impassioned style suited admirably the eternal verity of
the laws he enunciated, explained, and illustrated by

                        1 Proc. Boy. Soc. Edin., vol. v. p. 18.
xiv.] FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WORK.                                                      491

well-chosen and invariably successful experiments. I
fcoarnnaoftewrecmoollmecetntso,nethiens"tasnecensaintiownahlic"hstyhlee
                                                                         adopted,   even
                                                                          which is  now

so terribly common : and which is too often employed,
after the manner of the cuttle-fish, to enable the lecturer

to escape from a difficulty in which his own ignorance

has involved him.
In mathematical applications, far from attempting to

gloss over a difficulty, he was almost painfully elaborate,
even in the simplest matters. For the bulk of his class

his lectures were admirably adapted : and there can be
no doubt that, had there been in his day a Physical
Laboratory attached to his chair, he would have sent out
many students trained, like his illustrious pupils Clerk-
Maxwell and Balfour Stewart, to perfection in nicety of
manipulation and accuracy of recording results.
From the students' point of view he was regarded as
too strict a disciplinarian, visiting with what we looked

upon as uncalled-for severity very slight infractions of
order. This, however, was but the natural outward ex

pression of his own intense earnestness of purpose and

sense of duty. All of us, who came to know him well,
found underlying it a grand substratum of geniality and
kindly interest.
ttheenLtigkFeeanreaBrdaraetiywons--tewirnhipachnhydsisicHajuel rssstcchiepenalcs,esinatghnedfrgoermveeantalmtuomonisngoasmtreieusse--xof
oFowrnbegsendeirdatinoont--futhlley                                      of our
                                     receive the   grand doctrine
                                     conservation  of energy.
                          CHAPTER XV.

FORBES' CONTRIBUTIONS TO OUR KNOWLEDGE OF GLACIERS.

To the non- scientific public there can be no doubt that

Forbes was known chiefly by his observations on gla

ciers : and, bearing this in mind, it is curious to find that,
from the scientific point of view, this part of his work
will bear comparison in importance with the remainder.

   It is not at the first reading of Forbes' works that we

can gather an adequate idea of the comparative value of
his contributions to the Natural History of Glaciers : for
in them, with scrupulous care, he gave at least full, some
times indeed excessive, credit to everyone who to his

knowledge had previously published on the subject.1 We
cannot too strongly insist upon this point, for he has
actually been charged with depreciating or suppressing
the claims of others ! Such charges could not have been
made by writers who had taken the trouble to read
carefully what they criticised ; for this characteristic of
almost morbidly scrupulous justness must strike every
one who is acquainted with any of Forbes' writings on

I 1 The curious and rare work of Bordier he seems not to have seen.
   find among his correspondence a letter from M. Studer, which con
                                                   which probably turned his attention
tains  the  following  :  --pa'sAsa-pgreo, paonsd  du petit bouquin de Bordier, je ne
from   the   subject

manquerai pas de chercher a vous le procurer, si l'occasion se prtisente.

Mais il est rare, ineme chez nous. Je l'avais trouve dans la biblio-

tbeque de nion pore. C'est surtout Bourrit qui parait avoir offutque

cu pauvre pasteur, par l'attaque dans le discours prelim, de sas Glaciers

de ISavoie, 1773.'
C7IAP. Xv.]  FORBES' GLACIER DISCOVERIES.  4!i:i

subjects which had been previously treated (however
superficially or even erroneously) by others. And no
where do we find it more conspicuous than in his
Travels through the Alps, where he collects the
scattered letters which he had for some time written to

Prof. Jameson, and adds to them the results of further

protracted and careful observation.
    He was the first who deserved to succeed in the study

of this very curious problem, for he was the first to go
to a glacier determined to measure and to examine what
actually takes place, unbiassed by a belief in and a
desire to promote any particular theory. Others pre
ceded him, but they too often went prepared to gather
only what could be made to fit in to the particular theory
of which they were the partisans, or they went altogether
unprepared with sound ideas of what to measure, and
suitable instruments wherewith to measure ; and, in

consequence, they missed, distorted, or misinterpreted
many of those points which Forbes saw almost at
once, and which very soon arranged themselves in his
mind in mutual interdependence. We may say at
once that Forbes did not completely solve this ex
tremely interesting problem. He nowhere asserts that
he has done so : and, indeed, some of his theoretical

conclusions are inconsistent with modern knowledge.
But there can be no question that his insight into the
problem, arrived at in at most a few weeks' measure
ment and study, was profound compared with that of
any of his contemporaries, wht» seem to have brought
to it little but a happy facility in taking for granted,
and a recklessness of the laws of dynamics which may
be fitly characterized as sublime. One of the few men
who seem, in any point of consequence, to have had

even one clear and accurate idea on the subject before
Forbes is Mgr. Rendu, late Bishop of Annécy : but this
was so mixed up with error that it does not appear
likely that in his hands it could ever have led to any-
tning definite ; for Rendu holds and enunciates, some
times in the same sentence, facts and errors utterly
404            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                              [chap.

incompatible with them. To this we shall recur, but it
may be well to state (as a simple and complete answer
to those who charge Forbes with plagiarism from Rendu)
that no one more heartily congratulated Forbes on his

sleutctceerss:--than this worthy prelate. Witness the following

' Monsieur,                                    <ChambéRt, 17 Août, 1844.

       ' Je vous r6mercie infiniment de la lettre si

aimable que vous avez eu l'obligeance de m'adresser, et
                     la                         me faites de             venir
plus   encore   de        promesse que vous    dosirais faire            votre
me    voir.            a
               Il y        longtemps que je

connaissance, ou plutôt que je vous connais par vos
travaux. Venez donc et descendez à l'evêché, où votre
logement sera prêt. J'y suis de retour le 21, et le 29 les

membres de la Société Géologique seront à Annécy pour
leurs travaux et pour l'inauguration de la statue de

Berthollet : il faut que vous soyez de cette fête ; venez
avant si vous le pouvez.
     'Votre théorie de la marche des glaciers finira par
être la seule admise, parcequ'elle est, selon moi, la seule
v" rBaiieb.liothLèaqudeernUineirveernsoetllee                            publiée dans la
                                               q"ueestvoculasirea,veezt  fait démonstra

tion pour les lignes de stratification. Combien je regrette
que vous n'ayez pas été ici dans ce moment, la question

aurait fait un pas de plus.
    ' Agréez les sentiments de la parfaite estime avec

laquelle j'ai l'honneur d'être, Monsieur,
     ' Votre très humble et très obéissant serviteur,
                          '£« Louis Evéquk d'Annecy.'

     We may add to this the testimony of one of Forbes'
Swiss friends, one specially qualified to speak on this
                          we will prefix to it a letter
particular point ; but    shows his anxiety to do justice                :--by
Forbe3 himself, which

                          To M. B. Studer.
                                               ' Neufchâtel, August 26M, 1843.
   'I
       hope that you will find my book as                                free from pole
mics   as possible ; and also that you will
                                                                         consider that I
Xv.] FORBES' GLACIER DISCOVERIES.                                                           4!Jj

have earnestly endeavoured to render justice to my pre
Idecessors, and especially to M. Rendu (pages 356, 367,

368, and 382). You will see that have quoted the
mlseuotbsjmet cetp. rkonmoYwionuewnwht eiltplh,aesIsragIheoshpaev,oeflodhookinse   book bearing on my
                                                                                  to his book itself, and

                                                                                   him justice. In your
letter to M. de Léonhard, in February, you allude to him

as the author of a theory of fluid motion ; but no one

knows better than you do to distinguish between a man
who states four or five theories, as Rendu does, without

giving any preference to one of them (see his work,
p. 93), and the man who proves one of these theories to

be correct.'                        subject of comparison -- gravitation
    ' To take your                  much before Newton. But it has
--  Pythagoras did            old

                                as

been my real and sincere wish to bring M. Rendu's little-
                                    and                                           often correct, views
Iknown merits, and ingenious,
                                    will                                          admit that I have
into notice ; and think you
done so. I even quoted him in my letters to Jameson

b(seefeoreApIpehnaddixreatdo  my volume, p. 408),                                 on  your  authority,
                              his book myself.'

...' TRÈS CHER AMI,                                                               ' Berne, U 3 Oct. 1860.

         ' Je me souviens très bien qu'en 41 ou 42

nous causâmes ensemble dans ma chambre sur le livre de
Mgr. Rendu, et que nous fûmes d'accord qu'il fallait ac
corder à la glace quelque chose comme de la plasticité,

mais de là à vos travaux et à leurs résultats il y a un pas
immense. Vous connaissez sans doute le livre de Hum-

bolat sur l'histoire de la découverte de l'Amérique. Là
aussi l'on voit que, dès les temps les plus anciens, l'on
          et écrivait sur           la possibilité de
pensait                             manquait pas de                               cette découverte ;
depuis   Colombo, il ne                                                           détracteurs de sa

gloire qui se fondaient sur des passages d'anciens auteurs.

11 est même prouvé que Colomb n'eut pas la premiere
idée de son voyage, qu'il la tint d'un astronome toscan.

Cependant toutes ces attaques contre son mérite, quoique
renouvellées jusqu'à nos jours, sont restées sans le moindre

résultat, la gloire de celui qui le premier osa traverser
490  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

l'Atlantique, reste à jamais inébranlable, et même l'impo
sition du nom d'un autre au continent qu'il a découvert,
ne lui a pas porté atteinte. C'est que ce n'est pas d'avoir
eu la premiere idée d'une explication, ou de l'avoir
énoncée le premier, qui prouve pour la force d'esprit ou
de caractère d'un homme, ces inspirations sont souvent
dues au hasard et momentanées, mais c'est la persévé

rance à leur donner suite et l'habileté à trouver les moyens
d'arriver au but, que l'on admire et glorifie. Les moyens
dont vous vous êtes servi pour m6surer la vitesse des gla
ciers semblent très simples et comme devant se présenter
de prime abord à chacun, et cependant personne avant
vous n'a eu l'idée de s'en servir. C'est l'oeuf de Colombo.

L'on ne peut douter que plusieurs de vos devanciers,
comme Rendu, et de meilleures physiciens que lui, n'aient
senti la nécessité de posséder des données exactes sur ce

mouvement, mais ils ne savaient pas comment s'y prendre
pour les obtenir. Escher, qui m'avait consulté, planta
des jalons sur la glacier d'Aletsch qui furent renversés au
dégel, Agassiz fit exécuter tout un réseau trigonométrique
qui compliqua la question, Hugi se tint aux estimations

des guides. Je croix que la principale cause de la diffi

culté que l'on trouva à suivre une bonne méthode, fût la

fausse idée que l'on s'était formée sur la nature de ce
mouvement. On croyait que le glacier avançait par sac
cades, en suite des crevasses, et qu'entre deux sécousses,
pendant des intervalles plus ou moins longs, des semaines

peut-être, il restait en repos. Je crois que personne avant

vous n'ait eu l'idée, pas même Rendu, qu'un glacier avan
çait d'un mouvement continu, et je n'oublierai jamais
l'impression que me fit l'annonce de cette importante dé
couverte. Peut-être que vous-même, vous ne croyiez pas
à un mouvement aussi contraire à l'impression de nos
sens, avant que le résultat de vos observations ne vous

l'eussent révélé. . . . Votre tout dévoué,

                                                         'B. Studer.'

    When Forbes first attacked the problem, there were
two rival theories which jointly held unchallenged sway
FORBES' GLACIER DISCOVERIES.  497

over the subject, the Dilatation Theory and the (so-                ,
called) Gravitation Theory ; both of which, as enunciated
by their respective supporters, are inconsistent with

simple dynamical principles. Before, however, we ex
plain them, we shall first, as briefly as is consistent with
clearness, describe the phenomena of glaciers as they
appear to the superficial observer.

    The masses of snow which fall on the higher Alps, and
on other elevated mountain ridges, are only in small part
melted or evaporated where they fall. They descend,
sometimes as avalanches, into the higher valleys, which
thus become choked with a mass of half snow, half ice,
called neve, far too great to be removed by melting or
evaporation in the course of a single season. Thus there
would be a gradual accumulation from year to year, unless

some third mode of escape presented itself. It is observed

that at the lower ends of these valleys the neve" escapes
(often through deep and narrow gorges), but now in a
state more resembling solid ice. This gradually works
its way towards the plains, carrying with it on its
surface sand, gravel, and even immense masses of rock,
arranged in what are called moraines. Sometimes such
masses are wholly imbedded in the glacier ; sometimes
they project from its lower or lateral surfaces, and in
this case they grind out its channel as they proceed.

   For it is obvious to the most casual observer that

the glacier ice moves down its channel, though not at

any great speed, and it was long ago recognized by
Playfair 1 as the most efficient mode of transport of those

so-called erratic blocks which had so much puzzled his
predecessors. To the pedestrian on its surface the glacier
presents, especially towards its sides, huge cracks called
crevasses, whose direction is at least approximately trans
verse to its bed, and which are often of great breadth,
and may sometimes extend downwards to the very bottom
of the glacier.

   1 Illustrations of the Huttordan Theory, 1802, § 349. Also Jame
son (1827). See paper by Forbes, Edin. Xeiv Phil. Journal, xl.,

p. 99.
498  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.         [chap.

     We are not aware that anything of particular import
ance beyond this was known, in the sense of having
been observed, not merely seen, till Forbes took up the
subject, with the exception of Rendu'a acute remark,

wbich appears to have been made previously by Captain
Basil Hall and others, that a glacier seems to flow in its

channel like a sluggish stream.
    ' Rien ne me paraît plus clairement démontré que le
mouvement progressif des glaciers vers le bas de la vallée,
et rien en même temps ne me semble plus difficile à
concevoir que la maniere dont s'exécute ce mouvement si
lent, si inégal, qui s'exécute sur des pentes différentes, sur
un sol garni d'aspérités, et dans des canaux dont la
largeur varie à chaque instant. C'est là, selon moi, le
phénomène le moins explicable ·des glaciers. Marche-t-

il ensemble comme un bloc de marbre sur un plan incliné \
Avance-t-il par parties brisées comme les cailloux qui se

suivent dans les couloirs des montagnes ? S'affaisse-t-il
sur lui-même pour couler le long des pentes, comme le

ferait une lave à la fois ductile et liquide ? Les parties

qui se détachent vers les pentes rapides suffisent-elles à

imprimer du mouvement à celles qui reposent sur une
surface horizontale ? Je l'ignore.
                                          Peut-être encore

pourrait-on dire que dans les grands froids l'eau qui

remplit les nombreuses crevasses transversales du gla

cier venant à se congeler, prend son accroissement
de volume ordinaire, pousse les parois qui la contiennent,

et produit ainsi un mouvement vers le bas du canal
d'écoulement.' '

     We shall presently see how much importance is to

be attached to this one correct idea, and how alto

gether erroneous is the mass of other ideas in which
it is here ' set.'

   It was imagined, probably on the authority of guides
and other untrained and totally untrustworthy observers,
that the sides of a glacier move faster than the centre ;

and various other statements of a similar kind were

   1 Rendu, Théorie des Glaciers, p. 93.  (Quoted in full by Forbes,
Travels in the Alps, chap. xxi.).
Xv.] IORBES' GLACIER DISCOVERIES.                                              499

adopted ou equally valueless evidence ; rendering it
absolutely necessary to any real progress in the subject,

that, as a preliminary, facts should be carefully ascer
tained. The following extract from Forbes' work {Travels,
pp. 33-38) will give
when he took up the                      a clear  notion  of  the  state   of  affairs
                                         subject
                                                  :--

    ' The theory which appears at first sight most readily
to account for the leading facts, is that maintained
by De Saussure, that the valleys in which glaciers lie
being always inclined, their weight is sufficient to

urge them down the slope, pressed on by the accumu
lations of the winter snows above, and having their
sliding progress assisted by the fusion of the ice in

contact with the ground, resulting from the natural
heat of the earth.1
    ' This cause of motion has been rejected as insufficient
by M. de Charpentier, who has supported another, which

(though like the last, suggested originally by an older
author, Scheuchzer, as De Saussure's was by Gruner),
owhtaehveiwrniglml raceyaclelbive"eCdchaaallrepsdceine"tniSetairfu'iscssTufhoreerm'osryGanrodafvdiDteaittlaaiotilnatiinoTnhh,ei"sorhayas,n"tdhose,r

the sliding theory.                      theory is this: -- The snow is pene
    'De Charpentier's
trated by water and gradually consolidated. It remains,
however, even in the state of ice, always permeable to

water, by means of innumerable fissures which traverse the

mass ; these are filled with fluid water during the heat

is  1 'I  wdisishtintoctqu: --ote"  De   Saussure's own statement of his   views, which
                                    Ces  masses glacees entrainies par     la pente du
    very
fond sur lequel elles reposent, degagees par les eaux de la liaison

qu'elles pourraient contractor avec ce nieme fond, soulev^es meme

quelquefois par les eaux, doivent peu-a-peu glisser et descendre en
suivant la pente des valloes ou des croupes qu'elles couvrent. Cest
ce glissement lent, mais continu, des glaces sur leurs hases inclines,
qui les entraine jusque dans les basses vallees, et qui entretient continu-

ellement   des amas de glaces dans les            vallons assez  ehauds    pour produire
de grands   arbres, et meme de riches             moissons." --  Voyages,    § 535. For

De Saussure's very clear views respecting the action of the heat of the

earth, see §J 532--535, 739, &c.'
                                         K K2
500                  TUE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                   [chap.

of the day, which the cold of the night freezes1 in these

fissures, producing by the expansion which freezing water
undergoes in that process, an immense force, by which
the glacier tends to move itself in the direction of least
resistance -- in other words, down the valley. This action
is repeated every night during summer, in winter the

gla'cIiner  being assumed to be perfectly stationary.''                                          I  have

            the Edinburgh Review for April 1842
Istated some leading objections to both of these theories,

to which refer the reader. I shall content myself with

spe' c1i.fyiInfg   one against each,                                which        seems conclusive.   its
                  the glacier slide                                 down        its bed, why is not
motion continually accelerated ? i.e., why does it not
result in an avalanche ? And is it conceivable that a

vast and irregular mass like a glacier, having a mean
slope of only 8°, and often less than 5°, can slide, accord
ing to the common laws of gravity and friction, over a

1 ' The following quotations make it quite plain that it is to the

difference of the temperature of the day and night alone that the
'"Ilfreezing of the water in the capillary fissures is attributed : --
            résulte   . . . que pendant                             les jours    dle'ésténuleitssg."la--cieCrshasr'pimebnitbieern,t
d'eau,    et que     celle-ci s'y congèle                           pendant

Ess'a"i,    p. 11.   plupart                            des  nuits durant l'été  les glaciers  augmentent de
          Dans la
volume par la congélation de l'eau qu'ils ont absorbée pendant le jour."
--Ib' ".
           p. 14.                                       de   gelée  et dégel,   comme  je viens  de le dire, a
          Cette alternative

lieu pendant la      fbraeîlclehessa.i"s--on,P.su1r5t.out            à l'époque  des   jours les plus chauds
suivis de nuits                                                     See also p.  23.      Compare Aqassiz,

Etudes,    pp.    165, 211.'                            objection   contre  le  mouvement      des glaciers par
   2 '"   Une      troisième

leur propre poids, se tire de leur immobilité pendant l'hiver. Car

c'est un fait reconnu et attesté par tous ceux qui demeurent dans leur

voisinage, tels que les babitans de Chamounix, de Zermatt, de Saas,

de Grindelwald, etc., que les glaciers restent parfaitement stationnaires

... Ilndeaing'se"sc.L"eet--temCoshuavaiseeompn.e,,ntept. ne  commencent à se mouvoir qu'à         la fonte des
                                                        36.  glaciers suppose des alternances    fréquentes de
                                                        des

chaud et de froid.                                           en  résulte  que   l'hiver est pour les glaciers
l'ép' o"qPueenddeanrtepol'sh.i"v--er Atqoaustseizs,a                             d., du glacier) est dans un
                                                                 p. 175.
                                                                 masse
     p.
                                                                           (c.
                                                               à
état de rigidité permanente qui la maintient dans une immobilité com

plète jusqu'à l'époque du retour des variations de la température."--

Ib. 212.'
Xv.] FORBES' GLACIER DISCOVERIES. 501

bed of uneven rock, and through a channel so sinuous
and irregular that a glacier is often embayed in a valley
whence it can only escape by an aperture of half its

actual width ? On all mechanical principles we answer

that it is impossible. We may add, that many small

glaciers are seen to rest upon slopes of from 20° to 30°

without taking an accelerated motion ; and this is con

formable to the known laws of friction. It is known,

for instance, to architects that hewn stones, finely dressed
with plane surfaces, will not slide over one another until

the slope exceeds 30°.
' 2. The dilatation theory is founded on a mistake as to
physical fact. I am sorry to put it in this way, but it
                                                              of the
is unavoidable ; and the respectable                  author            only
intelligible or precise account of the                theory  will, I  hope,
               for pointing it out.
exc'u"seThmee  maximum temperature                    which a glacier can

have," observes M. de Charpentier, "is 0° Centigrade, or
32°Fahr., and the water in its fissures is kept liquid only

by the small quantity of heat which reaches it by the

surface water and by the surrounding air. Take away
this sole cause of heat, i.e., let the surface be frozen, and

the water in the ice must congeal." Now, this is a pure
fallacy ; for the fact of the latent heat of water is en

tirely overlooked. The latent heat of water expresses
the fact, that when that fluid is reduced to 32° it does

n" oat   immediately solidify, but              that  the abstraction, not of
        small quantity of heat,"                but   a very large quantity

indeed, is necessary to convert the water at 32° into ice
at 32°. Not a great deal less heat must be abstracted
than the difference of the heat of boiling water and that

taht isco: --mmAodnmtiettminpgeraatullretsh. e   The fallacy, then, consists in
                                                premises, the ice at 32° (it is
allowed that in summer, during the period of infiltra
tion, it cannot be lower) is traversed by fissures extend
ing to a great depth (for otherwise the dilatation would
be only superficial), filled with surface water at 32°.

Night approaches, and the surface freezes, and water

ceases to be conveyed to the interior. Then, says the
502            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.      [chap.

 theorist, the water already in the crevices and fissures of
 the ice, and in contact with ice, instantly freezes. Not at
 all ; for where is it to deposit the heat of fluidity, without
 which it cannot, under any circumstances, assume the
 solid form ? The ice surrounding it cannot take it ; for,

 being already at 32°, it would melt it. It can only,

 therefore, be slowly conveyed away through the ice to
 the surface, on the supposition that the cold is sufficiently
 intense and prolonged to reduce the upper part of the
 ice considerably below 32°. The progress of cold and
 congelation in a glacier will therefore be, in general,
 similar to that in earth, which, it is well known, can be

 frozen to the depth of but a few inches in one night,
 however intense the cold. Such a degree and quantity
 of freezing as can be attributed to the cold of a summer's
 night must therefore be absolutely inefficient on the mass

 Iof the glacier.

     ' will not stop to consider the attempt made by M. de
 Charpentier to show that the friction of any length of a
 glacier upon its bed may be overcome as easily as the
·shortest, from a consideration of the forces producing
 dilatation ; but it is as indefensible on mechanical grounds

 Ias the preceding theory is on physical ones (Essai, p. 106).

    quote from M. de Charpentier, not because his defence
 of the theory of dilatation is more assailable than that of
 others, but because his work is the only one in which an
 attempt is made to explain its physical principles with

Iprecision.

    ' cannot admit, then, that either the sliding or dilata
tion theory can be true in the form which has hitherto

been given to them. When I first began to study the
subject minutely, under the auspices of M. Agassiz, in
       its difficulty and
1841,  soon saw that to    complication took me  by surprise ;
                           arrive at any theory  which, con
and I

sistent with the rigour of physical science at the present
time, would be worthy of the name, a very different
method of investigation must be employed from that
which was then in use by any person engaged in studying

the glaciers.
xv.] FORBES' GLACIER DISCOTERIES. 503

'To a person accustomed to the rigour of reasonings

asoblouuttionmwecehraeneicvaildenptrloyblewmans,tintghe--nvaemryelyf,irstthedaamtaoufonrt   a

                                                                                           of
motion of a glacier in its different parts at different
times. A few measures had indeed been made from
time to time by MM. Hugi and Agassiz, of the advance
of a great block on the glacier of the Aar from one year
to another, but with such contradictory results as corre
sponded to the rudeness of the methods employed ; for
Iin some years the motion appeared to be three times as
great as in others.     then pointed out to M. Agassiz,
Ihow, by the use of fixed telescopes,
                                       --thea  minutest motions
of the glacier might be determined,            suggestion which
he has, believe, since put in practice. It seems very
singular that ingenious men, with every facility for esta
blishing facts for themselves, should have relied on con
clusions vaguely gathered from uncertain data, or the
hazarded assertions of the peasantry about matters in
which they take not
immobility of the    the slightest  interest.  --  The  supposed
                                     winter,       the  supposed
                     glaciers in
greater velocity of the sides than the centre of the

ice, were amongst the assumptions      traditionally handed
down, upon no sufficient authority;
                                       and I believe that I
may safely affirm that not one observation of the rate of
Imotion of a glacier, either on the average or at any par

ticular season of the year, existed when commenced
my experiments in 1842. Far from being ready to
admit, as my sanguine companions wished me to do in
1841, that the theory of glaciers was complete, and the

cause of their motion certain, after patiently hearing
Iall that they had to         and
                              no
drew the conclusion
                        say,        reserving my   I  opinion,
                        that       theory which        had then

heard of could account for the few facts admitted on

all hands, and that the very structure and motions of
glaciers remained still to be deduced from observation.'
                                     :--
Again    (Travels, pp.   126--129)         the     glacier  moves
           Saussure's   theory be   true,
' If De
                   sensibly incorporating new matter
onward without    continually fed by the supplies            into
                                                            from
its substance --
604      THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.        [CBAP.

behind, which form a new and endless glacier. The

mechanism may not inaptly be compared to that of the
modern paper machine, which, from the gradually con
solidated material of pulp (representing the neve), at
length discharges, in a perpetual flow, the snowy web.
The theory of De Charpentier, on the other hand, repre

sents the fabrication of the glacier going on within the

glacier itself, so that each part swells, and the dilatation
of each is added to that which acted upon itself, in order

to shove on the section of the ice immediately in advance.

In the former case, then, the distance between two deter

minate points of the glacier remains the same ; in the
latter, it will continually increase. Again, on the former
hypothesis, the annual progress of any point of the glacier
is independent of its position ; on the latter, it increases
with the distance from the origin {the transverse section
of the ice being tlie same). The solution of this im

portant problem would be obtained by the correct
measurement, at successive periods, of the spaces between

points marked on insulated boulders on the glacier ; or
between the heads of pegs of considerable length, stuck
into the matter of the ice, and by the determination of

Itheir annual progress ' 1

    ' The more that revolved the subject in my own

mindj the more clearly was I persuaded that the motion

of glaciers admitted of accurate determination, and must

lead to definite conclusions.'
     ' We have seen that the motion of glaciers has been for
much more than half a century universally admitted as a
physical fact. It
                   therefore, most unaccountable that
                   a is,

                           I

                                       if
the quantity of this motion has in hardly any case been
                                rather think that the whole
approximately determined.
of De Saussure's writings contain no one estimate of the
annual progress of glacier, and            we refer to other

authors we obtain numbers which, from their variety and
inaccuracy, throw little light on the question. Thus,
Ebel gravely affirms2 that the glaciers of Chamouni

     21  Edinburgh Review, April 1842, 77.p.
         Guide du Voyngeur, art. 'Glacier.'
xv.] FORBES' GLACIER DISCOVERIES.                                                  505

advance at the rate of fourteen feet a year, and those of

Grindelwald twenty-five feet a year ; "whereas, as we

shall see, such spaces are actually traversed by most
glaciers in the course of a few days. This statement is

quoted by Captain Hall ' and other recent writers, and
even by M. Rendu (now Bishop of Anuécy), the author
of a most ingenious paper on glaciers, too little known.2

Hugi perceived the errors arising from a confusion
between the rate of apparent advance of an increasing
glacier into a warm valley, whilst it is continually being
shortened by melting, and the rate of motion of the ice
itself.3 He points out the correct method of observation ;

and although his work contains no accurate measures, he
was perhaps the first who, by observing the position of a
remarkable block upon the glacier of the Aar, indicated
how such observations might be usefully made, instead of

trusting (as appears to have been the former practice) to
the vague reports of the peasantry. Hugi's observations
on the Glacier of the Aar give a motion of 2,200 feet in
nine years, or about 240 feet per annum.4 Now, in
contradiction to this, it would appear from M. Agassiz's
                                                               1839 it moved as far as
tohbeserpvraeticoendsi,ngthnaitnefroymears18--36thtaot              three times as fast.6
is

    '

           is
                                                            is,
There reason, however, to think that M. Hugi's estimate

the more correct.'

      Bakewell8 assigns 180 yards per annum as the motion
of the Mer de Glace, and De la Beche7 200 yards, on
Captain Sherwill's authority.8 But both of these were

    Patchwork, 109.
5* 21              i.

          is is '            A
    Mem. de la Societe cademique de Savoie, x. 95.

    Alpenreise, p. 371.                  ^Agassiz, Etudes, 150.
    Ibid. [As conjectured in the text, Hugi's estimate has been almostp.
exactly confirmed. Experience too has shown that the motion of                 p.

glaciers           almost uniform from year to year. (See 9th Letter in the

Appendix.) The enormous error of his successors on the Glacier of
the Aar therefore attributable to want of the most ordinary atten
                                   i.
                                           a

                                                              7
tion to accuracy, and shows how little such considerations were deemed

important by them.]'
       Travels in the Turentaise,
80                                 365.                          Geological Manual, 60.

    100 yards, in Philosophical Magazine, Jan. 1831.
506  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORTIES.                 [chap.

hearsay estimates by the guides. M. Rendu seems to
have been more aware of the importance of the determi
nation of the rate of motion of glaciers than any other

author ; but the best information wlnch he could collect
in 1841 did not much tend to clear up his doubts. He
gives the following rates of motion of the Mer de
Glace, or Glacier des Bois, without being able to decide

upon which is the most trustworthy : 242 feet per annum ;
442 feet per annum ; a foot a day ; 400 feet per annum ;

and 40 feet per annum, or one-tenth of the lastl -- a dif
ference which he attributes to the different rates of

motion of the centre and sides.1 De Charpentier, so far

as I recollect, offers no opinion in his work on glaciers
as to what is to be considered as their rate of motion. I
was not therefore wrong in supposing that the
progress of a glacier was yet a new problem, when  actual

                                                   I com
menced my observations on the Mer de Glace in 1842.'

  ' I had myself been witness to the position on the Gla
cier of the Aar, in 1841, of the stone whose place had
been noted by Hugi fourteen years before, and it was
manifest that it had moved several thousand feet. In

conformity with the    prevalent   view of       the motion of the
ice being perceptible  chiefly in
                                   summer,       I made the hypo

thesis that the annual motion may be imagined to take
place wholly during four months of the year, with its
maximum intensity, and to stand still for the remainder.

With this rude guide, and supposing the annual motion
of some glaciers to approach 400 feet per annum (as a
moderate estimate from the previous data), we might
expect a motion of at least three feet per diem for a short
time in the height of summer. There appeared no reason
why a quantity ten times less should not be accurately
measured, and I, therefore, felt confident that the laws
of motion of the ice of any glacier in its various parts,
and at different seasons, might be determined from a
moderate number of daily observations.'

   {1 went to Switzerland, therefore, fully prepared, and
not a little anxious to make an experiment which seemed

                       1 Me moires, <Lr. x. 9J.
xv.]       FORBES' GLACIER DISCOVERIES.  507

so fruitful in results, and though so obvious, still unat-

tempted.'

These observations on the two competing -theories are
all, with the exception of a very few words, obviously

and necessarily correct ; and they show, better than any
words of ours could do, how completely original was

Forbes' work, the greater part of it having been per

formed under circumstances the most adverse to the

starting of a new and correct hypothesis ; as he was so
constantly associated with a partisan of one or other of

these incorrect theories.

382W' T--ehe3n8oi4dw)eaocfoomfhciesomvtiopeawrhsiinsognoatwhgnelacssuietbarjteteocmt ae: --nritve{rTirsavaenlsy,thinppg.
but new, and I would not be supposed to claim that com

parison or analogy as an original one. Something very
like the conception of fluid motion seems to have been

in the minds of several writers, although I was not aware
of it at the time that I made my theory. In particular,
M. Rendu, whose mechanical views are in many respects
         p"rgesclpaiesceaieksrtshaornefseth"rvogosilerascoief;"rshaisndd'perceinoduelctehemesseoqnrsut o"otartaicsoonndteiasmttipntohcet
more
raries,
from

head of this chapter,1 he evidently contemplates the pos
sibility of the mutual pressures of the parts overcoming
the rigidity.2 He is the only writer of the glacier school
who has insisted upon the plasticity of the ice, shown
by moulding itself to the endlessly varying form and
section of its bed, and he is also opposed to his leading
contemporaries in his conjecture that the centre of the
ice-stream would be found to move fastest. But M.

Rendu has the candour not to treat his ingenious specula
tions as leading to any certain result, not being founded

on experiments worthy of confidence. "The fact of the
motion exists," he says, "the progression of glaciers is
demonstrated, but the manner of it is entirely unknown.

    1 See ante, p. 498.
   2 ' See also p. 107 of his work for a comparison between a river and
a glacier.'
508                THE LIFE OF JAME& D. FORBES.                                        [ciiap.

Perhaps by long observations and well-made experiments
    '
        1

                                                                                   it,
on ice and snow, we may be able to apprehend but
these first elements are still wanting."*

        feel bound also to quote the significant expressions

sogplfaecCaieakrpi.ntagino"fHtWhaehll,eGnplaocisineutrcincdgeesstMiovieathgeela,cyo"enroscfetepontfiosnsenvooefrwaa,l"sheuhmneid-rfsleuadyidss
of feet m thickness, come to be melted the sun and
     a
                                  a

                                                                is
                                                                         by
by the innumerable torrents which are poured upon them
from every side, to say nothing of the heavy rains of

summer, they form mass, not liquid indeed, but such as

has tendency to move down the highly inclined faces
on which they lie, every part of which not only well

lubricated by running streams resulting from the melting

snows on every side, but has been well polished by the
friction of ages of antecedent glaciers. Every summer
                                                                  by
certain but very slow advance
                                                                                          *

                                                                                           a
is                                                          made             these huge,

    '

        I

                             it a

                                                      a

                                                     is
sluggish, slushy, half-snowy, half-icy accumulations." It
    plain, think, that the author had an idea that liquid

pressure might drag mass over its rocky bed, which
would not move upon as solid.'
     But such speculations could not pass into theory until

supported by the definite facts of which M. Rendu deplores
the want.                                                             a
           aI      too, like my predecessors, though indepen
dently of them, had compared the movement of glaciers                      I
     that of ductile                           ams a"sss,prienad1i8n4g1,itswehlfenoutI
to   the Glacier of the               plastic                                          spoke
of                                    Rhone                                            much

«s pailful of thickish mortar would do in like circum
stances,"3 and again, when likened the motion of glaciers1a
to that of great river, or of lava stream.4 But
       ;                              I

          aa                                        la a
     '"Le fait du mouvement existe,                       progression des glaciers est
                     ' le
                         i.
                                  p.
ddmontree mais mode est enti6rement inconnu. Peut-6tre avec de

longues observations, des experiences bien faites sur la glace et la neige

viendra-t-on bout de la saisir                    mais ces  premiers         elements  nous
                                               Glaciers,    90.
nianquent encore." -- Theorie des     ;

                                                       p.

     Patchwork, vol.                  104, et seq. The whole passage, which too
*8 2                                                                                   is
   ''
long to quote, gives an admirable picture of the glacier world.'
        Ed. Phil. Journal, January 1842.'
     'Edinburgh Review, April 1842, 54. Both these articles were
                                               p.

written in 1841.'
xv.] FORBES' GLACIER DISCOVERIES.                        509

knew very  Iwell that such analogies   had no claim      to found
a theory.                             of the proof       lay with
               knew that the onus
the theorist, -- (I), To show that (contrary to the then
received opinion) the centre of a glacier moves fastest ;

and (2), to prove from direct experiment that the matter
of a glacier is plastic on a great scale, a fact which seems

so repugnant to first impressions as lately to have been
urged in a most respectable quarter,1 as rendering the
doctrine of semi-fluid motion untenable. No one had a

right to maintain the theory of fluid motion as more than
a conjecture, until at least these preliminary obstacles

were removed by direct observations.'
    ' These observations have been made, and the result is

the viscous or plastic theory of glaciers, as depending
essentially on the three following classes of facts, all
of which were ascertained for the first time by ob
servations in 1842, of which the proofs are contained in

this work.'
    ' 1. That the different portions of any transverse section

of a glacier move with varying velocities, and fastest in

the centre.'

   ' 2. That those circumstances which increase the fluidity
of a glacier -- namely, heat and wet -- invariably accelerate
its motion.'
   ' 3. That the structural surfaces occasioned by fissures

which have traversed the interior of the ice, are also the

surfaces of maximum tension in a semi-solid or plastic
mass, lying in an inclined channel.'
   Or again (Travels, p. 365), where he finally sums up
his ideas : --

   ' My theory of Glacier Motion then is this : A
Glacier is an imperfect fluid, or a viscous body,
which is urged down slopes of a certain inclina
tion by the mutual pressure of its parts.'

    These, again, may be accepted even now as a nearly
complete statement of the physical circumstances of the

question, in so far at least as they describe accurately the
observed phenomena, and account for many of them in a

           1 ' Bihliotheque Univertelle, January 1843.'
610  TI1E LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

lucid and complete manner. It is only in recent years

that the vera causa has been pointed out which makes
Forbes' observational theory completely consistent with
recognized physical principles. We shall add a few
words on this subject after referring, more explicitly than
Forbes' modesty permitted him to do, to the immense
steps which he made towards the explanation of these

very singular phenomena ; steps whose immensity can
only now be thoroughly appreciated, when we sec round
us, and even occasionally among good mathematicians,
constant attempts to revive or to remodel one or other
of the old exploded theories.

    Forbes, as we have already said, did very completely
the Natural History of these enigmatic creatures, the
glaciers. His ' viscous theory ' is rather the enunciation
of a truth discovered by his own thoroughly scientific
observations and geodetic and other measurements, than

a physical theory.
    ' Some confusion of ideas might have been avoided on

the part of writers who have professedly objected to
Forbes' theory, while really objecting only (and we
believe grouudlessly) to his usage of the word viscosity,

if they had paused to consider that no one physical

explanation can hold for those several cases [mentioned
in the text] ; and that Forbes' theory is merely the proof
by observation that glaciers have the property that mud
(heterogeneous), mortar (heterogeneous), pitch (homo
geneous), water (homogeneous), all have of changing
shape indefinitely and continuously under the action of
continued stress.' '

   His detection of the ' veined structure ' as something
esseutial to the understanding of glacier motion, his
tracing of its form and distribution in various parts of a
glacier, and his remarks on the production of the dirt-
bands, all show a very high order of inductive reasoning.
His observations as to pressure and distortion producing
the blue veins are very important. His explanation,
though incomplete, of the convexity of crevasses towards

       1 Thomson and Tait's Natural Philosophy, § 741 (footnote).
Xv.] FORBES' GLACIER DISCOVERIES.  5) 1

the source of the glacier,1 and their approximate perpen
dicularity to the veined structure, exhibits a sound
though somewhat imperfect acquaintance with the nature
of stresses in a viscous mass.

   To say that Forbes thoroughly explained the beha
viour of glaciers would be an exaggeration ; but he must
be allowed the great credit of being the Copernicus or
Kepler of this science ; the man who, though no doubt

aided to some extent by a somewhat imperfect analogy,
first swept away from the subject the mass of nonsense
with which it had been overlaid, first clearly obtained

from observation, not from dogma or d priori reasoning,

its fundamental facts, and first put them together into
a simple, complete, and connected whole : and who
must therefore ever stand forward in the history of the
question as one of its most effective and scientific pro
moters. The mode in which he arrived at these results

is vividly described by himself in one of the preceding
extracts ; but no such mere detached passages can give
the reader any proper idea of the value and interest
of his Travels through the Alps, which is one of the
most charming books it has been our good fortune to
meet with. There is an utter absence of self, entire

devotion to his subject, and a freshness and simplicity of
manner thoroughly in keeping with the keen penetration
of the observer. Other works of Forbes, connected with
this subject, are Norway and its Glaciers, 1853, and

Occasional Papers, 1859.

    We who now see these things by the light which he
was mainly instrumental in throwing upon them, and
which has so immensely smoothed though not wholly
removed their difficulties, might be in danger of under
estimating the services Forbes rendered to this part of
science, did we not reflect that ' absolute nonsense ' is
the fitting designation of the theories held by acute men

   1 This convexity had been taken by Agassiz as a proof that the sides
moved faster than the central portions ; while Kendu, erroneously
assuming them to be concave to the source, wrongly deduced the truth
that the cential portions move faster than the sides.
512           TILE LIFE OF J.t.MES D. FOHBES.                                  [chap.

when he commenced his work, as it is that of many
views on the subject which are even now persistently
maintained, and stoutly defended with the choicest

weapons of the mathematician or the physicist.

   It is difficult in thought to place ourselves in the

position of Forbes at the time when his discoveries were

made, but the more successfully we attempt to do so, the

more are we led to admire the cautious boldness and

the indistractable penetration of the young explorer.

     This is not a scientific but a historical work, so that

here is not the place to enter fully into the physical ex
planation of glacier motion, though it may be well to

show briefly that in all probability J. Thomson's beautiful
discovery of the dependence of the freezing-point on
pressure, which has already explained much, will ulti

mately be found capable of explaining almost all that is
at present known about the formation, structure, and
motion of glaciers. This was not Forbes' opinion, so that
we will first give a letter which he wrote a few years
ago, with the full intention that it should some day
be published, containing a brief but complete statement
of his final views as to the physical explanation of the
facts of observation whose ensemble was concisely
enunciated as the Viscous Theory. In one of his

letter-books, in which are kept in copying ink duplicates
of almost                                               it has the following
heading :  --every  note he  ever wrote,

' On some Debated Points connected with the Properties
              of Ice and the Motion of Glaciers.

...' MY DEAR PROF. TAIT,                                January 1Wi, 1865.

down       '      It occurs to me that                  I may as well note
              ideas I expressed to you
         the                                            the other day as to

the properties of ice in relation to its plasticity. Though
untoward circumstances have made me very shy of
publishing anything which can
                                                        pIosasmiblyglaldeadto  to con
trreocvoerdrsytheonoptihniisonsvewxehdichsuIbjheacvt,e                          put on
                                                        for many years enter

tained.
XV.] FORBES' GLACIER DISCOVERIES.                                         fM3

     '  1.diTschoeve"repdurebyanFdarasdiamyp, lea"ndphaesnoImheonlodn      of regela-
                                                                          adequately
tion

explained by me [Occas. Papers, p. 228], has never been
proved to be an efficient agent in the functions of glaciers.
During summer, when they move fastest, it may be
doubted whether it comes into play at all, in consequence
of the gorged state of the capillary fissures of the glacier
and the constant trickling and drainage of water through

them. At the same time it is not part of my case to
Ifdeny that true regelation is a constant operation in a
glacier.      so, it helps to form the blue bands.
    ' 2. Dr.
"  fracture   aTnydndreaglle'slatisoon-ca"lltehdat  proofs that it is     through
                                                    a glacier moulds      itself to
                                                    at all. They will be
its bed, are to my mind   no proofs                 on experiments with
                          exclusively
Ifound, believe, to rest         Now
                                 first
ice under Bramah's  press.                          I(a) these experiments so
much vaunted are                                    place not new.        find
                    in the

them recorded in my Journal of 1846 as having been
successfully made by Dollfuss-Ausset. They were made

Ilater by Schlagintweit : but (b) in the second place,

attribute the plasticity of ice in this case to a cause

perfectly distinct from true regelation. It is beyond all
doubt due to the internal liquefaction and general soften
ing of the bruised ice under intense pressure, on the prin- ·
Iciples discovered and enforced by the Messrs. Thomson.

    ' 3. am not as yet iuclined to allow that there is any
                                 last case
                                  ; though
true

Iing
        analogy between this                        (bh)ereandI  the mould
        properties of a glacier                                  fear that
differ (as he knows) from Prof. Thomson. In order to
convert bruised ice into a homogeneous solid under

Bramah's press, the     Ipressure must               be applied           and
relaxed with a certain                              cannot admit          that
                        suddenness.1
this takes place in a glacier. The changes of pressure
within a glacier, in consequence of the slowness of its

motion, must be almost infinitely gradual, and therefore
plenty of time must elapse for the perfect restoration of

   1 Principal Forbes forgets here that the 'sudden* relaxation,
                   or not, is always necessarily
whether required    of volume whenever the ice      pmreesltesn. t--inP.  consequence
of the diminution                                                         G. T.
514          THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                [chap.

an equilibrium of heat, and therefore no appreciable
internal fusion can occur.
    ' 4. According to my view ice is only hard and crystal
line at a temperature of 30° or even lower [Occas. Papers,
           At 32° it is a clammy, plastic solid, not unlike
p. 225].  cheese ; and it behaves very like it under the
Cheshire

press or the knife. Such a substance cannot be bruised
and the bruised surfaces brought into contact with
moderate pressure, without reattachment, as a simple
Jresult of "time and cohesion" [Occas. Papers, xxi., 201
without appealing to any   other properties    of   icae"ocroellfofeidc,t"s
of pressure. Mr. Graham's    opinion that ice
                                                is

entertained on quite independent grounds, confirms this

view.

  I' 5. consider ice at 32° to have a slight, but perfectly
sensible, genuine molecular plasticity. When the urgency

of the forces to which it is subjected causes this limit to

be overpassed, the pasty solid is subject to a general

bruise, producing innumerable internal fissures with
finite displacements, and subsequent restoration of con
tinuity under pressure. Hence the blue bands. When
the urgency of gravity is still greater, of course the
mass acts as a common solid, and crevasses open. [See
'It IOccas. Papers, p. 161, &c., and many other places]
     must have been remarked that                   have never

attempted to reply to Mr. Hopkins' mathematical demon

strations about glacier motions and the internal forces by
which they are controlled : and for this very good reason,

Ithat never felt myself mathematically strong enough to

Ireplace his alleged demonstrations by others which
could regard as any true representations of the problem
presented by Nature.

  I' From general physical considerations, and from an

experimental study of plastic bodies, was well aware
that Mr. Hopkins' mode of treatment was applicable
Ionly to a body possessing properties, or placed under
conditions,  which    was perfectly  certain that   a glacier
had not or   was not                 regarded his   solutions
                      placed in. I

therefore (I refer to his early papers in the Cambridge
xv.] FORIiES' GLACIER DISCOVERIES.                   515

Trans, and Phil. Magazine) as irrelevant mathematical

cxercitations. His later writings I have not studied, as
I perceived that he had made no enlargement of his

physical basis of reasoning. A proper theory of glaciers
must include a constant, or constants, expressive of the
state of the internal friction, according to the magnitude
of which, in relation to the forces acting to set the body
Iin motion, it will break up as a solid or flow like a
liquid.    never felt  mbuytseIlfreceoqlulealct  to attempting this
                                                  well that in 1851,
very general problem,
           Stokes' paper on the Friction              Fluids
           urged him to consider the motion          glaciers
Iwhen Mr.                                        of
Iappeared,                                       of

from the same point of view.        am glad to think from
what you tell me, that there is now a prospect of our
having a real solution of this interesting problem.
' Tresca's paper on the quasi-fluid motion of solids
under intense pressure (Comptes Rendus, Nov. 7, 1864)
seems to have excited some notice through a paragraph
....in some English journal, to which two of my correspond

ents refer.
                       ' Yours very sincerely,
                                          'James D. Forbes.'

We find the Thomsons' explanation of at least a great
part of the puzzling phenomena of glaciers given in a
charming popular form by Helmholtz in his Populare
Wissenschaftliche Vortrdge, from which we have para
phrased the following passages, with which this chapter

may fitly terminate.
   ' One of the fixed points of our thermometric scale,

which we call zero or the freezing point, is determined
by placing the thermometer in a mixture of ice and pure
water. Water, so long as it is in contact with ice,

cannot be cooled below the freezing point without

becoming ice ; ice cannot be heated above this point
                        A mixture     of   ice and water must
without    melting.
therefore  remain    stationary at  the   temperature zero. If

one tries to warm such a mixture, the ice melts, but the

temperature of the mixture does not rise above zero so

                       LL2
516               THE LIFE OF JAMES 1). FORBES.                                   [chap.

long as there is any ice unmelted. By the applied heat
ice at zero is thus converted into water at zero, while

no observable rise of the thermometer takes place. Phy
sicists say, therefore, that the applied heat has become
latent, and that water at zero contains a certain amount
more of latent heat than ice at the same temperature.
Again, when we abstract heat from the mixture of ice
and water, the water begins to freeze, but its temperature
remains at zero as long as there is any of it unfrozen.
Here water at zero has given off its latent heat, and has

become ice at zero.

    ' Now a glacier is a mass of ice through which little
rills of water are running, and which, therefore, has

everywhere in its interior the temperature of the freezing
point. Even the lower layers of the nSvS appear, at such
heights as we find in the chain of the Alps, to have this
same temperature throughout. For, even though fresh
fallen snow at such elevations is generally colder than
zero, the first hours of warm sunshine melt its surface

and form water, which trickles into the lower cold layers,
and continues to freeze in them until they are by degrees
brought to the freezing point. This temperature thence
forth remains unchanged. For by warm sunshine the
surface of the ice can be melted, but not raised above
zero, and the winter's cold does not penetrate deep into
the badly conducting snow and ice masses. Thus the
interior of the n6vi, like that of the glaciers, retains
unchanged the temperature of the freezing point.

   'But the temperature of the freezing point of water

can be altered by great pressure. This was first pointed
out by James Thomson of Belfast, and almost at the

same time by Clausius of Zurich,' as a consequence of
the dynamical theory of heat : and by the same reason-

1 Prof, Clausius has habitually claimed so much that he sometimes
as in the present instance, gets credit for things he has himself ex
pressly disclaimed. In his paper on this question (Pogg. Ann.,
September 1850), he declares his object merely to be to show that
                  (tThreanssu.bjeRc.t.S--. EP..             in              with
Thomson's result                                 1849)  is      accordance        his  own
mode of viewing                                  G. T.
        xv.] FORBES' GLACIER DISCOFERIES.                                617

        ing the magnitude of the change could be rightly pre
        dicted. In fact the temperature of freezing must be
        lowered by ^th of a degree Reaumur for each additional
        atmosphere or pressure of 15 lbs. on the square inch.
        The brother of the first named, William Thomson,

        verified by experiments this result to its numerical
        details by compressing in a very strong yessel a mixture
        of ice and water, which was found to become colder

        and colder as the pressure rose, and exactly as much as
        the dynamical theory of heat requires.

           ' Now, if by the application of pressure a mixture of

        water and ice becomes colder without heat having been

        withdrawn from  it,

                                                 a
                                                             by

                                                                      a
                            this can only happen by some free
                                                                       some of the ice
        heat becoming latent, in other words,
        in the mixture melting, and in this lies the reason that
        mechanical pressure produces change in the freezing
        point. Ice occupies more space than the water from which

it it it  produced. When water freezes in closed vessel,

     is     bursts not merely glass flasks, but even iron bombshells.
        Thus, therefore, because in the compressed mass of ice and
        water some ice melts, the volume of the whole becomes

less, and thus the mass yields more to the pressure than
   could have done without this change of freezing point.

Here mechanical pressure, as happens in the majority of
cases of interaction of different natural forces, favours

        the production of the change, melting, which favourable
        to the development of its own action.

            In W. Thomson's experiment, water and ice were shut
is      up together in closed vessel from which nothing could            is
          aa                                                                              is
    '   escape. The situationissomewhat different, when, as

                               is
        the case in glacier, the water produced between
the pieces of ice pressed together can get out through
cracks. The ice indeed then pressed, but not the water,

which escapes. The pressed ice becomes then colder,
in consequence of the lowering of its freezing point by
pressure, but the freezing point of the water, which
not compressed, not lowered. In these circumstancesis
we have ice colder than zero in contact with water at

the temperature zero. The consequence of this i.s, that
518  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap.

continually there is freezing of water and formation of

new ice round the ice which is pressed, while a portion
of the latter goes on melting.

   ' This happens, for instance, when two pieces of ice are
pressed together, for thus they are firmly united to one
another by the water which freezes at their surface of
contact, and united into one piece of ice. Under power
ful pressure, which cools the ice more, this takes place
rapidly ; but even with very slight pressure it happens,
if one gives it time enough. Faraday, who discovered
this phenomenon, called it the regelation of ice. There has

been much dispute about the explanation of this ; I have

given you that which appears to me the most satisfactory.
    ' This freezing together of two pieces of ice is easily

exhibited with pieces of any form, but they should not

be colder than zero ; they act best when they are beginning

to melt. One needs only to press them powerfully against
one another for a few instants and they unite. The
flatter are the two touching surfaces, the more firmly do

they unite, but very slight pressure suffices, if one only

leaves the two pieces of ice very long in contact.
   ' This property of melting ice is made use of by boys

when they make snowballs and snow-men. It is known

that this succeeds only when the snow is beginning to

melt, or at least, when it is so little colder than zero that
it can easily be raised to that temperature by the warmth
of the hand. Very cold snow is a dry loose powder,

and does not stick together.
   ' What children making snowballs do on a small scale,

goes on on the most tremendous scale in glaeiers. The
deeper portions of the originally loose and powdery snow
of the neve are pressed together by the overlying heaps
of snow, often many hundred feet deep, and under this
pressure agglomerate into denser and more solid layers.
The fresh fallen snow originally consists of tender micro
scopic needles of ice. . . . Thus, whenever the sun plays
upon the upper layers of the snow field, water trickles

down and freezes again in the deeper layers where it

meets with colder snow ; the neve becomes first granular
xv.] FORBES' GLACIER DISCOVERIES.  519

and brought up to the temperature of the freezing point,
and as the weight of the overlying snow mass increases
more and more, it changes itself at last by firmer union
of its separate granules into a dense and hard mass of
ice Thus, as the snow in the glaciers is pressed

together into dense ice, so the already formed irregular
masses of ice are in many places united into dense clear ice.
This is most conspicuously visible at the foot of a glacier
cascade. There are glacier-falls, where an upper part of
the glacier ends at a steep rocky wall, and its blocks of
ice fall down like avalanches over the edge of this wall.
The heap of smashed blocks of ice which in consequence

piles itself up below, unites itself again at the foot of the
rocky wall into a continuous mass of dense ice, which

pursues its downward course as a glacier. . . . Thus you
see how, to the eye of the physicist, the glacier, with
its blocks of ice confusedly towering over one another,

its waste, stony, and discoloured surfaces, its destruction-

threatening crevasses, has become a majestic stream,
which flows down more peacefully and regularly than any
other ; which, according to fixed laws, contracts, spreads
itself
        outIfor,wecrafsohllionwg  and roaring, plunges down iuto the
abyss.                            it in conclusion, to its termination,

we find the water produced by its melting united into a

strong brook, breaking out and flowing down from the
icy gate of the glacier. No doubt such a brook, at first,
when it comes into view from below the glacier, looks
very dirty and muddy, for it brings down with it all the

dust which the glacier has rubbed off from the rocks.

One feels disenchanted to see the wonderfully beautiful

and transparent ice changed to such muddy water ; but
in fact, the water of the glacier brook is itself just as

beautiful and clear as the ice, although for the time its
beauty is concealed. You must seek these brooks again,
when they have passed through a lake and there de
posited their rock-dust. The lakes of Geneva, of Thun
&c., Lago Maggiore, the lakes of Como and Garda, are
principally fed on glacier water ; the clearness, and the
beautiful blue or greenish blue colour, of their water are
520  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [chap. xv.

the delight of all travellers. Let us leave the beauty
and ask after the utility, we shall find still more cause
for wonder.'

     [Added December 16th, 1872.]

   A popular work, The Forms of Water, <&c., just pub

lished by Dr. Tyndall, reiterates an estimate of the actual
and relative originality, extent, and value of Forbes'
contributions to the theory of glaciers, so utterly different
from that contained in the preceding chapter as to render
it imperatively necessary for me to make a few addi
Itional remarks.      believe the question to be one entirely
Iof facts, not of opinions ; and feel assured that the
work referred to would have elicited a prompt reply
Ifrom Forbes had he lived to see it.
                                                    have
   In proof of the general correctness of the view
Itaken above, and as the only approximation now possible

to the answer Forbes would probably have given, have

reprinted (in the form of Appendices A and B below),

two most masterly papers of his, which unfortunately
had not a very wide circulation : but which minutely

detail his relations to Rendu on the one hand, and to

Guyot and Agassiz on the other. Though the first of

these has been published for twelve years, and the second
for thirty, no attempt has ever been made to controvert

or to answer either.
     Till it is shown that these papers, along with others
from which extracts have been made above, are not the

Iwork of Forbes, in whose character unswerving rectitude

was the grandest feature, shall continue to receive their

contents as facts. From these facts no conclusions are

possible but those drawn in the preceding chapter.

                                   P. G. Tait.

^
       APPENDIX A.

Reply to Professor Tyndall's Remarks, in his work ' On the
    Glaciers of the Alps' relating to Rendu s ' Thdorie des Glaziers.'
     By James David Forbes, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S., &c., Corre
     sponding Member of the Institute of France, Principal of the
     United College in the University of St. Andrews, and late
     Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of
     Edinburgh. (A. and C. Black, 1860.)

Contents. -- 1. Introduction. -- 2. Professor Tyndall's General Account of
Rendu's Thiorie dts Glaciers. -- 3. My first references to Rendu's Thiorie.
-- 4. References to Rendu in my Travels in the Alps (1843), and in my
       fdiPrisustcbulsiEcsxaettdri.ao--cnts.7.--.--P65r..ofVePsarsoloufreessTooyfrntdhTaeylln'EsdsatSilmel'csaotenEsdxtoErfaxctGrtaslacctfireofrrmomMRoRetnieodnnudupereexxvaaimomuinisneeddt.o.
later
The

1842
-- 8. Reception of Rendu's Thiorie at Home and Abroad. -- Conclusion.

       § 1. Introduction.

Professor Tyndall informs us, in the introductory chapter of
his recent work On the Glaciers of the Alps of the circumstances
which, in 1856, first directed his attention to the structure of the

ice of glaciers, and subsequently to all their other phenomena.
Mr. Sorby's ingenious experiments on the production of cleavage
in soft substances by pressure, led him to vary those experiments;

and a reference by Professor Huxley to the laminated structure
of glaciers, as described by me, induced him first to look into my
Travels in the Alps of                                    in 1856)
visit some of the Swiss  Savoy and    afterwards (still  suggested     to
                                      series of papers                 by
                         glaciers. A

these and subsequent experiments and excursions, have been

successively printed by Professor Tyndall in the Proceedings of
the Royal Institution, and in the Proceedings and Transactions
of the Royal Society of London.
522          THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                          [apprsd.

IFrom the first naturally bestowed a close attention on publi
cations which promised to revive the then flagging interest in
Ithe Theory of Glaciers, which had been with me, between the
years 1841 and 1851, matter of laborious study.                    could not

fail to observe that Professor Tyndall, in the warmth of pursuit
incident to a new inquiry, had not, in the first instance, ap

Iprehended the full import of what had been done or asserted

by me, and that he not unnaturally attached great, and might
think undue, importance to the observations which two or three
Ibrief though actively employed visits to the glaciers had enabled

him to make. Perhaps also thought that Professor Tyndall
unnecessarily enhanced the distinctions which he conceived to

exist between his view sand my own, even where he had ade

quately studied the latter.
   Although, therefore, in the different memoirs above referred to,

criticisms appeared on what I had discovered, or believed that I
had discovered -- and although I considered these to be more or
                                      much which was
Iless unfounded, and, moreover, that  steadily avoided  substantially
                                                        entering into
mine was not attributed to me, --

anyA  controversy on the subject.     justice  awarded  in  such   cases,
       strong belief in the eventual
though it may be temporarily or locally withheld, sustained me
Iin this course.     contented myself with reprinting in a separate
Ivolume those scattered papers in which from time to time de
veloped my Theory subsequently to the publication in 1843 of my
ITravels in the Alps of Savoy.        only omitted those which were
Idirectly controversial ; but did not suppress a single word or sen
tence which could possibly be held as open to criticism, either on
Ithe ground of inconsistency of opinion or of misinterpretation of
fact. A copious index was added to facilitate reference.           intro

duced this compilation1 by a prefatory note, showing the bearing
of these expositions of my views upon certain speculations of
Professor Tyndall. This preface was anxiously worded so as (I
trust) to give no just offence, and it could scarcely be deemed
Ipolemical.
    Perhaps  should not have thought myself warranted in now
departing from my previous course in this matter, but should

have left any outstanding differences between Professor Tyndall

and myself to be calmly decided by an impartial public, had
it not been for one section of his new work, which is headed

PiENDU'S TlIEOIIY.2

   1 The title was, Occasional Papers nn the Theory  of Glaciers,  now Jr.st
Collected. A. and C. Black : Edin. 1S59.

   2 Pages 299 to 30 S of the Glaciers of the Alp*.
A.]                        FORBES AND RENDU.                                           523

§ 2. Professor Tyndall's General Account of Rendu' s 'Thiorie des
                                           Glaciers'

     In the course of these few pages, Professor Tyndall conveys
to his reader the apprehension that the memoir of Monseigneur
Rendu on the Glaciers of Savoy has been almost entirely over
looked by English writers and readers on this subject : that the
descriptions of it have been inaccurate and even deceptive, the
extracts partial and not characteristic, so that when, after several
years of study of the science of glaciers, his own attention was
distinctly called by a Swiss friend to Bishop Rendu's work,1 he
was surprised to find evidence of extensive knowledge, close and
accurate reasoning, and an extraordinary faculty of observation ;
together with a constant effort after quantitative accuracy, and
' a presentiment concerning things as yet untouched by experi- ,
nient which belongs only to the higher class of minds.'2 Nor
was he less struck to find that the memoir contained passages of
'cardinal import' which previous writers had 'overlooked,' and
that it should devolve on himself to call attention to them
' nearly twenty years after their publication.'
   Whether these merits of Bishop Rendu had really been over
looked, as is here supposed -- how far the statements of ' cardinal
import ' referred to had been knowingly or otherwise allowed to
                            and required to be revived
                           presently endeavour to show.
I Iypeasasrs'inotoblivfoiorgne--tfulnewsisl,l
                                                                                       after twenty
                                                                                        But must
Ifirst state why feel my credit involved in these allegations, so
Ias to induce me to withdraw from the neutral attitude which
have generally adopted towards Professor Tyndall's criticisms.
   The reasons of my present remonstrance are these :--
     First, That though the allegation that Bishop Rendu's Theory
has been undervalued, or represented only by insufficient and
partial extracts from his writings, is for the most part made in
/general terms,3 yet it is to be inferred from the entire section

that am the writer most to blame. Moreover, at page 304
of his work, Professor Tyndall, after quoting a passage from
Rendu, states that it enables him to correct a ' grave misappre-

     1  See Phil. Trans., 1859, p. 271.    note   :--  '    1  Glaciers of             the Alps, p. 299.
     3  As, for example, in the following                      all that has            been written upon
                                                          In

glaciers in this country, the above passages from the writings of Rendu are un
quoted ; and many who mingled very warmly in the discussions of the subject
Iwere, until quite recently, ignorant of their existence.                              was long in this con
Idition myself, for never
                           suapnpdosoefd    that  passages      which                  bear so directly upon a
point so much discussed,                  such    cardinal     import,                  could have been over

looked ; or that the task of calling attention to them should devolve upon
Imyself nearly twenty years after their publication. Now that they are dis
covered,       conceive  thneoirdiffterrueenceposoiftioonp.i'n--ionTycnadn aellx'sist  as to the propriety of
placing   them in                                                                      Glaciers of the A/pi,

p. 308, note.
624            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                       [aptexd.

hension' at page 128 of my Travels in the Alps; and on the
preceding page (303), while he allows that certain passages of

Rendu's work ' are well known, from the frequent and flattering
references of Professor Forbes,' he adds, ' but there are others of

much greater importance which have hitherto remained unknown
in this country.' Through whose fault they remained unknown
he does not explicitly say; who extracted with commendation
Ithe less important passages, leaving the more important ones in
forgetfulness, he leaves it to the reader to judge.               regret to say
that a similar tone prevails in many other passages.
   Now, an allegation that an author or observer has suppressed
his knowledge of the antecedent labours of others in the same
field, that he has even omitted some facts, while he claims credit

Ifor candour   by citing  others of less                   imthpeoirrtadnicsec,oveorry,w--hicsuhchbeaanr
               upon his   own claims to
less directly
allegation,    siamy,pliiscatainono. diouIts       one, whether   made explicitly   or
by inevitable                                     requires to be  openly met by    the
Iperson whose character is really in question much more than

his originality. This is the first reason why write the present

reply.
    Secondly, Had not the scarcity of my own work (the Travels
in the Alps, which has been long out of print), and in England
that of Rendu's Essay also, made the indispensable verification of
IProfessor Tyndall's citations and inferences (which are or may

be in the hands of everyone) a matter of difficulty, might pos
sibly have spared myself the disagreeable task of writing these
tphaegems.eanMs yofprdiencciidpianlg--obj(e1c.t)  must be  to furnish the reader with
                                                  Whether  the character given by me
of Rendu and his theory was so indefinite as to leave it to
Professor Tyndall to proclaim his merit for the first time. (2.)
Whether my citations from Rendu were not only different from
those made by Professor Tyndall, but whether they omitted
matter of much greater importance than they included, and, by
suppression, were calculated to mislead. (3.) Whether the con
text of the passages cited by Professor Tyndall from my work,
and from that of Rendu, does not affect or modify their signi

Ificance.

   Before proceeding to this, may be allowed to make one other
observation, generally applicable to such historical criticism as
that to which Professor Tyndall devotes so many pages of his
writings on the Glacier question ?

   It is a matter notorious in scientific discovery, that every
theory of the least importance has been preluded by the antici
pations of men of sagacity and penetration, who yet wanted
the skill, or the perseverance, or the opportunity necessary to
A.]                          FORBES AND RENDU.                                                     525

demonstrate their speculations to be true. Isolated quotations
from authors who formed just conceptions of a possible or
antecedently probable explanation of a complex phenomenon,

convey to the reader (trusting to these alone) an inaccurate con
ception of the exact importance of these anticipations. Seen by
the light of subsequent observations and discoveries, they are
incontrovertible truths ; but when viewed in the aspect in which
                             to contemporary writers, or even
thhiemysealfp--peawrheedn     tried by the context of the work   to   the author
                             they appear what they really are        which they
are contained,                                                   in  happy con
                                                                 --

jectures, supported by general analogies and by a few obvious

or reputed facts. The history of science, if attempted to be based
on such expressions alone, would become a maze of mingled truth
and fiction. Hooke and Borelli would assume the position of
being authors of the theory of gravitation ; Grimaldi and Hooke
(again), of the undulatory theory ; De Dominis and Descartes, of
the discovery of the unequal refrangibility of the rays of the
spectrum ; Hero and Porta, of the steam-engine ; Bacon, of the
aberration of light ; Boerhaave and Fahrenheit, of specific heat ;
Wright and Lambert, of the laws of sidereal astronomy ; Brug-
manns, of diamagnetism ; and Higgins, of atomic chemistry.
     Professor Tyndall has treated Bendu's happy suggestions in
this spirit, and consequently claims for him the parentage of
every idea which thrown out by him, has since been proved to
be true,1 while he casts a veil over his less fortunate conjectures.
  IHe has treated my writings in precisely an opposite spirit.

He forgets that when my labours commenced found no single
precise or quantitative fact respecting glaciers established in a re
liable manner, and that the whole weight of scientific authority
was then ranged on the side of one or other of two theories of
glacier motion, neither of which is now considered worth re
futing.2 As an example of the minuteness of Professor Tyndall's

     1 As when he claims for him (at p. 300) the theoretical inferences of
Messrs. Grove and Helmholz on the mutual convertibility of the physical forces,

and my explanation of Regelation by assuming ice to have a proper temperature

lower than 0° (Cent.). In the latter instance, the context evidently shows that
'                            that zero  the limiting temperature of the ice of glaciers.
                                        warmer. 'Les quantités de calorique,' he says,
  I2
                  a
                    la
                        is,
the meaning                             is
It may be colder, but never                            p. a

                                                          la
                                                                               is

                                                                  I

                                                                                               in
fournies                   glace sont employees  fusion sans jamais pouvoir clever                 la

Glace au-dessus de z6ro.' (Rendu, 70.)                        Theory of De Saussure,
          refer, of course, to the Gravitation or             not, presume, alleged                and
to   the Dilatation Theory of De Charpentier.      sliIdting                                       that

the circulation of Rendu's              oEf sTwshaaeytelhraattfderortz--heenthseilnigthhttheeeosrtcyreitnvhfiacluetestnhceoefmtohetcioognnlvaoecfrietgirnl--agcwiteharess

partisans of those theories.
arises from the dilatation
by
                   by
maintained                 De Charpentier after receiving Rendu's work, which he seems

even to have regarded as countenancing his opinions and was also maintained
                                                              ;

     M. Agassiz, after he had made for several years observations on the Glacier
526            THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                                                   [appexd.

criticism when my Travels in the Alps are concerned, he has
thought it worth while to signalize three times, in as many
different publications, the venial error of the True North being
set off on the compass-card of my Map of the Mer de Glace
the wrong side of the             North, according  dtoownw.1hichYe(ats                                                       on.
is stated in the text)  Magnetic   had been laid
                        the map                                                                                                it

                                                                                                                              he

allows that the error was corrected by myself nearly ten years
before he had any chance of detecting it.

             § 3. My first References to Rendu's 'The'orie.'

The The'orie des Glaciers de la Savoie of Eishop Rendu ap
             the 10th volume of the Memoirs of the Academy of

             in 1841.2 It comprises 120 rather widely printed
Ipeared in

Chambdry
octavo pages. heard it spoken of in August 1841 by M. Agassiz
or by his friends, on the Glacier of the Aar, certainly not in very

respectful terms. It appeared to be regarded by them as the
Iwork of a visionary. After leaving the glaciers in the same

year, saw the Thiorie in the hands of a Swiss friend, but so
cursorily, that the circumstance would probably have escaped

me, but for a reference to it in a note to an article in the Edin
burgh Review for April 1842, which was written by me, from
Iwhich it also appears that the Essay itself seemed to me to be

by no means worthy of the ridicule which had heard applied to

it. There can be no reasonable doubt that my main if not sole
interest in inspecting   M. Rendu's             this occasion,
to endeavour to find                 book on   veined structure                                                               w' aosf
                        a reference  to the '

Iglaciers, which was then the engrossing subject of discussion.

  did not find any account of it there.3
That a glacier moves like a sluggish river, and under the same
laws, was an idea which first clearly entered my mind as a

of the       Aar, which he considered as demonstrative of its correctness. The
             theory -- that the glacier merely slides by gravity over its inclined bed
--forwmaesr  still later defended by the aid of assumptions of a very arbitrary kind.

At tills stage of the subject only a stinted measure of approbation was by many
persons awarded to the observations contained in my work, the general fact
that glacier ice behaves like a plastic mass being then resisted, though neces
sarily involved in the special facts which could not be denied. These occur
rences, well known to those who interested themselves in the subject fifteen
years ago, might easily escape the notice of the reader of the present day.
'2

                           [p.

                               p. I
                                                                    in
                                                                        it
                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                               (p.
   1 The magnetic variation is also correctly stated in the text                                                              123, 1st edit.)
at 19° W.

      Since writing the above passage, find the preface to Dr. Charpentier's
Estai sur les Glaciers (Lausanne, 1841), that he received copv of Rendu's

Thiorie on the 24th October, 1810, and that bore the date of 1840. This

must have been on the separate copies.

      Compare Travels in the Alps, 29, and also extract (a), page 11 of the

present Reply  528].

                                                                  ^O-Ji
A.]                       FORBES AND RENDU.                                        S27

Idefinite probability on the evening of the 24th July, 1842, when

from the heights of the Charmoz saw the dirt-bands stretching
               breadth of the Mer de Glace at my feet,                    like floating
across the                                                                described at
scum on a      partially stagnant stream, Isuch as have

page 162 of my Travels in the Alps ; and from that hour the
viscous or plastic theory was to me a conviction and a reality.1
I will not at this date hazard an assertion as to the exact period
Iat which      coupled with this thought the hitherto slighted
Ispeculation of the Canon of Chambery.                     will therefore, in my

                          on documentary evidence. On the 22ud
                          following remark in a letter to Professor
Istatement,

August I
               rely only
               made the

Jameson, written from Zermatt,               in   which        expounded the lead
ing features of my own theory                              not difficult to foresee,
                                             :--  ' It is
that if my view should prove correct, a theory of glaciers may
be formed which, without coinciding either with that of Saussure
or Charpentier, shall yet have something in common with both.
IWhether that of M. Rendu may not avail something,
                                                                                   am

unable to say, not yet having been able to procure his work.' 2

     Thus far, at least, there is no tendency manifest on my part to
suppress the fact that M. Rendu had a theory, and that it might

probably bear upon mine.

  IKnowing just so much as then did of M. Rendu's book, had
I wished to maintain a colourable ignorance of its contents,
I might have proceeded to develop tranquilly my own theory.
IBut find (again appealing to documentary evidence for what

Iwould otherwise have unquestionably escaped my memory), that
both in Switzerland and           at Turin (whither        went in the summer
                                  Rendu's work in          vain, and requested
of 1842) I sought for
Abbe" Baruffi at the latter place to do me the favour of writing
Ito his brother ecclesiastic to obtain a copy for me.

   Notwithstanding all this, returned to Edinburgh in the
Iautumn of 1842, and                         writing my 'Travels,' with the
                                              now procured and read every
uncomfortable feeling
                          commenced

                           that I had
book about glaciers which knew or had heard of, except the
one whose contents it might prove to be most important for me
to know.

               oLcectutrer:--on'
  I1 See my Third

following passages
                                   Glaciers, dated    22nd August 1842, where the
                                  One afternoon       happened to ascend higher than
usual above the level of the Mer de Glace, and was struck by the appearance
of discoloured bands traversing its surface nearly in the form indicated in
               These dirt-bands perfectly resemble those of froth and scum
fig. 4

which every one has seen upon the surface of slowly moving foul water ; and
                                     idea of fluid
their figure at once gives the                      motion, freest in the middle   and
obstructed by friction towards      the sides and   bottom.' -- Occasional Papers   on

the    Theory  of Glaciers (1859),  pp. 21,  23.      in   the Alps, 1st  ed. Appendix,
    !  Edin.   Phil. Journal, Oct.  1842 ;   Travels

p. 407, and Occasional Papers (1S59), p. 24.
   628                     THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                           [appexd.

   IAs a last resource, on the 12th December, 1842, wrote a
   letter to Monseigneur Rendu (then Bishop-elect of Anne^y), of
   Iwhich have fortunately preserved a copy, which is now before
   Ime.
   Ithis
         In it                stated  the particulars         which                (on the evidence  ; --of
                           and not    from memory)             have               mentioned above
        letter,

   the cursory             ifnrsiepnedc,ti--onmfyorinaqfueiwriems infuotresthoef  a copy in the hands
   of a Swiss                                                                     work itself, both in
   Switzerland and at Turin, -- the application to M. Baruffi, and
   Imy desire to give an account of M. Rendu' s views in my volume
   then in preparation. Of course                             ended by requesting the
   Bishop to excuse the intrusion of a stranger, and to forward a
   copy of his book to Edinburgh with the least possible delay,1 and
   Iby offering him mine in return.

         received from the Bishop a polite and friendly answer, dated
   the 20th December, 1842, which is also before me, promising the
   despatch of the volume of Academical Memoirs containing his
   IEssay

   exact
        through               a Paris          rebaocohkesdellmere.--probaamblyunianbleFebtrouasrtyate184th3e;
        date at            which it
   Ibut this is not of importance.
                                                              shall now indicate with pre
   Icision the notice which took in my work (already in great
   Ipart written before the arrival of Eendu's Memoir2) of the

   Essay which had taken so much pains to procure.

   § 4. References to Rendu in my 'Travels in the Alps' (1843), and
                               in my later publications.

   The following extracts from my Travels in the Alps will
   speak for themselves. The pages referred to are those of the

   first edition (published in July 1843). No alterations whatever

   were made in these extracts in the second edition (1845), only
   the pages where a few of the later ones occur are slightly

   ...different.                               In the writings of Agassiz, Godefroy,
      (a) Travels, pp. 28, 29. -- '
   De Charpentier, and Rendu, devoted exclusively to glaciers, and published in

   1840 and 1841, there is an equal silence as to the real nature of glacier
   structure, &e."

     I1 then believed the book or pamphlet to be a separate publication. This
   Iaccounts for the difficulty which everywhere experienced in obtaining it through

   booJ kSseeellinegxtcrhaacntne(les). below.  I may here note that the chapters were not
   composed in the order in which they are printed.
   str3uc[tPurroef.essAor                                     to Rendu an allusion to the veined
                           Tyndall    (p.      301) ascribes  Thiorit, however, must satisfy any
                           reference   to      p. 60 of the

   impartial person that he is speaking of the true stratification of the nevi, as
   would have been apparent had Professor Tyndall not stopped short in his
   quotation. After the word 'snow' in his citation this passage follows, identi
                           with those of       De             Saussure and other older writers,
   fying the description                       ya             dans Pensemble de grandes et de
   applied to the higher   glaciers : ' II

v
A.]                                          FORBES AND RENDU.                                                         629

    (i) Travels, p. 127.-- 'Ebel gravely affirms i that the glaciers of Chamouni
advance at the rate of 14 feet a year, and those of Grindelwald 25 feet a-ycar ;
whereas, as we shall see, such spaces are actually traversed by most glaciers in
the course of a few days. This statement is quoted by Captain Halls and other
recent writers, and even by M. Rendu (now Bishop or Annécy), the author of
a  most ingenious                            --on'Mg.lacRieerns,dutooseleitmtlse  known.' 3
   (c) Travels, p.                    paper                                       to have been
                                       128.                                                          more       aware  of the
importance of the determination of the rate of motion of glaciers than any
other author; but the best information which he could collect in 1841 did not
much tend to clear up his doubts. He gives the following rates of motion of
the Mer de Glace, or Glacier des Bois, without being able to decide which is

the most trustworthy : 242 feet per annum ; 442 feet per annum ; a foot a
day ; 400 feet per annum ; and 40 feet per annum, or one-tenth of the last !--
a difference which he attributes to the different rates of motion of the centre
and the sides.' *

   We shall see below (page 16) that Professor Tyndall, in citing
the preceding passage from my Travels has made two important
omissions.

--' A('ndR)ieATnrtatevnemelspm, tep.   356. -- Motto  or heading to Chapter XXI.                     [which is entitled
                                      to explain      the Leading Phenomena                            op Glaciers.']

                                      paraît plus clairement démontré que le mouvement progressif
des glaciers vers le bas de la vallée, et rien en même temps ne me semble
plus difficile à concevoir que la manière dont s'exécute ce mouvement
silent, si inépral, qui s'exécute sur des pentes différentes, sur un sol

garni d'aspérités et dans des canaux dont la largeur varie à chaque

instant. C'est là, selon moi, le phénomène le moins explicable des glaciers.
Marcbe-t-il ensemble comme un bloc de marbre sur un plan incliné ? Avance-
t-il par parties'brisées comme les cadloux qui se suivent dans les couloirs des

montagnes ? S'aff'aisse-t-il sur lui-même pour couler le long des pentes,
comme le ferait une lave à la fois ductile et liquide P Les parties qui se
détachent vers les pentes rapides suffisent-elles a imprimer du mouvement à

celles qui reposent sur une surface horizontale ? Je l'ignore. Peut-être encore

pourrait-on dire que dans les grands froids l'eau qui remplit les nombreuses

crevasses transversales du glacier venant à se congéler, prend son accroissement
                                                                    d'qécuoi ulleamecnotn.'tie--nnReennt,due,t
de   volume ordinaire, pousse                          les  parois                                              produit ainsi
un   mouvement vers le bas                            du    canal                                                Théorie, des

Glaciers, p. 93.
   (e) Travels, p. 367.--' When a glacier passes from a narrow gorge into a
wide valley, it spreads itself, in accommodation to its new circumstances, as a
viscous substance would do ; and when embayed between rocks, it finds its
outlet through a narrower channel than that by which it entered. This re
markable feature of glacier motion, already several times adverted to, had not
                                                                    sitnattehdesebywMor.dsRe: n"dIul,   now Bishop     of
been brought prominently                     forward until                                             y a une foule   de
Annéçy, who has described                    it very clearly
faits qui sembleraient faire croire que la substance des glaciers jouit d'une

espèce de duel ilité qui lui permet de se modéler sur la localité qu'elle occupe, de
s'amincir, de se rétrécir, et de s'étendre, comme le ferait une pâte molle.

petites assises. Les premières représentent sans doute les années, et les secondes
                                                                un jour de        pluie, une chute de neige,           un
représentent  peut-être                       une saison,   p.   61. This         is evidently no accouut of           the
violent coup  de soleil.'
                                             -- Rendu,

vei'1neMGduésmidtre.ucddteuurlaeV.oSyoac(ig1éet8éu6r0,A.)ca]ardt.ém' Giqlauceierd.e' Savoie, x. 95.  ' Patchwork, i. 109.

                                                                                                     4 Mémoires, &c. x. 95.

                                                                MM
630                     THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                                                               [ArFE>'D.

Cependant quand on agit sur un morceau de glace, qu'on le frappc, on lui trouve
uue rigidité qui est en opposition directe avee les apparences dont nous venous
de parlor, reut-etre que les expediences faites sur de plus grandcs masses
donnoraicnt d'autres requitals." 1 Now it is by observations on tbe glacier itself
that we can best make experiments on great masses of ice, as here suggested.'

  (/) ITravels, page 3S2. -- 'The idea of comparing a glacier to a river is

anything but new, and would not be supposed to claim that comparison or
analogy as an original one. Something very like the conception of fluid

Imotion seems to have been in the minds of several writers, although was not
Iaware of it at the time that made my theory. In particular, M. Rendu,
fwprrhoeomdseec"esmgsloearccshieanrosicrarcleosnetverimveowpiosrsraa;rri"ees,ianndmspianenaykthsereosfpqeu"cotgstalaticmoineorrseat  precise than              of his
                                                                                                                                     d'ecoulement  "thaosse  distinct
                                                                                                                                     the head of
                                                                                                                                                   this chapter,
he evidently contemplates the possibility of the mutual pressures of the parts
overcoming the rigidity.2 He is the only writer of the Glacier school who has
insisted on the plasticity of the ice, shown by moulding itself to the endlessly
varying form and section of its bed ; and he is also opposed to his leading
contemporaries in his conjecture that the centre of the ice-stream would be
found to move fastest. But M. Rendu has the candour not to treat his

ie"nxgtpheeenriipomruoesgnrtsespswesicoournltahotyiof nogsflacacosienfrliesdaedniscinedg. emtoo"naTsnhtyreacteefadrtc,atibnouftrethtshueeltm,monatoniontnerbeexoinifsgtistf,o"uisnhdeeendstairyesolny;
unknown. Perhaps by long observations and well-made experiments on ice
is
                     3

                     is
                            p. .
                                      .
                                            .
                                                                       a
                                                                    it,
                                                                                   a

                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                      by
and snow, we may be able to apprehend                      but these first elemeuts are still

wanting."            .  [Here follows           quotation from Captain Basil                                                                                 Hall.]
                        could not pass        into theory until supported                                                                                       the
But such speculations
                        whi3c8h5.M--. Kenduhavdeeplonroes
'Idefinite facts of                                         the want.'                                                               that          the       convex
   (a) Traveh,                                             doubt, however,

surface of the glacier (which resembles that of mercury in barometer tube)
    due     to this     hydrostatic pressure  acting upwards with                                                                     most energy near the
centre.                 the "renflement" of   Rendu, the "surface                                                                    bombée" ot Agassiz.'
              It

   Such are the quotations from and references to M. Kendu in
the work which embodied the results of my own experiments
and speculations. In my later writings did not suffer the
bishop's name to drop out of sight.
                                              p.

                                                      I

                                                          I
            Theorie des Glaciers de la Savoie, 84. Whilst am anxious to show
1

  '
         it
                  is
how far the sagacious views of M. Rendu coincide with, as they also preceded
my own,                 lair to mention, that all my experiments were made, and indeed
by far the greater part of the present volume was written, before succeeded
in obtaining access to M. Rendu's work, in the tenth volume of the Memoirs                                                           it
roifghtthereAvceardeenmd yauotfhoCrh.'a*mbery, which owe at length to the kindness of the
                                 la                                                                                                       aaI

                                    la I
                                                  a
                                                   la
a           See also page 107 of his work for comparison between glacier and
river.'s_ 2
                                              progression des glaciers est demontree;
  '"Le fait du mouvement existc,'
          le
mais mode est entitlement inconnu. Peut-etrc avee de lougues observations,
des expediences bien faites sur
                                              glace et     neige, viendra-t-on bout de                                                                       le

saisir: mais ces premiers elements nous manquent encore.'".

* have explained already (page that though had cursorily seen M. Rendu's
     [I                 a

                          it
                                  I 9)

                                           )J
                                                      I
book in the possession of friend, never had access to                                                                                for consultation,
either while deducing my theory from observations on the glaciers themselves, or
afterwards, when elaborating at home, until the time above referred to, which
was probably in February 1843. (18(30.
                                          FOIiBES AND RENDU.                                                                         .131

  I(A) Eighth

Papers, &c., p.
                       Letter        on       Glaciers, 1844                 (reprinicd 1859,                    in Occaiional
                       62),         say :     ' Facts like this             seem to show with                    evidence, what

intelligent men, such as Bishop Rendu, had only supposed previously to the
               cemrteaaisnuriel sduicntil1itSy42",
Crst exact                                          otrh"atvitshceosicitey  o" fwghliacchieprse,rmriigtisd   as it appears, has,
                                                                                                            it to model itself to
in fact, a

the ground over which it is forced by gravity,' &c.
  I(i) Paper in Philosophical

1859, in Occasional Papers,
                                                    Transactions               for  1846 (read 1845              ; reprinted
                                                    &c., p. 84).                     Rendu, Bishop               of Annécj,
in his excellent Essay on Glaciers, refers                                     'M.
only) to the possible analogy with a lava
                                                                  in one       "pa[lsesaggelac(iaenrd]         believe in one
                                                                 stream                                     s'affaisse-t-il sur

lui-mfime      pliqouuirdeco?u"le'r1  le  long      des  pentes             comme   le i'erait              une  lave a la fois
ductile et
  I(it) Paper in Phil. Trans. 1846 (Oecas. Papers, p. 160). 'Still less

could have anticipated that when the plastic changes of form had been

measured and compared, and calculated, and mapped, and confirmed by
independent observers, that we should still have had men of science appealing
to the fragility of an icicle as an unanswerable argument ! More philosophical,
surely, was            the appeal of                             Annecj, from
to what we             may one day        the Bishop of          to be taught.          wh"aQt uwaendalroenadyagiktnsouwr
                                          learn if willing
un morccau de glace, qu'on le frappe, on lui trouve une rigidité qui est en
opposition directe avec les appareuces dont nous venous de parlcr. PeuU

rtwireultqautes."les'  experiences    faites        sur de plus grandes             masse* donneraient d'autres
                       «

      Thirteenth Letter on Glaciers, 1840 (reprinted 1859, Occasional
    (/)                201). 'Bishop Rendu, whom had the pleasure of visiting at

             '
              p.
Papers,                                                                     I

Annecv [in 1846], 'remarked familiar circumstance which illustrates the
same thing. We often see,                     by in the coldest weather, that opaque snow                                          con
                                                     a                                                           ;

                                                                                                                             is
verted into translucent ice the sliding of boys on its surface friction and

pressure alone, without the slightest thaw, effect the change which must take

place still more readily in glacier,' &c.3
                                          a

      leave these extracts to the consideration of the impartial
I                                                                                       of them with the
                                                                                        still better, with
                      a
reader, that he may decide, by                           a      wcoomrkp,a--risoorn,
extracts in Professor Tyndall's
Rendu's Essay itself (where, of course, these sagacious views are
tmurixe)ed--wwihthetherctehretayindoanllooyt        of ingenious                    but inaccurate conjec
                                                    constitute an                   adequate and impartial

recognition of the Bishop's TMorie, and at the same time invite

and facilitate reference to it.

3a 1  Theorie des Glaciers. Mtm. de Academic de Savoie, tome x. 93,
  ''                                                            V                                                it
published in 1841.'                                                p.       84; quoted in my Travels,                              367,
       Theorie des Glaciers de la Savoie,                                                                           :
                                                                                                                         ' p. p. p.
second edition.'

       [Hadby I  been aware of the                  3fo0l1lowingwopualdssacgeertainlyttehanvdeu'scitTehdeorie--,in                    75,
quoted         Professor Tyndall (p.                                                                                               D'ou
                                                         ),
                                                             1

[i.e., from an observation                by  De Saussure on the Seracs] l'on peut conclure que

le  temps favorisant Paction de l'amnite et en meme temps                                                   la   pression des

couches les unes sur les autrcs, rapprochent les petits cristaux qui forment
neige, et en les amcnant an contact, les font passer l'état de glace.' Nor did
                                                                                    a                            '
                                                                                                                                la
the Bishop refer me to his work when he made his remark about les petits

polissons,' as he called them. (1860.)]

                                                        MM      2
                THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                           [append.

§ 5. Professor TyndalVs FEixrtsrtacEtxstrfaroctm. Rendu examined. -- The

I have already adverted to some of Professor Tyndall's slighter
and more general claims on behalf of Rendu. But it is at page
i3s03moafdeP, r--oftehsastorwThyinledalcle'srtawinorkpatshsaatgtehse
                                                                      more  serious    allegation
                                                                      from  Rendu       are well
known, from the frequent and flattering references in my work,
' others of much greater importance, which have hitherto
remained unknown in this country,' which, having ' discovered,'

he proceeds to divulge.
The passages to which attention is thus so significantly
directed are only two in number, both relating to the comparison
Iof a glacier with a river.             twheillAclposn,sidp.er30t3h)e.m--
                             of                                             separately.     desir
   Quotation A (Glaciers
                                                                            It will be
Iable, believe, to copy the original passage from Rendu, restored
    tPhreofeosrsigoirnaTlyuFdreanllc:h--, which
to                                               has been quoted            and translated
ny

   ' J'ai, cherché à apprécier la quantité de son mouvement; mais je n'ai
pu recueillir que des données un peu vagues. J'ai interrogé mes guides

sur la position d'un énorme rocher qui est au bord du glacier, mais encore
sur la                                                        à
m'ont    glace  et par      conosùéquilenéttaitsolu'amninsée       son mouvement.      Les   guides
        montré   l'endroit                                       précédente, et celui   où  il était

il y a trois, quatre et cinq ans ; bien plus, ils m'ont montré l'endroit où
il se trouvera dans un an, deux ans, etc., tant ils croient être certains de

la régularité de ce mouvement. Cependant leurs rapports n'étaient pas

toujours précisément d'accord, et leurs indications de temps et de dis

tances manquent toujours de cette précision de mesure et de quantité sans
laquelle on est obligé de marcher à tâtons dans les sciences physiques. En
réduisant ces différentes indications à une moyenne, je trouvai que l'avance
ment total devait être d'environ 40 pieds par année. Dans mon dernier
voyage j'ai obtenu des renseignements plus certains que j'ai consignés dans le
chapitre précédent, et l'énorme différence qui se trouve entre les deux résultats

provient de se que les dernières observations ont été faites au milieu du glacier

d'écoulement, qui marche avec plus de rapidité, taudis que les premières ont été
faites sur   le bord, où la
rocheuses.'  -- Rendu, pp.   glace est  retenue               par le frottement des parrois [»iV]
                             94, 95.

   Prom the emphasis laid on the last sentence by the italics
and capitals of Professor Tyndall in citing this passage, it would
appear that what he most insists on as novel, and hitherto over
looked, is the more rapid motion of the central ice, and the
retention of the lateral ice by friction ; and in evidence of the
'grave misapprehension' to which he alleges that Rendu's

Istatements have beeu exposed, he cites1 from my Travels,

p. 128, the reference which have made to Rendu's estimates
of the motion of the Mer de Glace, which has been already

                                  1 Glaciers of the. Alps. p. 304.
A.] FORBES AND RENDU. 533

Iquoted in Extract (c), page 12 of this Reply. But regret to
state that he has given it in an incomplete shape, to the
manifest perversion of the meaning as respects the credit given
              In         first
to Rendu.  It is   the   -- ' M.  place,  the introductory    sentence is
omitted.                          Rendu                       more aware
                  this:                   seems to have been

of the importance of the determination of the rate of motion of
glaciers than any other author ; but the best information which he
could collect in 1841 did not much tend to clear up his doubts'
But the following omission is more serious ; for it suppresses half
a sentence, including the very point under discussion. Professor
                                          1! 2' )anwdithhetheplawcoersdsf,ou'4r0dfoetes,t
Tyndall closes  the quotation (see p.
per annum, or   one-tenth of the last

thus, . . . ., in lieu of  the concluding words of the sentence,
which in my book are
                           as follows : ' --A difference which he

ATTRIBUTES TO THE DIFFERENT RATES OF MOTION OF THE CENTRE
Iand sides ' (accompanied by a foot-note reference to the page of
Rendu's Thdorie).        cannot but look upon this suppression of
the end of a quoted sentence, including the very point under
discussion, as an evidence of strong prejudice in the writer,
Iagainst
  IThe
 which            feel myself called upon to     protest.                   --  tliat
idea that            had suppressed Rendu's     correct opinion,

the centre of a glacier moves faster      than  rtihveers,--idecso, ualdnd   its con
sequent analogy to the movement           of a                              have no

plausibility to anyone who had before him the account of
IRendu's theory contained in my ' Travels/ and reprinted in this
Reply ; as, for instance, in Extract (/), page 13.            there recall
(while in the act of stating my own opinions) that M. Rendu ' is
the only writer of the Glacier school who has insisted upon the
plasticity of the ice, as shown by moulding itself to the endlessly
varying forms and sections of its bed ; and he is also opposed to
his leading contemporaries in his conjecture that (he centre of the
ice-stream moved fastest. But M. Rendu has the candour not to
treat his ingenious speculations as leading to any certain result,

not being founded on experiments worthy of confidence.'

§ 6. Value of the Estimates of Glacier Motion previous to 1842

                                                     discussed.

Professor Tyndall next proceeds (at p. 304) to discuss the
Iquestion whether was correct in stating {Travels, p. 128) that
I' the actual

commenced
           progress of a glacier  was yet       a new problem when
           my observations on                   de Glace in 1842. ' He
                                  the Mer

cites a table containing the earlier estimates from Ebel to Rendu,
and he seems to challenge a proof of their inaccuracy ; but he
avoids stating whether any one of these rests on evidence which
534            THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                           [append.

would have been satisfactory to himself.1 Nearly all of them
depend on the reported estimates of the guides, who are too well
known                                                                  of knowledge
in such  (with rare exceptions) to affect an               accuracy
         matters of which they are wholly                  destitute,  and even (I

am sorry to say) to frame their replies in the sense which they
believe will be most in conformity with the ideas of their em
ployers for the time.2
The estimates of MM. Hugi and Agassiz, which might seem
to form exceptions, left the question in almost a worse position
than ever, for the velocities which they measured in the same
region of the same glacier differed in no less a proportion than
one to three? The chief error proved to be in the larger number,

  ilf the reader will   turn to pp. 37, 127, 128 of my     Travels, he  w37ill--fi'nIdt
                        scepticism in several instances.   Thus, at p.
reasons given for my

seems very singular that ingenious men, with every facility for establishing facts
for themselves, should have relied on conclusions vaguely gathered from un
certain data, or the hazarded assertions of the peasantry about matters in
which they take not the slightest interest.' These remarks, though not re

ferring primarily to the statements of Rendu, are, as we shall see, applicable

to them also.
·Before the time of Hugi (see Alpmreise, p. 371, cited in my Travels,
p. 127) it was a common error to confound the actual movement of the ice with
the amount of the advance in cold seasons of the lower termination of a glacier
into the inhabited valleys, -- a circumstance evidently of infinitely more moment

than the other to the native peasantry.
   3 Cited also on the same page of my Travels. The table quoted by Pro

fessor Tyndall at p. 305 omits M. Agassiz' most irreconcilable estimate, that of
2,200 feet in three years, or 733 feet per annum-- Hugi's estimate having been
               per annum. M. Agassiz accepted this                                                   of
only 241 feet  admitted to be a mere mistake) in these     wenoorrdmsou:s-- i'r1re1 gruclsaurilttye
motion (since                                                                                        de

ces faits que pendant les trois dernieres annees le glacier a fait autant de chemiu
que pendant les dix [neuf ?] premieres. Ce qui semble indiquer unc marche de
plus en plus rapide & mesure qu'il avance vers la valine.' (Etudes sur tes
Glaciers, p. 151.) Yet this last conjecture is annihilated by the statement
which follows in the next sentence but one, that the motion for one year (IS 40)

I Iposterior to all the others was only 200 feet ! In such confusion of fact and

inference was this subject when entered upon it.
      must here add. that Professor Tyndall has referred in several places to M.
Agassiz having made measurements similar to mine (in 1812), contempora
neously or nearly so. That Professor Tyndall should have remained unaware
(as be indicates at p. 274) of the measurements made by M. Agassiz in 1842,
until Professor Wncatstone referred him (apparently quite recently) to the
Comptes Rendus, is to me a matter of the utmost surprise. Not only are the
observations detailed, and that work cited, in M. Agassiz' Novvelles Etudes,

which Professor Tyndall might have been expected to consult, but they are
specially referred to in an article in the Westminster Review, for April
1^57. in which Professor Tyndall can hardly have failed to recognize the hand
of a zealous supporter of his own. In that article, while justice is at the same
time done to Rendu, every possible advantage is allowed to M. Agassiz ; but
Ithe writer records an
                        imVopla.rtiXalI.depc.isio4n27)i.n  favour of my priority (Westminster
Review, New Series,                                        The measurements of M. Agissiz,

moreover (as have indicated at p. 37 of my Travels in the Alps), were made
  A.]                             FORBES AND RENDU.                                               533

  Iand was, believe, due to M. Agassiz having trusted these im
  portant measurements to his guides, without having given them
  any previous training. So little can even the measures of untu

  torRedenpdeua's8aEnststimbaeterse.li--edForon.m M. Rendu's work, it would appear
  that         solitary -measurement
  upon   one  glacier is recorded.       Thoefsaenyardeeshcisriptwioonrdsma: d'eJ'abyvahisimfsixeelf
          a

  en 1838 la position de deux blocs de rochers qui ^taient a la sur
  face du Glacier des Bois ; une anu£e apres je suis alle" mesurer
  le chemin qu'ils avaient parcouru ; l'un avait avance" d'environ

  quatre cent pieds, et l'autre avait disparu,' &C.1 Will it bo

  maintained that this rough estimate of ' about 400 feet ' is to
  be the geometrical basis of the whole theory of glaciers ?
     Rendu's other estimates repose, like those of most of the earlier
  writers, on the reports of the guides, and he does not hesitate
  to let us know in many places the uncertainty which he attached
  to them. He describes them as ' des donn^es un peu vagues,'
  ' pas toujours precise"ment d'accord,' ' manquent de precision
  de mesure et de quantiteV2 Indeed, with reference to the

  reported observation of an annual velocity of 40 feet per annum

  near the side of the Glacier des Bois, near Montanvert, there

  was enough on the face of the statement to inspire doubt. In
the first place, it was six times less than the velocity of a block,
              as ' sur le bord,' which
described     authority, at 242 feet.    he had  quoted (at p. 85), on
the same
                                         In the  next place, it was the

result of the recollected (not recorded) position of the block, one,
two, three, four, and five years previously. No one who knows
the ideas of the peasants of Chainouni on such subjects twenty
Iyears ago can give credit to such an alleged precision of memory,

and am confident that in this Professor Tyndall will agree
with me. Lastly, it implied, if true, an amount of plasticity in
the ice which ought to have excited an amount of scientific scep

ticism which could only be overcome by direct and authentic
measurements. No such were produced.
       Now, on this last poiut Professor Tyndall quotes Rendu's faci
lity of belief in admitting that the central velocity might be at
the Montanvert ten times that of the lateral velocity of the ice,

in favourable contrast to my obvious doubt of the fact expressed
                                         which attached to the citation
by the mark of admiration                (!)

                                                 by I

                                                                               1
at my suggestion, and were chiefly pursued methods specifically indicated
  by                                      similar to those which                bemenyseulnf dpeurttaiknenpracticMe..
     isme to him in 1841        methods  such observations had
          also well known       that no
It            p.                                                                  I
                               ;
                                                                                           in by
Agassiz until after the period of my visit to the glacier of the Aar.             had also

publicly urged the necessity for such observations being undertaken, the
Edinburgh Review for April 1842.
                                            Ibid. pp. 94, 95.
  1    Thiorie, 86.                      J
33G              THE LIFE OF JAMES 1). FORBES.                      [append.

Iof the fact by Rendu,1 and which find to have been faithfully
Itransferred from the margin of my own copy of the Thiorie,

where had thus recorded my incredulity by a pencil mark still
extant, on a first perusal of the passage in 1843.

  IIn truth, disbelieve the alleged observation of 40 feet per
Iannum for five years as much now as did them. My own ob
Iservations on that or any other part of the Mer de Glace lend no

countenance to it. The smallest annual rate which have esti
mated for that region is 486 feet, or in any other region of the
glacier, 260 feet. NJvSs and snow-beds have of course nothing
to do with the question.2 But, what is much better evidence
in the present instance, Professor Tyndall himself, and Mr. Hirst,
his surveyor, who made it their business to measure the velocity
of this very region of the glacier 3 in no less than four transverse
lines, and at numerous stations in each line, have nowhere re

Jcorded a velocity of less than 6 inches a day in summer, which,

taking a mean with Professor Tyndall's own estimate of the
ratio of winter to summer motion,4 must give us, at the very
lowest reasonable estimate, from 140 to 150 feet of advance per

annum.
   This station ' stood close to the moraine,' and the result is

interesting as giving us a velocity almost entirely due to the
drag of the ice over the bank of the glacier. Now, the motion
reported by the guides to M. Rendu was three and a half times
less than this velocity of ice in contact with the soil, which was,
in fact, the minimum possible for that section of the glacier.

  i See extract, marked (c), p. 12.
  3 In a passage at p. 306 of the Glaciers of the Alps, the author states that

the measurements of glacier motion, made wil h my own hands, vary from less
than 42 feet a year to 848 feet a year. The reader might very naturally infer
from the context that these measurements indicated the effect of plasticity, and
that they both referred to the Mer de Glace. As he might have difficulty in

Icorrecting this view, or iu discovering where have recorded a velocity of only
I42 feet a year, and as references to my writings are here withheld, may men
Ition in this place, that the only observation by me which at all warrants such a

statement, appears to be one which made on a high and dry little glacier, in the
state of nice, 8,000 feet above the sea, niched in a cavity near the Simplon Pass
(Occasional Papers, p. 122). The velocity which I. found in summer was ]"4

Itinches in 24 hours, which, multiplied by 365, gives 42 feet and a fraction.
is nredless to add, that there was no plastic connection between this little glacier
and the Mer de Glace, to which apparently the movement of 848 feet belongs.
(See Map in Johnston's Physical Atlas.)
*See Philosophical     Transactions for 1859, p. 263, and Glaciers of the
Alps,

  I U*
     p. 277.     with  Professor Tyndall that the winter motion is  of the
     will allow
I fsummer motion, and
                       will take the mean of the two, or nearly of the sum
mer motion, to be the average of the year. Now, at 6£ inches per diem, the
annual motion would be 19S feet at the summer rate, or nearly 150 feet at the

average rate.
A.]  FORBES AND RENDU.  537

Even had the guides of M. Rendu, favoured by some excep
tional circumstances, commenced observations on a block so ex
travagantly retarded by the glacier-wall, it is physically certain
that before two seasons, much more before five, it would have
been stranded on the fixed moraine, conformably to the rule

Iin such cases.1

   But have not quite done with the quotation from Rendu

I(A, page 15). Professor Tyudall says, at page 306 of his

work, that came tardily in 1845 to admit a differential
motion of a glacier even greater than Rendu admitted in 1841.

   The distinction in the two instances lies in this, 4hat what

IRendu admitted as applicable to the Mer de Glace at Montan-

vert, on very indifferent evidence, admitted in a different case

Ior cases, and on satisfactory geometrical proof. It is certainly

the first time that it has been urged against me that was not a

Ithoroughgoing believer in my own theory. Most persons pro

bably thought that was too facile in accepting evidence in

Ifavour of it. The fact undoubtedly is, as Professor Tyndall says,

that in 1844 and 1845 was perfectly satisfied, that in im
mense glacier streams of small slope and low velocity, like
 those of Aletsch and the lower Aar, the central velocity might

Idiminish towards the side in almost any given ratio. The evi

 dence on which accepted this astonishing proof of plasticity
 was in the first case (Aletsch) my own observations with the

Itheodolite, in the second (Aar) similar measures by M. Agassiz'

 surveyors. But did not do so without calling attention (which
 Professor Tyndall omits to state) to the fundamental diffe
 rence betwen these glaciers and the Mer de Glace, which pre

Ivents us from expecting so striking a confirmation in the

 latter case. ' A glacier,' then stated, ' like the Mer de Glace

 of Chamouni has so considerable a velocity (on an average at
 least three times that of the glacier of the Aar), that the ice
 is impetuously borne along and torn from the sides at the ex
 pense of innumerable lacerations and crevasses. So that, in the
 whole extent of the middle and lower regions of that glacier, in
 no place do the ice and ground meet without the former being
 more or less fissured by rents. But the contrary is the case on
  the great glaciers, which move on small slopes, and with smaller

 Ivelocities,' &c.2

         am sorry to have been obliged to dilate so much upon the

  I1 This happened after twelve months to the Block D 7, which com

menced observing in September 1842, under these circumstances, and near
the same locality. See my Travels, second edition, chap, vii., and Occas.

Papers, p. 36.
   2 Ninth Letter on Glaciers (1845), Occas. Papers, p. 73.
038               THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                 [append.

first quotation which Professor Tyndall has made from Rendu,

and the inferences which he has drawn from it. It embraces,

Ihowever, the real gist of the matter, and the only other quota

tion to which must refer need not occupy us long.

§ 7. Professor TyndaWs Second Extract from JRendu examined.

   Quotation B {Glaciers of the Alps, pp. 305-6). -- It appears

unnecessary to repeat the first portion of Professor TyndalFs
second quotation from Rendu, as it merely contains in general
terms an assertion of the analogy of the movement of a glacier
to a river, the modifications of its velocity and depth depending
on the width and slope of the valley. No one who reads the

Iextracts which have already given from my ' Travels ' will doubt
Ithat have given M. Rendu entire credit for this generally
Iaccurate anticipation.               also ascribed due merit to our coun
                     Basil Hall
                                      (whose prior claim is not                alluded
                    Tyndall) for      his sagacious anticipation,              ' point
Itryman Captain

to by Professor
ing to the conception of a semi-fluid glacier.' 1                              further
Iexplicitly stated, that ' the idea of comparing a glacier to a
river  is anything  but new, and            wanouoldrigniontalbeosnuepp; 'osethdatto  claim
that   comparison   or analogy as                                                     ' such
analogies had no claim to found a theory ; ' that ' the onus of
the proof lay with the theorist.' 2 The latter sentences of Pro
                                      from  Rendu,
fessor Tyndall's  foqlluoowta:t--ion                        restored  to the original
French, are as

'Ce n'est pas tout, il y a entre le Glacier des Bois et un flenve une
rcssemblance tellement complete qu'il est impossible de trouver dans celui-ci
une circonstance qui ne soit pas dans l'autre. Dans les courants d'cau

la vitesse n'est pas uniforme dans toute la largeur ni dans tonte la pro-
                                                 bords,
fondcur ; le  frottemcnt du fond, celui     des   vers      Taction des     olbastasculerfsa,ce.'fo--nt
varier cette  vitesse, qui n'est entiere    que             le milieu de
Rendu, p. 96.

     ....),The quoted extract terminates abruptly {again with four
dots,          and there is a manifest incompleteness in the
sense. For the introduction, ' Ce n'est pas tout,' shows that

the writer is going to explain an additional analogy of the gla
cier to a river. But in the preceding extract it is evident that

only the conditions of river motion are noted, and that the
analogues of glacier motion, which ought to follow, do not

Iappear.
misOsningtumrneinmgberupofRtehendaun'saloTghyS.orieItfoisr  the context,    found the

                                                            as follows :--

   ' Or, la scnle inspection du glacier suffit pour prouver que la vitesse du

milieu est plus graude que celles des rives. La surface entiere est coupee par

       i Trawls, first edition, pp. 382, 3S3.                         1 Ibid.
a.]                                       FOTIBES AND RENDU.                         539

dcs crevasses, qui sont en géneral transversales k sa direction. Si le mouvc-

ment (Hait le meme dans toutc la masse, ccs crevasses, qui coupent la surface
en ondees paralleles, formcraient une ligne droit qui serait touiours a peu pros
perpendiculaire aux deux rives ; mais il n'en est point ainsi ; la lignc generale
est une courbe dont la convexity s'avance vers le bas de la vallee, ce qui ne
                   attribuc    qu'i                             les glaces ont sur ce point.'
p--euRt ecntdreu,   Tltcorie,         l'exccs  de vitesse  que
                                pp.  90, 97.

   From this                  extract we find-- very       uRneenxdpue'sctedthlyeoryto--thteharteadtheer
of Professor                  Tyndall's account of
Bishop relies for his conviction of the river-like motion of the
ice on an observation (if observation it was) altogether fallacious,
and from which a larger experience, and even a more impartial
study of the Mer de Glace alone, must have led him to draw a
consequence diametrically opposed to the plastic or river hypo

thesis. It is now admitted by all parties, including Professor
Tyndall,1 that, as a rule, the crevasses of a glacier stretch across
it in curves convex towards the origin. M. Agassiz and others,
misled in their deductions from this fact, which they recorded

correctly, espoused a false hypothesis. M. Rendu, having a just

hypothesis, observed the facts inaccurately, or must have relied

on some altogether local or apparent exception to a general law.
     The explanation of the whole matter is probably this : The
Bishop perceived the general river-like analogy of glaciers, which
had already struck Captain Hall and many other persons. He
hastened forward to the conclusion, and viewed the facts with a

favourable bias. He seized on the inaccurate estimate of the

guides as to lateral retardation, without considering its improba
bility, or relying on measures made either by himself or by
any educated person ; and he fancied that he saw in the direc
tion of the crevasses in some portion of the glacier the desired
confirmation of the same view. This appears indeed to have

been his main reliance ; for in the comparison to a river, just
Iquoted, there is no mention of the guides' estimate ; and in a

parallel passage further on (which have referred to in my
Extract, marked/), where he recalls in similar terms the poiuts
of resemblance to a river, he again recurs, for proof of the more

rapid central motion, to tlic form of the crevasses, and to that
I Ialone.2
      hope that have now satisfactorily shown that the two quo
tations from Rendu, to which Professor Tyndall attributes so
much significance, do not constitute any new claim in favour of

     1  'GLlaecsieornsdeoefs  the  Alps,  p,\ 322-324.                transversales  semblent se
     2                         de  glace  marquees par les crevasses

suivre; mais elles paraissent avoir plus de raiidite vers le milieu, ce qui donne
k chaque ondee la forme d'un demi-cercle dont la convexite est tournce vers lc
bas de la vallee.' Nor is there a word of the guides' estimate of the lateral

retardation. (Theorie, p. 107.)
   540                      THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                      [append

   their author's theory. Their drift or bearing is simply that the
   movement of a glacier is analogous to that of a river generally ;
   and, in particular, that Rendu was of opinion that, as in a river,
   the centre moves faster than the sides, and for the same reason.

   I have shown, by extracts from my own writings, that in both
   Ithese respects have given full credit to Rendu for liis just an
   Iticipations. But have also had to show that the grounds of
   his belief were inadequate, as they were also unsatisfactory to
   his contemporaries ; that they relied, on the one hand, on re
   ported estimates of velocity, at best vague, probably erroneous ;

   and, on the other hand, on a fallacious observation, which, if made
   aright, should have led the author to an opposite result. That
   Ithus the claim of Rendu, viewed by the light of Professor

   Tyndall's extracts, amounts to no more than had previously
   cordially   admitted,    and had also  been (I may        say) the first to
   proclaim,                having made                      anticipation of a
              --that of                   a sagacious

   true theory from limited observations of no great precision.

   §. 8. Reception of Rendu' s ' Theorie' at Home and Abroad --

                                                   Conclusion.

     IIn two passages which have already quoted, Professor Tyn-

   dall has made the specific complaint, that ' in this country '
   certain passages of Rendu's writings have been unquoted, certain
   original views which are patent upon the face of them ignored.
   Can Professor Tyudall cite any foreign work in which greater
justice has been done to them, or in which the passages relied
on by him have been cited ? He has not done so. Yet sepa
Irately printed copies of the Theorie des Glaciers were circulated

by the author among men of science. Indeed, have the Bishop's
own information that he had none remaining in December
1842. How is this ? The truth             is,    that the effectual promul
                                               in
gation of Rendu's opinions and merits came from this country,
and through my own writings.
   That Eendu's theory did not rest on bases sufficient to con
vince the foreign glacialists and physical philosophers of las
time, would not be difficult to prove from the writings of his
contemporaries, not one of whom gave any heed to the doctrine
of plasticity.1 We even find his essay quoted with approbation
   1

        it

                         a
   Thus, in review of Rendu's Theorie              the Bibliothlque Universdle

for February 1841, signed   by  an eminent professor at Geneva, find no refer
                                                             I

ence to his speculations on the quasi-fluid motion of   the   glacier, or to  its plas
ticity, though he admits the more rapid motion of      the   centre on the    basis of

the inaccurately observed curvature of the crevasses. On the contrary, he
describes Rendu as leaving the cause of the descent of glaciers indeterminate.
   Quant au mouvement progressif des glaciers d'ccoulement, M. Rendu en
'
A.] FORBES AND RENDU. 541

by De Charpcntier, who was zealously attached to the Dilatation
Theory, which was at the time in vogue. Indeed, there are
passages in it which leave it quite open to the author to be con
sidered as a supporter of this view.1 But such a review of con
Itemporary writers would not only lead me too far, but would at

best be but secondary proof of what have undertaken to
explain on its own merits.
  IThere is, however, one reviewal of the question, as between

Rendu's work and mine, which cannot in justice to myself omit,
because it anticipated the very claim now raised by Professor
Tyndall, at least twelve years before he had entered on the sub
ject at all, and therefore cannot possibly be regarded as having
any personal application. In quoting                                       iIt,

                                                                                                       a
                                                                                    emphatically dis
claim any imputation of unworthy motives to Professor Tyndall.
At the same time,
                aa                                impossible to read so striking predic

                                    it
                                           is
tion of the course which he has taken without noticing that                                                                                              it

gives not-unneeded warning, how mistaken zeal on behalf of
even deserving client may take too strongly forensic tone,
                                                                                             a

and may even wear the appearance of detraction and hostility
to another. The Edinburgh Review was one of the first in which
                                                                the writer thus stated the
my Travels were noticed, and                                                                              case                                         --of
M. Rendu and my own in the                                      number for July 1844, p.                  149
                                           oi
   'Amid
Annécy,                                                       it

                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                                                      :
                      thtahtis"  penury       thought,          did occur to M.              Rendu, Bishop of
                                 glaciers                                                    ductile and liquid
                                           might roll down declivities like
lava." He speaks of glaciers d'ecoulement, in contradistinction to glaciers re
servoirs. He was the first, likewise, to conjecture that the central portions ofil 3
                      move faster than the lateral ones, as in             fluid motion
gstlaatceise,rs"      that there was number of facts which                 would make          and he distinctly
                                                                                             us believe that the
                                           a                                        a
                                                                                               ;

                                                                                                                                     ·
substance of glaciers possesses                              a  kind of ductility, which permits them to

mould themselves on the locality which they occupy, to become thinner, and to
contract and expand themselves in the same manner asf soft paste would do."
This idea, however,
from philosophers                   just though   it          be, was too  bold to  meet     w"iththaret cethpetioringiedviteyn
                                    and when the             author of     himself  states,
                                 ;                              a by

of mass of ice, when struck,                      is                 itdirect opposition to this theory (though ex
it it                                                  in
    a
periments              made on greater masses                 may give other results)," we cannot but view
    as one            of those glimmerings of                truth which would have soon died away, had

     not been immediately surrounded                            that pure atmosphere of oxygen,                                                          a in in

which our author has made flash into brilliant light. Although he has, with
                                              it

great candour, published and given currency to the sagacious conjectures of
Rendu, yet we fear that those spiteful critics who delight in depreciating
ventions and discoveries, will seek to confer the honour of the new theory on
the Sardinian prelate. No real philosopher, however, will countenance such
                                                                           by
claim. Professor Forbes's theory was established                                  p.numerous and direct ex-

donne               des preuves récusables e'etait d'ailleurs un fait               deji acquis a
mais                ne sait quelle est cause qui peut leur donner                                   la
                                                                                    ce mouvement.'                     ;
                                 ii                                                                       s--cieBnciell.
                                           la

                                                          ;

Univ. xxxi. 375.

11   See for example the last sentence of Extract (d), page 12.
       Thiorie des Glaciers de Savoie. Chambéry, 1840,                                          Ibid. p.
                                                                                      93.       *
                                                                                                                     8

                                                                                                               i.
512             THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                            [append.

perimcnts before he saw the Bishop's work ; 1 and even if he had seen                                   it it,the

possession of conjecture which its own author distrusted, cannot, in the
                a
                                 '
                                                                                 '
slightest degree, affect either the originality or the merit of his discovery.'

This extract alone appears to afford ample evidence, that
Rendu's belief in the more rapid central motion of the glacier-
stream was known in this country by other persons as well
as by myself; and also that he was allowed to have applied to
illustrate the analogy which he had conceived to the motion of
fluid body.                                                                                                     of a
Moreover, in the North British Review for August 1859, from
which Professor Tyndall quotes at page 306 of his Glaciers

the  hAalspss,eltehcetedfol--lowing  passage  immediately                           precedes  that which
he
'.
    .

                                  :
                                                          by

                                                                      it
     . While we give all honour to the Bishop for an idea which possesses so
much ingenuity and truth, we must admit that                                        was a mere conjecture,

hardly admitted as of any value      the author himself, and that might never
                                                                                              it

have been heard of had not Professor Forbes, with great candour, given                                          it

currency at the same time that he published his own theory, of which was
                                                                                                        it

but the germ.'

   Those who can recollect the                rseicleeinvtedd--isrtehgearrdidicwuilteh,       which the
pamphlet of Rendu was at first                                                                even, with

which my attempts to base on rigorous demonstration the quasi-
fluid behaviour of the glacier-stream were assailed, and the deaf
ear turned for so many years to all the arguments by which
could enforce   stoheplaainna,l--ogymaywhaicffhordto                                Tyndall himselfI
appears now                                             Professor                   the notion, that
                                                      to smile at                                      it 1
the evidence brought forward in the Th&orie of the Bishop of                                                is
Annecy could have silenced the sneers of presumptuous cri
                                     '                                                                  II

                                               a
                                                            a

                                                     Ia
ticism, to which, in the language of the same reviewer, my
arguments were exposed, or that they would have excited atten81
tion now, save by the reflected light which long and persevering
discussion of the subject has thrown upon it.[I
To conclude In the whole of this matter am conscious of'
                I:
having acted an honourable and loyal part towards Monsei-
                      unhesitatingly quoted those passages of his
gneur Rendu.                                                                                      my own
                                                                                                  which
Edsoscatryinien--whthicehduhcistilsittyateomf entgslacaipeprroaaschedwhonleea,r--estwittho
                                     a
                                                             a
                                                                       9
felt my credit and originality most closely bound up.2 So fully

     had indeed seen  it,  but little more. See page of this Kcply (I860).]

     It will have been noticed that my Extracts from Rendu's writings bore ex
clusively upon such of his views as have been upon the whole confirmed, and
which may be regarded as his happiest prognostics. Nowhere have allowed
                                     quoting, as set-off, the few indifferent ob
myself to detract from his merit     by
                                         by
                                                                  a

                                                                     in
                                                                               1
Ifservations or inaccurate deductions or hazarded hypotheses which his work
rontains, and of which cannot he supposed that was ignorant.                                            have
                      it

been compelled to allude to one or two of those                                     the present Reply,      be

cause they have been extorted the partial citations and unwarrantable claims
which have been unwisely set up on his behalf.
A.]  FORBES AND RENDU.                          543

Iam satisfied of this, that on reading Professor Tyndall's section
Ion Rendu's Theory, my first impulse would have been to appeal
to the Bishop himself, had this been possible.  know that he

only desired credit for having put forth sagacious anticipations
of what was afterwards shown to be true in the face of many

Ipalpable objections. Far from thinking that had deprived him
Iof any share of his just glory, am sure he felt that his claims
had been brought into notice (even in Switzerland), and had
acquired respect, chiefly through the influence of my writings.
The Bishop's death made the desired appeal impracticable, but
looking into the correspondence with which he occasionally

I I Ihonoured me, found sufficient evidence of what now state.
will therefore conclude this Reply with a short extract from a
Ivery friendly letter, dated from Chambery (where a scientific

meeting was then held), 17th August, 1844, which am sure
Ithat he would have permitted me to use, and which certainly

shows no trace of a thought that had appropriated any of his
laurels :--
     ' Votre theorie de la marche des glaciers finira par etre la
seule admise, parcequ'elle est, selon moi, la seule vraie. La

derniere note quevous avez publi<5e dans la Bibliotheque Univer-

selle est claire, et fait demonstration pour les lignes de stratifica
tion. Combien je regrette que vous n'ayez pas etc' ici dans ce
moment ; la question aurait fait un pas de plus. '
              APPENDIX B.

Historical Remarks on the first Discovery of the real                                 Structure   ooff
     Glacier Ice. By Professor Forbes, Corresponding                                   Member
the Royal Institute of France. (Edin. New Phil. Journal,

      1843.)

I feel myself most reluctantly called upon to state some

circumstances respecting the discovery of a fact in the theory
of Glaciers which M. Agassiz has declared, in a paper printed in
the last number of the Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, to be

erroneously claimed by me.

   The first account of ' a remarkable structure of the ice of
glaciers,' by myself, was printed in this Journal for January
1842. A history of this discovery, entirely opposed to mine,
Iappears at pages 265 and 266 of the last number. By the

kind permission of the Editor, have now the opportunity
allowed me of stating how the facts really stand, and at the
same time of explaining the circumstances under which the
ppluabceli,c--aticoirncumofsttahnecesorigwinhaiclhpadpeelirc,accylaipmreinvgenttehde
                                                                                      discovery,   took
                                                                                      me from     men

tioning at the time, but which it now appears essential to make

known.

Private report proverbially exaggerates and misrepresents
                              little interesting
the history  of transactions  believe that my     to any but those
immediately                                       own conduct and
              concerned. I
its motives have been misunderstood, with reference to the
matter in question. A few extracts from the ample corre

Ispondence of which am possessed, in illustration of every step
Iof the transaction, will, hope, suffice to place the matter
Iclearly before such readers as shall feel sufficient interest to
follow them.  pledge myself to their accuracy, and to their
append, b.]      FORBES, GUYOT, AND AGASSIZ

       fairly extracted in conformity         with   the tenour of
                                              doubt  shall be raised
       to which they belong. If any
Ibeing                                                                the
                                                                       on
letters
this point, shall have only the disagreeable alternative of pub
lishing the entire correspondence, the length of which would
render it unsuitable for the pages      of a scientific journal. But
I repeat my belief
                    that the  extracts  I shall make, and the narra
tive with which               connect
                    I shall              them, will put the matter
Iin a light sufficiently clear; and for the facts which shall
Ihave to state, am conscious of their admitting of no colouring

or denial.
   In  the first place, I shall briefly state
                                                     the circumstances
under  which the observation of the veined
                                                     structure in the
Iice of glaciers 1 was made.

   In the second place, shall explain the circumstances under
Iwhich I made it public.

   In the third place, shall discuss shortly the claims to priority
of observation which have subsequently been made.

                                  I.

In 1840, M. Agassiz invited me to make a tour with him
     Inext summer amongst     the glaciers of the Oberland, Vallais,
the    Savoy.    understood    the invitation to extend simply to
and

our mutual companionship on a journey of mutual interest.
IOf third parties there was no mention; and it was with diffi

dence that requested permission for my friend and fellow-
traveller, Mr. Heath, Fellow and tutor of Trinity College, Cam
bridge, to increase the number. It was only after all preli
Iminaries were arranged, and after            had agreed, in order to
Iaccommodate M. Agassiz, to change

proposed to commence our intended
                                         the   direction in which
                                        tour,
                                               that I learned that he
had several friends in company with him ; and it was not until
Imy arrival at the

that the plan of
                    Grimsel, on   the 8th  I  of August, that      learned
                    a tour, into  which         had originally  gone, had

been abandoned   bthyamt yI  fellow-traveller, for reasons  which he did
not assign, and              was expected to unite with     the party he
had formed at Neufchatel, to spend some time on the glacier of
Ithe Aar, instead of prosecuting the journey originally proposed.

    cheerfully acquiesced, however, in the arrangement, which
promised to give me a good insight into the structure of glaciers,

which I proposed farther to study by prosecuting alone, or with
Mr. Heath, my originally projected tour to Monte Rosa and
Mont Blanc.

  It is to be remembered that the Glacier of the Aar was the
one which M. Agassiz had already repeatedly visited in former

       1 See Edinhurgh Philosophical Bevinr, January 184-2, p. 89.
                                               NN
r>40  TEE LIFE OF JAMES B. FORBES.             [AI'VKND.

years, and on which he had constructed a sort of hut, in which
he had lived for some time.

   His other friends not having all arrived, M. Agassiz, Mr. Heath,

and myself, accompanied by (I believe) a single guide, ascended

the glacier on the 9th August, 1841.
   Fact 1. We had not walked for half an hour on the ice, when

I directed the attention of my companions to what 1 called a
vertical stratification pervading the ice. It appeared to me so

plain, that it scarcely occurred to me that it could be new to M.
Agassiz, who had so often traversed the same ground.

  IFact 2. M. Agassiz, having his attention called to the fact,

stated that he thought was deceived in considering that it

penetrated the ice; that, indeed, the surface of the glacier

seemed to him much changed since last year, but that he had
observed superficial linear markings of the same kind on (I
      Glacier des Bois.

      At each new crevasse
Ithink) the                                    took pains to

   Fact 3.
                            we  came to,

Ishow him that the apparent strata penetrated into the mass of
the glacier ; but he seemed incredulous until  noticed a deep
hollow in the ice close to the left margin of the medial moraine
between Ilugi's and Agassiz' cabins, at least twenty feet deep, to

Iwhich called M. Agassiz' attention, in proof of the position
I had maintained.
Fact 4. To this he assented, but expressed his belief that it
would only be found in the neighbourhood of the moraine, and
not throughout the breadth of the glacier.
Fact 5. In the course of tlie same afternoon, we ascertained,
                           FORBES, QUYOT, AND AGASSIZ.                           .517

by conjoint inspection, that the structure in question was trace
able all across the glacier of the Finster Aar.

   Fact 6. M. Agassiz, unwilling to admit that he could formerly

have overlooked so palpable a structure, expressed a frequent
doubt whether this structure had not been superinduced since

Ihis last visit.

   Fact 7. took the following means of proving that this

could not be the case. I showed him some crevasses, and asked

him how old he supposed them to be? he answered, several years;

Ithey certainly had not opened since last summer (1840J.

showed that the veined structure crossed thtsc crevasses, and
was dislocated by them, as in the margin, and, therefore, must
have been anterior to their formation.

Let us hear the evidence of Mr. Heath and M. Agassiz, the

only witnesses present besides the guide.               him
   Mr. Heath wrote
                               to me thus,  on sending       the above           state
ment of facts :--

Extract First. -- Rev. J. M. Heath to Professor Forbes {printed by

                              Air. Heath's permission).
                                          ' Trinity Colleoe, 8th March, 1842.

I'. . . But those who were there this summer have very different evidence
that this was a new fact.            remember when it was first remarked, Agassiz

said he had seen it before, but not to such an extent. That it had a peculiar
relation to the medial moraines, aud would not be found in the centre of tho
glacier; that it was only xuperficial, and owing, as he believed, to the sand,

Iwhich placed itself in parallel straight lines, and produced these incisions by
melting the  ice. The      afternoon  was  taken up   in what then thought       aanvderyI
superfluous  endeavour      to make   out  whether   it was superficial or not,

believe he maintained the contrary opinion until the discovery of the great hole

of which vou have given a drawing.

It will be observed, then, that the whole question lies in this,
Whether the lined appearance of the ice was due to an inequality
of melting, occasioned by a linear arrangement of sand on the

surface, washed from the moraines, and intercepting here and
there the sun's rays ?-- or, Whether it was occasioned by the

unequal action of the weather on alternating vertical bands of
friable and of compact ice, of which the glacier is composed.
IM. Agassiz appears, upon Mr. Heath's testimony and my own,

to have taken the former view, whilst took the latter. Accord
ing to him, the ice was striated on its surface, because the sand
lay in lines ; according to me, the sand lay in lines, because the

ice has a veined structure throughout its mass.
  IM. Agassiz, the other witness, admitted as much himself,

when requested him to say whether the above-cited facts were
                                     In a letter to me, dated 2(Jth March,
accurately  sasytsat:e--d  or  not.
1812, he

                                      NN 2
5 18       THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                           [append.

Extract Second. -- Professor Agassiz to Professor Forbes, 29th March, 1842.

' Comme vous en convenez vous-même lorsque nous discutâmes pour la

première    fois les bandes   de- glace de teintes  diverses que  ls'ounpeobrsfeicrvieelldeasns   le
glacier,   je vous dis t/*e                                                                      au
                             fea avais remarqué     des traces

Glacier des Bois en 1838, ce qui est mentionné dans mon livre p. 121, à l'occa

sion des moraines médianes.'

  It appears, then, that Mr Heath's memory and my own agree

thus far precisely with M. Agassiz. Let us see whether the
reference to the 'Etudes sur les Glaciers,' published in 1840,
gives any farther evidence.

          Extract Third. -- Agassiz, ' Etudes sur les Glaciers,' pp. 121-2.

   ' Les tramées régulières et parallèles de grains de sable que l'on poursuit
quelquefois sur de très grandes étendues, le long des moraines médianes, me
paraissent être un cflet de la dilatation de la surface chargée de débris, combiné
avec le mouvement progressif de toute la masse. Les petits grains de sable

épars, n'agissant pas comme les gros blocs,1 tendent à former des séries (Qu.
stries ?) longitudinales et parallèles qui se transforment quelquefois en rainures, et
qui servent même souvent de lit aux petits filets d'eau qui coulent le long des
           Nulle part je n'ai observé ce phénomène d'une manière aussi
moraines.

frappante que sur la Mer de Glace de Chamonix en 1838 ; je l'ai également
remarqué sur le Glacier de l'Aar, et ce qui m'a confirmé dans l'explication que

j'en donne, c'est qu'ici on remarque sur le côté gauche de la grande moraine une

petite moraine qui lui est parallèle, et qui me paraît détachée de la même
manière que les traînées de sable dont je viens de parler se détachent des

moraines en général.'

   It appears then, that, after three years of observation of the

glaciers, M. Agassiz still entertained, in 1841, the same view
of the cause of a fact which he had observed in 1838, and pub
lished in 1840. The fact was the superficial arrangement of
lines of sand near the moraines of glaciers, which, according
to him, arose from some molecular dilatation of the ice, which

he does not very clearly explain ; and its effect was sometimes
to produce grooves (rainures), by the heat of the sun acting on

the sand thus arranged.

      The fact which 1 pointed out to him on the 9th of August
had no reference to the arrangement of sand on the ice, but
consisted in a texture which the ice itself presented through
out its mass, of harder and softer layers, whose wasting, when
it occurred in the neighbourhood of the moraines where the

glacier was covered with sand, occasioned hollow grooves, into
which, for obvious reasons, the sand was speedily washed, and
there it lay. M. Agassiz was very naturally and properly slow
to admit, in explanation of a fact which had for three years
been before his eyes, the existence of a prevalent structure to

   1 This refers to the well-known action of large blocks of stone in defending
the surface of the ice from evaporation ; here, on the other hand, the sand sunk
in the ice.
                 FORBES, GUYOT, AM) AGASSI/.                                                                                                     54U

which he had not adverted. Accordingly, his convictions were

Iproportionally gradual; and, as Mr. Heath observes, 'the after

noon was taken up in what then thought a very superfluous
endeavour to make out whether it was superficial or not.'

   Two days after the discovery of the structure, namely, on the
11th of August, we were joined by Professor Studer, the dis
tinguished geologist of Berne, and by other friends of M. Agassiz.
The structure in question having been discussed, it is impor
tant to know the impression which it left as to novelty or

worriigteinsaltiotymuep:--on the mind of so competent a judge. M. Studer

Extract Fourth. -- Professor Studer to Professor Forbes, \9th March, 1842.
                           Extracted by M. Studer's permission.

   'M. Desor1 in'a (Scrit il y a quclques senidues de cette contestation de

nriorite : je lui ai repondu que je ne me melerais pas de cette affaire, mais que
bien certainement vous m'aviez fait remarquer pour la premiere fois la structure
en question, ct que j'avais cru en effet que son importance avait echappee a
Agassiz, cumrne a tous ses dcvanciers.'

I will only cite one other testimony as to the origin of the
discovery on the Glacier of the Aar, also by an eye-witness,
IMr. Robertson of Newton House, near Elgin, a friend of M.
Agassiz, whom    did not know before, and whom I have not

seen since, but who, having learnt the nature of the contest as

to priority which has occurred, generously and voluntarily sent

me the following statement of facts, which I have likewise his

permission to publish.

     Extract Fifth. -- Mr. Robertson, of Newton, to Profexsor Forbes.
                                                                  ' Newton, May 4th, 1842.

I' Before joining you on the 13th August last year, was pretty familiar, from
Ir"eCadabinagn,ew,"itehxaamllintehde
                 ordinary phenomena           of glaciers, and, on my walk to the
                 each as it presented         itself. Among others observed the

superficial indications of the ribboned     structure  f;roamnd,thdeu"rinCgrevthasesefirs" tathathlfe-heonudr
                                          in walking
after my arrival, I recollect perfectly,
of the Finster Aar glacier (where you had been preparing the experiment on
the absorption of ice with red wine) to the left flank of the Lauter Aar (where
we exposed, with a hatcbet, the contact of the ice and rock, in order to see the
sand, &c, between them), having asked Agassiz how it was produced ? He told

me that the surface of the  gl--acitehratbad  completely changed since last year, when
he had scarcely observed                      was an effect of the moraines, and pro
'

           I by

                                       1 it,
                                           A

                                                      it

                                   I
                                                                                    ?
                                                                                  it
bably caused     the greater variations of temperature to which they were sub

ject as compared to the rest of the glacier, and that had nothing to do with
                              a"slstCoraatbaiafsinkceain,t"gionwhpeotahinnedtrewdtahseouthtooldrtihze"onustnatrdluolciuntbuetrseedalvtye.t"rhye
stratification.  remember                                                                                                                        end
                                                                                                                                                 well
of the glacier were those of

On our return to the

marked, at some distance from the moraines, and, on cross-questioning Agassiz,

saw that he was far from satisfied with his theory.

                              friend of M. Agassiz.
550              THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FOliBES.                   [appbkd.

  I' have thus abundant evidence, independent of your ample testimony, to

Ishow that, at tlie date have mentioned, my friend Agassi?, was unaware of

the general occurrence of the ribboned structure, through the mass of glaciers ;
and, in writing to him some days ago, mentioned my conviction that the

I Idiscovery, certainly the most important of the recent ones, was due to you.

  shall be glad to hud that, as believe is the case, M. Desor alone, and not M.
Agassiz, could call it in question.'

The ' stratification ' alluded to at the close of the first para
graph of                           letter, refers to the twisted planes of
structure  wthheicphrecIedhinagve  described in my paper, and which

are, in fact, continuous with the veins which, throughout the
greater mass of the glacier, run parallel to its sides, when
these sides are steep and continuous. The complex form of
the surfaces of the shells into which a glacier is divided by
these bands of compact and friable ice, 1 was first able to dis
Icover, during a visit to the glacier of the Rhone, on the 23rd
August, 1842.    was accompanied by Mr. Heath and Mr. Cal-

verley Trevelyan, but not by M. Agassiz or any of his party.

IIn the course of a very careful examination of the glacier,
succeeded in satisfying myself completely of the conoidal form
of the veined               and in explaining the                frontal
stratification,   surface,                             apparent  point.1
                            have since confirmed       in every
                 which I              I explained my views to M.
On our     return to the Grimsel,
Agassiz,   who copied the sketch   I   had made, which corresponds
exactly to that in the Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, January

1842, p. 89. A month later, I explained this system of curves

of structure of the glacier of the Rhone to M. Studer at Berne.
IHis penetration immediately perceived its importance, and he

expressed great satisfaction at the insulated fact which had
pointed out to him on the glacier of the Aar being thus general
ized.2 We both agreed that its explanation must involve, in
a good measure, the true theory of glaciers. In a letter to

IProfessor Bronn of Heidelberg, dated 1st October, 1841, a

week after had quitted Berne, M. Studer gives an accurate
account of my observations, being the first publication on the

subject.8

1 See Letters to Professor Jameson in this Journal fur October 1S42, p. 346.
I2 M. Studer, after quitting the glacier of the Aar, had recognized the
structure on several others in the canton of Vallais.  should add that I
pointed out the veined structure to M. Agassiz on the glacier of Gauli, in the
Urbachthal, on the 20th August, and it was afterwards noticed by both of us

on the Oheraar Glacier, and that of Alctsch. So that no reasonable doubt

remained, at least, on my mind, that, having been observed on no less than five

Icontiguous glaciers, it was a general and not a particular phenomenon. This

meets M. Agassiz' statement, that not only 'erroneously claimed the dis
covery,' but ' assigned to it a generality which the facts observed by myself did

not at all justify.' -- Ed. Phil. Jour., p. 265.
   3 Lconhard's Jahrhuch, 1841.
a «.]                FORM'S, aUYOT, AND AGASS1Z.                                                                           55iu a 1

                                                                   II.

     ;1   now come to state .shortly the circumstances which led to the
     publication of my paper descrihing this new structure of glacier
     ice and about which there seems to have prevailed a mis
     apprehension which am anxious to remove.

        It has been supposed that resisted every offer to take
                     a       I                                                                                    Iashare

                         I
     in joint publication of the proceedings of the summer, in order
       a

     to bring forth separate notice of the structure which had
     observed that even whilst in Switzerland, contemplated such
             ;                                                                 I

     separate publication; and having reached England, hastened to

     anticipate M. Agassiz.
       The facts are precisely the reverse. The idea of publishing
     either this or any original observation of my own, on subject
                                                                                                               a

     so new and so unexpectedly difficult as found the glacier theory
                                                                        I
     to be, had certainly not entered my imagination during any part        I

     of my stay abroad. A 'precis of the labours of others, in the
     form of Review of the writings of Venetz, De Charpentier, and
     Agassiz, such as subsequently appeared in the EdinburghIa
                                                                                                            '

     Review,' certainly contemplated, thinking, that                              iIf                       pursued the

     subject another year, such preliminary study would be the
     fittest introduction to any original investigations. But can
                     I                                                                                         a
                                 a
                                    a                                                                           I
     safely say, that the way and manner in which my observations

     on the glacier structure should be brought out, was not matter
     of the slightest concern to me, until an unexpected circumstance
     brought to my mind.
     I

                it
          must mention, however, what passed between M. Agassiz
     and myself relatively to joint publication, when was at
                                                                                                               I

                                                                                                                        a
     Neufchfitel in the middle of September 1841.                                 I                         will state this

                                                                                      a
     in the words which employed in writing to friend few
     months after the transaction took place.

     Extract Sixth. -- From a Letter from Professor Forbes to Friend, dated Ut    a
                                                    April, 1842.

       M. Agassiz never asked mc, so far as recollect, to publish with him on
     ''

           I by
                I
     the subject of the Glaciers. He once proposed to me to communicate the

     observations   had made on Solar Itndiat ion on the Glacier of the Aar, to form

     part of the description of tUe journey, of which the narrative part was to be

     written Desor.

       This        declined, on the ground that these observations formed part of

     scries of experiments, long since commenced, and which must be treated of

     'Iconnection.1                                                     declaration of my opinion on
              was very well aware, however, that                        in
     the Glacier Theory was what was desired                               ;
     to intimate this to mc at Ncufchatcl,                                   a

                                                                                                         :
                                                                         and   Mw.ordDseso--r "toMo.k           upon him
                                                                        these                                  Forbes ne

           They accordingly form part of very extensive inquiry since communicated
     to the Royal Society of Loudon.
     i
                                                                a
552              THE LIFE OF JAMES J). FORBES.            [append.

veut pas se compromettre, mais nous le compromettrons" -- which you will
think rather a singular way of securing support to a scientific dogma. The

Ilfioclalotiwoinng:--reasons determined  me against taking any part in a joint pub
    ' \st, That however willing          might be to have my name associated with that

of Agassiz, in any common work, experience led me entirely to decline such an
Iassociation with Si. Desor.
    ' 2nd, That the utmost extent to which       could theu conscientiously have
gone in support of the Glacier Theory, would, I know, not bave satisfied
M. Agassiz.
'3rd, That from the perusal of Charpentier's work, and from communi

I Ications with those best acquainted with the history of the Theory in
Switzerland,  had begun to perceive, that were    to take auy part in
the discussion going on between Agassiz and Charpentier, it must be in
favour of the latter, and not of the former, as an original observer and just

rcasoner.'

     I reached home in the month of October 1841, and soon
I Icommenced the Historical Review of the Glacier Question which

   had projected. Whilst was thus engaged, the Comptcs

IRendus of the Academy of Sciences at Paris for the 18th of

October reached me. In it fouud a letter from M. Agassiz to
Baron Humboldt, containing the following passage, with refer
ence to the observations made on the Glacier of the Aar.

       Extract Seventh. -- From, Professor Agassiz to Baron Humboldt.
   'Le fait le plus nouvcau que j'ai remarque, e'est la presence dans la masse de

la glace de rubans verticaux de glace bleue, alternant avee des bandes de glace
blanche d'un quart de ligne a plusieurs pouces de large, s'etendaut sur toute la
longueur du glacier, e'est à dire, a plusieurs lieues de longueur, et penetrant a
une profondeur d'au moins 120 pieds puisque j'ai observe eucorc ce phenomene
au fond du trou de sonde.'

On reading this letter, from which all mention even of my
              the Glacier of the         Aar is  Iexccoluudldedn, otmsyufffierrstsoimdpirreecst
presence on   surprise and pain.           That
sion was of

a plagiarism to    remain unchallenged never      ajp'apiearreemd artqouem, ewatos
admit of doubt
                   ; le fait le plus nouvcau que
an assertion as articulate as it was unfounded. How to take
Inotice of it was a point of more difficulty.
                                                  felt fully the
Idelicacy of my position. Towards M. Agassiz felt the warmest
friendship ; sympathy with his zeal, and gratitude for his kind
ness and hospitality. This he well knew : during several weeks
of the closest intimacy, we had been perpetually engaged in
Idiscussions connected with his theoretical views, and also
respecting facts.  believe it may safely be stated, that neither
of us ever for a moment lost temper in these amicable disputes,
which often lasted for hours together, and which were uninter
rupted either by our walks or our meals. His enthusiasm and
good temper in these discussions delighted me, even where he
B.]              FORBES, UVrOT, AM) AGASSIZ.                                   553

tailed to convince me of the constancy of his alleged facts, or
the cogency of his reasons. We parted at Neufchatel with even

more cordiality (at least  on my part), than                 we had     met at the
Grimsel ; and my letters    written afterwards                testify
                                                                       that I freely
                                      Accordingly, in           vindicating the
acknowledged     my obligations.  I  resolved to take           the plan which
originality of  my observation,
seemed to me most likely to secure a continuance of a friend
ship I so much valued.
of want of justice on        Were 1 to write                 to complain directly
                           his part, though
                                                             I did not doubt his
willingness to correct his error, I felt that it would place him
Iin a somewhat painful position, after so     adnirde, cIt      an assertion of
his own rights.       preferred a different,                    think, a natural

course. Knowing well the facts stated in the commencement
of this paper, and feeling that M. Agassiz must be equally aware

of their truth, I resolved to make no reclamation, and especially
to testify in my letters no irritation at the part which he had
Itaken ; but simply in a short and matter-of-fact communication

to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, which lost no time in
transmitting to him, to state my own version of the affair, and
claim my discovery without the slightest allusion to its having
been erroneously claimed elsewhere. This was the origin of
the paper which, at Professor Jameson's request, was com
municated afterwards to his Journal ; and anyone who looks

at it in this view, will, I think, admit that it was well calculated
to answer the end proposed. It has not a trace of a con
troversial character, but I well knew that when it should meet

M. Agassiz' eye,  nitexwt opuuldblbiseh,unIdeerxspteocotded  as an intimation that
when he should                                                my claims to original
observation to be more carefully regarded, though, in considera
                           deandHuomf btohledt,infIorwmaasl      character of
tion of our friendship,                                         both willing   the
communication to M.                                                            and

happy to dispense with any apology.
     IAt the same time that          communicated my paper to M.
IAgassiz,    sent it       MAur.guHseta--th,reftehrerinognlyto
                      to                                        other party    to the
observation   of the  9th                                       the letter to  Hum

Iboldt as the cause of the publication, and requesting his friendly
opinion as to   whether had acted prudently                     in thus asserting
                                                                 had stated to be
my claim, and   whether he considered all that I
justly my due.    To this letter I received the                  following reply,
which is here printed with Mr. Heath's kind permission.

     Extract Eighth. -- From J.the Rev. M. Heath to Professor Forbes.

                                     ' TriNiTr College, Feb. 15th, 1842.

     ' 1 am very much obliged to you for the extract from the Philosophical
I IJournal.
             "saw the paper in the Journal before you sent it me, and most
554              THE LIFE OF JAMES IK FORBES.                                     [append.

Icordially approved of its appearing.   did not know, what you seem tn
.... Isay in
          your  letter,   that Agassiz  has claimed the main observation as his
owu               will   witness that
                                        \st, He knew nothing about it: 2»rf,
I
     ;
                              it,
                                                it
                                                                        it
                                                                                               I
When he did see          he said        was superficial, and caused by superficial
sand iid, That he was the last to believe that went to any depth.
think your account very true, and not claiming one iotmore than fully belongs

to you.'

       certainly anticipated that my forbearance with respect to
M. Agassiz would have been rightly interpreted, and that silent
acquiescence would have acknowledged the justice of my claim.

   The event proved otherwise. The particular steps which were
taken by M. Agassiz to vindicate what he professed to consider
his due, arbitrarily and unexpectedly claimed in this paper of
mine, were singularly in contrast to my conduct in the matter
of Humboldt's letter, and to the usage in such cases. But that

  am willing to pass over for the present, and will now refer
to the new claims of priority which he ultimately substituted

for his own.

                                 III.
I

                                                     I

     We now pass on to the other claims to the priority of the

observation.

   About the same time that M. Agassiz claimed the observation
of the Lamellar .Structure of Glaciers, in the letter to Humboldt,

he communicated verbally to the societies of Geneva and Neuf-
                                                        not specific
chatel the same fact and though my information
                I
                                 ;

                           I
                                                                                is
                                                                                                               in
on this point, presume that my name was not mentioned
connection with it. This learn from my friend Professor Guyot

of Neufchatel, who, immediately on hearing the account of the
observations on the Glacier of the Aar, recollected having

observed and described something similar, three years before, on
the Glacier of the Gries. The note containing this observation,
and others connected with glaciers, had been read in 1838 in the

presence of M. Agassiz, to the meeting of the Geological Society

of France at Porrentruy, but was published neither at large nor

in abstract. It appears to have dropped not only out of the
records of the meeting, but from the minds of those who were

present, since M. Agassiz, whom         was specially calculated to
          it
                     it ;

                                          it
                                               it

                                                                              it
interest, takes no notice of in his book, published two years

later, containing his own observations, already quoted, on the
superficial striae which he could not in common fairness have
published without mentioning M. Guyot's contemporaneous and
far more important observation of the structure, of which these

striae are only the outward indication, had he been acquainted

with its true bearing, or, in truth, had he recollected at all Be
this as may, seems that M. Guyot himself never repeated
B.] FORBES, GUYOT, AKD AGASSIZ. 555

the observation, and so far as it appears, never even spoke of
between the meeting at Porrentruy in 1838, and Lis hearing,                                              it
first at Geneva in October 1841, then at Neufchatel in November,                                               it it it,

M. Agassiz' account of his new fact.' M. Guyot has most
            it, I
                                                       1
                                                             '
                                                                                      ;
honourably testified to me that not one word had ever 2^assrd
between himself and me, which could have informed me of
what he already knew on the subject and, also, that he twice
traversed the Glacier of the Aar, on the 18th and 19th of August,
1841, without recognizing the structure which he had himself
            mention this, because M. Agassiz has thought
described.

necessary to assume that the Glacier of the Aar was more dis
tinctly veined in 1841 than in any of the previous years that
he visited in order to account for his not having noticed

until he returned to the glacier in my company. In the Edin
                                  Journal   for October last, page 266, he
burgh  --P'hDiulorsinopghicthael           of August and September, 1841,
says:                             months

this phenomenon was so well developed in the Glacier of the
Aar, that could not fail to strike every observer.'

   M. Guyot's next step was perfectly natural and just one.
            it

                         I

                                         it a
Finding that his original observation had been totally for
gotten, he reproduced his paper from his bureau, where still
remained in MS., and read
                                               afresh before the Societe" des

Sciences Naturelles at Neufchatel on the 1st December, 1841,

just five days before was similarly engaged, not merely in
claiming for myself, before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, the
priority of observation to M. Agassiz, but likewise proving that
he had his attention directed by me to the structure in question.
The transaction with M. Guyot did not come to my knowledge
until long after.
Meanwhile, M. Agassiz sent no direct answer or complaint
upon the receipt of my Paper on the Structure of Glaciers.
                   a
                          a

                                         I
                                                                                       a
                                                                       I
will not now advert to the means taken, through third parties,
to discredit my statements, on the 'one hand, and on the other,
to obtain from me renunciation of my claim under threat of

exposure. Having no exposure to fear, contented myself with
sending to M. Agassiz statement of the various facts, cited in
the commencement of this paper, connected with the discovery
on the 9th of August, requesting to know whether any of them,
or which, were denied. A tardy and involved reply (29th
March, 1842) contained            denial of none of them, but (as we
1
         a

            I

                                            1a
                                                                    in
                                                                                                     in
have seen, Extract Second) an exact confirmation of what both
Mr. Heath and recollected him then to have stated respecting
his own observations. But the real cause of the marked em

barrassment of his reply was not at the time aware of. He

In Letter dated 3rd June, 1842, answer to mine Extract Tenth.
556  THE LIFE OF JAMES I). FORBES.                                       [append.

had now no apology for ignorance of M. Guyot's claim to prior
observation, yet feeling that his own dissatisfaction with my
publication was solely grounded upon my having claimed for
p--mreyc' sileeeulfsfaessiotmdIeectlhpailnugcsamwnpohaugicvnheearu;i'g' hhotefful1nly8a4t1uber--alol'lnlyegsefdelottboasnehrimveamtb(ioManrr.saAslsgemas sepsnihzti)s
at being obliged to admit that similar facts and observations
had been described in his hearing at Porrentruy three years
before. Unable to maintain any longer his own originality, in
his letter of the 29th March, 1842 (afterwards privately printed),
he endeavours to impeach mine; and, describing what passed
on the 9th August, in                                                in
Second, he adds :--     the  words              already   quoted         Extract

         Extract Ninth. -- From Professor Agassiz to Professor       Forbes.  annee
  ' Je suis certain d'avoir ajoute que M. Guyot les avait vues       la meme

(1 838), a une profoudeur notable sur le Glacier du Gries.'

M.ToGuyporotvuepotnhethenegoacctiavseionf,acIt  that M.   Agassiz    did not cite
                                                can only  state (1)  that neither

Mr. Heath nor myself recollect his name to have been men
tioned, although we perfectly collected M. Agassiz' meaning as
to his having observed the linear arrangement of the sand on the
surface. (2) That had the occurrence of this structure to any
depth been a recognized fact subsisting previously in the mind
Iof M. Agassiz, whether from his own observations or those of

another, Mr. Heath and would not have spent the whole after
noon in what then seemed to Mr. Heath 'the very superfluous
endeavour to make out whether it was superficial or not.' (3)
What seems decisive in the matter, M. Agassiz claimed the
observation as his ovni in the letter to Humboldt, written in

October; nor does he appear to have made any allusion to M.
Guyot in his communication on the same subject to the Socieie
de Physique at Geneva, which occasioned M. Guyot to mention

his prior observation.
Between M. Guyot and myself there remains nothing to
Iexplain. That gentleman has never contested the originality

of my observation, and have never pretended to doubt the
reality of his, which, far from being made known to the world

by the publication of the proceedings at Porrentruy, seems to
Ihave slipt entirely from the memory of the persons present

(including, am informed, MM. Studer and Agassiz), whilst
every written proof of it remained in manuscript. Accordingly,

Iso soon as had satisfactory evidence of the nature of M. Guyot's
Icommunication, hastened to write to him, and assure him that
1 admitted his observation to be identical with mine. This I did
in the following tonus :--
B.] FORBES, GUYOT, AND AOASSIZ. .r>:>7

Extract Tenth. -- From Professor Forbes to Professor Guyot of Neufchdtel.

                                                                  'Edinburgh, April 28W, 1842.

  ' My dear Sir,-- In a printed letter which M. Agassiz has forwarded to me, I

find a memorandum (printed for the first time) from jour manuscript, contain
ing an account of the structure of the Glacier of the Cries, observed in
lh38, and stated to have been read at a meeting of naturalists at Porrentruy,

'Iin that year.
         have no hesitation in saving that that note desciibcs clearly a structure
similar to that which 1 observed and pointed out to M. Agassiz and Mr. Heath
on the Glacier of the Aar, on the 9th of August last.

   ' Whilst, then, I am most ready to do you full justice in respect to the

originality and clearness of your observation, you will, 1 doubt not, as freely
admit, Unit not having the pleasure of your acquaintance at the time of my
observing and ascertaining the existence and modifications of this structure on
the Aar Glacier, and never having heard, to the best of my recollection, during

Ithe course of my stay in Switzerland, of your having made such an observation,

   could not, in any respect, have borrowed it from you. As no printed record

of your communication then existed, I could not, of course, have learned of it

 from books. You will also, 1 doubt not, candidly admit, that your having
failed to publish your observation in any even the most abridged abstract, your
 having omitted to press it as a fact important in the theory of glaciers upon any
 of your Swiss friends, and especially on M. Agassiz, who was writing a book
 on the subject, shows that the observation had not excited either on your part
 or that of your auditors at Porrentruy, any very lively interest. The fact itself
 would probably have been soon lost to science, if it had not been revived last
 summer by re-discovery, and by a strong indication of its generality aud
importance in the theories now agitated.

                 *** ·*

*****' Everyone in the slightest degree conversant with questions of this kind will

 see, on reading M. Agassiz' letter, that your observations, communicated three
 years before at a provincial meeting, not published even in the vaguest form
 in the minutes of the proceedings, nor alluded to in their writings by any one
 of the contemporary authors who are stated to have been present, leave my
 claim to have made the observation independently, and first insisted on its
 importance and generality, quite unimpeached.
'My firm belief is, that M. Agassiz had totally forgotten this passage in the
Iverbal proceedings at Porrentruy.
                                    believe him to be incapable of the sus
Itained duplicity of affected ignoraucc and surprise when first pointed out the
fact to his notice on the 9th of August. 1 believe his present newly dis
played zeal for your originality iu this matter to be occasioned solely by finding
it impracticable to maintain the charge against me of plagiarism and ingratitude
towards            which he at first alone urged.
   ' The  himself  in which M. Agassiz has placed  himself    appears  to be this :--
          dilemma
' Either he was acquainted with this structure of ice on the 9th of August,
or he was not,
' If he was not acquainted with  it,
                                     ithe learned           from me for he has never
                                             it               ;
Ifattempted to maintain that he showed to me.        it
   he was acquainted with he learned                              if
                                                          in  And
'                   it                         from you.               he learned  it

from cither of us, how does he claim as his own the letter to Humboldt,
                                 it

and iu one other private letter at least, not yet published?

                    I'           am, my dear Sir, yours very truly,

'Professor Gtvot.'                                            'James D. Formes.'
553                  THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                      [aitksd.

There are few sciences which have riot offered parallel cases
of insulated observations which lie dormant for many years,
before, by being generalized and made units of a class of facts,
                            --oftothheaovreeticrea-ldisicnodvuecretidonI. I.  This is  what I
they form the        basis                                                    Guyot's
claim to have        done:                                                             unpub
                but forgotten fact ;-- to have generalized it
lished and all  it was common to most if not all glaciers                              so as
to show that
                                                                                       ;--to

have explained the law      of its   occurrence in one glacier                          (the
lamellar surfaces of the    glacier   of the Iihone) ;-- and to                        have

applied it to account for two appearances formerly ascribed to
other and imaginary causes, the distribution of sand on the
surface of the ice, and the supposed stratification of the

Iterminal face of some glaciers
       might here close     my observations on the question of
                            a sentence or two, in order to avoid
priority, but I will add
all cavil.
frieCnadn--itM.beDunbecoeisss--aroybltigoinsgtateenotuhgaht                   has found a
                                                             M.  Agassiz
                                                             to  state, in    April 1842,
that M. Agassiz had described to a meeting at Bale, in 1838, a
structure similar to that noticed by M. Guyot, at Porrentruy, in
the same year I Is it possible that discoveries in science can be
made without the consciousness of those who make them ? or

that a discovery made in 1838 shall be wholly misrepresented
by the discoverer himself in 1840 (see Extract Third), claimed
anew for himself in 1841, and when re-claimed in the same year

by two other persons, the discoverer recollects to have heard at
Porrentruy the very fact which his friends assure him they
heard him claim for himself at Bale the same year ? Yet such
is the newest claim of M. Agassiz to an ohservation, which a
discussion respecting priority of six months' duration failed to
recall to his mind, but which he is now persuaded that he made,

tuhpeonfoltlhoewifnrgienwdolyrdste:s--timony of M. Dubois of Montpereux, in

            Extract Eleventh.-- M. Dubois' Certificate.

' Je soussigne cmi^oiuteinent avec M. Arnold Eechcr do la Liiith, Secretaire

de la Section de Geologie de la Societe Helvctique des Sciences Naturelles
lors de la Reunion a Bale, ccrtilie que dans les notes rccueillies pendant la
Seance du 14 Septeinbre, lh'iS, il se trouve mentionne page 12 que M. Agassiz
a signal é le fait de la structure- lamcllairc des glaciers, et qu'il en trouvail la
cause dans l'accumulatiou des matures cougelahlcs qui se deposent u la
surface du glacier.  La note est accoinpagnee d'un dessin representant cette
structure.                                                         ' Ekederick Dubois.

'PCreux, 27 Avril, 1842.'

   Now, this was on the 14-th September, 18:38. M. Guyot made
his communication on the fith September in the same year, con
ii.]                           form us, aurvj; and agassiz.                                      559

sequently M. Agassiz could not have revisited the glaciers in
the interval. The communication at Bale was therefore, no
doubt, a repetition of the communication at Porrentruy made
        days before,                                   of Agassiz
ei^ht  from memory                and the    drawing  of Guyot. At           wleaasstp, rIobaamblyat
doue                              after the  drawing

a loss to explain these seemingly            independent communications in
                                             put the question, whether the
any oilier way, nor will I even
Istructure described was a vertical structure at all.
                                                                                  do not

suspect M. Agassiz of the leserve of having made no mention
at Porrentruy that the fact of Guyot had been ascertained by
himself,       and then           of having  gone immediately to claim it as
original       at Bale.        I  apprehend  rather that the secretaries at Bille

(to whoso MS. notes we are indebted alone for any knowledge
of this transaction, forgotten even by the principal actor in
had supposed, from M. Agassiz' verbal communication {de vive                      is
·euix), that whilst relating what his friend M. Guyot had seen,                       a
he was really giving an account of his own observations.
      mention this as the explanation most natural and most                               if it)
is Ifavourable to M. Agassiz. But would ask, facts and theo
                                  la                                    if
ries are to be introduced thus into the history of science, wherele       I
      the palm of discovery ever to be bestowed? Surely man
must have very little skill as an observer, and have exercisedI

still less thought to render his observations worth recording,it

he cannot recognize his own discovery when pointed out to him, la la !
but obliged to take the authority of his friends, at the end of
three years, that he ever knew1 is is               aI
                                                      Such evidence               barely

tolerated in the case of posthumous claims.                                  suppose that
this the first instance of its being gravely urged during life.
That may not be imagined to have brought forward this claim

more strongly than its author has done, quote from his letter

to myself.

               Extract Twelfth. -- Professor Agassiz to Professor Forbes.

....'Monsieur, --Je rctjois       lcttre suivaute de M. Dubois tie Montpereux

       dorit                   crois devoir vous donncr copie afiii de vous prouvcr que de
si
                           je
mou cotd j'avais aussi remarque des 1838, structure laniellaire d'une partie
des glaciers, alors memo quo fnute (le plus ainples details,
                                                                        je  n'cn  mentionne
                                                                                  ai
                                                                                        fit

                                                                                             la
dans mon livre que les apparences superficielles. Vous verrez pur                                que

vous avez pu croire avoir fait une decouverte ce sujet, ce 11'a pu re qu en
mecomprenaut ce que j'ai pu vims dire1 sur profondeur a luquellc ces lames

descendeut, et qui u'avaieut ete remarquees qu'a une l'.iible profondeur avant

1841, et par miii seulement dans voisinage des moraines.

                               [Here follows the Letter, and Extract Eleventh.'}

      See Exintet Second for 51. Agassiz' own account of what he dul fell me of1
his previous observations.
560                 THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                                   [append.

   ' Jugez inaintenant si j'ai du etre surpris de vos reclamations 1 et si j'rtais en
droit d'y répondre comme je l'ai fait. N'ayant pas l'habitude de tenir un
journal regulier des moindrcs particularifes des oWrvations que je fais, et
adressant dans nos societes scientifiques toutes mes communications de vive
voix, cos faits ne me sont revenus a moi-meme avec les circoustances acces-

soires que lorsquc mcs amis me les out rappeles.'
              *#                                        *                                                       »
                                                                                            »

' Neufehdtel, 28 Avril, 1842.'

After receiving the preceding letter, I gave up all thoughts of
attempting to convince M. Agassiz respecting the history of this

or indeed of any, scientific question. In the course of a few
months, he had entertained four different opinions respecting

the authorship of the discovery in question, and still, I suppose,

has some doubt as to whether he discovered it himself in 1838,
or only in 1841 ; or whether he learned it from M. Guyot at

Porrentruy, or from me at the Glacier of the Aar.

IThe structure in question, which is common to every glacier
I                                                          in some so exceedingly sti ik

           is it
                  is

                                                 a

                                           it,
                                                    is
in which have looked for

ing, that would seem impossible to escape notice. Such, for
instance, the case with glacier of great beauty and extent,
and which           remarkable from being almost touched by
                                                                                                                     is it a
--frequmenetaend   mule-road, whence the                                                    structure admirably seen,a is
                  the glacier of La Brenva,                                                  near Courmayeur. That

has not been described by any of the modern writers on glaciers,
De Saussure, De Charpentier, Hu^i, Agassiz, or Godefroy,
certainly most convincing proof of how long the most evident

and important facts may remain practically unnoticed. It can
              a

                           ;

                                  it
hardly be doubted that must have been casually seen by these
intelligent persons, who have traversed such vast extent of

glacier surface but certainly every principle of interpretation
leads us to the conclusion that was not observed in such
                                                        it                                                           a

way as facts must be to enter within the pale of science, since no
trace of            to be found in any of their writings on this very
              I it
                                  the authority                                             --ofaltlhrmeeenemoifnesnctienpceers, omnsucihn
                  is               Switzerland,
                           it
subject.            have      on
England,          France,    and
travelled, and much observing, --that, upon reading my account,
they recognized what they could distinctly recall having seen on
the glaciers which they had visited, though they never attempted

to generalize the observation, or to attach theoretical importance
to it.

     Of course maintain that he had no right whatever to he surprised, sinee
it

    1

            I

                                                                                         :
appears from the following sentence that he was equally iguorant with
myself of     what           himself done in 1838,                                          until receiving M.   Dubois' letter,
dated the      day  he had   this was written --                                            'Ces faits ne me    sont revenus a
                    before

nwi-mSme avec les circonstanccs acccssoires que lorsque me* amis me les ont

riippele's.'
b.] FORBES, GUYOT, AND AGASSIZ.                             561

   In like manner the older observers, whose more vague

language and antiquated terms make their meaning capable of
several interpretations, may very possibly have described this
                   without its having been handed down to their
appearance,        I  have not yet seen     any evidence that they have
                   I   stated last winter   to the Royal Society of Edin
successors.        I   should not feel
done so, but                               the least surprise if such an
burgh, that
anticipation were discovered. How easy it is to find meanings
in undefined phrases, after a well-marked truth has been
announced, may be judged of from the interpretation given even
by a very able and candid judge, of a passage in Godefroy's

Notice sur les Glaciers, p. 12, as referring to the present ques

tion, but which a closer examination shows has no relation to it

Iwhatever.
      cannot conclude with any observation so just, or so much
to the point,      washicthhaIt   which Professor Studer has added to the
testimony, of                    have already quoted a part (Extract Fourth),
in a letter to myself. 'C'est toujours l'histoire de l'ceuf de

Colombo ; je ne doute pas que de Saussure, de Charpentier,

Agassiz et tant d'autres, parmi lesquels je me placerai moi-meme,
comme vous vous y etes place' aussi, n'aient vu cette division
                   de la glace bien                         voyage au Grimsel :
--verctoicmalme e   Newton aura       avant notre  dernier   des pommes sans
                                     souvent vu    tomber
songer a la lune. Dans toutes les d^couvertes il ne suffit pas
de voir les choses, ou bien la science ne ferait pas des progres

aussi lents.'

                                     oo
                      APPENDIX C.

                      AUGUSTS BALM AT.

                      From Alfred Wills, Esq.

                               Lk Nid d'Aiole, Sixt, October 1st, 1S72.

No account of the travels of our late frieud Principal Forbes
                               a notice of  reAquugeusst tethBatalmI atw, oaunldd
Iwould be complete    without  with your
    therefore gladly  comply
send you some reminiscences of him. During the (then) Pro
fessor's prolonged observations on the Mer de Glace, Balmat was
constantly in his service, and by his intelligence and faithfulness
undoubtedly contributed to their success. Professor Forbes, on
                                              him the
hand, helped largely             to  make     guide.
was when knew him                    perfect
the other                       --a                    priceless

Itreasure he
I made the acquaintance of Balmat in 1852, by which time
Ihe had already gained some celebrity as a guide.
                                                      was greatly
struck by the absence of false modesty or bashful timidity from
his bearing; and although he might sometimes be guilty of a
conventional solecism, in all graver respects he was sure to

speak and act like a gentleman. At a subsequent period, he
stayed for many weeks at my house, always as a member of our
family circle, where he won everyone's good will by the ease
and courtesy of his demeanour.
His appearance was remarkable. He was of the middle
height, but the great breadth of his shoulders and the muscular
development of his back and chest, gave him the appearance of
not being so tall as he really was. His head was large, erect,
and well set, while his broad and lofty forehead and squarely cut

features gave to his face an  appearance of firmness  and decision,
                              serious blemish in his
ill according with the only                           character -- a
APPEND. C.]  AUOUSTE BALMAT.                              5G3

too great readiness to yield to the importunities of others. He
was of singular strength and activity, could carry the heaviest

hurdens without apparent effort, and not only in distance but in
pace, could easily outstrip most persons with whom he was
brought into contact, whether of his own calling or not.
Professor Forbes, to whom he had been recommended in 1842
by M. Lanvers, the Cure of Chamounix, thought highly of his
intelligence and capacity, and recommended him to various
scientific men, who in their turn had introduced him to others.

Hence it happened that, as he accompanied now a geologist, now
a botanist, now a student of glacial phenomena, Balmat picked
up from each something of his own particular knowledge ; and
being a man of retentive and accurate memory, he rarely forgot
a fact which had been brought to his notice, or an observation
made in his presence. He acquired also the habit of constant
and patient attention to the phenomena of nature, and the power
of applying the large store of facts he accumulated to the
elucidation of any question under discussion. He evinced on
many occasions a capacity for close and accurate reasoning, very
remarkable in a man without any early education. The flatter
ing attentions, however, which in his later years he was con
stantly receiving, never led him to over-estimate the extent or
value of his acquirements, but left him, to the last hour of his
life, the most modest and unassuming of men.
He had listened with especial interest to all that he could

learn about the movements, structure, and peculiarities of
Glaciers, and upon this department of nature he had exerted all
his powers of observation and reasoning. He became, in con

sequence, everywhere at home upon the ice, and when on a

perfectly new glacier appeared to have the same unerring
judgment as to the best way of attacking its seVacs, or winding
through its labyrinths of crevasses, that he exhibited on the Mer
de Glace, or the Glacier des Bossons. The Mer de Glace was

at that epoch a famous school of ice-craft, and Balmat had
learned in no mechanical manner. The contempt which he
always evinced for the little pyramids of stones which were, and
Iare still, used to mark the track through         piheecealowfaycrsevsaasidse--d
                                               a
glacier -- 'la ressource des mauvais guides,'  as

was perfectly unaffected.  was a sort of pet pupil of his in ice-

work, and he always begged me emphatically to pay no heed to
such things, but to trust to the infallible indications afforded by
the inclination and volume of the glacier, the form of its bed,
and the direction and mass of its affluents.

  It must not be supposed that he was deficient in the sort of
mechanic.il instinct, which often seems to direct aright, whether

                           00 2
5G1              Till': LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.  [ArPESD.

on ice or rocks, the man whom nature has intended for a guide,
through darkness, storm, and bewildering mist; but he sup
plemented this instinctive process, to which so many guides

trust entirely, by the closest and most accurate observation.

I have been with him on the ' calotte ' of Mont Blanc, in cloud and
snow-storm, when we could not see many paces before us, and
                                  part of the   mountain seemed just like
when,  to my eyes,    eIvwereyll   remember    the unhesitating confidence
every  other part.
with which he pronounced that the trackless waste was here rather
too steep, there rather too flat, there again too rounded, for the
passage we were seeking, and led us through worse than
darkness directly to the narrow strip, by which alone access
to the Mur de la Cote could be won. His calm, unperturbed
manner, his absolute freedom in moments of danger from either
panic or hurry, were of inestimable service in the chief guide of
Ian expedition, and were admirably calculated to maintain the
sense of security in others.      never saw a sign of jealousy
towards him on the part of the other guides, who seemed tacitly

Ito acknowledge his pre-eminence. He had a great and genuine
love for nature.      speak from very many opportunities of
observation, and it is my deliberate belief, that he was as

keenly alive to the beauties of scenery, and drew from them as
refined an enjoyment, as any of the numerous highly educated
persons with whom he travelled.

   It was characteristic of him, that he never thought any of the
duties of his calling beneath him. To the last day of his active
career as a guide, he would lavish every care and attention
which his kindly nature could prompt, to render the tour of
Mont Blanc, or a trip to the Montanvert, easy and pleasant to
a lady. He would carry any weight, or go to any distance, to
do a service to any traveller he had undertaken to guide,
and never betrayed the smallest sense that such drudgery
was beneath the notice of a man who corresponded with half
the men of science in Europe, and who, had he been merce
narily inclined, might have made his fortune by putting his
own price on his services. But this he never did. Tt was a
part of the simplicity of his nature that, especially in the
later years of his life, he fell into a habits-very rare for a
Savoyard -- of being unduly reluctant to receive payment for
the many services he rendered, in all sorts of capacities, to
all sorts of people.
     IIn such a nature, gratitude and patience were as inherent as
self-sacrifice.  have seen him under the severest physical trials,
-- once in great danger of losing his sight from inflammation
of the eyes, once in great danger of losing his hands from frost
                                                           AVGUSTE BALM AT.                                      5G5

Ibite,1 and again, in his last long and painful illness,-- and never
knew which to admire the most, the patience with which very
severe physical suffering was borne, or the touching gratitude
with which any attention, however slight, was received. To say
that he would lay down his life for a friend, would give but a
feeble notion   doofwnh--is hgeendeirdouvsenatunrde                          devoted nature. He would
have laid it                                                                  it freely on more than one
occasion -- in  answer to the simplest claims of humanity or

charity. If     he could help or please another, if he could

ascertain a fact which could aid scientific investigation, he
would never count the cost, or dream of either sparing or
benefiting himself. To render a service, or to give a pleasure,
was his highest delight.

  It is not to be wondered at that such a person should have

carried good-nature to the point of weakness, and he was

paI ecorcsfotoerndnsi.nsga'liydIfptIoracchtoiimsuel,dd  '   upon by   myoaunyondeesmigonninogsyallnadblein--con"sNidoenra!te" '
                                                           but teach  render you the greatest of earthly

                                                           I should
services.' A nature like his was made to be imposed upon,
and unprincipled people, particularly in his later years, when
his reputation and character had given a value to his name,
prevailed upon him too easily to sign papers, and otherwise to
become responsible for their engagements. In the zenith of his
apparent prosperity, without a single personal indulgence, with
out one expensive habit or questionable practice of his own, he
fell into hopeless difficulty and embarrassment, which so preyed
upon a sensitive and remorseful nature, that he literally died of

   1 On this occasion he accompanied Dr. Tyndall and myself to the summit
of Mont Blanc, for the purpose of burying a self-registering thermometer of

Dr. Tyndall's as deeply as possible in the ice of the 'calotte.' It was then late
in September, and the operation was performed in weather of a fearful character,
the thermometer marking 22° of Fahrenheit below the freezing-point, and the
wind blowing a hurricane. In his eagerness to assist in the difficult process
of cutting a hole four feet deep in the solid glacier, Balmat had used his hands
for shovelling out    the  ice and snow,                              and    both hands were     soon found to   be
badly frost-bitten,  and                                              shall    never forget the   intense agony  he
                           quite black. I
suffered, when, alter half-an-hour's rubbing and beating, circulation began to be
restored ; but throughout it all, and during our perilous descent, he was not
one whit less thoughtful for the safety and comfort of everyone else, than he
was when in the height of health and personal enjoyment. He was for some
time in danger of losing his hands, but as he said, he could have borne
even that calamity the better, as it would have been met with in the cause

of science.
He resolutely declined all remuneration for his services, and the Lecture
Hall at Leeds rung with well-deserved applause, when, shortly afterwards, at
the meeting of the British Association, Dr. Tyndall recounted to the first
meant* of Europe, to most of whom Balmat was personally known, the danger

he had undergone, and the courage and disinterestedness he had displayed.
506        THE LIFE OF JAMES 1). FOR1IES.                                [append, c.

a broken heart at the age of fifty-four, stricken to death before

one trace of old age could be detected, or one physical or mental

power had begun to fail.
  IHe died here, in my house. In the difficult and wearisome

negotiations through which overcame the prejudices which my
proposal to settle here had excited, as well as in the details of
the planning and construction of my Alpine home, he was of
unspeakable help to me. He refused the most tempting and
almost extravagant offers of remuneration and distinction, by
which one soi-disant foreign savant tried to induce him to desert
         timheadwheeanrneisttlywohuoldpehdavtehatgoIneshohualrdd   with
Ime, at a                                                         have    me   had   he
                                                                         been  able  to
done so.
offer him a congenial employment and
                                         avnisuhmon'o--uraanbdle         retirement
in his declining years. 'Bis aliter                                      my hands
tended him in mortal illness, and closed his eyes. In him
died the most skilful, brave, and intelligent of mountaineers ; a
man whose natural powers of observation and induction were
such, that had he enjoyed the blessings of early training and
high culture, he could scarcely, 1 think, have failed to achieve
eminence among men of science. As it is, a little cross of iron
in the churchyard of Sixt marks his humble resting-place, and
his memory lives in the affectionate recollection of myself and
of those few friends who knew him well, and can never forget

his gentle and self-sacrificing nature.
                        APPENDIX D.

LIST OF PRINCIPAL FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WRITINGS.

Extended, by Professor Gtikie, from the Royal Society's Catalogue.

1. Remarks on Mount Vesuvius. Edinb. Journ. Science, VII.,

1827, p. 11.    [Anonymous.]    Bay of   Naples  :--No.  1.                On Mount
   2. Physical  Notices of the
Vesuvius. Edinb. Journ. Sci. IX., 1828, pp. 189-213. [Ihibl.
anonymously.]
   3. Physical  Notices of the   Bay     of Naples: -- No.                 2.  On  the

Burnt Cities of Herculaneum, Pompeii, and Stabea; ; with Note
on Mount Vesuvius.      Edinb.   Journ.  oSf ciN. aXp.l,es18:--29N, op.p.
   4. Physical Notices   of the   Bay                                       108-136.
                                                                           3. On the
District of Pausilippo and the Lago d'Agnano. Edinb. Journ.
ScL X., 1829, pp. 245-267; Leonhard, Zeitschrift, 1829, pp.

717-729.

   5. On the Defects of the Sympiesometer, as applied to the
Measurement of Heights. Edinb. Journ. Sci. X., 1829, pp.

334-346.

   6. Physical Notices of the Bay of Naples :--No. 4. On the
                                         I., I.,
                                                     :
                                                                      5.
                                                                                                  ;
Solfatara of Pozzuoli. Edinb. Journ. Sci. 1829, pp. 124-141
Froriep, Notizen, XXV., 1829, col. 113-121, 132-138.
Physical Notices of the Bay of Naples --No.
9. 8. 7.                                                                       On the

Temple of Jupiter Serapis at Pozzuoli and the Phenomenait
which exhibits. Edinb. Journ. ScL
                                                 1829, pp. 260-286
                a

                         I.,
Bond, Journ. de Geol. 1830, pp. 354-373.
        VII,Notice of large Greenstone Boulder in the Pentland
Hills. Edinb. New Phil. Journ.           1829, pp. 259-261.
Description of new Anemometer. [1829.] Edinb. Journ.
II,Sci.         a

     10.  1830, pp. 31-43.                       -- No.                    District of
        Physical Notices of the Bay of Naples    :
II,the Bay of Baja. Edinb. Journ. Sci.
                                                                6.

                                         1830, pp. 75-102.
   5(5 S             THE LIFE OB JAMES V. FORBES.                                                                                       [appbnd.

      11. Physical Notices of the Bay of Naples :--No.                             7I.I.,On18t3h0e,
   Islands of Procida and Ischia. Edinb. Journ. Sci.
   pp. 326-350 ; Froriep, Notizen, XXVII., 1830, col. 243-250,

   257-264.          Notices of the Bay of Naples :--No. 8. Concluding
       12. Physical
   View of the Volcanic Formations of the District. Edinb. Journ.

   Sci. III., 1831, pp. 246-278.
          13. Memoir on Barometric Instruments acting by compression,
   considered particularly in their application to the Measurement
                                                           Trigonometrical Determinations.
   of Heights : including                    Scsi.omIVe ,  1831, pp. 91-122, 329-351.
   [1830.] Edinb. Journ.
          14. Observations respecting Professor Leslie's Formula for the
              of Heat in the Atmosphere                              and his
   Decrease  Polar Temperature. Edinb.                            ;  Journ.   SOcip. inVio,ns18r3e1sp, ecptp.
   ing the

   17-23.
          15. Report upon the recent Progress and present State of
   Meteorology. Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1831-32, pp. 196-258.
          16. Notice sur la Determination des Positions g^ographiques
   du Prieure" de Chamouny, et de l'Hospice du Grand Saint
   Bernard. Bibl. Univ. LI., 1832, pp. 113-117.
      17. Notice respecting a Vitrified Fort at Carradale in Argyle-
   shire. Edinb. Journ. Sci. VI., 1832, pp. 94-100.
          18. On the Horary Oscillations of the Barometer near Edin
   burgh, deduced from 4,410 Observations ; with an Inquiry into
   the Law of Geographical Distribution of the Phenomenon.
   S[1o8c3. 1T.r]ansE.diXnbII..,Jo1u8r3n4.,        VI., 1832,                      ; Edinb.
                                             Sci.                    pp.  261-286                                                       Roy.
                                             pp.   153-190.

          19. Account of some Experiments in which an Electric Spark
                                                                     Phil. Mag.
   was elicited from a  Snoac.tuTrraalnsM. aXgnIeI.t,.     I.,                                                                          1832,  pp.
   49-53; Edinb. Roy.
                                                                            p.

                                                                                  I.,
                                                                                         I.,

                                                                                                          p.
                                                                                                               5.
                                                                     1834, pp. 197-205.
          20. Researches on the Conducting Power of the Metals for
   Heat and Electricity. Proc. Roy. Soc., Edinb., 1833,
          21. Account of some Optical Phenomena observed upon the
   Righi. Proc. Roy. Soc., Edinb., 1833, 10.
      22. Experimental Researches regarding certain Vibrations
   4Twe2hm9ic-p4he6ra1tt;aukreePso.gpglaecn[e.18A3b3ne.nt]wale.eEnXdiXnMbX.eItRIaIol.l,yic.1S8oM3c4a.,sTsperpas.ns5.h53aX-v5iI5nI.6g,.
                                                                                                                                         different
                                                                                                                                        1834, pp.

          23. Notice of Experiments on the Diminution of Intensity
   sustained by the Sun's Rays in passing through the Atmosphere.
   Proc. Roy. Soc., Edinb., 1834, 55.
      24. On the Vibration of Heated Metals.
                                             I.,                              Phil. Mag. IV,

                                                              p.

   1834, pp. 15-28, 182-194.

      25. An Account of some Experiments on the Electricity of
   Tourmaline and other Minerals when exposed to Heat. [1832.]

x
v.]             FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WRITINGS.                                                               569

XIII,Phil. Mag. V., 1834, pp. 133-143; Edinb. Eoy. Soc. Trans.
            1836, pp. 27-38.
    26. Note respecting the Application of the Compressibility of

Water to practical purposes. Edinb. New Phil. Journ. XIX.,
1835, pp. 36-39; Edinb. Trans. Scot. Soc. Arts,                          ;
                                                                               1841, pp.
                                                                          I.,
53-56.

     27. On the Refraction and Polarization of Heat. Phil. Mag.
VI.,          pXp.II1I.3,4-1184326, ,                                        Edinb. Roy.
      1835,                            205-214,284-291,     366-371
Soc.  Trans.                            pp. 131-168.

   28. Note relative to the Polarization of Heat.                            Phil. Mag.

VII., 1835, pp. 349-352.
   29. Sur    la 1P5o6la; rVisaI,tio1n83d8e,   la Chaleur. Paris,
                                               pp. 705-707.        Comptes        Rendus,
II., 1836,
            p.

     30. Experiments on the Weight, Height, and Strength of Men
at different Ages. Brit.
                                               Assoc. Rep. 1836 (pt.     2), pp. 38,                       3X9 ,
XXII,Franklin Inst. Journ.                            1838, pp. 115-118   Phil. Mag.
                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                ;
IX,1837, pp. 197-200; Quetelet, Corresp. Math.
                                                                               1837, pp.
205-209.

     31. On the Geology of Auvergne, particularly in connexion
with  tPhheil.OrJoiguinrno. fXTrXapI,  Pocks   and the Elevation
New                                     1836,  pp. 1-21.                 Theory.  Edinb.

     XIII,32. Researches on Heat. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Trans.

1836, pp. 446-471.

     33. Observations on Terrestrial Magnetism, made in different
parts of Europe. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.                   I,

                                                                  1
                                                                                                        1
                                                            836, p. 154.
     34. On the Undulatory Theory of Heat, and on the circular
VIII,Polarization

pp. 246-249
                of Heat by  Atontnaal l.ReXfleXxXionV. II,  Phil. Mag.                836,
                  Poggend.                                   1836, pp.   501-505.
              ;
                                            ;
     VIII,35. On the Mathematical Form of the Gothic Pendent. Phil.
Mag.            1836, pp. 449-455.
     36. Note relative to the supposed Origin of the deficient Rays
in the Solar Spectrum being an Account of an Experiment
made at Edinburgh during the Annular Eclipse of 1836. Phil.

Trans. 1836, pp: 453-456.

     37. On the Temperatures and geological Relations of certain
Hot Springs, particularly those of the Pyrenees and on the
                                               ;

                                                                           p.

                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                           ;
Verification of Thermometers. Phil. Trans. 1836, pp. 571-616.
     38. On the muscular Effort required to ascend Planes of
different Inclinations. Phil. Mag, April 1837, 261.
XIII, XII,39.
        Researches on Heat. Phil.              Mag.          1838,       pXp.L5V4,5-1585398,
        1838, pp. 97-113, 180-192                Poggend.   Annal.

pp. 64-85, 442-460.

40. Observations faites pendant une Annee avec des Thermo-

XIX,metres enfouis diverses Profondeurs dans diffeVentes Localitesa

du Voisinage d'Edimbourg. Bibl. Univ.                       1839, pp. 196-200.
:-70                        THE LIFE OF JAMES 1). FORBES.                                                                               [APPEND.

   41. Notice respecting the Use of Mica in polarizing Light.
Brit. Assoc. Rep., 1839 (pt. 2), pp. 6, 7.
42. Memorandum on the Intensity of reflected Light and
Heat. Proc. Roy. Soc., Edinb. I., 1839, p. 254.
43. Account of an intermitting Brine Spring discharging Car
Jboounrinc .AXciXd VGIa,s,                                 in Bavaria.            Edinb. New Phil.
                              near   Kissingen,            ; Brit. Assoc.
                            1839,   pp. 306-326                                   Rep. 1838 (pt. 2),

pp. 28, 29.     thXe IVC,olo1u8r39o, f    Steam under        certain circumstances.
                                        pp. 121-126 ;      Edinb. Roy. Soc. Trans.
    44.   On
          Mag.
XPhIUV.,  PO1po8pgn4.g0et,4nh1dep.9p-C.4Ao2n3l6on7;ua1rl-.sX37XVo4Lf,;VtFh1IrIe8.o3,r9iAe,1tp8mp,3po9N.s, opp2thpi5ze.-er3e5n7.9,;3X-5IEP9.,d9h.iin1l.8b3.M9a,Rgco.oyl..X2SI9Vo5c,-.
          XIV., 1840, pp. 375-392                                Annal. LI. (Erganz.),
299 ;
    45.   pp. 49-78; Liebig, Annal.                              1840, pp. 132-136.

1839,

Trans.                                        ; XPXogXgVenId.,.
1842,

46. Supplementary Eeport on Meteorology. Brit. Assoc. Eep.

1840, pp. 37-156.
47. On the Effect of the Mechanical Texture of Screens on

the immediate Transmission of Radiant Heat. Proc. Roy. Soc.,

Edinb.    1840, p. 281.I.,
                 I.,

                                      p.

                                                            I., a

                                                                              p.
48. On an Optical Illusion giving the idea of an Inversion of
Perspective in viewing Objects through Telescope. Proc. Roy.
Soc., Edinb.
                1840, 296.;

49. Results of additional Experiments on Terrestrial Mag
netism. Proc. Roy. Soc., Edinb. 1840,
                                                                                  299.

50. On the Temperature and Conducting Power of different
Strata. Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1840, pp. 434, 435.
51. On excessive Falls of Rain. Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1840 (pt. 2),

pp. 43, 44.

   52. Notice respecting the Fall of an Aerolite near Juvenas,
Ardeche, in France, 15th June, 1821. Edinb. New. Phil. Journ.

XXVIIL, 1840, pp. 385-387.

   53. Account of some Experiments made in different parts of
Europe, on Terrestrial Magnetic Intensity, particularly with
lFXerfoIeVrriee,npc1,e84Nt0oo, ttiphzpee.nE,1ff-2eX9cVt IoIBf.,rHite.1i8gA4hs1st,o. c.c[1o8Rl.3e6p9..]71-18E03d66inb(p. tPR.ho2iyl).,.  Soc. Trans.
                            3. ;                                                                                                        pp. 30, 31;

                                                        ;                         1. ;                                                  Mag. XI.,
                                                                                         2.
1837, pp. 58-66, 166-174, 254-260, 363-375.                                       On the unequally

   54. Researches on Heat. Third Series.

polarizable Nature of different kinds of Heat.                                               On the Depo

larization of   Heat.       TransO. nXtIhVe,             Refrangibility of Heat. [1838.]
Edinb. Roy.     Soc.                                     1840, pp. 176-207 Phil. Mag.
                                                                                             ;

XIX., 1841, pp. 69-81, 109-125 Poggend. Annal LI., 1840, pp.

88-109, 387-405.
I..]                 FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WRITINGS.                                                             571

      55. On the Diminution of Temperature with Height in the
AJRotoumyr.ons.SpoXhce.XreITXraa.nt, sd.1i8ff4Xe0r,IeVnp,pt .  Seasons of
                                                                1840, pp.  the Year.    [1839.] Edinb.
                                                                205-214.   489-496 ;  Edinb. New Phil.

      56. Sur la Transniissibilite" des divers Genres de Chaleur a
travers la Surface des Corps. Paris, Oomptes Rendus, X., 1840,

pp. 19-21.
      57. Contributions to Optical Meteorology. Edinb. Roy. Soc.
         I.,
Proc. 1841, 324.
              a

                      I., p.
      58. On peculiar Structure in the Ice of Glaciers. Edinb.

Roy. Soc. Proc. 1841, 332*.
      59. On the Results of the most recent Experiments on the
Conducting Power for Heat of different Soils. Edinb. Roy.
Soc. Proc. 1841, p. 343*.I.,
   60. On an apparent Inversion of Perspective in viewing
                  a
Objects with Telescope. Phil. Mag. XVI. 1840, pp. 506-509.

  61. Th^orie des Glaciers. [Transl. Jr. Edinb.                                       Review.]       Annal.

de Chiroie VI., 1842, pp. 220-255, 257-301.

      62. On  a  remarkable Structure observed in the Ice of

Glaciers. [1841.] Edinb. New Phil. Journ. XXXII., 1842, pp.
84-91.

   C3. Remarks on Paper by Dr. Scoresby, On the Colours

of the Dew-Drop.' Edinb. New Phil. Journ. XXXII., 1842,
                              a                                            ;
                                                                                                  '
pp. 391-393.                                                   3on38-3G5la2cierXs. XXEIdVinbp. p.Ne1w-10.Phil.
          RXecXenXtIIIO.,bse18rv4a2t,iopnps.
     64.

Journ.

      65. Resultats des Observations faites aux environs d'Edim-
bourg, sur la Propagation des Variations exterieurs de Tempera
ture  dans l'lnterieur du                                      Sol, pendant les                      Annies 1837,
'38,  '39, et '40. Paris,                                      Comptes Rendus,    qXuaItVre,
411; Poggend. Annal. LVI., 1842, pp. 616, 617.                                                       1842, pp. 410,

      66. On the Transparency of the Atmosphere, and the Law of
Distinction of the Solar Rays in passing through it. (Bakerian
Lecture.) Phil. Trans. 1842, pp. 225-274.
      67. Geological Notes on the Alps of Dauphine. Proc. Roy.
Soc., Edinb, 1842, 865.
                 L,                                                               Juillet 1842. Bibl.

                                p.
                                                           B,

                                                                        8
    68.   XSuLrVIl'IEI.c,lip1s8e43t,otpaple.                    de Soleil  du
                                                               361-368.
Univ.

   69. Historical Remarks                                      on the      first  Discovery of       XtXheXIrVea,l
Structure of Glacier Ice.                                      Edinb.      New    Phil. Journ.

1843, pp. 133-152. (See Appendix                                           above.)
   70. An     Attempt            to explain                            thJoeurnle.adXinXg XPVh,eno18m4e3n, a    of
Glaciers.     Edinburgh            New Phil.                                                                  pp.

221-252.

      71. Travels through the Alps of Savoy, and other parts of
572              THE LIFE OF JAMES IX FORBES.                                           [append.

the Pennine Chain; with Observations                              on       the Phenomena of
                         Soc. Journ. XIII.,                        pp.      133-147; Froriep,
Glaciers.  XXGeVoIg.r,.                       1843,
Notizen,                 1843, col. 230-232.

    72.   Ueber Gletscher.      Bern, Mittheil,                        1844,    pp.  118-122;

Bibl.    Univ. XLIX., 1844,     pp. 170-174.

73. Account of an Attempt to establish the Plastic Nature
of Glacier Ice by Experiment. Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1844 [pt. 2),
pp. 24, 25.

  74. On Solar Radiation. Edinb. New Phil. Journ. XXXVI.,

1844, pp. 113-118.                            Edinb. New Phil Journ.

   75. Fifth Letter on Glaciers.

XXXVI. , 1844, pp. 217-223.
76. On a possible Explanation of the Adaptation of the Eye
to distinct Vision, 1844. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. ; Trans. Roy.

Soc., Edinb., XVI., 1849, p. 1.
XX77X. VSIiIx,th184L4e,ttpepr.  on Glaciers.    Edinb.                 New Phil. Journ.
                                231-244.                                Veined Structure
                                              -- On the
78. Seventh Letter on Glaciers:
of the Ice. Edinb. New Phil. Journ. XXXVII., 1844, pp. 244-
         Bibl. Univ. LI.,
249 ;                           o1n84G4,lapcpie. r3s5:4---3O58n.  the  Plasticity    of Glacier
          Eighth Letter
    79.                  1oP8n4h4Hil,.eapJtpo..u1rn4F0.o-u1Xr4tX6hX; SVLeIVrIi.,e,s1:81--4854O,4n,pppt.hpe.333E97-f3f5e4-c73t.81o;f
         Edinb. New
Ice.
Bibl.    Univ. LUX,

    80.   Researches

the mechanical Texture of Screens on the immediate Transmis

sion of Radiant Heat. [1839.] Edinb. Roy. Soc. Trans. XV.,
1844, pp. 1-26.
81. Account of some additional Experiments on Terrestrial
Magnetism made in different parts of Europe in 1837. Edinb.

Roy. Soc. Trans. XV, 1844, pp. 27-36.
82. On the Theory and Construction of a Seismometer, or
instrument for measuring Earthquake                               Shocks           other Con
cussions. [1841.] Edinb. Roy. Soc.                                Trans.   XanVd,    1844, pp.

219-228.

4PW1ha68itl3;.e.rJ.BoOiubnrl[.n1t.8hU4eX3n.XDi]veX.tVeEXrIdmILIini.Vn,baI.ItI1i.o8R,n4o5y1,o.8fp4SpH3o.,ec.i2gp8Thp6r.ta-s2n39sb84. y3. ,Xth3Ve8,4b;1o8iEl4idn4ig,n-bpp.po.inN4t0e9wo-f

   84. Remarques sur les nouvelles Observations sur le Glacier

du Faulhorn de M. Charles Martins. Bibl. Univ. LVI1I., 1845,

pp. 142-146.  Letter     on     Glaciers  :-- Remarks                  on  the  recent  Obser

   85. Ninth

vations made on           the Glaciers of     the Aar, by M. Agassiz.
Edinb. New Phil.                               1845, pp. 332-341; Bibl.
                         Journ. XXXVIII.,
Univ. LVI., 1845, pp. 134-144.
D.]              FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WRITINGS.                                                                 573

     86. Notice of Experiments on the Diminution of Intensity
sustained by the Sun's Rays in passing through the Atmosphere.
Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.I., I., I.,
                                 I., I.,  1845, pp. 55, 56.
     87. Notice respecting an intermitting Brine Spring discharging
Carbonic Acid Gas, near Kissingen, in Bavaria. Edinb. Roy. Soc.

Proc.    1845, pp. 233-287.

     88. Memorandum on the Intensity of reflected Light and Heat.
Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.
                                          1845, pp. 254-257.
     89. Contributions to Optical Meteorology. Edinb. Koy. Soc.
Proc. 1845, pp. 324-326.

     90. On the Results of the most recent Experiments on the
Conducting Power for Heat of different Soils. Edinb. Roy. Soc.
Proc. 1845, pp. 343-346.

     91. Papers on Glaciers. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.                                             I.,  1845, pp.

406, 407, 409-411, 414, 415.

   92. Reply to Mr. Hopkins on the Motion of Glaciers. Phil.

Mag. XXVI., 1845, pp. 404-418.

    93. Notes on the Topography and Geology of the Cuchullin
Hills in Skye, and on the Traces of ancient Glaciers which they
present. [1845.] Edinburgh New Phil. Journ. XL., 1846, pp.
76-79.
         Tenth Letter on Glaciers --
    94.    Theory. [1845.] Edinb.                                                 M. Agassiz's  JoAudronp. tXioLn ,o1f8t4h6e,
                                                                                  New Phil.
Plastic
     a
pp. 154-160.     Letter on                Glaciers: -- Observations                                  on their
   95. EleventhI.,
                                                                               :
Depression and the relative Velocity of the Surface and Bottom
of Glacier. Edinb. New                    Phil. Journ. XLL, 1846, pp. 414-421
                                                                                                            :
Bibl. Univ. Archives, III.,               1846, pp. 107-114.                                  Glacier-motion      ;--
                                          Viscous Theory of
    96. Illustrations of the
Part containing Experiments on the Flow of Plastic Bodies,

and Observations on the Phenomena of Lava Streams. [1845.]
Phil. Trans. 1846, pp. 143-156.
   97. Illustrations of the Viscous                                               Theory  of  Glacier-motion  ::--
Part II., An Attempt to establish by observation the Plasticity
of Glacier-ice. Phil. Trans. 1846, pp. 157-176.
                                                                                                                --
Par9t8.IIII.ll,usOtrnattihoensMootfiotnheoVf isGcloauciserTshoefortyheofSeGcloancdierO-mrdoetri.on
                                                                                                                On
the Annual Motion of Glaciers, and on the Influence of Seasons.
Summary of the Evidence adduced in favour of the Theory.
Phil. Trans. 1846, pp. 177-210.
   99. Biographical Notice of Sir John Robison.
Soc. Proc. II., 1846, 68.                                                                       Edinb. Roy.

                 p.

   100. New Observations on the Glaciers                                          of Savoy, 1846.    Edinb.

Roy. Soc. Proc. II., p. 103.

     101. Observations on the Temperature of the Earth at Trevan
574               THE LIFE OF JAMES R FORBES.                                       [appenu.

drum, from the* Observations of John Caldecott, Esq. Brit.

Assoc.    Rep. 1847 (pt. 2), p.   40.      :-- On        the              extraordinary  In
    102.   Twelfth Letter on     Glaciers

crease of the Glacier of La Brenva (1842-46) ; its Motion. Expe-

ArEidrmcinhebinv.teusNm,ewcIVruP,chis1il8.r4e7sJo,puepcrptni.n.g1X6Lt3hI-eI1.6,O6,1ri8g43in76,6op-3fp7.t4h9;e4-VV1e0,i4n1e; 8d4B7iS,btlrp.upcU.tun1riev4.-.

18.

   103. Thirteenth Letter on Glaciers :-- Acceleration of Surface

Motion ; new Determination of Velocity of different Glaciers ;

Conversion of NeVe' into  XIcLeII; .,Eje1c8t4io7,n   of  Stones from      Glaciers.
Edinb. New Phil. Journ.                             pp.  136-154.

   104. Fourteenth Letter on Glaciers :-- On the Variation of the

Motion at different Seasons. Edinb. New Phil. Journ. XLII.,

1847, pp. 327-343.
    105. Fifteenth Letter on Glaciers; containing Observations on
the Analogies derived from Mud Slides on a large Scale, and from
some Processes in the Arts, in favour of the Viscous Theory of

Glaciers. Edinb. New Phil. Journ. XLVI., 1840, pp. 139-149.
106. On a possible Explanation of the Adaptation of the Eye

to distinct Vision at different distances.               [1844-45.] Edinb.

Roy. Soc. Trans. XVI., 1849, pp. 1-6.
107. Account of some Experiments on the Temperature of the

Earth at different Depths and in different Soils, near Edinburgh.
[1846.] Edinb. Roy. Soc. Trans. XVI., 1849, pp. 189-236.

XX10X8I. VH, in18ts49,topwpa.rd1s61-a17C8.lassification of Colours. Phil. Mag.
109. Notices. (1.) On an Instrument for measuring the Ex
tensibility of Elastic Solids. (2.) Note respecting the refractive
and dispersive power    of  Chloroform. (3.)              Note              regarding an
Experiment suggested    by   Prof. Robison.              Phil.
                                                                          Mag. XXXV,

1849, pp. 92-96.

110. On the Danger of superficial Knowledge, a Lecture.
London, 1849.

111. On the alleged Evidence for a physical Connexion be

tween Stars forming binary or multiple Groups, deduced from the

Doctrine of Chances. Phil. Mag. XXX VI 1850, pp. 401-427.
                                     ;

                                                     I.,

                                                                                                                     ;
112. Note respecting the Dimensions and refracting power
of the Eye. Goodsir, Ann. Anat. Phys. 1850-53, pp. 44-48
Edinb.               PLroectt.erII.o,n18G5la1c, ipeprs. :2--51O-2n53t.he
    113.  Roy. Soc.                                                       Movement  of   the
          Sixteenth
Mer de Glace; Observations by Balmat; on the gradual Passing
of the    Ice into the    fluid State  L,an185u1n,depspc.ri1b6e7d-17P4a. ss         of
Alps.     Edinb. New    Phil. Journ.,                                                    the

114. Further Remarks on the intermitting Brine Springs
D.]                FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WRITINGS.                                            57:->

of Kissingen. Edinb.    NIIeIw.,       Phil. Journ., LI., 1851,              pp.  139-142    ;
Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.
                                       1857, pp. 66-69.
     115. On an Instrument for measuring the Extensibility of
Elastic Solids. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. II., 1851, pp. 172-175.

   116. Note respecting the refractive and dispersive power of

Chloroform. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. II., 1851, pp. 187, 188.
   117. On the Classification of Colours. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.

II. , 1851, pp. 214-216.
                                       of Heat reflected           from Glass.
   118. On the     IInI.t,en1s8i5ty1,   pp. 256, 257.                                Edinb.
Roy. Soc. Proc.
     119. On the Volcanic Formations of the Alban Hills, Rome,
Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. II., 1850, p. 259.
     120. Account of a remarkable Meteor seen 19th December,
1849. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. II., 1851, pp. 309-316.
     121. Norway and its Glaciers. 8vo., Edinburgh, 1853.
          On the   Volcanic Geology of     the Vivarais (Ardeche).
    122.   Edinb.  Roy. Soc. Trans. XX.,   1853, pp. 1-38.
[1848.]   Notes on the Geology of the Eildon Hills in Roxburgh

    123.
shire. [1851.] Edinb. Roy. Soc. Trans. XX., 1853, pp. 211-
218.

     124. Dissertation on the Progress of mathematical and phy
sical Science. Encyclop. Britann., 8th edition, 1853.
                                       HPr.ocM. oVsIeIl.e,y'1s85T4h-5e5o,ryppo. f
   125. Remarks on      the Rev.                                                       the
Descent of Glaciers.     Roy. Soc.                                                   412-

417.

   126. Review of the Life and Writings of Thomas Young.
Edinb. New Phil. Journ., 1855.

   127. Tour of Mont Blanc and Monte Rosa. 12mo., Edinburgh,

1855.

     128. On the geological Relations of the secondary and primary
III.Rocks of the Chain of  Mont Blanc.     Edinb. New Phil. Journ.
      , 1856, pp. 189-203   ; Bibl. Univ.
                                           Archives, XXXI., 1856,

pp. 281-298.
   129. On the Movement of Glaciers of Chamouni in Winter.

Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc, III., 1855, p. 285.
           Notice respecting Father Secchi's Statical
    130.  Origin of the Cathetometer. Edinb. New.                            Barometer, and
on the
                                                                             Phil. Journ. V,

1857, pp. 316-319.
     131. Further Observations on Glaciers. (1.) Observations on
the Movement of the     Mer de Glace down                           to 1850. (2.)    Obser
vations by Balmat,      in continuation of                         those detailed    in the

Fourteenth    Letter.   (3.)           OSnoc.thPerogcr.adIuIIa.,l  Passage   of Ice  into  the
fluid State.    Edinb.  Roy.                                       1857, p.
                                                                              14.

     132. Further Experiments and Remarks on the Measurement
of Heights by the boiling-point of Water. [1854.] Edinb. Roy.
576               THE LIFE OF JAMES D. FORBES.                                                                          [aiwoto.

Soc. Trans.    XXI., 1857,         pp.  235-244;      Bibl.       Univ.                                                 Archive*,

XXX, 1855,      pp. 290-304.

    133. Sur quelques              Propridtes que presente la     XGLlaVcIeI.,pre1s85dSe,
son Point de Fusion.                  Paris, Comptes Rendus,
pp. 367, 368; Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. IV., 1862, pp. 103-
          ;

                a

                                      I.,

                                                                                                                     ;
106 ; Pharmaceut. Journ.           1860, pp. 38-40.
    134. Notes on certain Vibrations produced by Electricity.
Edinb. New Phil. Journ. IX., 1859, pp. 266-269 Edinb. Kov.
            IV., 1862, pp. 151-153;      Phil. Mag. XVII.,
Soc. Proc.  Poggend. Annal. CVII.,                                                                                      1859,               pp.
358-360                                 1859, pp. 458-461.
    135. On Paper 'On Ice and Glaciers.' Phil. Mag. XVII.,

1859, pp. 197-201.

    136. Occasional Papers on the Theory of Glaciers. 8vo.
Edinb., 1859.

    137. Reply to Professor Tyndall on Rendu's 'The^orie des

Glaciers.' Pamphlet, Edinburgh, 1860. (See Appendix A, abova)
   138. An Account of two artificial Hemispheres representing
graphically the Distribution of Temperature and Magnetism

Jforoumrn.thXe IEIIa.r,th1's86E1q, upapt.or11t8o-1t2h1e. North Pole. Edinb. New Phil.
    139. Inquiries about terrestrial Temperature to which
added an Index toa                 Mr. Dove's Five Memoirs
ture of the Globe.                 Edinb. Eoy. Soc. Trans.        XoXn ItIh.e,                                          Tempera
                                    ;                                                                                   1861, pp.

75-100.                             p. a
                                                  2.

                                                                                                                            ;;
                                                                                                                                       to is
    140. On the Climate of Edinburgh for Fifty-six Years, from
1795 to 1850, deduced principally from Mr. Adie's Observations,
Twriatnhs.anXAXcIcIo.,un18t 6o1f,                                 Edinb. Roy. Soc.
                                   other and earlier  Registers.
                                   pp. 327-356.
    141. Account of Thermometrical Register kept at Dunferm
                                                      1799 till 1837, with
line by the Rev. Henry Fergus,          from          Trans. XXII., 1861,                                                                   the
principal Results. Edinb. Roy.           Soc.                                                                                               pp.

357-360.

    142. Experimental Inquiries into the Laws of the Conduction
of Heat in Bars,  aTnrdanisn.toXtXheIIIc.o,nd1u8c6t1in, gppp. o1w3e3r-1o4f6WrEoudginhbt.
Edinb. Roy. Soc.                                                                                                        Iron.
Soc. Proc. IV., 1862, pp. 607-610.                                                                                      Row

of  143. Note respecting Ampere's Experiment                      on the Repulsion
       rectiliuear Electrical Current on itself.
                                                                  Phil. Mag. XXI.,
1861, pp. 81-86 Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. IV., 1862, pp. 391, 392.
    144. On the Climate of Palestine in modern compared
ancient Times. Edinb. New Phil. Journ. XV., 1802, pp. 169-179.

    145. Opening Address to Royal Societv, Edinburgh, 1862.
Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc., V.

    146. Biographical Notice of Professor Necker, 1863. Edinb.
Roy. Soc. Proc., V. 53.
   147. Experimental Inquiry into the Laws of Conduction of
t..]            FORBES' SCIENTIFIC WRITINGS.                                     577

VEHdeiantb.inRBoya.rsS:oPc.arTtraInI.s.1, 8XC5X. IVEdpin. b7.3.Roy. Soc. Proc.,  p. 369 ;

      148. Notice respecting Mr. Reilly's Survey of Mont Blanc,
1865. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc., V. 335.
      149. The British Association considered with reference to its

History, Plan, and Results, and to the approaching Meeting at
Dundee. An Address to the United College of St. Andrews,
Nov. 1, 1866. 8vo.

      [Principal Forbes contributed to the Quarterly, Edinburgh,
and North British Reviews, the Encyclopaedia Britannica, Fraser's

Magazine, &c., articles on various subjects connected with differ
ent branches of science, as on Climate, the Antiquity of Man,
Alpine Travelling, the Greenwich Observatory, Hooker's Himalayan
Journals, &c.]

                    THE END.
                  London:
CLAY, SONS, AND TAYLOR, P.tlSTF':

          I1READ BTHEET HILL
                                       INDEX.

Aab, origin of the waters of the, 200.               polarizing grinder, 117 his tract on;;;;
Aar, Lauter, glaciers of the, 329.                   light, 122 letter from Forbes to,;;
Aberdeen, Forbes at, 2C0 ; his visit to               129 his experiments on absorption,
                                       it,            129 Forbes's letter to, on heat,
   old Aberdeen, and account of                      145 his work on light, 152 his
                                                     letter to Mrs. Forbes as to his in
    200.      to Castleton, 201.                     tercourse with Professor Forbes,
              ;                                      166 at Cambridge in 1845, 171;         ;;
Aboyne, 200          ;                               Forbes with him at Greenwich, 171
Abries, 249.                                         at Oxford at the meeting of the
                                                     British Association, 182 Forbes
Absorption, Professor Airy's experi                  studies Airy's lunar and planetary;
   ments on, 129 Wrcdo on, 129.                      theories, 182 visits Forbes in Park;
                                                     Place, 195 at Turin, to observe an
Abswang, 259.                                        eclipse of the sun, 278, 279 his;
Adams, Mr., at Oxford, 182.                          answer to Forbes as to binary and;
AdamsReilly, A., Esq., Forbes's letter               multiple stars, 476.
                                                  Alatri, Forbes at, 308.
    to, 377.                                      Albert, Prince, at the meeting of the
                                                     British Association in 1847, 181
AfTaric, Glen, Forbes at, 188.                       his amiability and absence of affecta
Affaric, Loch, Forbes at, 188.                       tion, 81 his death, 413.
Affleck, Lady, married to Dr. Whewell,            Aletsch Gletscher, measure of the, 313.
                                                  Allan, Bridge of, Forbes at the, 188,
    383.                   ;         150 meets                                        ;
                                    ;154; Forbes      366.
Agassiz, in Scotland,                             1
   Forbes in Switzerland,              names and          ;Allec Blanche, Forbes's investigations
   reads his Travels, 182                            of the, 280.

classifies fossil fishes of Shetland,             Allerly, Brewster's villa of, 44; Forbes's
196 invites Forbes to share in a hut                 visit to, 44.
in Switzerland, 255 arrives at the
;;                      ;                         Alpine Club, foundation of the, 375.
              ;             ;                     Alps, Forbes's experiments in the, 127;

                   ;                                 his book of travels in the, 155, 156.
   Grimsel hospice, 258 his friends    ;
   there, 258 Forbes's description of             Ampere's experiment, Forbes's investi
   the hut, 260 company at the hut,                  gations upon the, 465.
   261 Forbes's sketch of him, 266
   his mode of working compared with              Anniviers, Val d', 288.
   that of Forbes, 294, 295.
Agnew, Sir Andrew, applies to Pro                 Aosta, Forbes goes to, 253.
   fessor Forbes for leave to print his           Aim »ii, M., at the meeting of the

   remarks on Sunday rest, 148.                      British Association at Edinburgh,
Airy, Professor (now Sir George), meets              111 Forbes's opinion of him, 111
                                                     Forbes's letter to, relating to scien
   Forbes, 69 his lectures at Cam                    tific subjects, 127 arranges for
  bridge on mechanics, 71 his age,                    Forbes to see Daguerre's pictures,
   71 shows Forbes the ten-feet transit              241. 242.
  instrument, 72 his lecture on hy
;;
                 ;

                          ;
                                               ;

                                                       ;
                                                          ;
                                                                                        ;

                                                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                                                         ;
drostatics and pneumatics, 73 his

testimony for Brewster and Forbes,
84 Forbes's letter to, 114 pro
posed as honorary F.R.S.E., 116; his
580 INDEX.

Aran, Vallee d\ Forbes at, 220.               Balloch, descent from the, at, 188 ;
Ardeche, lava cliffs of the, 246, 247 ;
                                              Forbes's barometer broken at, 189.
   Forbes on the banks of the, 257.
Argeles, beauties of, 218.                    Balmacarra, Forbes at, 188.
Argentiere, glacier of, visited by Forbes,    Balmat, Auguste, the guide, 274 ; his

    290.                                         goggles, 317 ; with Mr. Wills, who
Argentiere, Aiguille d', Forbes stands           picks up Forbes's lost hammer, 373 ;
                                                 Forbes sends his affectionate remem
   face to face with the, 335.                   brances to him, 374 ; his death, 417 ;
Argyll, Dr., 357.                                Mr. Wills's account of him, 562.
Argyll, Duke of, interests himself in         Balme, Col de, 328.

    Forbes's promotion, 388 ; at St.          Barege, Forbes at, 215 ; the Barege
    Andrew's with the Duchess, 413 ;          water and the baregine in;       215;
   his address, 472 ; Forbes's letters to,                              a
    427.
Arkaig, Loch, 125.                                                                        ; it,
Arnieux, valley of, 258.
Arnold, Dr., Stanley's Life of, 166 ;                                                                                 ;
    Arnold's views, 166 ; what the book       the town quite hospital, 216.
     is calculated to do, 166, 167.           Baregine, or fatty matter, in the Barege
Arran, Forbes's visit to, 182.                water, and its uses, 215.
Arthur's Seat, origin of, 226.
 Arveiron, Forbes at the source of the,       Barometer, Forbes's memoir on the
     300.                                        horary oscillations of the, at Rome,
 Association, British, for the advance           35 pressure of the, at Cape Horn
    ment of Science, foundation of the,          and the Cape of Good Hope, 116
    75 ; the first meeting of the, 75,            Forbes's barometer broken at Balloch,
     76 ; the earliest friends and pro
    moters of the, 76 ; at York in 1844,      189.
     164, 165.
 Astroni, royal hunting park of, Forbes's     Barraque, Forbes at, 227.
     visit to, 25 ; extinct volcano at, 25.   Basalt, at La Barraque, 227 basalt
 Astronomy, Forbes's observations in,
     17 ; his passion for the study of, 18.      colonnade on the bank of the Alignon,
 Athenceum Club, life at the, 179.
 Atmosphere, Forbes's paper on the                247.
     transparency of the, 464.                Bastide, La, travellers at, 257.
 Aun, Loch, Forbes at, 125                    Batten, Mrs., her socks for Forbes's
 Aurlands-fiord, Forbes on the, 347.
 Autraigues, Count d', sacrificed to             eldest child, 169.
     popular fury, 257.                       Batten, Mr., Professor Forbes's letters
  Auvergne, Forbes's paper about, and
                                                 to, 168, 175, 178, 180, 199.
     upon elevation craters, 120 ; in the
     volcanic districts of, 225, 241.         Batten, E. C, Esq., his sketch of
  Aviemore, 125.
  Ax, Forbes at, 222 ; mineral waters of,        Forbes's tour in 1887, 230 accom
      223.                                       panies Forbes on his tour, 230
                                                                         ;
                               B.                                                        ;;
                                              leaves Forbes at Saltzburg, 236
  Babbage, Mr., meets Forbes at Mr.
      Lyell's, 65 ; Forbes breakfasts with    Forbes's letters to, 277, 281, 282,
      him, 69 ; his kindness to Forbes, 69 ;
      his calculating machine, 69, 70.        286, 287, 290, 302--308, 310, 311,

  Backberg, Forbes's visit to the haema       356--360, 363, 371, 414, 418, 425,
      tite iron mines at, 234.
                                              429, 431, 432.
  Bagnes, Val de, ascended by Forbes,
                                              Beauly, 125.    ;
       287.                                   Beaton's Castle, at St. Andrew's, de           4, ;
   Ballachudilish, Forbes at, 125.
   Ballater, Forbes at, 201.                     struction of, by the sea, 411.6
   Ballingall, Miss, at Greenhill House, 80.  Beaumont, EUe de, one of his centres;

                                                 of soulevement, 227 has the credit4,
                                                 of finding exact criteria for deter
                                                 mining epochs of elevation, 231
                                                 calls on Forbes in Paris, 242.
                                              Becquerel, M., his production of crys
                                                 tals by electricity, 126.
                                              Belches, Williamina, her parentage,

                                                      married to Sir William Forbes,
                                                            their son, James D. Forbes
                                                   4, 7
                                                     ;
                                              1,             et seq.

                                              Bell, his lectures on "Scots' Law"

                                                 at Edinburgh University, 52.
                                              Berard, his experiments, 128.

                                              Berchtesgaden, Forbes's examination

                                                 of, 236.
                                              Berger, Fontaine du, Forbes's ascent of

                                                 the, 227.                              of

                                              Bergons, Pic de, Forbes's ascents
                                                       lvdsx.                           581

the, 216, 217 ; view from the, 216,                           for Sir John Leslie's vacant chair,
                                                              83 ; testimony to his scientific attain
217 ; geological structure of, 218.                           ments, 84 ; Dr. Whewell's testimony
                                                              to his optical science, 84 ; his article
Bergen, climate of, 342 ; Forbes at,                          in the Edinburgh Review on Forbes's

342.                                                          book on Glaciers, 160 ; transferred
                                                              to Edinburgh University, 388 ; in
Bethgelert, Forbes at, 190.                                   St. Andrew's University, 398 ; which
Biot, M., his experiments on heat, 127.                       he resigns, 382 ; his character as a
Biscborf, Professor Gustav, his work on                        teacher, 398.
tho temperature of the earth, 232 ;                        Bristol chosen for the meeting of the
his experiments, 232.                                         British Association, 119 ; success of
Blanc, Mont, Forbes's visit to, 31 ;
                                                               the meeting, 126.
Saussure's ascents of, 31 ; the geo                        British Association, foundation of the,
logical section of the chain of,
traced, 280 ; Mr. Tuckett's sketch                            75 ; first meeting of it at York, 75.
map of the western part of the chain                       Brougham, Lord, 69.
     3"76Bo;ssMer.duTuDcrkoemr'esdaaisrcee,"nt             Brunei, Mr., 140, 141.
of,                                               of,  by  Buchanan, George, his praise of Bishop
the                                             376.
                                                              Kennedy, 394 ; becomes principal of
Blumenbach,   Professor, visited by                            St. Leonard's College, 395.
                                                           Buch, Baron Leopold von, at Cam
    Forbes at Gbttingen, 234.                                 bridge, 171 ; in the Geological Sec
                                                              tion at the British Association of
Blunt, Mr., his sermon before the Uni                         1845, 172 ; at Trinity Lodge, to dine
   versity of Cambridge, 72.                                  with Dr. Whewell, 172 ; his discus
Bobbio, 252.                                                  sion at the Monte San Primo with
Boeness, granitic; hill of, 197.                              Charpentier, 172, 176 ; his remarks
Boissons, Glacier de, 322.                                    on the elevation theory, 231 ; on his
                                                               way to Mayence, and thence on foot
Bondhuss Brce (or glacier), Forbes's                          to Paris, 233 ; at Bonn, 231 ;
   visit to the, 345, 346.                                    Forbes's conversation with him, 231.
Bonhomme, Col du, 253 ; Forbes passes                      Buckland, Dr., his kindness to Forbes

round by the, 321.                                             at Oxford, 69.
Bonn, Forbes for six weeks at, 230.                        Budweis, Forbes at, 235.

Bormio, Forbes at the baths of, 237,                       Bue, Val de, Forbes at the, 309, 310.
                                                           Burckhardt, 261 ; Forbes's sketch of,
    238.
Bothman, his friendship with Forbes,                           266.
                                                           Burns, mausoleum of, in Dumfries,
    71.       " Integral      Calculus,"
                                                              Forbes's visit to, 148.
Boucharlat's                                               Burr, Mr. William, Forbes's letter to,
Forbes's study of, 64, 68.
Boussos, or Bosost, walk to, 220 ; Fete                        102.
of the Assumption at, 220.                                 Butter, Mr., of Faskally, 365.
Braemar, Forbes and his family at,
362 ; his description of it, 362 ;
and opinion of the climate, 363 ; its
height above the sea, 363; "the
gathering at," 201.
Brenva, Glacier de, former advance and

   retreat of, 280 ; Forbes at the, 323 ;                            C.
   beauties of the, 323.
Brewster, Dr. (afterwards Sir David),                      C , Lord, in the Bernese Oberland,
   his correspondence with Forbes, 21,
                                                               261.  Michael, surnamed  " Lo
   22, 34, 35 ; who introduces himself,                    Cachet,
   41 ; letter from Forbes to, 41 ;
                                                           Geaut," 81 ; his ascents of Mont
   Brewster's reply, 42 ; introduces                       Blanc, with Saussure, three times,
   Forbes to the Royal Society, who is
   elected, 44 ; his villa of Allerley,                        31, 32.
   44 ; his life of Newton, 46 ; advises                   Caithness, fossil fishbeds in, 196, 197
   Forbes not to relinquish the Bar, 56,
   57 ; Brewster's letters to Forbes on                    Calabria, coast of, 308.
   the subject, 58 ; his analysis of the
   spectrum, 69 ; the real father of the                   Caledonian canal, 125.
   British Association, 75 ; his address                   Cambridge, Forbes's visit to, 69.
   from the President's chair in Edin                      Campbell, Professor, Forbes's note to,

burgh, 75, 76 ; attends the first                              444.
meeting at York, 78 ; a candidate
                                                           Campedello, Forbes at, 239.
                                                           Campiglie, village of, 254.

                                                                         <J Q 2
582 INDIX.

Cannes, Forbes at, 438.                          Forbes's remarks respecting it, 102 ;
Canson, M., in the Bernese Olierland,            its antiquity, 103.
                                              Clouds in the Alps, 269.
    262.                                      Club life, Forbes's observations on.
Carrel, Chanoine, of Aosta, 280 ; joins
                                                  179.
    Forbes at Conrmayeur, 323.                Cobban, Rev. Hugh, lets his manse to
Carlsbad, Forbes at, 235 ; scenery and
                                                 Forbes and his family* for the
   geological position of, 235.                  summer, 362 ; Forbes's letters to,
Castleton, 201 ; drive from Aboyne to,
                                                  363.
    201.                                      Cogne, iron mines in the neighbourhood
Caucasus, M. Kuppfer's experiments in
                                                  of, 253.
    the, 127.
Cauehy, M., his views on the law of           Coiffure, French, in the 8.W. of the
                                                 country, 224.
   reflection of light on metals, 242 ;
   Forbes's letter to, 143.                   Cole, Hon. John, in the Bernese Ober-

Cauterets, beauties of, 218 ; scenery             land, 262.
                                              Colinton House, 7, 9, 13, 16, 47 ;
    near, 218.
Cavalese, Forbes at, and his geological          break-up of the old family home of,
                                                 66 ; Forbes's youth at, 425.
   lesson at, 239 ; Forbes walks from         College Hall, Forbes's exertions respect
   Cavaleso to Vigo, and thence to Cam-          ing the foundation of a, 401--403.
    pedello and Canazea, 239.                 College cloister, conversion of, into a
Celar, Col du, 257.                              dining-room for students, 420.
Challis, his friendship with Forbes,          Collon, Col dc, 287.
                                              Comet of 1811, 9 ; of 1835, 118 : of
     71.
                                                  1845, 171.
Chalmers, Rev. Dr., his preaching,            Conway and Britannia bridges, Forbes's
    124.
                                                 visit to the, 189.
Chambertin, 243.                              Conybeare goes with Forbes to Shot-

Chanibcry, 255.                                   over, 69.
Chambrier, M., of Neuchatel, 261.             Coolin mountains, Forbes's ascent of
Chamouni, Forbes's visit to, 31, 33,
                                                 the, 125 ; explored by Professor
    151, 179; Forbes again at, 253;              Forbes and M. Necker, 169 ; Forbes
   makes an excursion with his brother           convinced of the existence of ancient
   John and his family to the Jardin,
    253.                                          glaciers at the, 178.
Charpentier, M. , warmly receives Pro         Cooking, French art of, 224.
    fessor Forbes at Bex, 162 ; his dis       Coutet, Jean Marie, 32.
   cussion with Leopold von Buch, 172,        Couttet, David, 291 ; discovers a knap
    176 ; Forbes's letter to, 176 ; visit of
                                                 sack lost ten years before on the Mer
    Forbes to, 274.                               de Glace, 318.
Chat, Mont, 226.                              Couttet, Joseph, the Chamounix guide,
Chiefswood, Mr. Lockhart's cottage,               283.

    Forbes's visit to, 45 ; Forbes's re       Couttet, Madame, 316.
                                              Cowper, Right Hon. W., Forbes's letter
    sidence at, 196.
Cholera, in Dundee and elsewhere, 431.            to, 417.
Christison, Dr., Forbes at the house of,
                                              Craigivar, castle of, 200.
    80.                                       Cramont, Forbes's ascent of, 280.
Christophe, St., 253.
Clarke's Travels, Forbes reads, 182.          Crevasses, 497.
Clavering, Mr., meets Forbes at Cam           Criffel, Forbes's ascent of, 150.
                                              Cristallo, Monte, 238.
    bridge, 71.                               Croix, Col de la, 252.
                                              Cross, Mr., his production of crystals
Cleghorn, T., Esq., Forbes's letters to,
    138, 141 ; his character of Forbes as        by electricity, 126.
                                              Crystals, production of, by electricitv,
    a teacher, 389.
Clement, maker of Babbage's calculat               126.

    ing machine, 70.                          Cuchullin, or Coolin, hills [See Coolin].
Clermont, Forbes at, 225 ; his account        Cula, Col de la, 248.
                                              dimming, H. G., Esq., Forbes's letter
    of it, 225 ; Forbes's admiration of
   the situation of, 229.                         to, 142.
Climatology of the globe, Forbes's
    speculations on the, 379.                 Cuorgne, 254.
Cloaca Maxima of ancient Rome,
                                            NDEX.  583

I).

Daouebue's pictures, Forbes sees thein        Eagles of the Pyrenees, 217.
   for the first time, 241, 242 ; their       Easter Tyre, in the Strath of Tay,
   beauty, 242 ; Herschel's view of
                                                  Forbes's residence at, 182 ; Forbes
    them," 242.
                                                 visited by MM. Studer and Schintz
Dalhousic, Lord, 361.
Dalton, John, the father of modern                at, 182.
                                              Eaux-Bonnes, 214; springs of, 214;
    chemistry, Forbes meets him, 74.
Darrall, Dr., his remarks on the                 dresses of the people at, 214.
                                              Eaux-Chaudes, Forbes's visit to, 214 ;
   springs of Eaux-Bonnes, 214.
Daubeny, Dr., his theory of hot                   splendid gorge at, 214.
                                              Edinburgh, party feeling in, at the
    springs, 214, 215.
Dauphine, Alps of, view of, 249.                 time of the Keform Bill, 86 ; the
Davy, Dr., 113 ; his library, 356.               last act of the unreformed Town
Dean, cemetery of, 113 ; Forbes buried           Council of Edinburgh, 86 ; the meet
                                                 ing of the British Association secured
   at, 447.
Dean House, Forbes leaves, 154 ; the              for 1834 at, 102.
                                              "Edinburgh Keview," Forbes's article
    house dismantled, and the ground
   formed into a cemetery, 180.                  on Glaciers in the, 154.
Dechen, M. von, at Birmingham, 426.          Eclipse, sohir, of 1836, 123 ; Forbes's ·
Decside, stretch of, 201.
Desor, M., at the Gritnsel, 258 ;                observations of the, 123, 124 ; total,
                                                 of 1842, 278, 279 ; of 1851, seen by
    Korbes's sketch of, 266.       his           Forbes at Bergen, 343 ; events of the
                                                 eclipse, 343, 344 ; that of August,
Devouassoud, Jullien Michael,                     1030, and its legend, 345.
                                             Eglise, M. L', canon of the Great St.
   accident, 319.                                Bernard, joins Forbes at Courmayeur,
Devonshire, Duke of, 413.
Dialluge Bocks, of Malta Sound, 197.              323.
Dirt-bands, Forbes's observations on
                                             Ehrenberg, Professor, his lectures at
   the, of glaciers, 299.  " Encyclopaedia      Berlin, 234.
Dissertation, in the
Britannica," Forbes's, 361," 366.            Eildon Hills, quarry in the, 46.
Draeheufels, Forbes at, 233 ; his            Eilt, Loch, Forbes at, 184, 185, 187.
                                             Eilt, Scuir, view from, 187.
   meteorological observation at, 233.       Ellis, Mr. R. Leslie, Forbes's letters to,
Drave, Forbes at the source of the,
                                                121 ; his remarks on a Cambridge
   240 ; beauty of the valley of the,           career, 122; his success, 146;
                                                 Forbes's letter to, 151 ; Forbes's
    240.                                        letter to, and from, 380, 381 ; his
                                                 death, 382 ; his letters to Forbes on
Dresden, Forbes at, 235 ; Encke's taste         probabilities as to binary and mul
   in Italian pictures at, 235.                  tiple stars, 479--483.
                                            Ely, Isle of, described by Forbes, 173 ;
Drinkwater, Captain, 69.                         Dean Peacock's improvements at the,
Drinkwater, Mr., 69.
Dolfuss-Ausset, M., his new pavilion             173.

   at Trift, 329 ; his instruments, 329,    Encke, Professor, his lectures at Berlin,
                                                234 ; Forbes charmed with him, 234 ;
    330 ; his experiments on the com            his astronomical and magnetic obser
   pression of fragments of ice, 331.           vatory near Berlin, 234 ; joins Forbes
Dolomito country, Forbes in the, 239.          at Dresden, 235 ; his taste in Italian
D6me, Puy de, view of, from Cler
                                                pictures, 235.
mont, 225 ; ascended by Forbes,             Enfer, Goule d', 246.
228 ; the first mountain up which a         Enniskillcn, Lord, in the Bernese

barometer was carried, 226.                     Oberland, 262.

Don, river, scenery of the, 200 ; the       Erchless, 125.
   old Gothic bridge of, 200.
                                            Erchless chapel, Forbes at, 187.
Dor, Mont, Forbes's asceutof, 226, 228.     Erin, Val d', 287.
                                            Erratic blocks, 497.
Douglas, Lady Margaret, married to          Escher, M., at the Grimsel, 238.
   William Forbes of Monymusk, who          Etive, Loch, 125.
   was created a Nova Scotia Baronet, 1.
                                            Etna, Baron Ettingshausen on, 172.
Dunscore, Forbes at, 149.

Dynamometer, Kegnier's, 114.       the
Dynamics, Forbes at work upon

   fundamental principles of, 97.
584 INDEX.

Ettingshausen, Baron, on Etna, at tlie         mother, 8 ; his truthfulness, 10 ; his
   British Association at Cambridge,           education, 10 ; his delight in the
    172.                                       study of the almanack, 10 ; origin of
                                               his taste for natural science, 11 ; de
Evolena, Forbes and Studer at, 288 ;           signed by his father for the Bar, and
   valley of, and its population, 288 ;        passes as an advocate, 11 ; but his
   reception of Forbes and Studer at,          heart not in the study of the law,
    288.                                       11 ; his proficiency in mathematics,
                                               11 ; his habits in boyhood, 11 ; his
Examination, systematic, pressed on            father's devotion to him, 13 ; never
   his colleagues at the University with       went to school, 13 ; portion of
    energy and perseverance, 131, 132.         journal written at St. Andrew's in
                                               1861, quoted, 14; the first dawnings
                                 F.            of his scientific bias, 14 ; his habit
                                               of imagining and delivering lectures,
Faraday's prospective discovery, 171 ;         15; his youthful contributions to
   at the Gnmsel, 264.                         periodicals, 15 ; his reminiscencs at
                                               Colinton House, 16 ; his suggestions
FenStrc, Col de, 287.                          for inventions, 16 ; his observations
Ferney, Forbes's visit to, and descrip         in astronomy and geodesy, 1 7 ; books
                                               which he studied, 18 ; his youthful
   tion of, 31.                                travels, 20 ; his character, 20 ; enters
Ferrier, Professor, the late, 398.             the University of Edinburgh, 21 ;
Feschie, Glen, 125.                            his progress in Greek and Latin, 21 ;
Fettercaim, Forbes's visits to, 118, 174,      his anonymous correspondence with
                                               Sir D. Brewster, 21, 22 ; goes with
   175 ; his description of it, 175.           his father to the Continent, 22 ;
Finster-Aar glacier, 259.                      visits Vesuvius, and his remarks
Finster Aarhorn, precipices of the, 262.       respecting it, 23, 24 ; at Kolfaterra,
Fischer, Professor, Forbes's letter to,        and at the Temple of Jupiter Serapis,
                                               25 ; at the tomb of Virgil, 26 ; at
    434 ; his kindness and services to
    George Forbes, 434.                        Pompeii, 27 ; again at Rome, 28 ; at
Fitzwilliam, Lord, his dinner at York,         Mantua, 30 ; at Geneva and at
    165.                                       Chamouni, 31 ; visits Mont Blanc,
Flemish architecture in Scotland, 200.         31, 32; his return home, 33; his
Folgefond, snow -fields of the, crossed         interest in astronomy, and love of
    by Forbes, 346.                             adventure, 33, 34 ; his emotion at
Forbes, the second Baron, 1.                    seeing his papers in print, 35 ; his
Forbes, the Lords, chiefs of the House          memoir on the horary oscillations of
    of Forbes, 1.                               the barometer, 35 ; his college course,
Forbeses, the, of Monymusk and Pit-
     sligo, 1.                                  37 ; studies moral philosophy, 37 ;
Forbes, Bishop, his character of Prin           loses his father, 38, 39 ; his conse
    cipal Forbes, 449.                          quent resolutions, 39 ; his desire to
Forbes, Charles, visits the English             become a member of the Koy.il
    Lakes with his brother James, 62 ;          Society, 40 ; results of Forbes's
     marries, and lives at Hermanstone,         winter studies at the Edinburgh Uni
    103 ; his death, 384, 386.                  versity, 40 ; introduces himself to
Forbes, Duncan, of Monymusk and                 Brewster in his own name, 41 ; his
    Pitsligo, 1.                                letter to Brewster, 41 ; list of even -
 Forbes, Eliza, her father's last written       thing transmitted to Dr. Hrewstcrlur
     words to her, 445.
Forbes, Mr. George, puts his nephew             publication, 43 ; introduced to the
    James David Forbes up as a candidate        Royal Society by Brewster, and is
    for the Professorship of Naturnl            elected a member, 44 ; visits Sir W.
    Philosophy, 83.                             Scott at Abbotsford, 45, 46 ; his
 Forbes, George, son of Professor, Pro          conversation with Dr. Brewster, 46 ;
    fessor Fischer's kindness and services      his resolutions, 48, 49 ; his meteoro
    to, 438 ; goes with his father to Eng       logical journal, 51 ; his last student
     land, 438.
Forbes, James David, F.K.S., portrait           session at college, 52 ; his friendships
     of, frontispiece ; his parentage. 1 ;      formed at Edinburgh University, 52 ;
    his birth. 7 ; Miss Forbes's sketch of      his choice of a profession, 54 ; his
    her brother's early life, 7 ; loss of his
                                           INDEX.                          585

letters to Lord Medwyn on the sub                  97 ; takes lessons in elocution from
ject, 54, 68 ; his dislike of mathe                Mrs. Siddons, 98 ; his letter to Sir
matics, 55 ; Lord Medwyn's happy
letter to Forbes, 60 ; his prayer on               Thomas Brisbane, urging the claims
                                                   of Edinburgh to a meeting of the
completing his twenty-first birth                  British Association there, 99 ; his
                                                appeal to Dr. (afterwards
day, 61 ; becomes a scientific man,                                        Sir
62 ; becomes an advocate, but bids                 Roderick) Murchison, 101 ; his in
                                                vitation to his foreign friends to the
the Bar adien for ever, 62 ; studies
the Calculus, and learns German, 62,            meeting of the British Association
                                                in Edinburgh, 102 ; his letter to Mr.
66 ; his autumn excursions, 62 ;                William Burr, 102 ; his retrospect of
visits the English Lakes with his
brother Charles, 62 ; his study of              1833, 103 ; elected to the Athenaeum
Boucharlat's "Integral Calculus,"               Club, 103 ; his first appearance as a
                          of Lardner on         Professor, and his inaugural lecture,
6"4,Dif6fe8 re; ntaiandl  Calculus," 64 ;  the  103, 104 ; his treatise on Mechanics,
                                           his

paper on the Sympiesometer, 64 ;                105 ; successful close of his first ses
                                                sion as a Professor, 106 ; his thanks
attends Dr. Chalmers' Divinity Lec
tures, and Dr. Keid's class of Prac             to God, 106, 107 ; his study of archi
tical Chemistry, 66 ; break-up of the           tecture in the south of England,
old family home at Colinton, 66 ;               108, 109 ; visits Lympstone, 109 ;
Forbes's feelings on this event, 67 ;           entertains various friends at his house
takes np, with his two sisters, his             at Greenhill, 111 ; his letters re
abode at Greenhill House, 67 ; his              specting Mr. Vernon Harcourt and
                                                M. Arago, 111 ; resides with his
reflections and resolutions, 67 ; his           sisters in Melville Street, 113; but

study of heat, 68 ; enters the Royal            removes to Dean House, 113 ; his
Society, 68 ; visits London with his            letter to Professor Powell, 113; his
sisters, 68 ; at Cambridge and Oxford,

and present at Commemoration, 69 ;              experiments on heat, 113, 114, 120;
meets Lyell, Whewell, Sedgwick,                 his letters to various scientific friends,

Airy, Babbage, and others at Cam                113 ; makes nn approximation to the
bridge, 69 -- 73 ; meets John Dalton            length of a wave, 115 ; introduces
at Manchester, 74 ; helps to estab              the undulating theory, 117 ; exhibits
lish the British Association, 75, 76 ;          the phenomena of polarization, for
speaks at St. Andrew's in favour of             the first time, in Scotland, 118 ; in
the Association, 76 ; attends the first         vites Whewell to Edinburgh, 119 ;
meeting at York, 78 ; intends to offer          proposes to publish a work on the
himself as a candidate for the chair            Pyrenean hot waters, 119 ; the
of Natural Philosophy, 79, 83 ; in              Keith medal awarded to him, 122 ;
London and at Allerly, 80 ; elected             his observations of the solar eclipse
into the Royal Society of London,               of 1836, 123 ; his letter to Miss
80 ; his early mental habits, 81 ;              Forbes on the eclipse, 124 ; his
leaves London for the Continent,                travels on foot in Scotland, and also
83 ; death of Sir John Leslie, and              in England, 124, 125; his letter to
Forbes's candidature for the Profes             Miss Forbes on his tour in Scotland,
                                                125 ; his geological observations on
sorship of Natural Philosophy, 83 ;             his tour, 126 ; goes to the meeting
                                                of the British Association at Bristol,
the various candidates for the vacant
chair, 83, 84 ; Forbes's testimonials
from men of the highest scientific              126 ; his letter to M. Auguste de la
name, 84 ; his youth the main objec             Rive, 126 ; his triumph over MM.
tion urged against him, 85 ; elected            Biot and Melloni, 127 ; his pleasant
to the chair of Natural Philosophy,             group of pupils, 127 ; his letter to
86 ; his reflections on the event, 87 ;         M. Arago, relating to scientific sub
his estimate of his own character,              jects, 127 ; his letter to the Rev.
89 ; his professorial life, 93 ; his            Dr. Whewell, 128 ; and to Professor
view of his situation at that time,
98 ; finds the urgent want of simple            Airy, 129 ; proposes to give a medal
text-books of Physics, 95 ; writes to
                                                for the best essay on the Undulutory
                                                Theory of Light, 129; cordial re
Dr. Whewell for advice under the                newal of his intercourse with Sir
circumstances, 95 ; at work upon the            David Brewster, 129 ; his exertions

fundamental principles of dynamics,             respecting systematic examination,
SSR INDEX.

131 ; appointed Dean of the Faculty                 171, 173 ; espouses the   Elevation
of Arts, 132 ; order and method in                  theory, 172 ; returns to  Scotland,
his character, 133 ; compared with
                                                    174;" at Fettercairn, and his work
Sir W. Hamilton, 134 ; does not                     there, 174, 175; hU description of
love personal conflicts, 135 ; his                  Fettercairn, 175     ; accepts a    grant
want of sympathy with metaphy                       from the State,      175 ; writes  to M.
                                                                  and Dr. Whewell, 176,
sicians, 136 ; address presented by                 Charpentier   a tour with Mrs. Forbes
the students of the Natural Philo                   177 ; makes
                                                    through the lakes of Cumberland,
sophy class, 137 ; Forbes's student                                      hLisarglest,terasndforhmeintgo
friends, and his letters to some of
them, 137--143 ; his tours in North                 179 ; she goes to
                                                    Switzerland, 179 ;
Germany, Austria, and in the South                  the best record of the remainder
of France, 1 43 ; his reflections in                of his life, 180 ; his work with his
1839, 147 ; his remarks on the Sun                  class as Professor, and his duties
                                                    for the Royal Society, 180 ; his
day rest, 148 ; death of his eldest                 opinions respecting Popery and
sister, Eliza, 148 ; his illness in the             Tractarianism, 181 ; introduced by
summer of 1840, 148 ; makes a tour
with his sister Jane through Dum                    Sir R. Inglis to Prince Albert, 181 ;
friesshire and Kirkeudbright, 149 ;                 sees Neptune in company with its
visits the mausoleum of Burns in                    two discoverers, 182 ; returns home,
Dumfries, 149; visits Arran with                    and resides at Easter-Tyre, 182 ;
John Mackintosh, and goes to                        makes a tour in the Highlands with
Loudon, 150 ; elected Secretary to                  MM. Studer           Sact htihuetz,U_1n8iv2er;sitrye,
the Royal Society of Edinburgh,                     turns to his   and
151 ; congratulates Dr. Whewell on                                work                 his

his Mastership of Trinity, 153 ; his                and attacked by influenza, 183 ;   ill
                                                    family incidents, 183 ; serious
tour with John Mackintosh in the                    ness of his wife, 183 ; continues his
Pyrenees, 154 ; his article in the                  survey of Ben Nevis, 184, 185 ; in
"Edinburgh Review" on glaciers,                     Edinburgh, at Fettercairn, and in
154; leaves Dean House, and lives                   North Wales, 189 ; goes round
in Ainslie Place, 154 ; elected a cor               Suowdon, 190 ; his lectures on know
responding member of the Institute                  ledge as taught by a high authority,
of France, 155 ; his book of Alpine                 190 ; his work on the Danger of
                                                    Superficial Knowledge, 191 ; his re
travels, 155 ; his marriage, 156 ;
Professor Airy's retrospect of inter                sidence at Chicfswood, 196 ; his tour
course with Forbes, 156 ; his interest                                              196 ; his
in physical optics, 157 ; his scientific            to Orkney  theand''  Shetland,  Review,"
                                                    paper for            Edinburgh
                                                    196 ; prevented from going to the
and personal character, 158 ; de
tained on his marriage trip at Bonn,                Alps by the illness of his second
by a fever, 161 ; his letter to Sir D.
                             in Switzerland,  I6O   daughter, 199 ; but subsequently
                              M. Charpentier    at  goes to Chamounix, and completes
B--re1w6s3te;r,call1s60   ;                         the survey of the Mer dc Glace, 199 ;
                         on                         at the meeting of the British Asso
Bex, who receives him with great
warmth, 162 ; Canon Kingsley's re                   ciation in E'linl urgh, where he is
                                                    Vice-President, 199 ; takes a tour
marks on Professor Forbes's book on
Glaciers, 162 ; his work at Cha-                    with Mrs. Forbes ou the west coa -t,
mounix and on the glacier of Grin-
                                                    and to Aberdeenshire,           199 ; his
                                                    studies at Phesdo, 201 ; death of bis
delwald, 163 ; advised by Dr. Nasse,
of Bonn, to winter in Italy, 163 ;                  friend, John Mackintosh, 204 ; chauge
gets permission from Edinburgh, and
                                                    in Forbes's feelings and character,
does so, 163 ; attends the meeting of                       ghuisidetrsa, vels2,07a--nd21h1is;comhipsaniofinrsst
                                                    205  ;
the British Association at York in                  and
1844, 163 ; birth of his first child,               journey, 212; that of 1S35, 213;
165 ; his opinion of Stanley's Life of
Arnold, 165 ; returns to his cluss,                 in the Pyrenees, 21 4 ; makes excur
                                                    sions into Spain, 220, 222, 225;
166 ; his letters to Mr. Batten, 168,               establishes his head-quarters at Cler
169, 178 ; finally settles in Park                  mont, 225 ; his letters to Miss
Place, Edinburgh, 168; his tour in
the West Highlands, 169 ; goes to                   Forbes, 223. 225 ; his explanation of
Cambridge, and visits Dr. Peacock,                  the ice in the Fountaine d'Oule,

                                                    228 ; at Volvic, and again at Cler-
INDEX.                                                                C87

mont, 229 ; returns to Paris, and is     Mont Blanc, 274 ; commencement of
introduced to Humboldt, 229 ; g>es       his work, 275 ; his determination of
back to Edinburgh, 229 ; meets           the diurnal motion of glaciers, 277,
Baron von Buch at Bonn, and carries      292 ; goes to Turin to observe the
a letter from l'rofessor Jameson for     total eclipse of the sun, 278 ; returns
him, 231 ; meets the Baron on his
way to Paris, 233 ; Forbes's meteoro     to Courmayeur, and investigates
logical observations at Drachenfels,     the Allee Blanche, 280 ; crosses
233 ; goes to Gbttingen and Berlin,      the Col du Geant, and reaches
234 ; walks with Mr. Batten through      Montanvert, 281 -- 283 ; his claims
the forests of the Hartz, 234 ; at
Berlin and at Dresden, 234, 235 ;        respecting the glacier question, 285,
goes to Toplitz, and stays at Carls      286 ; his discomfort at Evolena,
bad till his health is restored, 235 ;
goes to l'rague, and Saltzburg, 235 ;    289 ; loses his geological hammer,
his magnetic observations, 236 ; visits  293 ; descends from the Montanvert
Ihe springs of AVildbad Gastein, 236 ;   for the last time, 294 ; Forbes's
completes the circuit of the Gross       mode of working              w" iTthravthealst
Gloekner, 236 ; at Innspruck, to         of Agassiz, 294,  compared
Trafoi, and the Stelvio, 236 ; at the                      295 ; his
baths of Bormio, 237, 238 ; his geo      in the Alps of Savoy," 296 ; his ill
logical lesson nt the kitchen fire at    ness at Bonn of gastric fever, 297 ;
Cavalese, 239 ; synopsis of his          his journal in the Alps in 1843, 299 ;
guides, 241 ; his tour with his sisters  travels through Berne and Zurich,
to Kissingen, 241 ; sees Daguerre's      and arrives at Bonn, 301 ; has leave
pictures for the first time, 241, 242 ;  of absence for the wiuter, 302 ;
at Lyons and Montpezat, 245 ; in         reaches Naples with his wife, 302 ;
quires at Libounez about a meteoric                         303 -- 306 ; at
stone which fell there, 244 ; makes      ascends Vesuvius,
the circuit of Monte Viso, and
crosses into Piedmont, 250 -- 253 ;      Rome, 306 ; where he makes the ac
                                         quaintance of the Jesuit hody, 307 ;
 goes to Geneva, 253 ; and to Aostu,     attempts the ascent of Etna, but
253 ; his return to France, and          unable to do it, 310 ; rejoins Mrs.
                                         Forbes at Salerno, 310 ; they travel
 thence home, 255 ; goes to the          to the Italian lakes, 310 ; and estab
 ancient volcanoes of the Vivarais,      lish themselves at the chalets of
 256 ; accompanied by John Mackin
tosh, 256 ; makes two interesting        Marjelen, 313; spend the summer
 passes, 257 ; his letters to Miss       months in the highlands of Scotland,
 Forbes, 257, 267 ; meets Agassiz at     315 ; again in Switzerland, and his
 theGrimsel, 258 ; they make trial of    work there, 315, 316--320 ; dines
 a hut on the Unter-Aar Gletscher,       with the two guides, 322 ; his plans
 258 ; Forbes observes the ribbon        for explorations, 323 ; at Bex, 328 ;
 structure of glacier ice for the first  at the Rhone glacier, and at that of
 time, 258, 259 ; his picture of his     the Lauter Aar, 329 ; returns home,
 bivouac life, 2C0 ; smokes a cigar for  331 ; illness of his second daughter,
 the first time in his life, 261 ;       331 ; again at Chamounix, 832 ; ob
 nsceuds the Sidelhorn, 264 ; ascends    ject of his vi.-it, 332 ; his letters to
                                         Dr. Symonds, 333 ; takes up his
 the Schneebighorn and explores the      quarters at the inn on the Col do
 Ganli Glacier, 265 ; meets with an      Balme, 334 ; descends into the Swiss
                                         Val Ferret, 334 ; reaches the level of
 accident, 265 ; suffers from snow-      the glacier of Salena, 337 -- 340 ; at
                                         Orsifcres, 340 ; the last scientific
 blindness, 205 ; ascends the Jung-
                                         journey ever undertaken by Forbes,
 frau, 267 ; examines the polished       a tour in Norway, 341 ; crosses the
                                         snow-fields of the Folgefond to the
 rocks and moraines near Vernnyaz,       head of the Stir-fiord, 346 ; visits
 269 ; goes to Geneva, 270 ; at Berne    several glaciers, 347 -- 352 ; failure of
 with M. Studer, and thence home,
 272 ; his apprenticeship in glacier     his health, 353 ; seized with haemor
 observation, 272 ; elected a corre
 sponding member of the Institute of     rhage, 353 ; hangs between life and
 France, 273 ; visits MM. Studer and     death, 855 ; removes to Clifton,
 Charpentier, 274 ; his Sunday on
                                         where he remains for two years, 355 ;

                                         at Ambleside and Grasniere, 355 ;

                                         receives the honorary degree of
                                         D.C.L., 306 ; returns to Scotland,
588 INDEX.

359; finishes the "Dissertation,"                                 letter to Forbes on the subject, 469 ;
                                                                  other
361 ; at Braemar for the summer,                                  472 --  letters  on the same subject,
362 ; his reflections on the last day                                     483 ;    Forbes's conclusions,

of 1855, 363 ; at Dysart Cottage,                                 483 ; Professor Geikie's account of
Pitlochrie, 364 ; his health at this                              his geological work, 485 ; Forbes as
time, 367 ; assisted by Dr. Balfour                               a lecturer, 490     his  contributions to
                                                                  our knowledge    ;  of   glaciers, 493 --

Stewart, 367 ; the article on glaciers                            520 ; his "Historical Remarks on the
in the Saturday Meview, 368 ; his
article on pedestrianism in Switzer                               First Discovery of the Real Structure
                                                                  of Glacier Ice, 544 ; list of his prin
land, 370 ; forms an acquaintance                                    cipal scientific writings, 567--577.
                                                                  Forbes, John, ancestor of James D.
with Mr. Alfred Wills, 370 ; goes
with his children to Colinton, 371 ;
his letters to Mr. Wills, 371, 373 ;                                  Forbes, 2.
Wills's letter to him, 873 ; presents
his old hammer to Wills, 375 ; hails                              Forbes, Sir John, resides at Fettercairn,

the foundation of the Alpine Club                                 118 ; established with his family at
                                                                  the Ecu at Geneva, 253 ; his death,

with interest, 375 ; his letters on                                   432.
                                376 ; his opinion of
A"lpPienaeks,subPjaescstess, ,  and Glaciers," 378 ;              Forbes, Lady, Sir W. Scott's acquaint
                                                                     ance with, 4 ; Sir W. Scott's allusion

his experiments on the freezing-point                                to her, 6 ; her death, 8.
and temperatures of blocks of ice,                                Forbes, Miss, Professor Forbes's letter

382 ; his invitation to Dr. Symonds,                              to, on the eclipse, 124 ; and on his
--38838;6de; atrhesoigfnhsisthberotchhearirCohaf rlNesa,tu3r8a4l  tonr in Scotland, 125.
                                                                  Forbes, Mrs., Forbes's letters to, 308,

Philosophy, and accepts the commis                                    309, 315--317, 322, 328.
sion as Principal, 389 ; his character,
as a teacher, 389 -- 393 ; his life in                            Forbes, William, created a Nova

St. Andrews,                    39U4n;ivehrsisity,exer3t9io9n--s      Seotian Baronet, 1.
respecting the                                                    Forbes, Sir William, grandfather of

                                                                     James D. Forbes, 2.

406 ; lectures as Principal to the                                Forbes, Sir William, his friendship
                                                                     with Sir Walter Scott, 8, 5 ; his
students, 405 ; at a farmhouse near

CriefT, 409 ; his letters, 406 ; his                                  death, 6.
popular articles on Glaciers, 417;                                Forbes, Sir William, of Pitsligo, goes
his letter to the Lord Advocate,
                                                                     with his widowed mother to Edin

420 ; scenes of his childhood, 425 ;                              burgh, and founds the banking-house
his family and his health, 428 ;                                  in Parliament Square, 2 ; his in
receives the Keith prize for his                                  fluence and character, 2 ; his mar
                                 of heat, 429 ;                   riage to Williamina Belches or
paper on the conduction         John Forbes,                      Stuart, 4, 7 ; her death, 8 ; his visit
loses his brother, Sir                                            to Pitsligo, 9 ; his portrait, 38 ; his
432 ; his sons, 432 ; course of his
public life, 436 ; his last public act,
437 ; at Cannes, and at Hyeres.                                       death, 8, 12, 38.
                                                                  Force, measure of a definite amount
                                                                  of, 105 ; proportionality of velocitv
438, 439 ; returns to England, and
arrives at Clifton, 443 ; his note to
                                                                      to, 105.
Professor Campbell, 444 ; sends in his                            Forclaz, Col de, crossed on foot, 274.
resignation of his office of Principal,                           Fourier's thermometer, 80 ; his theory
445 ; his last note to his eldest
                                                                     of heat, 201.

daughter, 445 ; his last hours, 446,                              Fraser, Castle, 200.
447 ; his death, 447 ; his burial-                                Fraunhofer's rings, 69.
place, 447 ; death of his eldest and                              Fredda, Sasso di Val, beauty of the,
second eldest daughter, 447 ; Dr.
                                                                      239.
Symonds'  and   Bishop            Forbes's  recol                 Fresnel, his memoirs on light, 152 ; his
lections  of   him,             448 -- 451  ; his
                                                                     wave theory, 279.
natural endowments and character,
452 -- 454 ; his scientific work, 455 ;                           "Frost and Fire," Campbell's, 426.

his correspondence, 466 ; on the                                                                  G.
alleged evidence for a physical con
nection between stars forming binary                              Galloway, Professor, a candidate for
or multiple groups, arising from                                     Sir John Leslie's vacant chair, 83.
proximity alone, 467 ; Herschel's
                                                                  Galloway coast, Forbes on the, 150.
INDEX.                                                                            5SI)

Garonne, valley of the, 220.                nature and motion of, 458 ; Forbes's
Gauli Glacier, exploration of the, 265.     contributions to our knowledge of
Gautier, M., Forbes's invitation to,        glaciers, 492 ; the Dilitation Theory
                                            and the Gravitation Theory, 497 ;
    102.
                                            De Saussure's and De Clmrpentier's
Gavarnie, cirque of, and its cascade,
   216 ; view of, from the Pic de              theory, 499 ; on some debated points
                                               connected with the properties of ice
    Bergons, 217 ; Forbes at, 219 ; the        and the motion of glaciers, 512 ;
   Cirque, and Bridie de Rohmd, 219.           Helmholtz on a part of the puzzling
Gave, the river, 217..                         phenomenon of glaciers, 515.
G^ant, Col du, Snussure on the, 31 ;        Gladstone, Mr., interests himself in
    red snow seen on the, 32 ; crossed by
                                               Forbes's promotion, 388.
    Forbes, 281 ; his adventures on the,    Glencoe, Forbes's visit to, 125.

    282.                                    Glenfinuan, Forbes at, 125.

Gedre, Forbes at, 219 ; granite of, 219.    Glengarry, 125.
Geikie, Mr., undertakes the scientific
                                            Glen Nevis, 185.
   conduct of the excursion at Pumice,
   434; his account of Forbes s geo         Godesberg, woods which surround, 230.
    logical work, 485.                      Goldfuss, Professor, of Bonn Univer
Geneva, Forbes's visit to, and descrip
    tion of, 31.                               sity, 231.
German language, Forbes's study of          Gordon, Lewis, studies at Frieberg,
    62, 66.
Geodesy, Forbes's observations in, 1 7.     in Saxony, 139.
Geology, decline of the study of, in
    Scotland, 427 ; Professor Geikie's      Gorner Glacier, Forbes at the, 269.
   account of Forbes's geological work,
                                            Gosau Lakes, scenery of the upper, 235.
    485.                                    Gbttingen, Forbes and Mr. Batten at,

Glaciers, Forbes's article on, in the       234.
   Edinburgh Review, 154 ; Forbes's
    study of, and lectures on, 154 ; pub    Gozzolino, Vincenzo,  the guide,      at
   lic opinion on thequestion respecting,                          discourse      on
    180 ; the ribbon structure of glacier       Vesuvius, 303.
   ice observed for the first time by       Grassi, Padre, his
    Forbes, 258, 259 ; Forbes's subse
                                            Nomanism, 307 ; impressions left on
   quent conclusions, 277 ; Forbes's        Forbes's mind by a conversation
   apprenticeship in the observation of,
   272 ; unquestionable evidence of         with, 307.
   their movement, 272 ; diurnal motion
   of a glacier determined, 276, 277,       Gray's "Elegy," Forbes at the scene of,
    298 ; Forbes's claim respecting the
   glacier question, 285 ; effects of the       74 ; Gray's tomb, 74.
   sun and frost on, 290 ; the dirt-        Grey, Hon. Mr., son of the Premier, at

   bands, 299 ; measures the rate of        Professor Sedgwick's, 72.
   motion of the smallest and greatest,     Grey, Lord, 69.
   312--314. 317; mean results of ob        Grindelwald, the  " Mer de   Glace "  of,

   servations at two stations, 318 ; con    301.

   version of snow into glacier ice, 320,   Grissola, 250.
   321 ; increase of their size since
   1842, 324 ; causes of this, 324 ; the    Orivola, 253.
   diurnal advance of the Glacier de        Guichanla, M., vicar of Conrmayeur,

   Miage, 325 ; dtbris carried down,           joins Forbes there, 323 ; his experi
   325 ; attempted exploration of the          ments respecting the Glacier de la
   Glacier du Gcant, 326 ; Forbes at the
   glaciers of Fjaerland and Justedal,      Breuva, 323, 324.
   347 ; the Suphelle Brae and the
   Krondal Bite also visited, 348 ; at      Guide, nn Alpine, 237 ; Forbes's sy
   the Xygaard glacier, 349 ; the article      nopsis of his guides, 241.
   on Glaciers in the Saturday Review,
                                            Guildford, Lord, master of St. Cross's
    368 ; Forbes's popular articles on,
    417 ; Forbes's investigations into the  Hospital, 109.

                                            Gnttanen, 263 ; to the Grimsel, 264.

                                                                                M.

                                            Ball, James, goes with Forbes to

                                               Trinity Chapel, Cambridge, 72.
                                            Hallam, Arthur, his early death, 45 ;

                                               his memorial lines, 45.
                                            Hallum, Henry, the historian, his visit

                                               to Sir W. Scott, 45.
                                            Hallstadt, Forbes und Batten at, 225.
                                INDEX.

Hamilton, Sir W., compared with Pro        Hope, Dr., his lectures at Edinburgh
                                              University, 52.
    fessor Forbes, 134.
                                           Hopkins, Forbes's opinion about him
Hamilton, Sir W., of Dublin, 174 ;            and his papers, 164 ; he does battle
   his character and sonnets, 174.            with him, 165 ; Forbes shakes hands
                                              with him, 171 ; on glacier motion,
Hansteen's  Intensity   Apparatus,
Forbes's experiments with, in the
Alps and in the Pyrenees, 127.
                                           313.

Harcourt, Rev. Vernon, a friend and        Horn, Cape, barometrical pressure at,
promoter of the British Association,
76 ; entertained by Forbes at his              117.                                   of
                                           Horner, Francis, Life of, character
house at Greenhill, 111 ; the Vernon
                                              the work, 168.

Harcourts at Cambridge, 172.               Humboldt, Forbes's review of, 177 ;
Hardanger-field, Forbes's visit to, 345.      Lockhart's alterations in the article,
Hare, nis friendship with Forbes,
                                               177.
    71.                                    Humboldt, Baron, Forbes introduced
                                              to, in Paris, 229.
Harrison, J. T., Esq., Forbes's letters    Hunter, Mr., his instruction of Charles

   to, 139, 140 ; his character of Forbes

    as a teacher, 390.                        and James Forbes, 16.
Hartz Mountains, Forbes and Mr.            Hunter, Dr. John, his value to his

   Batten's walk through the forests of,      University, 130.
                                           Hunter, Dr., as a scholar and philo
    234.
Hasli, configuration of the rocks in the      logist, 397.
                                           Hyeres, Forbes and his family at, 439 ;
   valley of, 264.
Hawes Water, 63.                              his departure from, 441.
Hawkin, Mr., 71.
Heas, Vallee de, Sunday at, 216 ; fete                           I.

   day in the, 216.                        JIce, Forbes on regulation of, 382 ; as.
Heat, Professor Powell's experiments          Thomson on the properties of, 386.
                                           Jinboden, Professor Gnyot of Neu-
    on, 113, 114 ; Forbes's experiments
   on, 120; Forbes's letter to Professor       chatel at, 263.

   Airy on, 145; Forbes's experiments      Inglis, Sir Bobert, at Cambridge in
   on radiant heat, 198 ; Fourier's
                                               1845, 172.
   theory of, studied by Forbes, 201 ;     Inglis, the Lord Justice Clerk, Forbes's
    Forbes's experiments on the conduc
   tion of heat, 201 ; Forbes's experi        letter to, 407.
   ments on the polarization of neat.      Innes, Professor, Forbes's letter to,
   460 ; on the conduction of heat,

461.                                                                 -

Heath, Mr., accompanies Forbes to          433.
                                           Inventions, ideas of, 16, 20.x
meet Agassiz, 258 ; leaves Forbes at       Invercauld, 201.

Zermatt, 269.                              lnverlair, Forbes at, 187.
Helmholtz on a part of the puzzling        Inverness, Forbes at, 125 ; wool market
phenomenon of glaciers, 515.
Herschel, Mrs., 73^                           at, 125.
Hrrschel, Sir John F. W., his age, 71 ;    Iona, Forbes's visit to, 182.
Forbes's visit to him at Slough, 73 ;      Iron, chromate of, of Balta Sound,

Hei schel's apparatus,  74 ;    sees           197.

daguerreotypes for the first time,         Irvine, Dr., his friendship with

242 ; his testimony to Forbes's            Forbes, 365.
                                           Irving, Mr., of Newton, examines the
scientific attainments, 85 ; Forbes's      temperature of the
                                           bottom of the Lead             springs at   the
    letters to, 116, 118, 146 ; on the                                                124,
                                                                        Hill mines,
    physical connection between stars
   forming hinary or multiple groups,      125.
   arising from proximity alone, 469 ;
   his letter to Forbes on the subject,    Irving, George, becomes an advocate,
    469 ; at Cambridge in 1845, 171 ;
                                           139.
   at Ely, at Dean Peucock's, 174.
Highlands of Scotland, Forbes's tour of    Irving, Washington, receives a degree,

   the, with MM. Studer and Schintz,           69.
                                           Iseo, Forbes and his wife at, 310.
                                           Isel-Thal, Forbes at, 236.

182.                                       Iseran, Col d', 255.
                                                     INDEX.                                                  .-:il

                    .1.                                      danger of   s1u9p1e--rfic1i9a5l .  knowledge,   191;
                                                             his views,
Jackson, Dr., Professor of Natural
                                                        Knoydart, Forbes at, 125.
Philosophy in St. Andrew's Univer                       Kofel, Lang, crags of, 239 Forbes
                                                                         it,
sity, 103.                                                   examines                ;

                                                                                                          ;
Jamieson, Professor, his teaching, 37 ;                                  more closely, 239, 240.
                                                        Kbnigswinter, Forbes parts with Baron
Forbes in his class, 40 ; his journal,
51 ; Forbes's papers in          ; it,         51 his        vou Buch at, 233 his meteorological
                                                             observations on the Rhine, 233.
friendship for Forbos, 52.                  ;           Kuppfer, M., his experiments in the
Jarrett, his friendship with Forbes,
                                                             Caucasus, 127.

    71.

Jaujac, 247 the Coupe de, 247.
Jedburgh, Forbes's visit with Dr.
            ;
    Brewster to, 46.8.                                  Lacroix, " Differential and Integral
Jeri-am, Mr., his works, 415 his argu;a
                                                           Calculus," Herschel's opinion of, 74.
ments, 415.                                             Lafond, Bertrand, the guide, 220.
                                                        Laggon, Loch, Forbes at, 125.
Jervis, Lizzie,                                         Laidlaw, William, Sir W. Scott's fac
Jesus College Chapel, Cambridge.
                                                            totum, 46.
    Forbes at, 72.                                      Landeck, situation of, 237.
Johnston, Professor, friend and pro
                                                        Langon, Forbes at, 213.
   moter of the British Association, 76                 Largs, Mrs. Forbes at, 179.
Jughat, Mont, 226.                                      Las Escaldas, Forbes at the springs of,
Jungfrau, Forbes's ascent of the, 267
                                                            225.
   his account, 267 Oaiignani's ac
   count of the ascent, 271.                            Lassolas, crater of, 226.
                                                        La Thulliere, rock of, 226, 227.
Jupiter Serapis, temple of, Forbes's                 ;
   visit to, and account of, 25, 51                     Lauteret, Col. de, 253.

Babbage's notes on the, 70.                             Lava, crystallized, 229.
                                                        La Vache, crater of, 226.
Kaltwasser Gletscher, 311.                              La Vielle, the capital of the Vallee;
Keble, Rev. Mr., his guess as to Sir
                                                           d'Aran, 220.
   Walter Scott's disappointment in                     Layard, A. H., the Times hero, 361.
   love, 6.                                             Lead Hills, Forbes's exploration of the,
Keith Medal awarded to Professor
                                                           124 examined by Mr. Irving, of
    Forbes, 122.                                            Newton, 124, 128.
Keith, Mr., assists Professor Forbes in
                                                        Lectures, inaugural, of Professors in
   his class-work on Natural Philo                         Scottish Universities, 103.

    sophy, 389.                                         Lee, Principal, does not vote on the;
Kellanll, Professor, his information                       University Tests, 170.               ;

   respecting Scottish education, 131 --                Lerwick, .Forbes at, 197.                      ;
    135 does the work of Forbes's class                 Lcs Echelles, pass of, Forbes at the,                ;
   during his illness, 360 his answer
   to two of Forbes's questions, 472,                       216.                                                       ;
    ;
473.                                        ;           Leslio, Sir John, his class, 40 his
                                                           friendship with Forbes at Edinburgh
                                      it,                  University, 52 recommends Forbes
Kennedy, Bishop James, founds the                          not to give up the bar, 65 his de;;
College of St. Salvator, 394.                               claration to Forbes, 65 his death,
King's College, at old Aberdeen, Forbes                     83 candidates for the Professorship,
at, and his description of                                 83 his chair filled by Forbes, 86
                                               200.        his value to his University, 130.

Kingsley, Canon, his remarks on                         Leuthold, the guide, 269.
                                                        Leverrier, M., his discourse in French
Professor Forbes's book on Glaciers,
                                                           at the meeting of the British Associ
    162.                                                    ation in 1847, 181 Forbes witnesses;
                                                           the planet Neptune in company with
Kinloch-Leven, fever at, 187.                               Adams and Leverrier, 182.
Kintail, Forbes at, 188.                                Lewis, Sir George Cornewall, recom
Klausen, Dr., at Bonn University, 231.                     mends Forbes's promotion of Prin
                                                            cipal of the United College, 388.
Knowledge, sophistical and mischievous
   view of, 190 Forbes's work on the
                 ;
592 INDEX.

Libounez, fall of a meteoric stone at,          Magnetic Committee of the British
                                                   Association in 1845, 171.
    244.
                                                Maladetta, the, 222.
Libri, his History of Science, 254 ; ac
   quires a box of Napoleon's juvenile          Malnitz, pass of, Forbes crosses                           ;

    papers, 273, 274.                           236.                                                             it,

Light, uuJulitory theory of, 152 ;              M" aMlvaina,lleA,ntFiqorubietys  at, 227.               article
Forbes recommends the study of, to                                               of," Forbes's
Mr. Ellis, 152 ; history of the undu-
   latory theory, 157.                             on the, 419.
Ligues, "abominable" chalets of, 255.           Mantua, Forbes's visit to, and descrip
Lin, Artigues de, reappearance of a
                                                   tion of, 30.
   river at, 222.                               Marchi, Padre, his collection of old

Lind, Jenny, at Edinburgh, 189.                     coins, 307.
Lindsay, James, 275, note.                      Mardalc, Forbes at, 63.
Linth, Von der, at the Grimsel, 258.                                                                    and  its
                                                Maree, Loch, Forbes at, 125.
                                                Marmolata, outworks of the,

Lochnagar, Forbes's ascent of, 201.                 beauty, 239.
Lockhart,  MJ.rs.G, .,45.his                    Martins, M., in the Bernese Oberland,
Lockhart,                              Chiefs-
                              cottage           262.

wood, 45 ; Forbes's visit to, 45 ;              Mathews, Mr. C. E., an Alpine party
                                                   at his house, 429.
   writes on the Greek question, 46.
Louchadiere, Puy de, 229.                       Matrayer Jock, Forbes crosses the, 236.
Louget, Col de, 248.                            Matterhorn, Forbes's picture of the,
Luchon, Bagnieres de, Forbes at, 220.
Luz, Forbes at, 215 ; castle and chapel             159 catastrophe on the, 426, 429.;
                                                Maurice, BourgSt., 255.
    of, 215.
Luz, valley of, and the river Gave, 217.        Mechanics, Professor Airy's lecture on,
Lyell, Mr. (now Sir Charles), meets             at Cambridge, 71 Forbes's treatise
                                                                                 ;;
   Forbes at Mr. Babbage's, 69 ; writes             on, 105.                         ;
                                                Medwyn, Lord, Forbes's letter to, 52.
to Forbes about the glacier question,           Meissen, contact of granite with chalk         ;
869 ; Forbes's letter to, 421.                                                                       ;
                                                    near, 234.
Lympstone, Lady Forbes's death at, 8 ;          Melloni's Multiplier, Professor Powell's

Professor Forbes's pilgrimage to, 8,               work with, 113 Forbes's experi
109 ; his letter to his sister on the              ments with, 114, 115 his experi
visit, 109.                                        ments on heat, 120, 127 and with
                                                   tourmaline, 128 his papers and ex
Lyons, views from, 243.                           periments, 144; his captious criti

                            M.                     cisms, 145.
                                                Menai Straits, stupendous works at,
Macaulat, Mr. (afterwards Lord), his
   oration in Edinburgh, 190.                       190.

Mac Dhui, Ben, Forbes's visit to, 125.          Mendelssohn, Professor (grandson of
Macdonells of Glengarry, Forbes's visit            the composer), at Bonn Universitv,

   to the, 62.                                      231.
Macleod, Dr. Norman, his memoir of              Mcr de Glace de Chamouni, Forbes's

   John Mackintosh, 359.                           visit to, 31, 32 Forbes's mapping of
Mackenzie, Mr. Colin, his . friendship                    ;
                                                ;   the, 58 Forbes's experiments on;;;
   with Forbes, 56 ; his death, 64.               1the, 179 Forbes's survey of the,
Mackintosh, John, of Geddes, Forbes's              199 dirt-bands on the, 284.;
                                                Mer de Glace of Griudelwald, 301.
   letter to, 143 ; visits Arran with Pro       Meteor seen in Edinburgh in Dec. 1849,
   fessor Forbes, 143, 153; his dangerous
   illness in Germany, 202 ; Forbes's               199.
   letter to him, 203 ; Mackintosh's
   reply from Curnstadt, 204 ; where he         Meteoric stone, falling of a, in open
   died, 204 ; his last resting-place,             day in Libounez, 244 described by
    205 ; accompanies Forbes to the                some of the witnesses, 244, 245 its
   Alps, 256 ; Dr. Norman Macleod's
   memoir of, 359.                                  weight, 245.
Macugnaga, Forbes on the glacier of,            Meteorological results, Hcrschel's, 116.
    290.                                        Meteorological Society, 118.
                                                Miage, Glacier de, 323.

                                                Mill, John Stuart, elected Rector of
                                                   St. Andrew's, 429 his logic not con

                                                genial to Forbes, 177.
INDEX.                                                     593

Miller, Hugh, his description of fossil                       169 ; with Forbes in the Highlands
   fishes of the old red sandstone, 196.                      of Scotland, 188.
                                                           Needle's Eye, 150.
Mittersill, Forbes at, 237.                                Neuchatel, polished rocks near, 271.
Moggerath, Professor, at Bonn Univer                       NeVe, conversion of, into ice, 321.
                                                           Nevis, Ben, Forbes's ascent of, 182, 184,
   sity, 231.                                                 186 ; his account of, 182, 185, 136.
Moine, Aiguille du, Forbes's ascent of                     Nevis, Glen, 185.
                                                           Newton, Life of, Brewster's, 46 ; his
    the, 320.                                                 laws of motion, 97 ; his surfeit of
Monestier, 252 ; springs of, 252 ;                            demonstration in optics, 1 24 ; his
                                                              letters iu French, 435.
   Forbes's difficulties at, 252.                          Neyrae, volcano of, 247.
Monkwearmouth Bridge, 140.                                 Nicholas, Czar, his death, 361.
"Monthey, blocks of, 274.                                  Niepce, M. Isidore, 242 ; his father's
Montpezat, 243.                                                discovery of sun-pictures, 243.
Monvmusk, the Forbeses of, 1 ; scenery                     Nithsdale, Forbes's journey up, 149.
                                                           Nobili, his experiments, 128.
    of," 200.                                              Northumberland telescope, the, 171.
                                                           Norway, daylight at, 341 ; vegetation
Moraines, 497.                                                 of, 341 ; Forbes's tour in, 341 ;
Moral philosophy, Professor Wilson as                          his journey to, 489.
                                                           Nugere, Puy de la, lava of the, 229.
   teacher of, at Edinburgh University                     Nuneham, the Archbishop of York's
   in 1827-8, 37.                                              house near Oxford, 172.
Moriston, Glen, 125.                                       Nuova, Col de la, 254.
Moro, Monte, Forbes's passage of the,
    290.                                                                                    O.
Motion, Newton's laws of, 97.
Mouleyres, lava from the crater of,                        Ober-Aarhorn, precipices of the, 262.
    246.                                                   Ober-Aar Joch, Forbes at the, 267.
Mountain, the first, up which a baro                       Oberland, Bernese, scenery of the, 259.
    meter was carried, 226.                                Oberland, glacierswhichfillupthe, 267.
Muick, Glen, Forbes at, 201.                                O'Connell, Daniel, 69.
Murchison, Dr. (afterwards Sir Rode                         Olaf, King, the saint, killed in fight,
    rick), his kindness to Forbes, 69 ;
    Forbes's appeal to, on behalf of                            345.
    Edinburgh for the meeting of the
    British Association, 101, 102 ; sends                  Olivine, in the neighbourhood of \a
    a volume to the Royal Society of
    London, 178 ; his speech on geology,                        Barracme, 227.
    427 ; at Birmingham, 426 ; Forbes's                     Oos, iu Norway, 345.
     letters to, 430, 434.                                  Optics, Dr. Brewster's attainments in
Music, General Reid's endowment of a
    chair of the Theory of, 134.                               the science of, 84 ; Forbes's study of,
                                                                114, 117 ; Newton's demonstration
                             N,                                in, 124 ; Wolf's lens, 130.
                                                            Orkney, Forbes and Airy at, 196.
N , Lord, in the Bernese Oberland,                          Orsieres, Forbes at, 287.
                                                            Orteler Spitze, road showing the, 238.
     261.                                                   Oule, Fountaine d', Forbes's visit to,
 Naples, Physical Notices on the Bay                            228 ; wonders of, 228.
                                                            Oxford, Forbes's visit to, 69 ; Forbes
    of, 43, 51 ; Forbes, with his wife, at,                    at the meeting of the British Asso
    302 ; his geological excursions near,                      ciation at, 181.
                                                            Oxford, Bishop of, entertains his friends
   3"03Ph;ysriec-aelxaNmointiecses,"the303sc. enes of his      with anecdotes, 182.
                                                            Oysans, Rourg d', 253.
 Nan-Bild, mountain pass of, 65.
 Naroe-fiord, Forbes on the, 347.                                                       P.
 Nassau, large number of springs in,
                                                            PyESANA, 250.
     232.                                                   Paradis, Grand, 253 ; chain of the,
 Nassi, Dr., advises Professor Forbes to
                                                              254, .
    spend the forthcoming winter in
     Italy, 163.
 National Church of Scotland, disrup
    tion of the, 155.
 Neckar, Professor Louis, of Geneva,
    his residence at Geneva, 80 ; explores
     the Coolin Mountains with Forbes,
59 1 INDEX.

Pariou, Puy de, Forbes's ascent of the,              Poppelsdorf, dip of the magnetic needle
                                                        at, 232.
   227.
Paroi, Lac de, formation of the, 248.
Pascal, ascent of the Puy de Ddme by,                Po, proper source of the, 251.
   who causes a barometer to be carried              Portillon, Port de, Forbes at the, 220.
                                                     Portree, iudisputable traces of glaciers
   up the Puy, 226.                                  at, 169.
Pascal papers, the, in M. Charles's pos
                                                     Powell, Professor, Forbes's letter to,
    session, 435.                                       114 ; his experiments on heat, 128 ;
Pan, Forbes's visit and description of,                 Forbes's letter to, 144 ; Forbes at
                                                        dinner at his house, 182.
   213 ; the Gave de, 214 ; ascent of the            Prague, Forbes at, 235.
   Pic de Midi de, 214.                                                                                     his
Peacock, Dr., meets Forbes at Cam                    Prayer, Forbes's, on completing                        at,

   bridge, 67, 73 ; entertained by                   twenty-first birthday, 61, 62.
   Forbes at his house at Greenhill,                 Professors, Scottish, Life     of,
   111 ; Forbes's visit to, 171, 173 ; at                                                                  ;107.
   Ely, 1 73 ; account of Dean Peacock,
                                                     Puy, Le, Forbes and Mackintosh

                                                     257.

"  173.    Passes,           and Glaciers,"  second  Pyrenees, Forbes's proposed paper on
   Peaks,                                               the hot waters of the, 119, 122;

   series, Forbes's opinion of, 378.                 Forbes's experiments with Hansteen's
Peel, Sir Robert, announces to Forbes                Intensity Apparatus in the, 127
                                                     Forbes's tour with John Mackintosh
   a grant from the State, 175.                      in the, 154 Forbes's visit to the,
Pelasgic remains at Alatri, 308.                     213 character of the people and
Pelvoux group, mystery of the, solved,               the flowers, 219 quantity of the
                                                     ;
    376.                                                              ;

Pentland Hills, origin of, 226.                                                  ;

                                                     Pyrenean waters, 223.

Perpignan, Forbes at, 225.
P"faPyiel,rreGeaneBraolt,,"  at the Grimsel, 258.
                              in the Jura, 271.                ;
Pignerol, Forbes's opinion of the in                                        Q.
   habitants of, 252.                                Qvetelet, M., Forbes's letters to,
                                                         114, 122 Forbes and his fellow-
Piper's Cave, 150.                                       traveller, Mr. Batten, receive warm

Pissevnche ravine, 270.                                  welcome from, 230.          a
Pitlochrie, Forbes's residence at, 364.
                                                                                      R.
Pitsligo, Sir W. Forbes's visits to, 9.
                                                     Reffetot, M. de, his character of the
Phesdo, Forbes's residence at, 201.                  ;
Phillips, Professor, goes with Forbes to                            ;;guide, Bertrand Lafond, 220.
                                                     Bamsay, Dr., his friendship with
   Shotover, 69 ; Brewster's letter to,                                      ;
   proposing the establishment of the                    Forbes, 72, 73 who bids him adien,
   British Association, 75 ; which Pro                  73 wild about ice, 426.
   fessor Phillips helps to establish, 76 ;          Rankin, Mr., his letter to Professor
   Forbes's letters to, 111, 144; at                     Forbes, 163.
   Dean Peacock's, at Ely, 174 ; Pre                 Rankine, John, his anemometer obser
   sident of the British Association in                  vations, 139.
                                                     Reale, Col de, 254.
    1865, 426.                                       Regelation, Forbes on, 382,
Plana, Sig., at Turin, 254 ; Forbes's                Rendu, Mgr., late Bishop of Annecy,
                                                        congratulated by Forbes on his suc
   visit to him at Turin to observo an                  cess. 494 his theory of glaciers,
   eclipse of the sun, 278.
Pluviometer, Professor Forbes's sugges                    498.'
   tions for a, 16.
Pococke at Chamouni, 31.                             Reid, Dr., his class on Practical Che
                                                        mistry, 66 his value to his Univer
Poissonian demonstration, "Whewell's                    sity, 130.
   account of the, 105.
                                                     Reid, General, founds a chair for the
Polarization, phenomena of, exhibited                   Theory' of Music, 134.
   by Professor Forbes on screens, 119.
Pomard, 243.                                         Revel, M., accompanies Forbes to the
Pompeii, Forbes's visit to, and descrip                 defile of Pra del For, 252.
   tion of, 27, 28.
Ponto, valley of, 251, 252, 254.                     Rey, the guide, 250, 251.

Pontgibaud, Forbes at, 228.
Popery, Forbes's opinions about, 181.
                                                  INDEX.                                         59f>

Rhoades, Mr., Warden of the College                             St. Cross, church of, at Winchester,
   Hall at St. Andrews, 411, 413.                               Forbes's visit to, 108.
                                                                St. Laurent, village of, 217.
Rhone valley, 270.
Rhone, glacier of the, 329 ; character                          St. Leonard, college of, founded by
                                                                Archbishop Alexander Stewart, 395 ;
   of the ice, 329.
Ricardo, Mr., his political economy,                            George Bucltanan principal of, 395.
                                                                St. Mary's College, at St. Andrews,
72.
RRiittfcehlbicer,g,BrF.,orbaesc'asndviidsaitteto
                                                   the, 269.    founded, 396.

Leslie's vacant chair, 83.                        for Sir John  St. Mary's Loch, 124.

Rive, M. Auguste de la, Forbes's in                             St. Salvator College, founded by Bishop
                                                                                                 of the
                                                                Kennedy, 394 ;      restoration
vitation to, 102 ; Forbes's letter to,                          college chapel of,  403 -- 405.

    126.                                                        St. Theodule passed by Forbes, 289.
                                                                St. Vcran, height of, 249 ; cure of, 249.
Robertson, Principal, his value to his                          Sais, Col de, 257.
   University, 130.                                             Salena, glacier of, descent of the,

Robertson, Mt., Mrs. Batten's letter to,

    187.                                                           337--340.
                                                                Salisbury Cathedral, Forbes's visit to,
Robertson, Dr. Joseph, Forbes's letter

   to, 430.                                                         108.
Robison, Mr., of the Royal Society, his                         Saltzburg, Forbes and Batten at, 235.

   kindness to Forbes, 65.                                      Saltzkammergut, Forbes and his friend
Robison, Sir John, a friend and pro                                 Batten at, 235.

   moter of the British Association, 76 ;                       Saloan, slate-quarries at, 270 ; moraines
   attends the first meeting at York, 78.
Roland, Breche de, Forbes at the, 219.                              of, 270.
Romance language of the Grisons, 237.                           San Martino, near Bormio, Forbes at, ·
Rome, Forbes at, 22, 23, 28, 34, 306 ;
                                                                    238.
    three new Cardinals made, 307.                              Sanadoire, Roche, 226, 227 ; columnar,
Romilly, Mr., meets Forbes at Cam
                                                                    227.
   bridge, 73.
Romsey Chnrch, Forbes's visit to, 108.                          Santa Maria, Forbes at the pass of,
Rosa, Monte, Forbes at the north foot
                                                                    237, 238 ; the road to, 237 ; language
   of, 269.
Rose, Gustav, his lectures at Berlin,                               of, 237.
                                                                Saradetz, view of the Cirque of Gavar-
234.
                                                                    nie from, 219.
                                                                Saussure, M. de, his ascents of Mont

                                                                   Blanc, 32 ; his volumes and their

Rosenlani, 263.                                                    contents, 365.
Rotation, Forbes's study of the subject                         "Savoy, Travels in the Alps of,"

   of, 105.                                                         Forbes's, published, 296.
Rouges, Aiguilles, ascent of the, 333.                          Saxe Weimar, Duke of, at the meeting
Royat, Forbes at the valley of, 228.
Roy, Glen, Forbes visits the parallel                              of the British Association in 1847,

    roads of, 182.                                                  181.

                                                                Schlegel, M. Von, at Bonn University,

                                S.                                  231.

Sabine, Colonel and Mrs., at Denn                               Schneebighom, ascent of the, 265.
   Peacock's, 174 ; his translation of                          Schreckhorn, glacier stream of the,
   Humboldt's Cosmos, 177.
                                                                    259.
Sach, Dr., at Bonn University, 231.
Suil, Mam, intended ascent of, 188 ;                            Schutz, Professor, of Aarau, accom
                                                                   panies Forbes to the Jardin, 320.
    height of, 189.
St. Andrews University, Forbes ns                               Schihallion, Forbes's ascent of, 182.
                                                                Schintz, M., with M. Studer, visits
   Principal of the United College of,
   889 ; history of the various colleges,                           Forbes in Scotland, 182.
   394-- 397 ; Primacy which Knox                               Scott, Sir Walter, his friendship with
   attributed to it, 397.
St. Beat, Forbes at, 222.                                           Sir William Forbes, 3, 5 ; Keble's
St. Bernard, Great, Forbes and Studer                               opinion as to his disappointments in
    at, 286, 287.                                                   love, 4, 5 ; his visit to St. Andrews,
                                                                    6, 7 ; his fame in the South of

                                                                     France, 248.
                                                                Sedgwick, Professor, his friendship

                                                                    with Forbes, 69 ; meets Forbes at
                                                                    Cambridge, 69 ; his good temper,

                                                                                                          II I!
MS INDEX.

   70 ; a man of varied talent, 70, 71 ;   Stanley, Rev. A. P. (now Dean o
                                              Westminster), his Life of Arnold,
   at Dean Peacock's, at Ely, 174.
Sellar, Professor, 398.                         166.
Sharpe, Mr. Daniel, his work on Savoy,
                                           Stelvio Pass, Forbes's account of the
    365.                                      work of the engineers at the, 238.
Sheepshanks, Mr., at Professor Sedg
                                           Stephenson, Robert, Forbes meets him
    wick's, 72.                               in North Wales, 189 ; Forbes de
                                              lighted with him, 190.
Sheppard, Rev. H. W , his tour with
                                           Stevelley, Professor, a candidate for
    Professor Forbes, 125.                    Sir John Leslie's vacant chair, 83.
Shetland, Forbes's visit to, 196.
                                           Stewart family of Ballachudilish, 125.
Shotover, Forbes goes to sec the upper     Stewart, Dugald, his value to his Uni
   strata of the lias exposed at, 69.
                                               versity, 130.
Sicily, Forbes at, 308.                    Stewart, Professor Balfour, his cha-
Sidelhorn, Forbes's ascent of the, 264.
Siebeugebirgc, woods which clothe the         rarter of Forbes as a teacher, 391.
                                           Stewart, Archbishop Alexander, founds
   sides of many of the, 230.
Silius Italicus, his account of Virgil's      the college of St. Leonard, 395.
                                           Sto"keEleCghy,u"rc7h4,. the scene of Gray's
    tomb, 27.                              Strahleck, nive or firn leadiug to the,

Sitnond, called "Des Dames," 32.               262, 263.
Simplon, Forbes and his wifo at the,       Straton Fund, the, in the University of

    311.                                      Edinburgh, 135.
                                           Stuart, Sir John, of Fettercairn, his
Sinclair, .Archdeacon, at Forbes's in
                                              daughter Williamina and her mar
    augural lecture, 104.                     riage, i.
Siddons, Mrs., gives Forbes lessons in     Stuart, Lady Jane, her acquaintance
                                              with Sir Walter Scott, 4.
elocution, 98.                             Studer, M., visits Forbes in Scotland,
                                               182; Forbes's letter to, from Chiefs-
it,Sion, 288.   Professorof Geology, at        wood, 196 ; at the Grimsel, 258 ;
                                              visit of Forbes to, 274 ; joins Forbes
Sismonda,                                      at the Montanvert, 283 ; makes an
Turin, 255.                                   excursion into the Tarentaise, 287 ;
                                               his discomforts at Evolena, 288 ; re
Sistine Chapel at Rome,- vespers at, on       turns bv the Col de Valdobbia, 289 ;
   Good Friday, 28.                            Forbes's letters to, 341, 422, 426,
                                               431.
Skye, Forbes at, 125 ; Forbes takes the    Studer, M., Forbes's letter to and from,
                                              on the Bishop of Annecy's views,
steamer to, 188.
Smith, Mr., his distinction, 121.               495.
                                           Sunday, Forbes's remarks on the im
Snow, red, on the Col de Geant, 32.
Snowdon, Forbes's visit to, 190.              portance of the rest of, 148.
SogHo, in the Tyrol, 249.                  Symonds, Dr., his kindness and care of
Sogne-fiord, Forbes at the, 347.
Solar rays, law of the extinction of the,      Forbes at Clifton, 355, 358, 360 ;
                                               Forbes's letters to, 333, 365--370,
   passing through the atmosphere,             372, 373, 378--380, 383, 385, 386,
    Forbes s paper on, 464.                    406, 416, 425, 428.
Solfatcrra, Forbes's visit to, 25, 51.     Sympiesometer, Forbes's paper on the,
Somerville, Mrs., her kind reception of
                                                64.
    Forbes, 69.                            Syracuse, Forbes at, 310.
Sommerville, Dr., minister of Jedburgh,
                                           Taimiaz, Victor, the Chamounix guide,
46.
                                                289.
Sbr-fiord, Forbes at the, 346 ; descends   Taormina, Forbes at, 309 ; the Greco-

   from the, to the Hardanger-tiord, 347.      Roman theatre at, 309.
Spain, Forbes's excursion into. 220,
                                           Taylor's "Holy Living and Dying,"
    221 ; leaves, 221.
                                               Forbes's opinion of, 387.
Spanish dances and dancing, 221.
Spean, Glen, Forbes at, 184.
Spectrum, Brewster's analysis of the,

    69 ; Fraunhofer's rings, 69.
Springs, hot and cold, 214, 223; Dr.

   Daubeny's theory of hot springs,
    215 ; carbonated springs, as a rule,
   higher in temperature than others,

    232.

Staffs, Forbes's visit to, with MM.

Studer and Schintz, 182.
INDEX.                                                                          507

Taylor's " Methodus Incrcmentomm,"           Tyndall, Professor, and his theory, 368.
                                             3"6i9m;mhedisiatbeo"ok             from Murray'*
    255.                                                               drawn
                                                                     list, 387  ; tohishis"Fo"rmRe:;
Tenebrse at the Sistine Chapel at Rome,      of Water," 520 ; reply
                                             marks on the Glaciers of the Alps,"
    28, 29.                                  521.
                                             Tyrol, impoliteness ofthe people of, 231.
Terrot, Bishop, his answer to Forbes's
                                                                     U.
    questions, 475.
Testaccio, caves of Mount, Forbes's          'Underground temperatures, Forbes's

    paper on, 43.                               investigation of, 461.
Thirlwall, Dr., now Bishop of St.            Undulatory theory of light, works

    David's, 71.                                upon, 152.           in St.     Andrews,
Thermometer, three sets of, for various      United College,

   depths of soil, 128.                      formed, 396 ; Forbes commissioned
Thomson's paper at the meeting of the
                                                as Principal of, 389.
   British Association in 1847, 181.         ·Universities, Scottish, torpor of the,
Thomson, Professor (now Sir William),
                                                 130; the Professors of the, 130, 13V
   appointed to the Natural Philosophy       University Bill, Scottish, the Lord
   chair in Glasgow University, 201 ;
    Forbes's letters to, 423 ; his honours,  Advocate's, 379.
   431 ; his answer to Forbes's ques
    tions, 473.                              University tests, Forbes's letter to Dr.
Thorp, Mr., meets Forbes at Cam                 Whewell on, 170.
   bridge, 72 ; Forbes bids him adieu,       Unst, island of, Forbes at, 197.

     73.                                                                     V.

Throndhjem-fiord, Forbes sails down          Valdobhia, Col de, 289.
    the, 341.                                Vallante, Lago de, considered the

Thuez, beauty of, 246.                          proper source of the Po, 251 ; cir
Thuyets, travellers at, 257.                     cumference of, 251.
Tractarianism, Forbes's opinion Jespect-     Vnlpellina, Forbes and Studer in. the,

    ing, 181.                                    287.
Transit instrument, the ,ten-feet, at
                                             Veitch, Professor, 398.
    Greenwich Observatory, 72.               Velber-Tauern Col, Forbes crosses the,
Travellers and tourists, 209, 210 ;
                                                 236.
    Forbes's philosophy of travel, 209.      Veller-Thal, Forbes at, 237.
Travels, Forbes's youthful, 20.              Velocity, proportionality of, to Force,
Traversctte, Col do la, ancient gallery
                                                  1Q5.
    of, 250.
Trevelyan, Mr. and Mrs., at M. Agassiz's     Venasque, Port de, its opening on
                                                Spain, 222 ; view of the Maladetta
    hut, 265 ; Forbes's sketoh of, 266.         from, 222 ; valley of, 222.
Trevelyan experiment, Forbes's inves
                                             Venice, Forbes at, 310.
     tigations upon the, 465.                Vinos, exquisite scenery of, 253.
Treig, Loch, Forbes at, 185, 187.            Venus, the rotation of, determined bv
Tribisch Thai, Forbes at the pitchstone
                                                a Jesuit, 307.
    rocks of, 235.                           Vernayaz, polished rocks and moraines
Trient, glacier of, visited by Forbes,
                                                in the neighbourhood of, 269.
      290.                                   Verona, Forbes at, 310.
                                             "Vestiges of Creation/' supposed
Trinity Hall, Cambridge, Forbes at
    dinner at, 72.                               author of, 178 ; sequel to the, 178.
                                             Vesuvins, Forbes's visits to, 23 ; :his
Tronchet, La, chalets of, 249.
 Trou de Taureau, the, and its singular          remarks respecting the visit, 23, 24 ;
                                                 effects of an eruption, 24 ; Forbes's
    river, 222.                                  papers on, 43 ; Forbes writes on the
 Toplitz, springs of, Forbes at the, 235.        geology of Vesuvius, 182 ; Forbes's
 Tour, Glacier du, 334, 335.                     ascent of, 303 ; his observations,
 Tour, La, 252.                                 304, 305; Forbes's "Remarks" on,
 Tourmaline, Melloni's experiments on,
                                                  486.
      128.

 Tuckett, F. F., Forbes's letter to,
    376 ; his sketch map of the western
    part of the chain of Mont Blanc, 376.

 Turin, Forbes at, 254.
 Turlo, Col de, 290.
598 INDEX.

Vieo, Padre, a Jesuit, determines the         Association, 164, 165 ; reprint of his
   rotation of Venus, 307.                    History and Philosophy, 177; his
                                              wife's death, 381 ; marries Lady
Victoria Bridge over the Wear, 140.           Affleck, 383 ; visits Forbes at Pit-
Victoria, Queen, her choice of a High                                 Plato, 413.
                                                 lochrie, 384 ;  his  letter to the  Tina,
    land home, 201.                                              his
Viella, Forbes at. 221.                       Whyinpcr, Mr.,
Viesch, Glacier de, 267.                          426, 429 ; and the catastrophe on the
Yiolettea, of the Aiguilles Rouges, 333.         Matterhom, 426, 429.
Virgil, tomb of, Forbes's visit to, and       Wilberforce, the two Archdeacons, at

    description of, 26, 27 ; ancient head        York in 1844, 164, 165 ; at Cam
   of, at' Mantua, 30 ; place of his
   birth, 30.                                    bridge, 172.
Viso, Col de, 249.
Viso, Monte, 248 ; view of, 249 ;             Wilberforce, Dr., made Dean of West
    chalets of, 250 ; circuit of, 250, 251.      minster, 172 ; preaches at Trinity,
Vivarais, lava streams of, 248 ; Forbes
    again in the, 256.                            172.
Vogt, Dr., at the GrimseL 258 ;
     Forbes's sketch of, 266.                 Wilkie, Sir David, Life of, 168 ; his
Volcanoes, Forbes's paper on elevation
    craters, and on Auvergne, 120 ; their         character and works, 168.
    geological importance, 225, 226 ; in
    the South of Franoe, 244.                 William IV. prorogues Parliament in
Volcano, Forbes's visit to that of
    Vesuvius, 23, 24 ; extinct volcano at     person, 69.
    Astroni, 25.                              William, Fort, 125
 Volnay, 243.                                 Wills, Mr. Alfred,      h;isFo"rbWeas ndate,rin18g7s.  in
Volvic, Forbes at, 229.
                                              the High Alps," 368 ; wishes to wel
                            W.                come Forbes in Switzerland, 370 ;
                                              his letter to Forbes, 373 ; finds a
 Walter, Professor, at Bonn Univer            hammer which Forbes had lost in
                                              1842, 373 ; Forbes's letters to, 373,
     sity, 231.
 ·\Vardlaw, Bishop Henry, founds the          "378, 384, 386, 387, 409, 419, 423,

     University of St. Andrews, 394.          429 ; his Eagle's Nest," 409 ; his
 Wasenhorn, Forbes's ascent of the, 312.
 Wauchopc, Alicia, married to Professor           wife's health, 429.
                                              Wilson, Professor, his eloquence, 37 ;
     Forbes, 166.
 Wauchope, Mr. and Mrs., at Geneva,              his friendship with young Forbes at
                                                 Edinburgh University, 52 ; his re
      315.                                       sidence at Ellery visited by Forbes
                                                and his brother Charles, 62 ; Wil
 Weis, Prof, his lectures at Berlin, 234.        son's hospitality, 63 ; his value to his
 Whewell, Dr., his friendship with               University, 130.
                                              Winchester Cathedral, Forbes's visit
     Forbes, 69, 71 ; his age, 71 ; Forbes's
     letters to, 70, 95--98, 104--106, 115,      to, 108.
      117, 119, 123, 128, 145, 146, 170,      Windisch-Matrei, Forbes at, 236.
      177, 412 ; his paper on mathematics     Wbhler, Professor, visited by Forbes at
     applied to Ricardo's political eco
     nomy, 72 ; Forbes's farewell of him,        Gottingeu, 234.
     73 ; entertained by Forbes at his
     house at Greenhill, 111 ; his            Wolfs lens, 130.
     mechanics, 119 ; invited by Forbes       Wool market at Inverness, 125.
     to Edinburgh, 119 ; appointed to the
     Mastership of Trinity, 153 ; congra      Wrede on absorption, 129.
      tulated by Professor Forbes, 153 ; at
     the 1844 meeting of the British          Wyudham, at Cnamounix, 31 .

                                              Zermatt, present popularity of, 159 ;
                                                  Forbes at, 269.

                                              Zippach, M., at the GrimseL 25S ,
                                                  Forbes's sketch of, 266.

                                              Zmutt glacier, Forbes at, 269.
                                              Zurastein, M., joins Forbes, and makes

                                                 an excursion on the Lys Gletscher,

                                                   290.

LONDON : II. CLAY, SONS, A8U TAYLOK, FUIKTEKS.
MACMILLAN <& CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.

MEMOIR OF A BROTHER. By Thomam Hughes, M.P., Author

      of "Tom Brown's School Days" With Portrait of George Hughes, on-
       graved by Jekns. Crown Svo., 5s. Third Edition.

   " We have read it with the deepest gratification, and with real admiration. "Standard.

   "While boys at school may be Iwu'ildered by various conflicting theories of the characters of
the great Englishmen whom they have Wen taught to admire or hate, here, in the guise of the
simplest and most modest of country gentlemen, they have an examplar which they cannot do
better than copy."-- Daily Sews.

MICHAEL FARADAY. By J. 11. Gladstone, F.R.S.

   " Faraday needed a popular biography. A man ao simple and bo pure, a* well aa so strong in
Intellect, so absolutely devoted to science lor its own sake nlone, so utterly Indifferent to wealth
and social distinction, so keen in his appreciation of the hard facts of sensation, and yet so I-er-
meated.with a sense of the supra-sensual and spiritual, ought to he widely and familiarly known
to the world at large ; and Dr. Gladstonc's book is excellently adapted to this result."

                                                                                                                                               Guardian.

A MEMOIR OF GEORGE WILSON, M.D., F.R.S.E., Regins

       Professor of Technology, Edinburgh. By his Sister. New a d Cheaper
       Edition. Crown 8vo., 6s.

THE LIFE OF HENRY VENN ELLIOTT, of Brighton.                        By

      Josiah Bateman, M.A., Author of "The Life of Daniel Wilson,"  &c.
       Third and Cheaper Edition, with Portrait. Crown 8vo., 6s.

EDWIN WILKINS FIELD : A Memorial Sketch.                 By Thomas

      Sadler, Ph.D. With Portrait, Corwn 8vo., 4s. 6rf.

HENRY CRABB ROBINSON'S DIARY, REMINISCENCES,

     AND CORRESPONDENCE. Selected and- Edited by Dr. Sadler. Thi
      and Cheaper Edition, with Portrait. 2 vols., crown 8vo., 10s.

                   MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.
MACMILLAN & CO.'S PUBLICATIONS.

MEMOIR OF CHAELES MAYNE YOUNG, TRAGEDIAN.
     With Extracts from his Son's Journal. By Julian Charles Young, MA.,

      Rector of Ilniington. With Portraits and Sketches. New and Cheaper
       Edition. Crown 8vo., 7s. 6d.

GOETHE AND MENDELSSOHN (1821-1831). From the German
     of Dr. Karl Mendelssohn, Son of the Composer, by M. E. Von Glehn.

       From the Private Diaries and Letters of Mendelssohn, with Poems and
      Letters of Goethe never before printed. With two New Original Portraits,
      Facsimiles, and Appendix of Twenty Letters hitherto unpublished. Crown
        8vo., 6s.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES (1852-1868). By Harriet

     Martin eau. Third and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo., 6s.

LIFE OF JOHN MILTON. Narrated in connexion with the

Political, Ecclesiastical, and Literary  History of his Time.      By David
Masson. With Portraits. 8vo. Vol.
                                         I. price 18*. ; Vol. II.  price 16a. ;
VoL III. in the Press.

THE LIFE AND TIMES OF ST. BERNARD, ABBOT OF

     CLAIRVAUX. By J. C. Morison. New and Cheaper Edition Crown

        8vo., 4s. 6d.

A LIFE OF THE GREAT LORD FAIRFAX, Commander-in-

       Chief of the Army of the Parliament of England. By Clements K.
      Markham. With Portraits, Maps, Plans, and Illustrations. 8vo., 16s.

THE PRIVATE LIFE OF GALILEO. Compiled principally from

      his Correspondence aud that of his Eldest Daughter. With Portrait.
      Crown 8vo., It. 6d.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.
        RETURN TO the circulation desk of any

                  University of California Library

                                    or to the

        NORTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY
        Bldg. 400, Richmond Field Station
        University of California
        Richmond, CA 94804-4698

        ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS
        2-month loans may be renewed by calling

        570 iMQ 642-6753      be recharged  by bringing  books

            1-year loans may

           to NRLF
        Renewals and recharges may be made 4 days

        prior to due date

             DUE AS STAMPED BELOW

        NOV  1 1992

Series
3 2106 00227 1234

