Memoir of Sir James Y. Simpson ...

Duns, J. (John)
Edinburgh, Edmonston and Douglas, 1873.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.32044029917895

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
.YoS.if.rMDJSJaoimemumhpnseoonsisnr
G, S f^||

                               trl ??«

         i n.st.i rv no in i ;o i.(x. i< a
I
             MEMOIR

                                                             OF

SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON, BART., M.D.
Edinburgh : Printed by Thomas and Archibald Constable,

                                                      FOR

                    EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS.

LONDON      HAMILtON, ADAMS, AND CO.
CAMBRIDOl:  MACMILLAN AND CO.
OLASOOW     JAMES MACLF.HOSE.
Julli^lxJxiD
              MEMOIR

                                                                   OF

SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON, BART.

                                                              M.D., D.C.L. OXON.
                              ONE OF HER MAJESTY'S PHYSICIANS FOR SCOTLAND,
       PROFESSOR OF MEDICINE AND MIDWIFERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH,
                     FOREIGN MEMBER OF THE ACADEMIES OF MEDICINE OF FRANCE,

                                                       BELGIUM, AND NEW YORK,
                                                                                  ETC. ETC.

                                                          BY

               J. SUNS, D.D., F.E.S.E.

                           PROFESSOR OF NATURAL 8CIENCE, NEW COLLEOE, EDINBUROH.

                            EDINBUEGH
                 EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS

                                            187 3.

                                                     [All righlt rutrvtd ]
2'  -  .
               PREFACE.

  When asked by the family and trustees of Sir

IJames Simpson to write his Life, agreed with much

reluctance. The retrospect of many years' close friend
ship and familiarity with Sir James inclined me to the

task. But it also deepened my sense of its impor

tance and difficulty. It seemed to me almost impos

sible to describe his devotion to his profession, his
large-hearted philanthropy, and great attainments in
literature and science, so that the description might
become a mirror in which, without injustice to him,
the image of even my own ideal of his inner life and
public work might be seen by others. The attempt
has been made to sketch, at least in full and unbroken
outline, the life of a remarkable man. Having under
taken the work, it is useless to apologize to the reader
for its imperfections, or even to deprecate criticism on

Ithe plea of its difficulty. have, however, an oppres

sive sense of anxiety, lest the biographer's shortcom
ings have in any way marred the faithfulness of the
vi PREFACE.

portrait he has lovingly and truthfully tried to pro
duce. Had this Preface been written before the work

was begun, it would have been stated that any opinion
or judgment of my own relative to the incidents re
corded in the narrative would be irrelevant. But,

as the work progressed, it was found impossible to

Iavoid this, because in several instances did not agree

with Sir James's estimate of some of his distinguished

fellow-workers, or of the merits of certain contro

versies. It has always seemed to me unfair to expect

a biographer to conceal his own opinions, in deference

to artificial and arbitrary canons held to limit his

liberty in writings of this sort.

A persistent effort has been made to let Sir James
Ibe, in a great measure, his own biographer.
                                              have

contented myself with piecing illustrative documents

together, and leaving them to tell their own tale.

The materials put into my hand were so abundant

that selection has been a formidable difficulty. Few

communications to Sir James from practitioners or

patients, friends or distinguished men, were destroyed.

Copies were generally kept of his own letters on im

portant private or public affairs. His letters to his

elder brother, and, when from home, to his family

circle, were numerous. They were nearly all pre

served. The other letters, thousands in number, were
PREFACE.  Vll

put up in bundles, without respect to date or subject,

and stowed away. It has been necessary to glance at

them singly, because, in the unavoidable haste to
overtake the work laid to his hand or forced upon
him, Sir James often thrust two or three notes into

one envelope, and, not unfrequently, very interesting
and important letters found a place with others con
taining only very commonplace details of

                  " Man's love of life, his weakness, and his pains."

In some instances, notes of no value in themselves

have had a place assigned to them in the narrative,
because they help to indicate Sir James's relations to
men or circumstances that had important bearings on

his character and work.

   My own training and studies enable me in some
degree to understand and appreciate Sir James's work

Ias a physician and man of science, but have of pur

pose avoided details in this department. They would
have been out of place in a biography intended for

general reading.

   It seemed to me in the outset that the narrative

of Sir James's Christian life would be the easiest part
of my task. But this has not been the case. After
1861 it became his highest aim and ambition to
commend to others, in public and in private, the
Saviour in whom he had found joy, peace, and all
Vlii PREFACE.

good hope. And, in describing Sir James's religious

Ihistory, have had a constant fear lest it should be

presented in any way calculated to repel fellow-
workers in science, or men of general culture, from
the careful consideration of that " birth of the Spirit,"
and that " sacrifice of reasonable service unto God,"
into which he earnestly longed to lead all.

    New College, Edinburgh,
               May 1873.
                      CONTENTS.

                                 CHAPTER I.

Birth and Parentage -- Ancestors -- The Working Farmer's Household
      --David Simpson's Family-- Superstition -- Pedigree -- Bathgate
      --Its Physical Features and Antiquities -- Schools --First Visit
      to Edinburgh--Archaeological Tastes,

                              CHAPTER II.                                  20

Student Life--John Reid--Arts Classes--Expenses -- Bent toward
       Medical Studies --Letter from his Father -- Verses -- Field Obser
      vations --Residence at Stockbridge -- Inverkip Surgeonship--
      Thesis -- Scottish Liberalism --State of the Edinburgh University
       --The New Professors,

                           CHAPTER III.

John Reid's opinion of Dr. Simpson -- Desire for Remunerative Work
      --Assistant to Professor Thomson -- Views of Professional Work
      --Attractive Personal Qualities -- Conscious ability -- Methods of
      Study --Haller's Dissertation -- His Brother's Love -- Royal Medi
       cal and Royal Physical Societies-- Continental Tour, 1835 -- Visit
       to London -- London Hospitals and Physicians-- London Hos-
CONTENTS.

pitality-- Havre --Paris Hospitals-- Alfort --Charenton -- Namur         TAGE
-- Liege -- Professor Fohmann -- Brussels -- Antwerp -- Ghent --            36
Ostend -- Liverpool --Mr. Grindlay's,

                             CHAPTER IV.                                 64

Elected President of the Royal Medical Society --Inaugural Address
      -- Principal Baird--Negotiations with Dr. Mackintosh --Paper
      on Hermaphroditism --Practice -- Rhymes -- First Letter to Miss
      Grindlay-- Hospital Work --Mesmerism-- Appointed Assistant
      to Professor Thomson --Success as a Lecturer -- Extra-Academical
       Lectureship-- Address from Students -- Disposition and Temper
      --Candidate for the Professorship -- Marriage --Testimonials --
      Success --Letters,

                                CHAPTER V.                               105

Courage and Work-- Squabble, 1840 --Attitude of the Medical Fa
      culty -- Removes from Dean Terrace to Albany Street --Increase
      of Practice --Professional Literature --Dr. Sharpey --Expenses
      --Money Difficulties -- Love for Sandy -- Self-help -- Continuous
      Hard Work-- Birth of a Daughter -- Walter Gilchrist-- Bathgate
      Bairns -- Introductory Lecture --Success as a Lecturer -- Large
      Class-- Maggie -- Increase of Income,

CHAPTER VI.

Religious Views -- State of the Scottish Church -- First Session as Pro  125
      fessor --Illness -- Memoir on Leprosy and Leper-houses --Minute
      and Painstaking Research -- Methods of Working --Extracts --
      Chair of General Pathology -- Extracts --Professor Reid's Speech
       -- Graduation Address -- High Views of Professional Responsi
      bility --Interest in Church Affairs-- The Disruption -- Joins the

        Free Church,
CONTENTS.                                                                 XI

CHAPTER VII.

ncreasing Success --Birth of his second Son -- Death of Maggie --Mrs.     PAGE

Simpson to her Mother-- Notes to Sandy -- Aristocratic Circles

--General Influence --Subject of many Prayers -- 52 Queen Street

--Contrast --Men of Genius--The Philosopher's Stone-- Contro

versy -- Mental Qualities --Formidable as a Controversialist --
Statistics of Amputations-- Professor Syme--Stafford House --
                                         . . . .157
Engrossing Work --Charges of Neglect, .

CHAPTER VIII.

                                                  ANAESTHESIA.            201

Physician to the Queen--Use of Ether as an Anaesthetic --Letter to

     J.Dr. B. Fleming -- Preliminary Objections-- Police Statistics of

       Drunkenness -- Drs. Locock and Protheroe Smith on Ether -- Dr.
      Magnus Retzius --Dr. Kreiger--Chloroform -- Cases -- Note from
       Liston-- Notes from the Duchess of Argyll, Lady Blantyre, Dr.
       Christison, Dr. Johnston of Berwick, and Dr. Locock --Claims
      of M. Flourens --Religious Objections -- Put on the Defensive --
      Dr. Morton --Dr. Jackson -- Letters to Dr. Bigelow -- Second
      Pamphlet --Dr. Meigs -- Religious Objections -- Dr. Ashwell--
       Critical Examination of Scripture -- Opinion of Dr. Chalmers --
      Results --Letter from Sir James Clark, Her Majesty's Physician
       -- Complete Success,

                             CHAPTER IX.                                  276

New Year's Greeting -- Psychology -- De Quincey -- Sir William
      Hamilton-- Children -- Question as to Removal to London --
      John Reid's Fatal Illness-- Religious Impressions -- Opinions of
       Strangers -- Letter to Dr. Collins-- The Air-Tractor -- Natural

       Analogies-- Letters from Dr. Paterson, Leith, Dr. Johnston, Ber
      wick, and Dr. Sharpey --Professor Naegele -- Collisions with
      Practitioners -- Change of Physician by Lord Jeffrey --False Im
       pressions -- Note from Principal Lee -- Letter to Mrs. Simpson, .
Xll CONTENTS.

                                CHAPTER X.                               298

Illness-- Consults Professor Syme --Continental Tour--Praise of his
      Colleagues-- Lepers and Leper-Houses -- Study of Astronomy --
      Reception of Strangers-- Hospitality-- Letters of Thanks -- Libe
      rality--Returned Fees --Scurrilous Attack --Views of Locock,
      Carpenter, and Quain -- Clairvoyance -- Homoeopathy --Contro
      versy -- Dr. Simpson's part in it--Interest in Social and Moral

     J.condition of Newhaven --Rev. Fairbairn-- Cottage Hospitals

      --Late Marchioness of Bute --Village Churches -- Professional
       Bickerings -- Estrangement from Friends -- Alienation from Pro
      fessor Miller --Professor Retzius-- Dr. Channing --Visit to Ire

        land,

                            CHAPTER XL                                   340

Penalty of Celebrity -- Nervous Patients --Lecture at Bathgate --Pay
      ment for Results --Oil-Anointing -- Lykion Vase -- Elected a

      Foreign Associate of the Academy of Medicine, Paris-- Note
      from Paul Dubois -- Chivalrous Defence of Mr. Syme -- Vacancy
      in the Natural History Chair --Candidateship of Edward Forbes
      Investigations as to the Cause of Asiatic Cholera --Queries --
      Amusements --Tableaux Vivants --Agassiz-- Practice of Physic
      Chair-- Letters-- Suretyship for Sandy --Illness --Letters --Phy
      sicians in the ancient Roman Army --Gathering Knowledge --
      Notes from Principal Lee -- Monthyon Prize -- Archaeology --
      Acupressure --Medical Reform --British Medical Association --

        Letters-- Professor Syme,

                           CHAPTER XII.                                  393

To Mrs. Pender --The Cat-Stane -- Address on Archaeology-- Ques
      tions for the Spiritualists -- Literary Work -- Correspondence on
      Acupressure --Aberdeen Medical School and Acupressure --An

  -Incomplete Life --Groping after God --" Born Again "--Reason

      and Faith--Zeal of First Love-- Christian Work --Theology
      Death of Jamie -- Letters -- Addresses -- Prayer -- Carrubber's
      Close Mission -- Mrs. Barbour's Poem, " Jamie," . . .
CONTENTS.                                                                  XUi

CHAPTER XIII.

Influence of Religious Convictions on public work-- Lecture at             430
      Falkirk on "Ancient Camelon "--" Small Squabbles "--Work
      among Patients --Earnest work -- Aiming to be first --Correspond
      ence with Archaeologists --Archaeological Rambles-- Fife Caves--
       Professor Syme and Acupressure -- Death of his Brother David --
       Illness-- Baronetcy -- Armorial Bearings -- Sorrow -- Death of Dr.
       David Simpson -- Death of Jessie-- Degree of D.C.L. Oxon. --

 ....Letter from Rev. Dr. Blaikie--Antiquity of Man--Illness --

      Switzerland --Hymn--Visits to Ireland -- Social Science Address
      --Archaeology -- Archaic Sculpturings --Archaeology and Geology
       -- Prehistoric Fauna -- Methods of Research,

CHAPTER XIV.

Elected to the Office of the Eldership-- Theological Difficulties-- Note   473
       on Carbolic Acid -- Lecture on Education --The Study of the
      Classics -- Money Investments --Pyramid Controversy -- Stamp
       ing out Smallpox -- Death of Sir David Brewster -- Surgeons'
      Hall Lecture on Anaesthesia--Letter from Professor Nilsson of
       Lund --Chancellorship of the University -- Principalship-- Oppo
       sition to Sir James -- Unscrupulous conduct of some Opponents
       --Memorial in favour of Sir James -- Committee of Inquiry --

        Generosity after Defeat,

                               CHAPTER XV.

Graduation Address, 1st August 1868 --Freedom of the City-- Speech
      of Lord Provost Chambers --Sir James's Reply-- Public Religious
      Work --Mr. Spurgeon --Hospital Reform --Statistics of Amputa
      tions --Visit to Rome-- "Puck" -- Dogs and Children --Home
      Affections -- Idea of a Holiday--Hospitalism --Letter to Walter
XIV CONTENTS.

--Note on Chloral -- Anaesthesia-- Dr. H. Storer -- Medical and    PACK
Archaeological Works -- Witness in a Divorce Case --Visit to Dr.   603
Williams at York -- Letter to Magnus --Illness-- Notes of Sick

room Experiences by Mr. E. E. Simpson-- Death, . . .

CHAPTER XVL

Tidings of Sir James's Death -- Offer of a Grave in Westminster

Abbey-- Funeral -- Funeral Sermons --Letter from Her Majesty

the Queen -- National Loss -- Letters of Condolence --Verses " In

Memoriam" --Minutes of Public Bodies-- The End,  ..                532
MEMOIR.
                          CHAPTEE L

   Birth and Parentage -- Ancestors -- The Working Farmer's household --
         David Simpson's family --Superstition -- Pedigree-- Bathgate --Its
         Physical Features and Antiquities --Schools--First visit to
         Edinburgh --Archaeological Tastes.

   James Young Simpson was the seventh son and eighth child
of David Simpson and Mary Jarvey, and was born at Bathgate,
in Linlithgowshire, on June 7, 1811.

   His ancestors, who had long resided at Winchburgh, in the
same county, were small farmers, a class at one time of more
weight in lowland Scotland than now. The industry, intelli
gence, and religious earnestness that found expression in the

management of the working farmer's household, were well
fitted to awaken and foster all manly qualities. Each member
was early called to assist in the work of the farm. Habits of
diligence and self-reliance were formed in boyhood which
became persistent through life, and often secured for their
possessors high place in the Church, at the Bar, in Medicine, or

in Commerce. As it was not unusual for one family to hold

the same farm for three or four generations, feelings akin to
those of ownership itself were called into play. And when, as
in the case of James Simpson's father, a son left the farm for
other work, his early training bore its characteristic fruits.

    The education supplied by the parish school, and the staple
literature of the time, were also favourable. Good instruction in
reading, writing, and arithmetic was within reach of the poorest.

Most of the parochial teachers had themselves attended a Uni
versity for one or two sessions. Many of them were licentiates

                                                 A
2 SIE JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

of the National Church, and nearly all were competent to teach
classics and mathematics. Ample means were thus at hand to
prepare a promising child for a learned profession. Thirty or
forty years ago this was the ambition of almost every well-to-do
family in Scotland. In rural districts it is so still, though not
to the same extent as formerly. As in James Y. Simpson's
case, the youngest son was often the child separated " to be a
scholar." Many things conduced to this. He could be kept
longer and more regularly at school than the elder brothers,
who were soon called upon to assist in the work of the farm
or of the village shop. As he grew up, the parents had seldom
such a hard battle with the world as when they could have
little or no help from their children. Moreover, the elder
members of the family were ever proud to see a brother work
ing his way to a higher social position, and they cordially gave
him their aid. In his success they found honour and a

reward. It says much in favour of these households, that to

this fostering care we are indebted for James Simpson, and
for others also, who have done good work for God and for their
country, in the church, in politics, in literature, or in science.

    Great changes have recently taken place in the reading of
this class. Cheap books in general knowledge, newspapers,

and weekly or monthly periodicals, have almost entirely
superseded works of a much more serious, solid, and substantial
kind. But we have not yet had time to see the full fruits of this
change on the habits of the children of the working classes.

In days not long gone by, the alphabet was printed on the

back of the Shorter Catechism's title-page, which thus became
the child's first book. Words could not declare more impres

sively than did A B C in this position, that the first use of the

art of reading was to be religious ; and the Catechism continued

in his hand till he left school. In many country schools half

a century ago, the Bible was the only reading-book used by the

older scholars. But it is a great mistake to suppose that eight
or ten years' drill in the Bible and Shorter Catechism begat
                          RELATIVES.                    3

dislike of Scripture knowledge, cramped the child's mind, or

stole the joyous young life from his heart. Theoretical

educationists may insist that it must do this ; but that such

were not its fruits cannot be denied.

The library of the farmer, the village shopkeeper, the

mechanic, and the industrious cottager, consisted chiefly of

religious works. The favourite books were portions of the

writings of William Guthrie, Brown of Wamphray, Alexander

Nisbet, and, later, of Thomas Boston. These supplied reading

in practical and experimental religion, while those of Gillespie

and Eutherford fostered and gratified the inborn love for Church

history and controversy.  Peden's Prophecies furnished yet
another kind of intellectual food. If to these we add a well-

thumbed copy of Scottish proverbs, we have a fair specimen

of their library. Nor were sentiment and imagination starved.

The songs and ballads of the time and of other days were

written in the hearts and memories of the young. Habits of

industry, steady perseverance, thoughtful religious earnestness,

and strong domestic affection were the outstanding features

of very many of that class from which James Simpson sprung.

   His paternal grandfather, Alexander Simpson, left Winch-
burgh in 1764, and settled at Slackend, Torphichen, about two

miles and a half from Bathgate, where, as farmer and farrier,
he reared five sons and one daughter. He died in 1816, aged

ninety-one. His wife, Isabella Grindlay, grand-aunt of Jessie
Grindlay, afterwards Lady Simpson, died in 1787. David,

his fourth son,1 father of James Y. Simpson, was born at

Winchburgh, June 12, 1760. Having served an apprentice

ship as a baker in Bathgate, he afterwards worked as a journey
man in London, Glasgow, and Leith. In January 1792, he

   1 The other children were, --Alexander, born 1750, succeeded his father at
Slackend, and died in 1821 ; John, born 1752, died 1822 ; Thomas, born

1 757, was successful in business, purchased the lands of Gormy re, near
Torphichen, and died there at the advanced age of ninety-seven ; George,
born 1764, died 1832. There were also twin daughters -- Isabella, who died
in infancy, and Margaret, who married Mr. Kay, distiller, Torphichen.
 4 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

married Mary, daughter of Mr. John Jarvey, farmer,
 Balbardie. He commenced business in Bathgate in 1810,
after two unsuccessful attempts in other localities. His
prospects at this time were of the most gloomy kind. In the

spring of the same year, his wife, two sons, an only daughter,
and an orphan nephew and niece to whom he had given a

 home, were stricken by dangerous fever. When James was
born,1 the household circumstances were at the worst. The
small cash-book in which the shop drawings for the day were

marked bears this entry:-- "7th June, 1811. Drawn 8s.
and 3d." Hoping that "things might mend and take a

turn for the better," David Simpson had carefully concealed
the true state of his affairs from his wife. But a crisis seemed

at hand, and he was forced to acquaint her with their condition.
She had previously given her undivided attention to the care
of her children, leaving business matters wholly to her husband.
But now she took prompt steps to help him. Means were
found to meet a pressing debt of £100; credit was restored,

and, under her wise and energetic management, business
speedily began to prosper. The lowest entry in the cash-book

was on the day of James's birth. Up till that event matters
had been steadily getting worse. With his appearance, sun
shine broke in upon the household.

    From the day that Mrs. Simpson took an active part in carry
ing on the trade, everything began to look better, and all the
sterling qualities of her nature appeared. She was a woman
in whom great force of character was combined with a quiet,
gentle, and most loving disposition. Difficulties were needed
to develop all her natural energy and strength. Deeply devout,
she loved to sit at Jesus' feet. Like another Mary, she had
found " the one thing needful." But this had not in the least
unfitted her for the care and work of her house. Energy and

   1 The following quaint entry occurs in the Visiting Book of Dr. Dawson,
the local practitioner --"275. June 7. Simpson, David, baker, Bathgate.
Wife, Mary Jarvie. M. 40. Lab. nat. easy, rapid. 8th child. Son.
Katus 8 o'clock. Uti veniebam natus. Paid 10s. 6<L"
sir james's mother.                                                     5

thrift were constantly necessary in household management, yet
her husband and children never found her " cumbered about
much serving." Her bright, cheery, industrious habits, the
knack she had of making the crooked things of domestic life
straight, the weight of her words and the beauty of her example,
were ever remembered by her children as a happy comment on
the words, " The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her.
She will do him good, and not evil, all the days of her life.
She openeth her mouth with wisdom ; and in her tongue is the
law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her house
hold, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise

up, and call her blessed ; her husband also, and he praiseth her."1
Mrs. Simpson died when James was about nine years of age.
He had, however, been long enough beside her to be impressed

by her character and influenced by her example. In after years
he loved to speak of her worth. During his childhood her

health had begun to fail, and he was left much with her while

the other members of the family were at work. The memory
of her appearance as she knelt in prayer, which was her

habit several times a day, continued fresh with him through

life. The twentieth Psalm was one of her favourite portions

of Scripture. She was wont to repeat the Scotch metrical ver

sion of it so often that the children came to call it " mother's
Psalm." In trying times, and in the heart of much painful
anxiety, it had been " her song in the house of her pilgrimage."2
But he had yet homelier memories of his mother. When in the

Iheight of his fame, heard a lady tell him of an industrial

school for girls which she had set up in a village near Bathgate.

1 Prov. xxxi.                                                           wise.
2 " Jehovah hear thee in the day when trouble he doth send :

    And let the name of Jacob's God thee from all ill defend.
    0 let him help send from above, out of his sanctuary :

     From Sion, his own holy hill, let him give strength to thee.
    Let him remember all thy gifts, accept thy sacrifice :
    Grant thee thine heart's wish, and fulfil thy thoughts and counsel

    In thy salvation we will joy ; in our God's name we will

    Display our banners : and the Lord thy prayers all fulfil."
C SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

" And what does your schoolmistress teach the girls ?" he asked.
" Some fancy work," was the answer, " and plenty of plain sew
ing and darning." Shortly after he said to me--" Do you know,
the mention of ' darning ' a little ago recalls a very, very old

Iand precious memory ? One day, when a child, came into the

house with a big hole in the heel of my stocking, and my mother

set me on her knee, darned the stocking, and, as she drew it on,
said --' My Jamie, when your mother 's away, you will mind
Ithat she was a grand darner.'           remember the words as if
Ithey had been spoken yesterday.
                                         would like to give a prize

to the best ' darner ' in the school."

- . After Mrs. Simpson's death the care of the household fell on

her only daughter Mary, who became like a mother to James.

She watched over him with great tenderness, anticipating his

wants, helping him with his lessons, storing his memory with

tales of local superstitions, and cherishing high hopes of his

success in the future. All the brothers were devotedly attached

to her.1

Several of James Simpson's near relatives were men of

mark in their native district, and noted for strong individuality

of character. His grandfather, Alexander Simpson, was long

remembered in Linlithgowshire as a man of great shrewdness,

and highly skilled in the diagnosis and treatment of cattle-dis
ease. His uncles were prudent and energetic men of business
-- all of them, like their father, adepts in farriery. To these

qualities was added a dash of deep superstition. Cattle diseases

that baffled their skill were at once ascribed to witchcraft, and

characteristic expedients were resorted to for the removal of the

spell. On an occasion when murrain threatened to empty the

1 Mary was born in 1800. She married Mr. John Pearson, brewer, with

whom she emigrated to Australia, where she died. David Simpson's other

children were-- Thomas, born 1792, married Catherine, daughter of Mr.

Alexander Fleming, farmer at Kirkroads, near Bathgate, and sister of the

late John Fleming, D.D.,Professorof Natural Science, New College, Edinburgh ;
John, born 1794, died 1841 ; Alexander, born 1797, now (1873) banker in

Bathgate ; George, born    1802,  died   in infancy  ;;  David,  born  1804,  died in
Australia, 1865 ; George,   born  1807,  died 1814.
                  EAMILY SUPERSTITIONS.                        7

well- filled byre at Slackend, the old man took counsel with his

sons, and pointed out that the plague could only be stayed by

their giving up a cow to be buried alive. Accordingly a grave
was prepared in a field behind the byre, and the beast was
led to its edge with great solemnity. " How shall we get her

in ?" asked one son. " Father will take the head, you will take

Ithe tail, and we will push at the side," was the ready answer.

" remember," says the narrator, " seeing 'the earth heaving as

the soil was pushed in." " Certainly," wrote Dr. Simpson in

1861, " some strange superstitions do remain, or at least lately

did remain, among us. The sacrifice, for example, of the cock

and other animals for recovery from epilepsy and convulsions,

is by no means extinct in some Highland districts. In old

Pagan and Mithraic times we know that the sacrifice of the ox
Iwas common.
                  have myself often listened to the account given

by one near and dear to me, who was in early life personally

engaged in the offering up and burying of a poor live cow as a
sacrifice to the Spirit of the Murrain. This occurred within

twenty miles of the metropolis of Scotland."1 The uncle who

became proprietor of Gormyre was truly his father's son. " In

the same district," Dr. Simpson continues, " a relative of mine

bought a farm not very many years ago. Among his first acts,

after taking possession, was the enclosing a small triangular

corner of one of the fields within a stone wall. The corner cut
off, and which still remains cut off, was the ' Gudeman's Croft'
-- an offering to the Spirit of Evil, in order that hemight abstain

from ever blighting or damaging the rest of the farm. The

clergyman of the Free Church, in lately telling me the circum

stance, added that my kinsman had been, he feared, far from

acting honestly with Lucifer after all, as the corner which he
had cut off for the ' Gudeman's ' share was, perhaps, the most

worthless and sterile spot on the whole property. Some may

look on such superstitions and superstitious practices as matters

1 Archaeology : its Past and its Future Work. By James Y. Simpson, M.D.

Edinburgh, 1861.  _                      ' .-.
8 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

utterly vulgar and valueless in themselves, but in the eyes of

the archaeologist they become interesting and important, when
we remember that the popular superstitions of Scotland, as of

other countries, are for the most part true antiquarian vestiges

of the pagan creeds and customs of our earlier ancestors ; our

present folk-lore being merely in general a degenerated and
debased form of the highest mythological and medical lore of

very distant times." The laird of Gormyre was known to

have interrupted sowing for a day, when two magpies flew across

the field, in the belief that all the seed sown between the time of

their appearance and sunset would be blighted. Another uncle

was wont, when driving his cart along the road to Edinburgh, to

return home at once, even though nearing town, if a hare crossed

in front of him. Yet these men were intelligent above the

average. They were industrious, persevering, and self-reliant :

it
                                                                                it,
men who knew how to make money, how to keep and make

minister to their influence among their fellows.

    But, with all his superstition, David Simpson's father held
higher and healthier views. In 1785 his sons David and

George wishing to see the world, left home secretly and

travelled on foot to London, working for their own support by
           " David and George," wrote the old man, " this
the way.

comes to let you know that we are all in some measure of

health at present. Blessed be Him that gives                                         Your
                                               is

                                                    it

                                                               !

                                                            a
mother has had long sore trouble, but she now deal
           a

                            .
better. Your letters were aye like cure to her, but your
                               is

                                 I
                                            a
last made her tremble. . . Now learn what was to be
                                               a
pleasure to me in my old age                                   is

                                                                         a
                               now become grief. To run

off to London to be made soldiers either by sea or land, what

never thought you or any belonging to me intended. The
Ifwar about to break out.I
                               you had mind to shun
     I is                                      a

                                                                      it

you would come home and look something like your father's

sons. But now have lost all hope of seeing you any more.
           is I
                        a
This tell you with most sorrowing heart. . . Now my
                               if
                                                                              .
advice to you to come home, you wish not to be pressed
          INHERITED FEATURES.  9

to go to sea. . . . Would you desire great riches ? They some

times take wings in the morning and flee away. There are

Isome in our place have seen great, who are now very low.

So if you have a small income well managed and content

therewith, you will be as happy as they that have more. Our

time in this world is but short. It is compared to a shadow
that fleeth swiftly away. It is your business and mine, at

home and abroad, to consider that we are in God's presence,

and in a short time must appear before Him who is the Judge

of the quick and the dead. So that the best way is ever to

live in His fear. Beware of what company you keep. . . .

Let us know how you are employed, and how you take to the
Ifplace.
          it answers not what you expected, send your chests
Idirectly back ; shall pay their freight, and will meet you

gladly at what port you come to. Mother will be restless till
you write your letter. It is not dear -- only tenpence-- so do

not spare writing to us the truth. No more at present, but
rest your affectionate father till death." The letter is long,

and contains the statement of views and feelings, little in

harmony with those that led him to sacrifice the live cow to

the demon of the murrain.

George Jarvey, James Simpson's granduncle, was the first anti

quary of the family. Jarvey began life as a brewer, but, after
some years he turned his premises into " The Brewery Inn,"
which, with its fine garden, its rooms crowded with curiosities --
" auld nicknackets" -- and " mine host's" pleasant manners, was
a favourite resort. His memory is perpetuated in the name of
the chief thoroughfare of Bathgate -- Jarvey Street. Not a
few touches of thought and sentiment, characteristic of his

immediate ancestors, were inherited by James. These in

fluenced his life, even though he, more than most men, early

learned to hold them well in hand, and keep them obedient to
a strong and thoroughly disciplined will. Though it is beyond

doubt that some mental, and even moral, as well as physical

features may be truly hereditary, yet their power and scope
10 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

are generally determined and regulated, according as their pos
sessor yields to God's truth or to man's training, or to both.
But a will like James Simpson's, though ready to acknowledge

both, ever plans and works as if it had an inherent power to
shape, if not wholly to control, occasion and circumstance.
Nevertheless, even in such cases inherited qualities are per
sistently influential They give the tone to the individuality.
We may not know how the taint travels, what keeps certain
aspects of it inactive and inoperative for generations, or what

determines its random reappearance after the lapse of years, but
the transmission of the physical and psychical features even of
remote ancestors, by means of descendants who have not the

least likeness to them, is well known. A child with fair hair

and blue eyes, may be found in a household where all the
other members have black hair and dark iris. Not un-
frequently, the dark hair is associated with light blue eyes, as

if the colour of the hair of one ancestor was inherited, and the

colour of the eye of another. The bones themselves yield to the

same potent force. In a gallery of family portraits, one may
represent a man of perfect symmetry -- high brow, deep chin,

 broad chest, and powerful limbs. Another, the same symmetry,
 with all these features on a small scale. While in a third, you
 see the head and chest of the former joined to the diminutive
 limbs of the latter. So with disposition. The mental
 peculiarities, and even the moral tastes, of three or four
 ancestors, may, after having been long in abeyance, be again
realized and form a highly complex individuality. The term
 " many-minded " not inaptly expresses this. Thus the interest
 that surrounds the stocks from which great men have sprung,
 when we attempt to estimate their distinguishing qualities of
 head and heart The interest is increased in the case of those

 whom God has specially used to promote the Kingdom of our
 Lord Jesus Christ. Not unseldom He has given the deep
 feeling, strong will, extreme conscientiousness, large unselfish
 ness, and generally, great force and decision of character, to one
PEDIGREE.                                                     11

member of a family, which, singly, had been possessed by

individual ancestors. Thus He has laid his haud on treasures
not used in the past, sanctified them to himself, and sent
forth their owners to do Him special service in that profession,

calling, or work on which they have entered by their own free

choice. It was given to James to carry the outstanding

features of his relatives into a sphere of great influence.

The decision of character, the strong purpose, the shrewdness,

or the spirit of enterprise, distributed unequally among his

uncles and father, were in him united to the high sentiment,

refined tastes, and loving disposition of his mother, or of other

members in the maternal line of descent.  It is a national
   " Every Scottish man has a pedigree.

prerogative as inalienable as his pride and his poverty."1
James's maternal grandfather, John Jarvey, farmer at Bal-

bardie, near Bathgate, was descended from a Huguenot

family, who had been settled for some time at Torwood,

Stirlingshire, whence they removed, at the latter end of the

seventeenth century, to the farm of Boghall, Bathgate, which

members of the house held for nearly a hundred years. John
Jarvey, like his father and grandfather, became connected by
marriage with a family of higher social position than his own.
He married Mary Cleland, whose mother was a Cleland of

Auchinlee, the representative branch of the Clelands of
Cleland. Her grandmother was one of the Wardrops of Cults.
James Simpson's " inalienable prerogative " thus links him,
on the father's side, with a family of vigorous limb, strong will,

great shrewdness, and persevering industry. On the mother's

side, he was associated with the gentle blood of Scotland, and
was, of course, too true a Scotchman and antiquary not some

times to linger over that little link in the pedigree, by which
he could claim relationship with the Clelands of that Ilk. There

were noted names in the family. Alexander, the first Cleland

that history has deigned to mention, married a daughter of

1 Sir Walter Scott's Autobiography. Lockhart's Life of Scott
12 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Adam "Wallace of Eiccarton, grandfather of the hero.1 The
eighth Cleland of Cleland was one of the " Flowers o' the Forest "

cut down at Flodden. Fragrance of devotion to the beauty

and the cause of Queen Mary is still around the name of another

Cleland. Other representative members of the household became

connected by marriage with noted family names, as the Stewarts

of Blantyre, the Stewarts of Cardonald, the Hamiltons of

Bargany,2 and the Campbells of Ardkinglas. But as the men
who win nobility and make names famous have more honour

than they who only inherit them, we leave the pedigree, in

order to mark the steps to the higher honours.

   For a right understanding of these, it is necessary to have

some knowledge of James Simpson's native district, where

he spent the years when scenes and circumstances have power

to bias the mind, and, in some degree, to mould the character.

That they did so in his case is not to be doubted, especially in

fostering the love for aspects of culture, which may be held to

lie outside of the profession in which he became most highly

distinguished. "We shall see, however, that they reacted, in a

very influential way, on his views and practice as a physician.

Nearly five and a half miles west from Edinburgh, at a point

a little beyond Batho Station on the North British Railway, a

branch line to Glasgow strikes off to the south-west, passing

through a rich mineral district, bounded by the Pentland and

Lanarkshire hills on the south, and the Firth of Forth on the

north. Bathgate is about fourteen miles from Batho by this

line. The approach from the east is through a bleak country,

consisting chiefly of extensive tracts of peat, and deep beds of a

stiff, light-coloured boulder clay, covered here and there with

patches of Scotch fir. More fertile spots occur at intervals, but

  I1 In I860,
IAs we left the
 lunched at 52  hQeuereenmaSrtkreedet--w"ith   an American Professor.
house together                                guess your Sir William

Wallace had a countenance like Simpson's."
               2 " With kind Bargany, faithful to his word,

Whom Heaven made good and social, tho' a lord."

                                              Hamilton of Bangour.
             NATIVE DISTRICT.  13

the general appearance indicates a cold, sterile soil, and damp

climate. On the outer edge of this district, from Edinburgh
to Midcalder on the south, and Linlithgow on the north,

the soil, derived chiefly from the neighbouring trap hills, is

good, highly cultivated, and in some parts well wooded. Until

a very recent period, the land bounding the railway was held

by working farmers, who were content to manage their holdings

as their fathers had done. Within a few years, however, great

changes have taken place. A better style of agriculture has

been introduced. The farms are larger. The whole face of

the country has been broken by mining operations. Ironstone,

coal, and, especially, oil-yielding shales, are worked. A great

population is now where only a few straggling cottages were
Ifformerly.
             the tract lying between the main and the branch

lines of railway be regarded as a triangle, Eatho would repre

sent the apex, Linlithgow one angle of the base, Bathgate

another, and the range of low-lying trap hills which stretch in

terruptedly from Linlithgow to the south, would form the base

line. Bathgate is situated on the slope of one of these hills,
having between it and Linlithgow heights composed of trap,

masses of freestone, deep beds of mountain limestone abounding
with fossils, thin seams of coal, bands of ironstone, and at one

point a rich, though much broken, lode of galaena, or native lead
ore. Close to Bathgate, on the east, is the Kirkton limestone, a

deposit brought into prominent notice by Dr. Hibbert in 1835,
in his Memoir on the Burdiehouse Limestone, near Edinburgh.

From its elevation, Bathgate looks down to the west on the basin

that yields the Torbanehill and Boghead mineral, famed for its

oil, and for the scientific controversy to which, shortly after its

discovery, it gave rise. In this basin, and chiefly on its rim,

rich beds of coal and ironstone are worked. Within a couple of

stone-throws of the Kirkton limestone is Kirkroads, the birth

place of Professor Fleming, who in Simpson's boyhood had

already drawn the attention of palaeontologists to the numerous
fossils in the Bathgate hills and neighbourhood, and after-
i1 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

wards made good illustrative use of them in his " British

Animals." 1

The surface features of the district -- hill and valley, cultivated

field and wide morass, rich meadow and old plantations with
thick undergrowth -- are highly favourable to a varied fauna

and flora. More wild mammals are met within it than in any

other part of the Lothians. The nests of such comparatively

rare birds as the siskin, the grasshopper warbler, and the black

cap warbler have been obtained in it. The kite, golden oriole,

turtle-dove, grey shrike, and ruff, have been taken in the neigh

bourhood. Close on the town a patch of ground is covered with

the broad-leaved ragwort  {senicio saracenicus), rare in a  wild state
                          old herbalist Gerarde prized      so highly
--the plant which the
when " ministered in oyntment and oyles," and with which he
cured a gentleman " who was grievously wounded in the lungs."

On the heights one or two species of sub-alpine mosses occur,

not common in lowland districts. On the north border of the

parish, and not far from Kipps, where Sir Eobert Sibbald formed
his first " Physick garden," the botanist may gather the common

soap-wort, and the dusky cranesbill, now wild, but most likely

introduced by Sibbald.

To the archaeologist the district is not less interesting. Not

far from the point where the railway diverges from the main
line is the " Catstane," to which Simpson devoted much atten
tion,2 and described " as standing in nearly the middle of the

base of a triangular fork of ground formed by the meeting of

   1 Other accomplished naturalists have acknowledged the scientific interest
of the physical features of the district. Shortly before Professor Edward

Forbes's death, I walked with him from Torbanehill to Kirkton, and thence

along the Bathgate hills to the north. When in sight of a section made by

quarrying operations, he exclaimed, " What a grand wall for our museum ! "
During this long walk he carried with him a lump of Torbanehill mineral,

containing true Lepidodendroid impressions, for his new museum, and for
the sake of the " non-coalers," as he named those who held this mineral to be

argillo-bitumen --whatever that may mean, -- and not coal !

  * The Catstane. Is it not the Tomb of Hengest and Horsa ? By Sir J. Y.

Simpson, Bart. Edinburgh, 1862.
                          DISTRICT ANTIQUITIES.                           15

the Gogar water with the river Almond." Approaching Bath
gate from the east, on the right hand about a mile from the

town, are traces of a Cistercian monastery founded by David I.
Nearer, on the left hand, is the site of the old " castle of Bath-

ket," given by Eobert the Bruce to his daughter Marjory on her
marriage with " Walter the Steward," father of Eobert u.

Traces of Wallace and Bruce and Edward I. abound in the

neighbourhood.  Wallace's Cave -- a deep gap in freestone on

the Avon, near Crawhill-- is believed to have sheltered the hero

after the disastrous field of Falkirk.1 Bruce is said to have

halted for a season on his way to Bannockburn on a rounded
eminence, known as the " King's Knowe," in the south-east

corner of Wallhouse Park.

   The Cromlech at Kipps, the circular camp on Cairnpapple,
and the numerous Celtic names of places in the district, suggest

other branches of archaeology. It might have been expected

that a boy like Simpson would be early biassed, in such a district,

towards natural science and antiquities. There are many
proofs that this was the case. Indeed, it was scarcely possible

for an intelligent boy to escape such a bias. Thus John Fleming
and John Eeid, as well as James Simpson, early yielded to

the influences of the scenes and circumstances surrounding

their birthplace. Till a comparatively recent period the

same was true of many of the youths of the locality. The

industrial condition of the district is not now favourable to
the development of these tastes. But in days not long gone

by it was not uncommon for Bathgate weavers to take to

classical studies, in order to be able to understand works on

1 In the " Book of William Wallace by Blind Henry the Minstrel,           1469,"
                                                                     :--
Edward  is"  represented  as resting at  Torphichen,  near Bathgate
              Schir John  the Graym,     fra Dundaff  prewaly,

             Till Wallace com with a gud chewalry ;

             Tithandis him brocht, the Sotheroun com at hand,

             In Torfychan King Eduard was lugeand ;

             Stroyand the place off purwiance that was thar ;

             Sanct Jhonys gud for thaim thai wald nocht spar."
16 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

INatural History.  have heard Simpson speak of one man,

whose earnings at the loom could never have amounted to fifty
pounds a year, who could write a Latin description of a spe
cies of plant or animal in a way that an accomplished natu

ralist might have envied.

   In James Simpson's boyhood the population of Bathgate
parish was between 2000 and 3000. It is now above 10,000.

The townspeople were chiefly handloom weavers, -- a quick

witted race, who took great interest in general and local politics,

and keenly debated the affairs of Kirk and Commonwealth.
Some scepticism in religious matters and much hard drinking

prevailed, both among shopkeepers and weavers. One who had

spent about seventy years among them said recently --" We are

always told that bygone years were better than the present.

IBut when was a 'callant' the drinking was awful. One

Bathgate man then could take as much as three can do now.

Beligion was low, and morality was no better."

James was sent to school when about four years of age. Hen

derson, his first teacher, had lost a limb and was familiarly known
in the district as " Timmerleg." He was one of a class, seldom

met with now, that once occupied a useful place in the educa
tional arrangements of Scotland --men who helped to stir up

the parish schoolmasters to attention and activity, at a time

when there were no healthy influences of Government inspec
tion, and very little thorough Presbyterial oversight. Like

Henderson, few of the teachers of small venture schools had

any fitness for their office. The broken soldier, the cripple, or

the man of habitually bad health, unable to earn a livelihood

in any other way, generally took to the work of the school

master. When James had mastered the alphabet, he was sent

to the parish school, then taught by a Mr. Thornton. Shortly

afterwards Thornton's place was taken by Mr. James Taylor,
under whom Simpson continued till he went to College. Tay
lor's memory is still cherished by surviving pupils. He was a

good man, an excellent scholar, and an able teacher. His most
CHILDHOOD.  17
    t

eminent pupil ever spoke of him with great respect and affec

tion, and owned that his thoughtfulness, his gentle bearing in
school, and the pains he took even with the dullest of his

scholars, not only won the love of all to his person, but begat

and fostered love for learning also. In his own limited sphere,

and in his influence over the young, he showed many of those
characteristics which, later, found full illustration in Arnold's

work at Eugby.
    As a child, James was peculiarly winsome. Gentle as

a girl, quiet and affectionate, he was warmly loved by the
other members of his household, and by the neighbours. An
old woman spoke of him as " a rosy bairn wi' laughin' mou'
and dimpled cheeks." His voice even in boyhood had the
sweet, silvery tone that characterized it in ripe years. At
school he early showed industry in class work, quick apprehen
sion, love of books, and a most retentive memory. At home he
was " the wise wean," and " the young philosopher." There was

early promise of a rich fruitage. Lessons were easy. He was

generally dux of his class. The whole work of the school was
a delight. With his companions he entered heartily into boy
hood's sports, but he ever preferred books to play. His love of

knowledge, and especially of facts, was insatiable. It seemed of
small matter what the book was. If it brought information of

any kind he was satisfied. This accounts for an expression he

used not many years ago. Eeference having been made to the say
ing, "The Bible and Shakespeare are the best books in the world,"
he remarked, in so serious a way as almost to alarm a good man
present, " The Bible, and Shakespeare, and Oliver and Boyd's

IAlmanac ! At least know the Almanac would have been

the greatest prize for me when a boy." "James," says his

brother Alexander, "was ever so loving, gentle, and obliging, that

though I, like most hard workers in a warm atmosphere, was

Irather quick of temper, do not recollect ever to have been

angry with him. He was aye at the call of the older members

of the house --running with rolls to Balbardie House, where,

                                                              B
18 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

as ' the bonnie callant,' he was a great favourite, or ready to
keep the shop for a time, when he always had a book in his

Ihand." His work sometimes brought trial. " remember,"

continues his brother, " finding him sitting in the street on a

very dusty day, sobbing bitterly, the tears running down his

Icheeks covered with dust. 'What ails you, Jamie?' said,
Iand he answered, sobbing as if his heart would break, ' 've
Ibroken the pony's knees.' told him it was not his fault, but
Imine. had ridden the beast so much for a couple of days, that

it was worn out and could not help stumbling. This com

Iforted him, but he was very vexed. As passed along the

road with him between Bathgate and Torphichen, after he had

won a world-wide renown, he recalled another incident con

nected with the same pony. Pointing to a spot by the wayside,

where the water from the drainage of a field has formed a deep

Idepression in the ditch into which it falls, he said, " never

all my life was in greater terror than there. When a little boy
I was riding with a great basket of bread to Torphichen, and
Ithe pony, wishing to drink, would go into that hole.
                                                       had a

hard pull. But letting the weight of the basket fall on the

Iopposite rein, kicked the pony's sides and urged it past. It

was a near shave."

    The mode in which David Simpson managed his house was
in many respects peculiar. As the sons grew up, they came

to regard him as a familiar companion and friend rather than as

a parent. At a very early age each member of the family came

to feel that the success and happiness of the household de

pended on his own exertions, and that all were expected to

work, not for themselves only, but for the general good. United
in effort, the reward came equally to each. There was one

purse. The " till " which received the shop drawings was

without fastenings of any sort Its contents were free to all.
But each son was expected to consider the things of others

before looking on his own. The interests of the house were

to be preferred to those of the individual Work was in
FIRST VISIT TO EDINBURGH.  13

every case, except one, held to make good a right to the use
of the " tilL" James was the exception. From his childhood
he was the favourite, for whom all the brothers were willing
to work. He was thus in early years a stranger to the

chilling influences of straitened means, and never knew any
thing of the penury in the midst of which many eminent

men have been reared. In his boyhood and youth the cir

cumstances of the household were prosperous. The members

were strong for work, and money was spent freely. Lavish

care was bestowed on James. Alexander especially watched
over him with care and tenderness. " He felt he would be

great some day." When the social usages of the town and
the prevalent free mode of living presented strong tempta
tions to the boy, Alexander would put his arm round his neck,

and tenderly warn him : " Others may do this, but it would

break a' our hearts and blast a' your prospects were you to do

it." Having been thus spoken to on one occasion, when he
had been later out at night than usual, " Jamie was greatly
troubled, and cried a' the night, like to break his heart."

   While yet a schoolboy he visited Edinburgh for the first
time, having walked from Bathgate. His early archaeological
tastes took him straight to Greyfriars' Churchyard, where he

copied two inscriptions. To one of these he added the note,
" Taken from an old but somewhat elegant tomb." Not pleased

with this sentence, he drew his pen through it and wrote,
"Twas taken from an old but elegant tomb in Greyfriars'

Churchyard, Edinburgh. Date 1655." This antiquarian bias
early appeared. When a little boy, it was his great delight to
rest on his father's knee, or sit by his sister's side, and listen
eagerly to stories of district superstitions, and to anecdotes of

local or of family history.
           CHAPTER II.

Student Life--John Reid-- Arts Classes -- Expenses -- Bent toward
      Medical Studies --Letter from his Father --Verses -- Field Observa
      tions -- Residence at Stock bridge--Inverkip Surgeonship-- Thesis--
      Scottish Liberalism -- State of the Edinburgh University-- The new

       Professors.

Mr. Simpson entered the Edinburgh University at the

age of fourteen. He left home in good heart and hope. His

high ambition for several years had been to become a student.
And now " nothing but joy, health, hopefulness without end,

looked out from the blooming young man." His friend and

schoolfellow, John Reid, his senior by two years, afterwards

Professor of Anatomy in the University of St. Andrews, had

begun his student life in 1823. Eeid's altered bearing soon

after he entered College greatly impressed young Simpson,

Iand strengthened his desire to get to Edinburgh. " remem

ber," he says, " his return to Bathgate at the Christmas which

followed his first removal to Edinburgh, as if it were yesterday.
A group of us, just let loose from school, encountered John

Eeid immediately after his arrival in one of the streets of the
Ivillage.
           could show you the precise spot. His own former

class instantly surrounded him, and the younger scholars, such

Ias was, anxiously clustered round at a respectful distance.

Though Edinburgh was onlyeighteen miles distant, few or none of

us had visited the capital, and we listened eagerly and wonder-

           it,

                     I
                              I
ingly to what he told us of and particularly of the College and

its Professors. But, like most others, believe was on the

whole less awe-struck with this than with the strange meta

morphosis which appeared to have mysteriously occurred in our
                   COLLEGE LIFE.                                         21

former schoolmate, for the rough country schoolboy, who had

left us two short months before, had become suddenly changed

into a sharpish college student, wearing an actual long-tailed

coat, and sporting a small cane."

   In session 1825-26, Simpson attended the Junior Greek and
Humanity classes, under Professors Dunbar and Pillans. In

1826-27 he took their Senior classes, and the first Mathematical

class, under Professor Wallace. In 1827-28 he enrolled as a

student of medicine, and during the same session attended

the class of Natural Philosophy (Professor Leslie), the class of
Moral Philosophy (Professor Wilson), and the third Greek class.

In after years he was wont to refer to his attendance at the

Arts' classes as having been of great use to him. Proud of his

attainments at the parish school, and confiding in the

exaggerated estimate which his relations had of his acquire

ments, it was humbling to discover at College how little he

knew accurately, and how unfit he was, at the outset, to cope

with the quickness and ready precision in class-work which
distinguished the city-bred and city- educated boys. In the

Arts' classes, moreover, he first got a glimpse of those wide
fields of culture, which, in a sense, fit for every profession and

yet lie outside of each. The present practice, which invites

to the study of medicine through a preliminary examination-

pass that actually gives no security for previous training, tois
                                                                a

                                                                    is,
say the least, very questionable. The observational faculties

are called at once into use, but no care  taken to secure
any systematic instruction in the art of reasoning on results--

on facts and phenomena. Thus the growing tendency among

young naturalists to form wide generalizations from few

partial facts. In the department of biology this has especi

ally been the case. Sweeping conclusions are drawn from

inadequate premisses. Generalizations are reached which

constantly suggest the figure of an inverted pyramid, the facts

being as the point on which rests, and the inferences as the
                   !
now toppling base
                                it
22 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

    When about to enter on the second session at College, he
was advised by Professor Pillans to become a candidate for a
Stewart Bursary. After competition, one was awarded to him,
of the value of £10, tenable for three years. These bursaries
were founded in 1810, by the Eev. James Stewart, South

Carolina. In awarding them, the Senatus was bound by the

terms of the deed of trust to give a preference to candidates

of the name of Stewart or of Simpson-- the latter having been

the maiden name of the founder's wife. Though a painstaking
and diligent student, Mr. Simpson did not gain much distinc
tion in the literary classes. His exercises prepared for the
Latin and Greek classes -- carefully preserved by his brother

Alexander --show that he worked well. With one exception,

the twenty-five exercises written for the Senior Humanity
class are marked bene or + bene. When the exercise was
returned, he was wont to draw up a list of as many of the
corrections as seemed to him just, and then he boldly added,

I" object to the rest." An essay for the Second Greek class, on

" The Life of Herodotus, and his Character as an Historian," is
feebly praised by Professor Dunbar as " tolerably good." One
expression had disgusted the Professor. After noticing the

subject-matter of the different books the boy adds --"The

History which is mentioned above as the only production of his
pen is written in the Ionic dialect. The style is easy, sweet,

and elegant. Geography, manners, customs, and religious

ceremonies are all enclosed in this happy frame. To the beauty

of arrangement are added the inimitable charms of diction and
colouring. His pictures are animated, and full of that sweet
ness which so eminently distinguishes him ; sometimes, how
ever, they are overcast with a shade of melancholy, which the
sight of human misfortune gave him." The Professor drew a
broad pencil- mark under the expression, "enclosed in this happy
frame," and added, " Very bad !" Nevertheless, both in this
long essay and in other exercises, there is abundant promise
of power. They contain some vigorous thinking, and a grace
COLLEGE LITE.  23

of style seldom met with in the literary efforts of a boy of

fifteen.

   His companionship at this period gave his mind a strong

bent towards literary work. When he arrived in Edinburgh he

joined John Eeid, who then lodged with Dr. Macarthur, in No.
1 Adam Street. Both Eeid and Simpson had for years been
under Macarthur, when he acted as assistant in the Bathgate

parish school, and they now associated with him more as friends
than as pupils. Macarthur had obtained a situation in one of
the Edinburgh public schools, and had entered the University
as a student of Medicine, in which he graduated. He had a
very high estimate of the ability of his young friends, and
urged them to begin at once to seek distinction in literary
work. "When they had been a short time with him, he said to

IMr. Simpson's brother, Alexander, " can now do with four

Ihours' sleep, John Eeid can do with six, but have not been able

to break in James yet." Himself a man of great energy, and of

strong literary tastes, he was ever prophesying a high place

and a brilliant reputation for his former pupils -- " if only they

would work." And when he afterwards heard of any successful

effort he was wont to remark --" Yes, but how they worked !"
  It was soon evident, however, that James Simpson's re

putation was not to be won in the department of Classics,
Mathematics, or Moral Philosophy. His class attainments were
not above those of the average run of students, and were not
fitted to confirm and strengthen the high opinions his rela
tives had formed of his abilities. His certificates, indeed, bore
that " his progress in Greek was such as merited considerable
praise," that " he gave distinguished proof of diligence and pro
ficiency " in Latin, and that " he was a regular and attentive
student " in Moral Philosophy. This was all, but it was not

much.

   The influence of early home-training soon appeared in his
habits as a student lodger. Though reared in the midst of
comparative plenty, and having had all his wants liberally.
24 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

and without stint or grudging, supplied by his father and
brothers, he had come thoroughly under the household spirit

of industry and its rule of mutual help. If not permitted to

add to the common purse, he felt bound to show his gratitude
to the other members of the family for their lavish love to
him, by efforts after self-help and strict economy. This led

him to compete for the Stewart Bursary. It also induced him

to keep down his personal expenses. One of his first acts, on
arriving in Edinburgh in 1825, was to spend 9d. on a small
book entitled " The Economy of Human Life." The following
quotation from this work is written on the blank leaf of his
little cash-book : " Let not thy recreations be expensive, lest
the pain of purchasing them exceed the pleasure thou hast in
their enjoyment." Above this he writes,

                 " No trivial gain nor trivial loss despise,

                       Mole-hills, if often heaped, to mountains rise.
                          Weigh every small expense, and nothing waste,
                          Farthings long saved amount to pounds at last."

    Later, the same carefulness is shown in writing the out
 lines and first copy of a long paper on Erysipelas, on a number
 of militia blank schedules. Throughout his College life, when
 chiefly dependent on supplies from home, he kept an exact
 account of his expenses, which at the close of the session was
 submitted to the family. The rent of his room in Adam Street
 was not more than 3s. a week. During the first session his
 expenses were confined almost wholly to necessary food, the
 other items being " fourpence for fruit," and a few shillings for
 second-hand copies of "a French Dictionary, Adam's Antiquities,
 Milton's Poems, and The Economy of Human Life." In the
 growth of his student-library, we see the first expression of that
 wondrous variety of tastes which afterwards distinguished him.
 In 1827 he purchased " Monro on the Bones, Byron's Giaour,
 a Church Bible, Bell's Anatomy, Fife's Chemistry," etc. In
  1829, " Childe Harold, The London Dissector, Paley's Natural
  Theology, Fife's Anatomy, The Fortunes of Nigel," etc. The
                    BIAS TOWARDS MEDICINE.  25

entries are often curious, and their association odd. Under one
date, and as a single entry, occur " Monro's Anatomy, shoes
mending, stakes and stock." Under others, " Vegetables and
Byron's Beauties ;" " Finnen Hadies, 2d. and Bones of the Leg
£1, Is. ;" " Subject £2, Spoon 6d., and Bread and Tart, one shil
ling and eightpence ;" Fur Cap 1 4 sh., Mary's Tippet 2 sh. and
6d. ;" " Duncan's Therapeutics 9d.," " Snuff ] £d." and " Early
Rising 9 Jd." The snuff and the book on early rising show how

anxious he was to walk up to Dr. Macarthur's advice, --" Sit late

and rise betimes."

The companionship, tastes, and early studies of his friend

Beid influenced him from the commencement of his College life,

and, no doubt, had much to do in deciding him to select Medicine
as a profession. " When John Beid began to study Medicine in

I1825," he says, " Dr. Macarthur, he, and lodged together in

the upper flat of a tall house in Adam Street. He cared com

paratively little for Chemistry and Chemistry books ; but he used

to pore hour after hour over Fyfe's four-volume Anatomy, and
he attended Dr. Knox's lectures most zealously twice a day -- in
Ithe forenoon and evening.
                              was then a very young student,
Iat the Greek and Humanity classes in the College, but was

occasionally allowed by Dr. Beid to look into his medical books,

or listen to his first demonstrations at home, and sometimes, as

Ia special favour, was taken by him on an evening to hear even

one of Dr. Knox's lectures."

The distance between Edinburgh and Bathgate is only

eighteen miles, but the postage of a letter in those days was

6jd. This greatly interfered with the communications from

home. Correspondence was chiefly kept up by means of par

cels forwarded by the carrier or "cadger." The only letter,

received during his first session, which he preserved, is from
his father. The old man wrote : --

  I" My dear Son, -- am glad to hear by John Pearson that you
Iare well Iintended to be in Edinburgh this month, but find it

is out of my power. Be so good as write me what money you will
26 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Itake to bring you out. James, am now turning old, and wearing
Iawa like the snaw among the thaw.
                                    have had a weary winter,
IBut will be glad to see you at Bathgate. -- am yours in Heart,

" Bathgate, March 30, 1826."        " David Simpson.

    As a medical student he was a most diligent note-taker,
jotting down as much of a lecture as kept the whole subject be
fore him. This outline was filled in at night with much care,

the works referred to in the class were named and characterized,
and the prelections of the Professor freely criticised -- sometimes

too freely, and in a style not very complimentary to his teachers.
The questioning habit, which in mature years was so strongly

marked, was already formed. Whatever good he may have got
from the strong points of a lecture, the frequent use of ? in his
notes, shows that he did not miss any of the weak ones. The
notes taken in Liston's class are alone free from the query. The

extra-mural class of Surgery under Liston had great attractions
for him. Liston's blunt manners, his dash and daring, his love

of new and simple methods of work, his quick eye and dex

terous hand as an operator, his contempt --ever freely expressed

among his pupils -- of the cumbrous appliances used by con
temporary surgeons, and the loud demand early uttered by him
for hospital reform, were sure to attract a mind like Simpson's.
Besides, he regarded Liston as almost a " Bathgate bairn," for
he had been reared in the manse of Ecclesmachan, a few miles

from Batbgate. Listen's certificates show that Mr. Simpson

had worked well under him. It is certified that " he has been a

most diligent and attentive student of Surgery, that he has at
tended his lectures and examinations with exemplary regularity,
and that from his habits of attention he is convinced that he
will become a well-informed and excellent practitioner." Later,
he certified that Mr. Simpson had " officiated as surgeons'
dresser under him in the Eoyal Infirmary to his perfect satis
faction, performing his duties with ability and assiduity." He

Iadds, " From what have had occasion to observe in regard to
VERSIFYING.                                                   27

him, both during the time already alluded to, and during his

Iattendance of three years in my surgical lectures, believe him

to be very well acquainted with his profession, and fully quali

fied for the practice of it."

Mr. Simpson had many of the qualities fitted to lead to dis

tinction as a surgeon, but the almost womanly tenderness of

heart, which was his from childhood, led him to shrink from a

branch of the profession in whose practice he would have been

compelled to witness the most intense forms of human suffering.

It was when looking on the great surgeon's work that he first

began to grope after means for the alleviation of pain, when the

patient was in the hands of the operator. After seeing the ter

rible agony of a poor Highland woman under amputation of the

breast, he left the class-room and went straight to the Parlia

ment House to seek work as a writer's clerk. But, on second
thoughts, he returned to the study of Medicine, asking, " Can

anything be done to make operations less painful ?"

   In the hard work of the last years of his medical course he

sought relaxation and a solace in versifying. From boyhood

this had been a favourite amusement ; but he never thought

himself a poet, a notion which leads many promising youths

astray. He had pleasure and a happy facility in throwing

his fancies into rhyme. The verses written at this period

show that he had caught the warm glow and dash of light-

hearted medical student life. They are sentimental, rollick

ing, or satirical, written in an off-hand way, and fitted to

beget the impression that he had gone into the very heart of

dissipation. But it was not so. There however, good reason
if

                     a
                                          is,

                                                          it
to believe that, he did not fall into gross immorality, was

because he saw that such       course of life would interfere

with his study and mar his success, and not from any higher

motives. Nor was this to be lightly esteemed. Love of study,

devotion to class-work, and even the ambition to please friends

by winning success as students, have kept many young men

from conduct directly hurtful both to soul and body. This,
28 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

indeed, is the earthward aspect of that early training and
parental example, whose highest fruits are reaped in a life
of love to God and the good hope of heaven. The tone of
many a medical student's conversation has, not unfrequently,
created a very erroneous impression as to his true character.

But it is a mistake to suppose that the air of indifference to
study, the gay bearing in the presence of death itself, the light

jest over " a subject," or even the apparently sincere desire to
be regarded as one sitting loose to all fixed principles, have in
his eyes the weight and importance attached to them by out
siders. Good health, the sense of increasing knowledge, with
its accompanying consciousness of power, but without that
revelation of personal ignorance which high attainments gene
rally bring, beget a confidence which is often mistaken for
presumption. Then there are strong wills bent on turning
bright dreams into realities, and hopes which see some fondly-
desired haven lying far off in sunlight, but which refuse to

see the peril, the darkness, and the storm between them and it.

All this tends to beget self-confidence, pride, and sometimes

utter disregard of the opinions of men older, wiser, and better

than themselves. But there may be--there frequently are--

associated with these, qualities of a nobler, better, and morally
healthier kind, by whose working, indeed, the character is kept
in balance, as the body is in symmetry by the antagonistic
lie and action of diverse muscles. Again, distaste of work

may be paraded by the hardest and most earnest workers.
Seeming indifference to the good opinion of others is not
 unseldom followed by deep, secret self-upbraiding. The
thoughtless jest and careless behaviour of many a student in
 the dissecting-room, are sometimes no more than nature's
 effort to conceal the squeamishness that so often marks his first
 visits to it. And often the hours wasted with companions in
 unprofitable conversation, are atoned for by time stolen from
 sleep, and devoted to serious meditation or to persistently hard

 work. This state of mind admits of no defence. It is most

 unmanly. But it does not necessarily imply all those evils
                                   VERSES.                                                                        29

which many ascribe to it. Yet for a youth to seem to be

                   is,
                                a
worse than he places him among those who wish to appear
better than they are -- class with which true students, with

their high aims and generous impulses, can have no fellowship.

James Simpson's college rhymes were written from the point

of view now referred to. They were fitted to beget the im
pression that he was himself the " fast " student, or the love
sick youth, of whom he sung. In some of his verses he draws on

his fancy for scenes, circumstances, and incidents which, there

   abundant proof, altogether lay outside of his experience.                                                      Of
this kind his " Parody on the Soldier's Dream " --
is
               is

    " Our tav'rin bells rang, for the night-cloud had lowered,                                                    a;
                                                                                                                            a
          And the police night-watch through the city 'gan roam
      And thousands had sunk from the streets overpowered,

            The flush to get drunk, and the poor to get home."
    '
                           '

                       is
    The parody, which of considerable length, indicates good
is                 aa
deal of practice in rhyming, and some cleverness. It has
                                            a
reckless air about it. But so careful was he to guard against
                                   a
excess, that he never treated his fellow-students, who occa
sionally visited him in the evening, to anything stronger than

coffee. In 1829 he wrote ten stanzas, with the title " Farewell
to Loch Vennachar" -- locality he had never visited. His sub

ject the feelings of young Highlander, when forced to leave
his home and Highland hills for work in distant land. Had
he seen the verses later in life, he would have been the first to

decry them. Written by hard-working student, they are

referred to here to show the early rise of the habit, afterwards
so strongly marked, of seeking recreation in intellectual pur

suits outside of professional work.

              " Ye scenes of my childhood, long, long adieu,
                      Adieu my all-happy, my sweet Highland home.

                 For in far distant climes, far from pleasure and you,
                   In life's mazy paths am doomed now to roam.
                   I
                               I

                                                      a
                                                                                                               !
    And thee must leave too, my fair Highland maid
       But think on me, Mary, when distant afar,

    And remember the sweet, sweet words that you said

        On the heather-bell brae of Loch Vennachar."
                   30 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

                      Mr. Simpson spent the summers of his student life in Bath
                     gate, where he had ample scope and opportunity to gratify his
                   love of general science in the way in which alone scientific
                     study can ever be thorough. The information got at College, or
                   derived from books, was applied in the field. The notes taken
                   in the classes of Natural History and Botany bear frequent
                     references to his own observations, sometimes corroborating,
                     often contradicting, theoretical statements of Jameson and
                     Graham. Among his summer notes at this period are obser
                     vations on the zoology, geology, botany, and meteorology of his
                   native district. He records the dates of the arrival and de
                     parture of the summer and winter birds of passage, and speculates
                   on the causes of migration. He specifies the spots in the
                     neighbourhood, or around Edinburgh, where rare birds have been
                 met with, and wishes to find out if there be " a law determining
                     the appearance of stragglers, as well as of the birds which
                   regularly visit this country at particular seasons." He refers to
                   facts which show that the swallow is in Northern Africa in
                   October, in the south of England in April, and at Bathgate on
                   the first week of May. With reference to the woodcock, he
                 asks, " Is it true that the males arrive here before the females ?"
                   By noting the space over which different birds fly in a given
                   time, he determines the velocity, with the view of showing how
                   long a short-winged bird, like the woodcock, would take to reach
                     our shores from its summer haunts. He criticises the views of
                   Jameson and Munro on the phenomena of torpidity, in the light
                    of what he had seen in the case of the hedgehog. Jameson's
                   geological lectures, and his own reading in the same department,
                     are taken as guides to unravel the structure of the Bathgate
                   hills, but not with much success. He is much more at home
                     with the phenomena of organic than with those of inorganic
                   forms. His highest powers of observation come into play, when
                     he has to do with the presence of life and its varied manifesta
                     tions. Even his antiquarian notes illustrate this. He passes
                     at once from the things, to the thoughts and feelings of the

V
           LOVE OF NATURE.                                       31

men associated with them. The use of birds to the farmer
and the gardener is more than once referred to. In his notes
on the weather, he compares its changes with the habits of cer
tain birds and the appearances of certain plants, with the view
of finding natural prognostics, which might serve when a baro
meter could not be conveniently consulted. He concludes that
the quantity of air in the air-cells of birds, and the electric
properties of their down, should make them excellent weather-
prophets. Having become satisfied that the reason why " sea
gulls leave the water and move inland, uttering irregular cries,
is that the fishes on the approach of a storm go into deep water,
and hence the gull is forced to seek food on land," he leaves

this aspect of indication for the safer one -- the behaviour of

the barometer compared with atmospheric appearances on the
Bathgate hills. Not in youth only but throughout his whole
life, he showed the keenest relish for

                  " The charms which Nature to her votary yields."

Like Leighton, he had "a supernatural delight                    in natural

things :"

           " In starry heavens, at the midnight hour,
                 In ever-varying hues at morning's dawn,

              In the fair bow athwart the falling shower,

                 In forest, river, lake, rock, hill, and lawn."

    David Simpson died in January 1830. When James received
tidings of his father's illness he hastened home, and for several
weeks watched tenderly and patiently by his bed. His death
occurred at a critical point in his son's studies. He was about
to go in for Surgeon's degree, but his reading was now inter
rupted, and he was afraid he would be "plucked." But

for "Sandy's encouragement," and his assurance that he

only among the relatives would know if he were to fail,

he would have delayed for a year. His fears were ground
less. Having passed with ease and credit, he became a Member
of the Eoyal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh, before he was

nineteen years of age. Being too young to offer himself for the
32 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

degree of Doctor of Medicine, he left Edinburgh for a season.
His brother Alexander's house was now the home to which he

was ever welcome, and where he was regarded with great esteem
and affection. Alexander describes him at this period as " ever
busy ; fond of wandering about the Bathgate hills in search of
stones and plants ; assisting Dr. Dawson, the local practitioner,
by visiting his patients, or by sorting his laboratory," to whose
bottles, labelled by Simpson's hand, the country doctor after

wards used to point with pride. A good deal of time was also

profitably spent with his friend Dr. Gird wood of Falkirk, a most
genial man, and a popular and skilful practitioner. But he felt
all this to be only pleasant idling, and longed for work. At his

"Irequest, his brother John wrote to Mr. Walter Grindlay, mer

chant, Liverpool, on the 3d June 1830: -- understand from
my brother, at Grangemouth, that he had mentioned to you
some time ago, that our youngest brother, James, had studied
Medicine, and wished to get to be surgeon of a ship going out a
voyage of twelve or fifteen months. He has been five years
studying at the College of Edinburgh, and passed surgeon in
April last. His ultimate intention at present is to take a degree as
physician, and practise somewhere in Scotland or England ; but
he cannot obtain that till he is twenty- one, and he is only nine

Iteen this month. As to his medical proficiency am no judge,

but a friend of mine, Mr. Dawson, surgeon here, speaks favourably

Iof him, and know he is a good scholar, steady, upright, and
Iattentive, and think would be a good surgeon of a ship. He

will require to attend the College another session before taking

a degree, and his great anxiety at present is to procure a situa

tion which will yield him a little, and where he can at same
time see some practice. He is the youngest of us all, and a

favourite, and we would be averse to his going in a ship designed

for any unhealthy shore, but if you thought your extensive in

fluence could procure him the situation of surgeon in an East
Indiaman, or any ship sailing somewhere in that quarter for

Itwelve or fifteen months, would take it most particularly kind,
                      GRADUATION THESIS.                   33

and hope you will keep him in view should you hear of any

suitable situation."

   In 1831 he returned to College, and, in addition to Univer
sity class-work, became first assistant to Dr. Gairdner in Dis

pensary work, to which he gave himself with earnestness and

assiduity. To Dr. Gairdner he ever felt indebted for his great

attention and kindness, and for much valuable information. In

April 1831, Dr. Gairdner, after indicating the kind of work

required from a principal assistant, wrote, "I have myself been

so much satisfied with Mr. Simpson's abilities and pains in the

Idischarge of those arduous duties, that have, on some occasions,

had no hesitation of requesting him to attend for myself, and
also on some of my private patients. . . . His abilities and

attention promise the most flattering expectations."

   In 1831 his brother David began business at Stockbridge,
Edinburgh, and James boarded with him for some time. In

1832 he received the degree of Doctor of Medicine. His Thesis,

or Inaugural Dissertation, was on Death from Inflammation.1
Many years after he thus referred to this period : " 'Tis fully

Iforty years since came first to Edinburgh, and entered its Uni

versity as a very, very young and very solitary, very poor and
almost friendless student. . . . Nor was my original ambition

in any way very great. After obtaining my surgical diploma I

became a candidate for a situation in the west of Scotland, for

I Ithe attainment of which fancied possessed some casual local

interest. The situation was surgeon to the small village of
IInverkip, on the Clyde. When not selected, felt perhaps a
Ideeper amount of chagrin and disappointment than have ever
If Iexperienced since that date.
                      chosen, would probably have

been working there as a village doctor stilL But like many other

Imen have, in relation to my whole fate in life, found strong

reason to recognise the mighty fact that assuredly

'There's a Divinity that shapes our ends,
 Roughhew them as you will.'

1 De Cawta Mortis in quibusdam Ijiflammationibus proximo.
                                                   C
34 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Yes, in the language of the French proverb, ' Man proposes, but
God disposes.' Through the ceaseless love and kindness of a
dear elder brother, and in consequence of gaining the Stewart

IUniversity Bursary, was enabled to study for some time longer

at the University, and obtain my medical degree." On another

Ioccasion he wrote : " In November 1829 commenced my Ob

stetric studies by entering as a pupil of Dr. Hamilton's class.

IIn April 1830 received, at the age of eighteen, the diploma

of the Eoyal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. During the
subsequent winter and summer sessions of 1830-31, 1 attended
three courses of the very excellent and practical lectures of
Dr. Thatcher."

   Mr. Simpson's five years of student life, 1825 to 1830, were
crowded with public events of universal interest. When in
after days he met on equal footing with some of the chief actors
in these, the turn conversation invariably took showed how
much influence they had had on him when at the University
classes. His early association with Dr. Macarthur could not fail
to make him acquainted with the literary and political move
ments of the time. Macarthur was a man of public spirit, fond
of literature, and one who ever regarded it an honour and a
privilege to be able to speak to men through the press. The
Scottish Liberal political party was growing in strength and in
fluence, venturing to assert its claims and make them respected,
and showing a steady determination to put an end to that sys
tem of repression under which it had long been held. The
Edinburgh Eeview was doing much to rally around the Whigs
most of the rising young men of promise. And the Scotsman
newspaper was carrying everywhere over the land the tidiugs
of the revived opinions, and encouraging the people to make
their voice heard in the government of the country. Though the
Author of Waverley stood under another banner, his writings
had a decided reflex influence in the same direction. Jeffrey,
Moncreiff, Cockburn, and other foremost men in literature and
politics, were working with great vigour and success. Chalmers,
UNIVERSITY MEN.                                 35

Andrew Thomson, Sir H. Moncreiff, and Thomas M'Crie, were

doing much to keep the ecclesiastical mind of Scotland abreast
of public movements, and to lead the Church to look impartially
at public questions, to acknowledge their influence on her own

work, and to try to control, or at least to guide them. In Mr.

Simpson's jottings and notes at this period, are many proofs that
he was keenly alive to the circumstances of the times. Then,

indeed, began that warm interest which he ever afterwards took
in non- professional, social, scientific, and literary movements,
and which formed such a marked feature of the efforts of his

mature years.

   Within the University itself there was not much to meet the
views of young men of original thought, or men with desires
and capacity for earnest work. From the Arts' classes Playfair,
Dugald Stewart,1 and Thomas Brown had passed away. John
Wilson, indeed, was in his prime, attracting to his person and
work many whom he smote with the love of study : not, it may
be, giving them much moral philosophy, but atoning for this de
fect by communicating strong intellectual impulse. Sir William
Hamilton was quietly toiling8 in a department in which he had
no influence, and where those great powers had no scope, which
afterwards, in the Logic class, mastered so many minds, leading
them to revere their teacher and to love his work. The respect
able men in the Medical Faculty were, with the exception of
Alison, very unlike those who were about to occupy their chairs
-- Christison (1832), Syme (1833), Charles Bell (1836), Simpson
(1840), Miller (1842), Goodsir (1846), Bennett (1848), and
Edward Forbes (1854).

1 Eetired, 1810 ; died, 1828.  * 1821 to 1836.
                     CHAPTEE III.

    John Beid's opinion of Dr. Simpson-- Desire for Remunerative Work
          --Assistant to Professor Thomson -- Views of Professional Work --
          Attractive Personal Qualities -- Conscious Ability -- Methods of
           Study -- Haller's Dissertation -- His Brother's Love -- Royal Medical
         and Royal Physical Societies--Continental Tour, 1835 -- Visit to
           London -- London Hospitals and Physicians -- London Hospitality --
         Havre -- Paris Hospitals -- Alf ort -- Charenton -- Kamur -- Liege --
          Professor Fohmann -- Brussels -- Antwerp -- Ghent -- Ostend --
         Liverpool --Mr. Grindlay's.

   " After finishing his literary studies at the University," wrote

Dr. Simpson's friend, Dr. John Eeid, " he entered upon his
medical education with the same zeal and persevering industry
which have always formed so prominent a part of his character ;
and the facility and rapidity with which he mastered the rudi

Imentary part of his professional studies -- as can vouch from

--the most ample experience was such as was to be expected

from those qualities, when conjoined with his high mental en
dowments. When Dr. Simpson presented himself for graduation,
the excellence of his Inaugural Dissertation attracted the at
tention of Professor Thomson, to whom he was at that time
personally unknown, and induced that gentleman to request his
assistance in his professional studies." During the last session
of his medical course, he earnestly desired such an appointment
in town or country as would at once bring him a moderate
competency. His unsuccessful application for the situation
of parish doctor at Inverkip led him to reconsider his plans.
The liberality of his brothers was large, hearty, and ungrudging,
but he began to be dissatisfied with his own dependent position,
ASSISTANT TO THE PROFESSOR OF PATHOLOGY.                 37

and to look around him for remunerative work --not now, how

ever,- ou shipboard or in the country. He had resolved to remain

in town at all hazards, and to earn a livelihood by the practice of

his profession, while devoting himself to the study of medical
science, in the centre of Scottish thought and social influence.

Mr. Grindlay, to whom application had been made in 1830

for a surgeonship on board a merchant vessel, asked him to
apply for the situation of surgeon to " The Betsey" of Liverpool,

telling him at the same time that he was sure to be appointed.
After refusing with "sincere and heartfelt thanks," he added,

I" In taking my degree here last summer, had the good fortune

to attract the notice of Dr. John Thomson, a physician of the

greatest eminence, who was then looking out for a person to

assist him. He offered me this situation, wholly unsolicited
Iand altogether unexpected on my part.
IJuly last, and, having a moderate salary,               entered into it in
                                                          enjoy every con

ceivable advantage for cultivating the most perfect knowledge
of my profession, and am used in most respects as one of his

own family."

Dr. Thomson's offer was thus most opportune. The money

difficulty was taken out of the way. He had now both

work and wages. His salary of £50 a year seemed at first a
lavish provision, and for a time he made it suffice for all his
wants. His work under Dr. Thomson was altogether to his
taste. Referring to it afterwards he said, " Professor Thomson,

Ito whom was then personally unknown, but to whose advice
Iand guidance subsequently owed a boundless debt of gratitude,

happened accidentally to have allotted to him my graduation

thesis. He approved of  engaged me as his assistant, and
              I

                         a
                                  it,

                                                      a
hence, in brief, came to settle down citizen of Edinburgh, and

fight amongst you hard and uphill battle of life for bread

and name and fame." It was while acting as assistant to the

Professor of Pathology, that he resolved to give himself specially

to the study of Obstetric medicine. Referring to his assistant-
ship he says, " was at an early part of that period (1831 to
              It
38 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

I1836) that, at Dr. Thomson's urgent suggestion and advice,

first turned my attention more especially to the study of Mid
wifery, with the view of becoming a teacher of this department
of medical science."

   With characteristic promptness, energy, and earnestness, he
began to seek distinction in the scientific literature of the de
partment of his choice. Even his earliest papers, as, for example,
that on Diseases of the Placenta, attracted the attention of

eminent men both in this country and on the Continent. It

was translated into German by Dr. Simon and Dr. Heinshal of
Berlin ; into Italian by Dr. Chelioni of Milan ; and into French
by a writer in the Gazette Mddicale de Paris. The writer was
honoured by the foremost men everywhere, except in his own
 country and his own city. These papers were at once accepted
 by most as indicating much preparation for his special work, and
 as full of promise of good fruits in this and in other departments
 of medical science. He brought to the profession of physician

a combination of qualities seldom found in one man. It was

 the profession of his early and deliberate choice --his first love --
 to which, from 1827, he gave all that vigour of mind, warmth
 of heart, freshness of feeling, and earnestness of effort, which

 deep, strong natures alone can render. Then his ideal was pure
 and high. When he came afterwards to speak to others touching
 this, his words well describe his own views at this period.
 " The profession is," he said, " in many respects, the most im
 portant secular profession which a man can follow. Its

 importance depends on the priceless value of the objects of the

 physician's constant care and study, viz., the guardianship of the
 health and of the lives of our brother men, and the defence of

 the human body and human mind against the attacks and effects
 of disease. Other pursuits become insignificant in their objects
 when placed in contrast with this. The agriculturist bestows
 all his professional care and study on the rearing of crops and
 cattle ; the merchant spends his energies and attention on his
 goods and his commissions ; the engineer upon his iron wheels
    VIEWS OF HIS PROFESSION.                                             39

and rails ; the sailor upon his ships and freights ; the banker
upon his bills and his bonds ; and the manufacturer on his
spindles and their products. But what, after all, are machinery

and merchandise, shares and stocks, consols and prices-current,

or the rates of cargoes and cattle, of corns and cottons, in com

parison with the inestimable value and importance of the

health and the very lives of those fellow-men who everywhere
move, and breathe, and speak, and act around us ? What are

any, or what are all of these objects, when contrasted with the
most precious and valued gift of God to earth --human life ?

And what would not the greatest and most successful followers

of such varied callings give out of their own professional stores
for the restoration of health, and for the prolongation of life --

if the first were once lost to them, or if the other were merely

menaced by the dreaded and blighting finger of disease ?" Again,
" Nature has happily ordained it as one of the great laws on

which she has founded our moral happiness, that the performance

of the love and kindness to others should be a genuine and

never-failing source of pleasure to our own hearts. It is thus

strictly as well as poetically true,

                        ' That, seeking others' good, we find our own.'

                                when followed out in its proper
The exercise of the profession  is,
                                              is,
spirit, continued realization of active beneficence, and in this
aa
view continued source of moral satisfaction and happiness to

the generous heart. The objects and powers of your art are

alike great and elevated. Your aim                 as far as possible, to

alleviate human suffering and lengthen out human existence.

Your ambition to gladden as well as to prolong the course of
    is

human life, by warding off disease as the greatest of mortal

evils, and restoring health, and even at times reason itself, as
Ifthe greatest of mortal blessings.
                                     may borrow the beautiful
language of the author of The Village --I

                                                                   ;;
    'Glorious your aim, -- to ease the labouring heart,

    To war with death, and stop his flying dart

    To trace the source whence the fierce contest grew,

    And life's short lease on easier terms renew
40 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

             To calm the phrenzy of the burning brain,
             And heal the tortures of imploring pain ;
             Or, when more powerful ills all efforts brave,

I repeat       To ease the victim no device can save,
              And smooth the stormy passage to the grave.'

             -- you follow these, the noble objects of your pro
             a it,

                 if
fession, in proper spirit of love and kindness to your race, the

pure light of benevolence will shed around the path of your toils

and labours the brightness and beauty that will cheer you on
wards, and keep your steps from being weary in well-doing --

while, you practise the art that you profess with cold-hearted
         if                                                    a
                                                                     a
view to its results merely as matter of lucre and trade, youra
course will be as dark and miserable as that low and grovelling               a

love that dictates it." Or again, "We despatch you as Argonauts                                             ;
across the rough sea of life -- not in search of shadowy golden
fleece, but with far higher and holier commission, viz., to

carry hence the rich and blessed gifts of medicine to all ends of
                     a

                          ;

                                            a
the habitable globe to give, as humble agents under Higher
Power, ease to the agonized, rest to the sleepless, strength to
the weak, health to the sick, and sometimes life to the dying

to distribute everywhere freely knowledge of those means that
are best fitted to defend our fellow- man against the assault of
disease, and to quench within him the consuming fire of sick

ness."1

   Dr. Simpson's great intellectual gifts, love of study, and greed
of knowledge, were not less marked than his high professional

ideal. That concentrative faculty by which, when boy, he
                                                               a
                                                                     a
could read without distraction, amid the bustle of room in his

father's house which served both as kitchen and shop, had been
growing in strength, and was soon to be much needed, and have
full scope in higher sphere. Of incalculable benefit to himself,
he was ever anxious to commend its cultivation to others. " To
             a
make decided and useful progress in our professional calling anda
                                    1
pursuits as physicians, we must have perfect power of fixing
at will those fluttering spirits of thought, and of steadily steering

                                       Physicians and Physic.
PERSONAL QUALITIES.  41

that ' restless thing,' the mind, in whatever direction we may

desire. At all times, on all occasions, and amidst all the numer

ous disturbing influences to which the medical man is so con

stantly subjected, he should be able to control and command his
undivided mental attention to the case or object that he may

have before him. In the prosecution of any department of
science, as well as in the practice of any department of art,

which, like medicine, requires a constant exercise of observation,
reflection, and judgment, the power and habit of closely and
continuously thinking upon the subject in hand, to the exclusion,

for the time, of all other subjects, is one of the principal, if not
the principal, secret of success. In the power of concentrating,

and keeping concentrated, all the energies of attention and
thought upon any given subject, consists the power of thinking
soundly, strongly, and successfully upon that subject. The
possession or the want of this quality of the mind constitutes
the main distinction between the possession or the want of what
the world designates ' mental abilities and talents.' " In com
mendation of work and diligence he adds --" Sir Isaac Newton,

whose gigantic genius and intellectual strength have fixed upon
him the admiration and wonder of his race, modestly averred

that his mental superiority, if any, consisted, in his own opinion,

only of unusual powers of patient thought and industry. The
unparalleled greatness in the results of his thoughts was owing,
according to his own interpretation, merely to his habit of un
paralleled endurance and assiduity in the exercise of thinking.
With probably more truth, Dr. Armstrong observed, that ' genius
in a medical man is nothing more than the habit of patient ob
servation and reflection.' This habit of strong mental attention
and concentrated mental activity is one which all should struggle

diligently to increase and improve."
   The personal qualities which, even in his childhood, had drawn

to James Simpson the affections of many, which in boyhood
had led his school-fellows to give him their little confidences,
or share with him their cares, and which, when a student, often
42 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

led his fellows to impart to him their secrets, or to seek his

advice, had grown with his growth. He knew the value of this
quality, and owned the responsibility it brought. " In some

professions and occupations, man's principal duty is to think ;

in others his principal duty is to do. The practice of physic and

surgery calls for the constant and resolute exercise of both quali
ties -- of thought alike and of action. It
                                            is,
                                                                         is
                                            however, the part

of medical practitioner, not only to be ready to think and act
a
    afor the relief and cure of his patients, but also to feel for them

in their sorrow and suffering. An unsympathizing physician

physician bereft of one of the most potent agencies of treatment

and of cure. He knows not, and practises not, the whole extent

of his art, when he recklessly neglects and eschews the mar

vellous influence of mind over body. For sometimes kindly and

cheering words or looks from the physician are to the patient of

more real worth than all his physic --

       Sunt verba et voces, quibus hunc lenire dolorem
       Possis, et niagnam morbi deponere partem.'
       '
                                     ;
They secure the sick man's confidence and gratitude they rouse;
his hopes and courage and they even intensify the good effects
of the physician's more direct therapeutic measures. Yes, let
all cultivate to the uttermost the steady manliness of hand and
head which our profession so urgently demands, but do not de
spise that gentle womanliness of heart which the sick in their
depression and pain so often look for, and long for, and profit by.
Be to every man his beloved as well as his trusted physician."
He believed that the best way to win from patients full know
ledge of their case was to win their confidence. The statement
of their feelings came thus to guide his diagnosis. He began
work possessing, in very high degree, the art of disposing those
he met to tell him all they knew. His patients got the benefit of
this but others, variously attracted to make his acquaintance,
have been heard to complain that, before they left him, he had
made all their information his own. But he was not contented to
know only what others knew. His wonderfully active mind, even
       ;

                                 a
                                                                                                  a
METHODS OF STUDY.  43

when a student, was ever in search of new facts, and ever trying
to set old facts in new relations. He speculated, theorized, or
took to strange ways of doing common things ; but in all it was
clear his ruling motive was the good of others. He wished to

become, and to be known as, a benefactor of the human race.
His own part in the work was, however, always something
in his eyes. He had not, he never had, the affectation to

allege that he was nothing in the matter, or that his part
in bringing it about should be studiously concealed. The
ten talents had been given to him, and he knew it. Thus his
earnest and persistent effort. He was resolved that no good
thing of all that God had given should fall uselessly to the ground.
But the consciousness of the possession of rich natural gifts,
never hid from him the fact that his own will and work were

important factors in determining success. Unwillingness to
believe in the gifts is the napkin in which many tie up their

Lord's money. They are spoken of as men of good parts, if

they only knew it. Shirking their responsibilities under the
plea of humility, they pass away, leaving the world worse than
it would have been had they not lived. Now this consciousness

of power, which seeks expression often only in the desire to
please friends, or leads to effort on behalf of others, from, it may
be, no higher motive than to earn name and fame thereby, is far
removed from that self-centred and self-seeking disposition
 whose chief features are egotism, meanness, and vanity. "James,"
 said his sister Mary to him in 1834, " you are working too hard,

Iand hurting your health." " Well, am sure," he replied in a

 serious way, " it 's just to please you all."
    His method of study was purely inductive. Even his first im

 portant paper shows how rigidly this method guided him. In ap
 proaching any subject in the literature of his profession, his first

 task was to make himself thoroughly acquainted with the views
 and opinions of others ; his second to test these by facts which

 had come under his own observation. In the Ms. of one of his

 early papers there are nearly one hundred references to the
44 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

literature of the subject --many of them to works not likely to
be known by any one not smitten with bibliomania. This we
shall see more fully as we proceed. But in his case there was

no parade of authorities he had not consulted, and no marshalling

of the ancients, as if they only had spoken and contemporary

workers had not. It was his custom to consult authorities at

first hand, and, when not familiar with the language in which a
work was written, to ask an adept to make search for him. He
ever recognised the importance of honest literary work. The
views and alleged discoveries of the men of other days, were
either foundations on which to build or rubbish to be cleared

away. In either case they had to be known. As an antiquary

everything old and remote had ever a potent charm for him.
But the influence of archaeological tastes was kept in check
and balance by his love for what is fresh and new. From the
outset of his professional life he sat loose to authority and to
traditional modes of treatment, and no man was readier to
welcome new light from any source.

         " Nunquam ita quisquam bene subducta ratione ad vitam fuit

               Qiiin res, tetas, usus, semper aliquid apportet novi,
             Aliquid moneat ; ut ilia quae te scire credas, nescias :

           Et que tibi putaris prima, in experiundo repudies."

So early as the second year of his medical curriculum, when
Eeid and he were reading together the Lausanne edition of
Haller's Dissertation on the Sensible and Irritable Parts of

Animals, -- a work abounding in facts, great force of reasoning,
and copiousness of induction, --he was ever contrasting the

medical art with the science of medicine. Following the former
merely for the sake of emolument, the practitioner is apt to
become a mere administrator of drugs for the removal of disease.
He gives them as others have done before, without any careful
study of the nature of the disease for which they are held to
be remedies, and without any scientific acquaintance with the
part affected or the function interfered with. Principles more
than remedies bulk in the view of the student of the science of
SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES.  45

medicine. Thus a truly scientific spirit ever influences the
accomplished physician, and gives dignity to his work. With
his intimate knowledge of the human body, he has a firm belief

in the reparative powers of nature, and his efforts are to re
move hindrances, in order that the living organs may them
selves work the cure --a result not unfrequently gained by
regulating diet and dispensing with drugs. With such views

and feelings, and thus furnished for his profession, Dr. Simp
son stood on the threshold of his life-work in 1832.

    His visits to Bathgate were now less frequent. Changes had
taken place among his relatives. Alexander. his favourite brother,
and Mary, his sister, were both married in 1832. But there

was no abatement of Alexander's devoted love-- a love in which

Janet Kussell, his young and thoughtful wife, fully sympathized.
Dr. Simpson soon came to regard her with great affection, and
to confide to her his cares and his hopes. He still looked on
Alexander's house as his home, and Alexander's purse was still
free to him. So anxious had this brother been to prevent any
interruption of James's residence in the University city, that,
when the cholera appeared in the Bathgate district, he executed
a deed in his favour, by which a provision was secured to " his

Idear James," in the event of his death. " trust," he said,
I" every one of you will look to him. But daresay every one
Iof you has a pleasure in doing him good by stealth, as have

had myself."

   In 1833 Dr. Simpson became a member of the Eoyal Medical
Society of Edinburgh,1 " an institution which has in very many

instances served as an arena both for exhibiting and for strength
ening the powers of those who have received their education in
the Medical School of Edinburgh." The Eecords of the Eoyal
Physical Society of Edinburgh,8 for the same session, bear that
" Dr. James Y. Simpson petitioned for a seat in the Eoyal
Physical Society : recommended by Edward Forbes." He was

                 1 Instituted 1737 ; incorporated by Royal Charter 1788.
               J Instituted 1770; incorporated by Royal Charter 1788.
46 SIR, JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

afterwards elected President, in which office his name became
associated with those of Dr. Knox, Captain Thomas Brown, Dr.
Greville, Edward Forbes, Dr. George Wilson, John Goodsir, Sir
John Graham Dalzell, Dr. John Fleming, Hugh Miller, and
other well-known naturalists. More than ten years the senior
of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, " The Physical" has had im
portant influences on Scottish Natural Science. Its constitution
and management, the conversational and familiar way in which
its discussions are carried on, and the kind of work expected

from its active members, are well fitted to stimulate and en

courage young naturalists, and to guide them into those depart
ments of Natural History for the study of which they may have

special aptitude.

    Dr. Simpson had for years cherished the desire to visit the
chief schools of Medicine and the hospitals of England and
France. He also wished to see the eminent men who then adorned
the highest branches of his profession. By the ever ready
liberality of his brothers, Alexander and John, he was
enabled to do this in 1835, in company with his accomplished
friend Dr. Douglas Maclagan, now Professor of Medical Juris
prudence in the University of Edinburgh. As he kept a journal
during this tour with great regularity and care, we have, in his
own words, a pretty full record of his personal and professional
views at the time. The journal consists chiefly of professional
notes, --as, for example, remarks on preparations and specimens
in public and private collections, opinions of modes of treatment
of the same disease by different practitioners, notices of operations
and the comparative skill of surgeons, and of the condition and
management of the hospitals visited. Many of these notes are
of scientific value, and reveal a wide and accurate acquaintance
with medical science, marvellous in one so young. But as these
would be out of place in a biography prepared for general read
ing, the extracts are limited to the record of the chief stages of
his tour, and to matters of general information. During the same
tour he wrote frequently, and sometimes at great length, to his
    VISIT TO LONDON.                                                       47

friends in Bathgate. Extracts from these letters are also given

below.

   "April 1st. --Went with Dr. M. to visit the London Univer

sity, and found Dr. Carswell in the Museum. . . . We visited

the wards of North London Hospital after leaving Dr. C. The

wards are clean and airy, and not over well filled, and containing

no individually interesting cases. Listen has treated several

cases of iritis without mercury, and none of them have gone

Iwrong. . . . Dr. M. and dined with Dr. Somerville in the even

ing. Dr. S. firmly believes in the doctrine of London constitu

tions not being capable of standing bleeding and antiphlogistic

means to any great extent. Speaks of 1 0, 1 2, and 1 6 oz. bleedings

as large. Can this general idiosyncrasy                                       of
    ;

                             a (iIf

                                                             it
                                                                         it)
                                         may so term

the London people depend upon their drinking so much ale,

porter, gin, etc. and ought we not to take hint from in the

treatment at home of brewers, etc., whose constitutions we often

find, even in Scotland, quite incapable of resisting any great

injury or disease? . . . Dr. M. and visited Bartholomew's
    .

                  it

                   I
                          I

                                                                       4.
Hospital and Museum at 12, and remained till                               We were not

in any of the wards, our chief business for the day being with
the Museum. . . Dr. M. and called on Dr. Lee at half-past

8,  who took us down to the Koyal Society. The meeting was

considered as very full, being the ballot night. Fifteen new

members were balloted for and admitted. By the regulations two-

thirds of the members cannot vote in favour of each candidate.

One candidate had 34 for and 17 against him. The business

went on in most sombre and lubberly manner, Mr. Childers
    a
          a

                                                         a

                                                                                                                                              .

                                                                                                   a
reading small part of the papers of the night during each circuit

of the ballot-box, and being often stopped in the middle of
sentence till Mr. Lubbock, who was in the chair, announced the

result of the vote, and Dr. Eoget read over another candidate's

application with his tail of qualifications and certifiers. . .
Of medical men there were present Dr. Bostock, Dr. Paris,
Brande, Stanley, Earle, Owen, Clift, etc. We went up to the

library-hall with Mr. Clift and had cup of tea. He introduced
48 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

...us to Earle, who is a smart, clever-looking man.  Dr. M.

was kind enough to introduce me to Mr. Spence, the entomolo

gist, a very agreeable and plain person. He offered to take us

to the Linnaean and Entomological Societies, and invited us to

dinner on Tuesday fortnight. His coadjutor, Mr. Kirby, is per

haps to be present. . . . Dr. M. took me with him to call on

Longstaff. We are to see his museum on Tuesday. We set off

afterwards for St. Thomas's and Guy's Hospitals, and went round

the wards of the latter with Mr. Barnsby Cooper. He ap

pears to be a great mercurialist and promoter of the business

of the apothecary. . . . April ith. --After breakfast Dr. M.

Iand called on Dr. Tweedie, and then passed on to St. Bartho

....lomew's, and went over the remaining part of the Museum.
       April 5th. --We breakfasted with Mr. Stanley of Bar

...tholomew's, in Lincoln's Inn Fields. There were several of
his pupils present.   He is a short man, with an immense
Ihead (external head
                      mean). . . . April 6th. --Went to visit

Westminster and the Surrey Zoological Gardens. . . . One of

the lions has cataract in both eyes -- a lioness in one of hers --

Iand think a leopard, or ocelot, is similarly affected. One of

the monkeys coughed severely --is it consumption ? Those in

the Jardin des Plantes are said to die generally of phthisis.

.... I IApril 7th. -- have spent this day most agreeably, and

Ihope profitably. Dr. M. and breakfasted shortly after 8, and

then set off for the Moorfields Eye Dispensary and Infirmary.

. . . Both Mr. Tyrrell and Mr. MacMurdo showed a won
derful degree (to me at least) of what Dr. M. terms the ' visus

eruditus.' A single glance, and one question or two, seemed to

enable them to form their diagnosis, in cases even the most

complicated. Their system of treatment seems to be based on

the most rational therapeutic principles. . . . We afterwards

proceeded to Mr. Longstaff s to view his museum. The col

lection consists of healthy and comparative anatomy, as well

as of morbid structures (the pathological part being the largest
and most valuable). Altogether this is a most splendid collection.
                   VISIT TO LONDON.                  49

...His preparations, he says, now amount to 11,000.  On
Icoming homewards
                   stept into St. Paul's. There the im

mensity of the scale on which the building is constructed, as

well as the nobleness of the architecture, and particularly the

size and beauty of the central arch and dome, impress the

stranger with the truth inscribed on the tombstone of Sir C.
Wren-- that the building itself is the most splendid possible

monument to the talents of the architect. After dining in a
Icoffee-room opposite to the Lancet office, went to the House
... Iof Commons.
                  got a seat in the first row of the Strangers'

Gallery, and heard a number of the first guns speak -- as

Eussell, Lushington, Gisborne, Morpeth, Perrin, Peel, Baring,

Spring Eice, etc. etc. The motion discussed was proposed
by Lord John Eussell, and embraced the principle, that no

Irish Church Reform Bill which was not founded upon the

legality of the appropriation of the surplus tithes to the purposes
of education would satisfy the House. Peel's speech was par

ticularly clever, and even affecting. . . .

"We afterwards called on Messrs. Clift and Owen at
ILincoln's Inn Fields.
                        was glad to hear from Mr. Owen

that he now, from recent investigations, conceived the Hunters

to be perfectly right in regard to the structure of the Placenta,

and Lee wrong.

   " April 10th. --This forenoon we visited Bethlehem Hospital.

Mr. T., the person who hurried us over the building, is a
most dumb, uncommunicative fellow, and we could fish little

or nothing out of him in regard to the particulars of the insti

tution, the treatment employed, or anything else. . . . There

seem to be too many iron bolts about the windows and rooms,
Iand too little of the ' moral ' employed.
                                             wrote a long letter to

David in the afternoon, dined at six at Dr. Somerville's with Drs.

Maclagan, Broughton, and Webster, and went to a party at Mr.

Spence's, the entomologist, at ten. How different is the drawl

ing and simpering through a lazy French quadrille from the

excitement of a guid blithe Scotch reel or country dance!

                        D
50 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

. . . Monday, April 13th. --This morning we breakfasted

with Dr. Lee, in Golden Square, at half-past eight. We after

wards looked in at the Middlesex Hospital, and proceeded on

Iwards from thence to the North London infirmary, where had

two or three moments' conversation with Mr. Liston. . . .

  " April 1 6th. --We then stepped across to the London Small

pox Hospital, where we were lucky enough to find Dr. G.

just about to begin his visit. He said we could not have come

at a better time to see good cases. Dr. G. is a man who

seems to think himself comparatively as deeply initiated in

the mysteries of small-pox over his brothers in physic, as in

Ipoint of stature he overtops most of his fellow-mortals.

hate the self-sufficient smirk of his mouth. . . .

  I"April --18th. called on Dr. J. at twelve, and took him

to see Bartholomew's. We went round first with Earle, and
Isecondly with Lawrence.
                          had merely been introduced by

Dr. M. to Mr. Lawrence, and he had only seen me about

I Ihalf a minute a fortnight ago, yet he both recognised and
named me.  wish had such a memory."

                                                   " Coffee-room, Globe Inn, Chatham,
                                                             I'M k April 1835.

   " My dear Sandy, --As Dr. Maclagan has begun writing to

I IEdinburgh, think may as well employ myself for half-an-

hour before retiring to bed with a report of my progress since

I last wrote to Bathgate. We came down here to-day in order

to see the great military hospitals and museums. It was a

most delightful forenoon, and our ride through Kent was alto

gether charming. . . . We were down here by two o'clock,
and then walked up to Fort Pitt to see Dr. Clarke, the

Inspector-General of Hospitals, to whom we had introductions.
Dr. C. kindly invited us to dine and spend the evening with

him and his family. We have just returned (ten o'clock) to our

inn, after having passed the evening very agreeably. An old

lady of the family, the mother of Mrs. Clarke, was particularly

pathetic in relating over and over to me a story which my
          LINN^AN SOCIETY.                                                  51

father used often to tell, of an old captain (a friend of the
Steels, was he not ?) who had his jaw shot away, and was in
consequence obliged to be fed afterwards with a spoon. . . .

  " London, 21st April. --Well, here we are back again in

London, after having enjoyed ourselves immensely at Chatham.

We had a very happy mess yesterday. Twelve doctors sat
I Idown to dinner, and
          am sure               will not soon forget Dr.

and Mrs. Clarke's kindness.  We had not time to land

either at Woolwich or Greenwich on our way up the river.
IOn arriving at Panton Square,
                                was delighted to find

John's long and welcome letter awaiting me. Do write me

Ioften. You cannot guess how weary at times to hear from
Isome of you. Before received Mary's very kind letter last
Iweek, was getting utterly uneasy, thinking something must
Ibe wrong, that none of you had written. Dr. M. and met

a very agreeable but small party of naturalists at dinner at Mr.
Spence's this evening. We all adjourned to the Linnaean

Society about eight o'clock. The Duke of Somerset was in the

chair, and, honest man ! fell sound asleep during the reading of

the paper ; so sound, indeed, that he was with difficulty roused

by the secretary after the paper was finished, and when it was

... Inecessary for him to speak a few words in order to adjourn the
meeting.  shall leave London with the impression of

I Ihaving spent a most happy and instructive month of my life
in it.    shall write what more recollect that may interest
Iyou to-morrow. It is near one in the morning, and am

exceedingly sleepy with my day's work and travel ; so, with

Ikindest respects to Janet and Mary, and to the two Johns, and

with my best love for little David and Mary, remain, my

dear Sandy, ever most affectionately yours,
                                                        "James Y. Simpson.

  --" P.S. -- Wednesday morning, 8 o'clock. I am already, through

your kindness and John's, so amply supplied with money that

I Ido not think shall have any need whatever for the additional
52 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

£50 which Mary and John speak of in their letters ; but many,
many, many thanks for the very kind manner in which you
offer to put it at my disposal, and for the kind remarks which

IJohn puts in his letter respecting the money drew from Mr.

Hope.

   " Do write me on receipt of this. --J. Y. S."

I"April 23d and 2ith. -- have spent both of these days from

eleven to four in minutely examining the preparations of morbid
... Istructure in the museum at Guy's.
                    On Friday evening

came home after dinner, dressed, and set off again for the east

end of the town, to a semi-Scotch, semi-Cockney party at Mr.

and Mrs. A's. Mr. A. treated his London friends to abundance

of good Scotch toddy, and none of them thought of leaving his

Idomicile till three in the morning. returned at that early hour

along Cheapside, Ludgate Hill, Fleet Street, Strand, etc. ; no

country village could present so quiescent a state as London
Iat that hour did.
                    hate such late sittings.
I"April 25th.--. . . . Dr. M. and set off in an omnibus for

Camden Hill, to dine with Sir James Macgregor and family. Sir

James has still a considerable dash of the 'Scot' about him, is ex

ceedingly plain and homely in his manners, and at the same time
exceedingly kind and agreeable. Of his family --why, in regard

Ito them, am sure, that if domestic happiness reigns anywhere

on earth, ' one would expect to find it here.' Every one seems

to think each other's happiness a much more important point

than his own, and every one finds happiness, the truest happiness,

for himself, in attempting to attain this end for others. Camden

Hill is itself a very lovely place for a domicile. . . .
   " May 3d, Sun Inn Coffee-room, Southampton. --This morning

I Iwas up shortly after 6, and by 20 minutes to 8 was deposited

with my trunk and bag upon the top of the Southampton coach,
in Piccadilly. The morning promised well, though there were a

few heavy clouds in the sky. The ride as far as Windsor Park

was delightful, and from the top of the coach we had two or
                 VISIT TO FRANCE.            53

three most lovely glimpses of English scenery. After passing

Windsor the soil was rather inferior in many parts, and we

passed every now and then large tracts of heath. From Win

chester, the old capital of England, to Southampton, the scenery

and soil improved ; the suburbs of Southampton are quite

charming, and Southampton itself is a very pretty town. The

whole scenery of the road was much more wooded than the

generality of scenery in Scotland. The neatness and cleanliness

of the English cottages is greatly superior to all that we have in
Scotland, -- the little patches of garden ground before, behind,
Iand around them set them off amazingly.
                                             wish the Scotch

peasantry could, by some means or other, be excited to a little
Imore love of cleanliness and horticulture.
                                             did not see above

two or three dirty windows, men, or women, along the whole
line of road. The snow-white smockfrocks of the Hampshire
peasantry do actually look well, in my opinion.

  I"May 5th. --Yesterday found myself on board the 'Camilla,'

and sailing down the Southampton water by twelve o'clock. The
morning was beautiful, but it grew more clouded as we left the
harbour. The vessel ran into the mouth of Portsmouth harbour,

where several passengers joined us, amongst others my compagnon

de voyage. The company on board was partly French, partly
IEnglish.
           never before saw so well the verification of the re

mark, that speaking French consists ' in making mouths,' and

it was easy to point out all our French party, individually, by

observing, from even the greatest distance, how much they used

their poor hard- worked 'orbicularis oris.' Our voyage to Havre

was, on the whole, very favourable. The sunset was magnifi

cent, and the appearance of the Channel by moonlight was
Iequally grand.
                 shall not soon forget the sight, and the sooth
Iing feelings to which that sight gave rise, when came on deck

about eleven o'clock, and lay down upon one of the benches to

admire the scene. We reached Havre about 1 o'clock in the

morning. . . . We took a walk along some parts of the fortifica

tions, and climbed up to the heights above Havre, -- an operation,
54 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

by the by, which cost me a pair of boots, as one of my London
pair was rent for nearly three inches in this ascent. . . .

  I" Thursday. -- Yesterday morning was up before five. After

dressing and arranging our luggage, we got a cup of coffee and

two nearly raw eggs. We were not exactly finished with these

articles when the conducteur of the Paris 'Diligence' summoned

us down. . . .

  I" Paris, Monday. --Drs. M., Sloane, and followed for a short

time this morning Lisfranc (a French reprint of Liston), Louis,
and Andral in their cliniques at La Pitie\ . . .

   " The room in which the Institute meets is extremely neat,

though not gaudy. M. Dupin was in the chair, with Arago
on his right hand, and Flourens on his left. M. Edwards

read a short paper on Polypi, and Dumas described a new

instrument. The utmost silence was maintained during the

meeting, and when it offered to be broken, the ringing of a
                                                           "
hand-bell  by Flourens  sufficed  to restore  it.  .  .
                                                         .

                           " Hotel de l'Universite, 22 Eue de l'TJniversite,
                                                      Saturday, May 10th, 1835.

  I I" My dear Janet, --Here am at last in Paris, and have

just left Dr. M. in the Museum of the School of Medicine, to come

I Ihome, and write you how get on in this new scene. believe
Iyou will be by this time informed by the letter which wrote
IWalter Gilchrist from Havre, that had had a very pleasant ride

from London to Southampton, and a very pleasant passage from
Southampton to Havre. Of course everything in Havre was
new and striking, and the town itself being a very neatly built
Norman one, we spent a very agreeable day in and amongst
other things saw turn-out of the inhabitants upon the quays
to witness the embarkment of Mr. Livingston, the American
ambassador. The coifs or head-dresses of some of the ladies

would have surprised you, am sure at least they did surprise
me. Many of them had no such things as bonnets on, but

cap as high, or even higher, than sugar-loaf, made of muslin
and lace, and as white as the driven snow. We could get no
           a

                   I

                                        a

                                                              :

                                                           it,
                                                                                         a
                         PARIS.                           55

conveyance to Eouen or Paris till next morning, when by a

quarter to six we found ourselves seated in the back part of the
IParis diligence or stage-coach.
                                  have called it a stage-coach,

but it is at the same time much more like one of the heavy

Edinburgh and Glasgow waggons. It is divided internally into
three compartments -- the first holding three persons, facing the
horses, the second containing six,and the third containing four. It

Iwas in this last that Dr. M. and were placed, our companions

being a man going to Eouen, and a peasant girl on her way, like

ourselves, to Paris. We travelled, in despite of the lubberly

construction of the machine, at the rate of nearly eight miles an

hour, being drawn sometimes by five horses, and during other

stages by six, seven, and eight. Every declivity in the road we

descended at a thundering rate, a rate which would have as

tonished an English coachman, and at one part of the road,

where we met an opposition diligence, we had a capital gallop

down an incline more than a mile in length. We reached Eouen

between two and three o'clock in the afternoon, saw the gorgeous

Church of St. Anthony, the Cathedral, the statue of Joan of Arc,

Ieta (all of which, by the by, are, believe, figured in the Penny

Magazine), dined at the table-d'hote on soups, boiled beef, veal,

mutton, cow-brains, fish, salads, etc., and set off again about six.

  I" Now, as to Paris itself, let me say in two words, that have

...already seen much to wonder at and admire in  and havea it,

                                                       I
much more still to see.  I  daresay you will be astonished

when tell you that our coffee-pot was not whit larger
       aI
than      I'half-mutchkin-stoup,' and yet out of this pot we

made four excellent cups of coffee, the cups being at the same

time nearly twice or three times larger than those in Britain   !

.... . . Well, but to return from this digression about coffee
pots.         hope to hear from some of you next week at farthest,

and expect some news in the letter; and with kindest respects

to Mary, Sandy, the two Johns, and all the young folks, as well

as to your mother and the Misses Wardrop, remain, ever very
                                  I

affectionately yours,             James Y. Simpson."
56 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

                                  ·

   "May lith, Hdpital des Invalides. --This Hospital seems to

be a noble institution, whether viewed externally or internally.
One of the wards through which we passed is the longest and

Imost elegant ever saw. The bed-curtains are of an ochre

colour ; in the other hospitals they are white. We found the
old Baron Larry seated in a small room off one of the wards,

showing some of the most interesting cases which were to be
found among the returns in the hospital to two youngish
medical friends, and ever and anon impressing the doctrines

he was laying down by a blow of his elbow on the one nearest
him. . . .

   " May 20th.--We followed Lisfranc this morning in the wards
of La Pitie\ and afterwards heard him deliver his clinical lecture.

IHe lectures with great clearness, and understood more of his

French than of almost any of the other Parisians. On our
return from the Pitié we called upon M. Littr£, who, with his
unshaved beard, uncombed hair, and large old stained surtout,
looks the very picture of a translator of Hippocrates. . . .

  I" In the evening Dr. Moffat and visited three of the principal

gambling-houses --sights not soon to be forgotten ! ! . . .
   "May 21st. --Went together to the Hotel Dieu, where we got

our tickets of admission entered. Set out for Alfort on foot.

The day proved very hot, although the wind was northerly, and
we were obliged to walk most of the road with our coats off.
Alfort is altogether a very noble institution. There are about

300 students attending the school at present. . . .
    " M. B. appears to be a common-sense man, which most

Frenchmen certainly are not. What a number of hobbies are
ridden in Paris by different medical men ! . . . From twelve to
half-past one o'clock we employed in looking over the Gallery
 of Comparative Anatomy in the Jardin des Plantes. The im
 mense number of bones and skeletons here collected is certainly

 enormous. . . .

   I" May 25th.--This morning Dr. M. and set off shortly after

 eight o'clock for Charenton, where we were to meet Esquirol,
               PARIS HOSPITALS.                          57

and see the lunatic asylum under his charge. We drove out
in a cab, and found Dr. E. going his rounds when we arrived.

The establishment altogether is an exceedingly fine one. . . .

There were no other appearances of coercive treatment under

any form about the establishment, except we consider the

confinement of some of the more noisy and restless patients to
their cells as such. Yet, as Dr. Esquirol remarked, there had

never been any instance of patients endangering the lives of
their companions or attendants, a thing generally so much in

sisted upon by English physicians and writers on Insanity. . .

   "May 21th. --. . . M.Dubois made remarks of about a quarter

of an hour's duration over each patient, the students and him
Iself standing around the bed.
                                think this system bad. It

would, in my opinion, be much preferable to give the clinique

in a separate room after the visit, and this would be attended

with no disadvantages. But it is very apt to frighten patients

to hear their cases discussed at such length by their own bed

sides. . . ."

                                                            "Paris, 2d June 1835.

  I" My dear Sandy, -- received your long, long expected letter
Ionly on Saturday. . . . The morning received your letter
I had just finished the first page of a most thundering
Iphilippic against the laziness of one and all of you, which was
Igoing to send off by the next post ; but gladly threw it aside

on receiving your welcome letter, and the very welcome news
therein contained. . . . We have got most excellent bread in

Paris. It is beautifully white, and costs sixpence the

I4 lb. loaf, or rather should say the 4 lb. roll, for all is in the

form of roll from four inches to four and more feet long. They
Iare the most ' unearthly ' looking rolls you ever saw.
                                                         have

Inever seen a bakehouse, but saw two bakers emerge from

one a few days back ; they had only a shirt and a petticoat

on, and no such article as trousers. Think only of you stalk
ing about in a coarse white petticoat! . . . With kindest
58 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

respects to Janet, Mary, the two J.'s, Dr. Dawson, etc., be
lieve me, yours ever sincerely and most affectionately,

                                                    " James Y. Simpson."

   " June --1th. The evening has been spent in preparing for our

journey to-morrow. We leave Paris by the ' diligence ' for

IMons at six o'clock p.m., and both Dr. M. and will leave it

with the impression that we have been much pleased with our

month's sojournment, and we have the satisfaction of reflecting

that by working hard during that period, we have seen as much

of the French capital as many who have remained months, not
Ito say years in it. Is this vanity, eh ?
                                           hope not. . . .
"June, 11th. --Leaving Namur and its commanding fortress,

we drove down the right bank of the Meuse as far as Huy, and
then crossed to the other, along which we continued till we

reached Liege. The whole route from Namur to Liege is

lovely --splendid ! The river and the road runs for all that

distance, a distance of about forty or fifty miles, between two

continuous ridges of bare perpendicular rocks and wooded hills.

Every glimpse of the scenery that bursts upon your sight seems

lovelier than another. Below Huy, the sides of the hills on the

left are covered by vineyards, and many country seats and

toppling chateaus are seen ever and anon --things which have

rarely greeted our eyes from Paris to this place. But besides

being intrinsically beautiful, the long dell which we traversed

was interesting in a classic point of view. It is the scene of

much of the romance of Quentin Durward. Our worthy,
active, and intelligent conductor informed me that the name of

one of the villages which we were passing was Ardennes, and

I Iwith as good French as could muster informed our guard
I Ithat had often read and heard of the forest of Ardennes.

asked him if he knew anything of the story of the Sanglier des

IArdennes. 'No,' he very ingenuously replied; 'but know

that Ardennes is far-famed for its moutons !' . . .

   " Libge, June 12th.--After breakfast we wended our way to
                  LliKJE.                           59

the University, and asked for Professor Fohmann. He was

pointed out to us just entering the gate. He walks with a

staggering gait (a circumstance which he afterwards informed

us was owing to an attack of tremblement mdtallique -- from

his working for years in making mercurial preparations). He

has a German-looking face, patient-like rather than intelligent,

or, at least, original. We introduced ourselves as foreign

Iphysicians, mentioning at the same time that had an intro

duction to his father-in-law, Professor Tiedmann, from

Professor Thomson. He received us very well, and took

us to hear him lecture. . . . The University hall or lobby

enters by two or three different passages into the Botanic

Garden, which seems to be pretty extensive and kept in very

good order. What an immense advantage this is compared to

Edinburgh, where the students must run away some two or three

miles before breakfast to hear a lecture or to examine any

specimen for himself ! At Liege this study of Botany is pressed
upon the attention of the student at every vacant hour. At

...Edinburgh you must make one or two vacant hours before you
reach and return from the scene of study.  In the evening

we wandered out to see the town, and ascended the heights

above it. . . . The view was gorgeous. We wandered back

Iinto the town, which is one of the most beautifully romantic

have seen. . . .

" Hdtel de Pomelette, Liege, June 13th, 1835. --And is it
Ipossible that here begin a second volume of a journal ?
IWhen began the former volume in London, about two and a
I Ihalf months ago, had, must honestly confess, very little
Iprospect of ever seeing it finished.
                                       was sceptical, greatly

sceptical, in respect to my own capability of commanding so much
regularity and perseverance as to note nightly what ' things by

Iflood and field' happened my travelling- ship daily. Indeed,

began my journal chiefly with some distant prospect of teaching
Imyself the important lesson of ' daily notation.'
                                                    am vain
Ienough to flatter myself now that have, partly at least, sue
60 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

ceeded. At all events that which was at first a sort of task,

a considerable and at times rather annoying task, has now
If Ibecome to me a pleasure.
                              had my first volume to write
over again, I think I could now write it twenty times better
I-- at any rate,
                  would do it with twenty times more

good-will. In writing a journal 'tis needless to think of

making no blunders in the way of blots or of bad grammar and

crooked sentences. We, or at least /, have occasionally felt so

Iconfoundedly tired at night, that if had been obliged to
Iattend to such minutiae certainly would not have been able
Ito advance above two sentences -- no, not beyond one, if had
I Iever finished that. -- But if go on with such comments will

only waste some good paper, not to mention ink and my

Igood steel pen. So, taking this as a preface, begin at the

beginning.

   " This morning, rose by half-past seven --dressed, break

fasted on coffee and rolls, read the Liege Courrier, and by nine

o'clock called on Professor Fohmann with a copy of Dr. Eeid's

Ipaper on the Glands of the Whale, which had promised

him yesterday. The Professor kept us till five minutes to ten,

lecturing us on his discoveries upon the original elementary

tubular structure of animal tissues. . . .
   " Somebody has remarked that no person ever entered into,

or at least came out of, the study of the Book of Eevelation

Iwithout being either mad before or mad after it. would not

choose exactly to say that Dr. F.'s case is perfectly analogous,

...but has it not some analogy? He seems to run wild on
the subject of elementary tubular texture.  He hates

Lippi and his researches with a perfect hatred. Lippi had

been preferred to him by the Parisian Academy. Is he not

working against Lippi, and it may be against truth, if
Ithey happen to go together, which
                                    do not believe ? . . .

We have taken out our seats in the diligence to-morrow
I Ifor Louvain, and on leaving Liege must confess that
Ileave one of the most lovely places
                                      have seen on the
GHENT.  61

Continent. 'Tis rich, populous, busy ; the town in itself is old
and good, though not so neat and cleanly as Mons ; its environs
wild and romantic. Besides, it seems full of good-natured
gash old wives, and sonsy laughing-faced, good-looking, nay,

Isome of them very good-looking, girls. What is more, have

not seen one positively ugly female face in Liege. . . .
   " Brussels, June 1 7th. --In the afternoon we visited that most

splendid institution, the Hospice des Vieillards. There are 500
poor in the establishment, and fifty who pay a board of £1 6 a

year. . . .

   " June 1%th. --We left Brussels at five o'clock for Antwerp . . .
   "June 19th. --After breakfast we walked down to the Cathe

dral. The morning being clear, we went up to the top of the
immense spire, the third highest, it is said, in Europe, St.
Peter's at Eome, and that of Strasburg, being still more
lofty. The view from it of the branches of the Schelde on the

one hand, and of the level and wooded plains of Belgium
on the other, was very fine -- superb. . . . After looking at
Kubens's celebrated picture, the Descent from the Cross, in

the Cathedral, we went to the splendid church of St. Jacques,

and visited Eubens's tomb, also the famous picture of his family

and himself, Vandyke's Christ, etc., and returned home to
dinner at two, passing Eubens's house. . . . Arrived in Ghent

about twelve. . . .

   "June 21st. --Up to-day by seven, and at half-past eight at
the house Aliénes, under Dr. Guislain's charge. . . . All the

patients at M. Guislain's establishment work, at something or
other. There are none idle, except those who are utterly
furious. We saw spinning-wheels adapted for even the
paralytic working at. M. Guislain mentioned that some
patients had felt themselves so comfortable and happy in the
institution, that they were with difficulty induced to leave it
on their recovery. . . . Ostend itself is a town so very unin
teresting that a traveller has no wish except to be driven

through it. We had, however, to remain in it from two in
62 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

the afternoon till ten at night. About eight there came on a

tremendous thunderstorm. The lightning was most beauti
fully forked, and the hail and rain perfectly inundated the
streets. The wind had been blowing very hard for two days, and

Ithe thunderstorm (fortunately for us) allayed it for some time.
   sat about an hour on deck, admiring the splendidly phospho

rescent waves. The boat seemed as if it were wading through

a sea of flame. . . .
    "London, June 27th.-- Called on Mr. Owen at the College of

Surgeons. Mr. Owen showed me a collection of beautiful
drawings belonging to Mr. Hunter, which Sir E. Home had
never got his hands upon. They are executed by William
Bell and the person who drew Mr. Hunter's plates of the G. U.
Mr. Owen is publishing them. They contain many things in
comparative anatomy which have been published in France

and Germany of late years as new and great discoveries --for

instance, the circulating and respiratory organs of the holothuria,
for the discovery of which Tiedmann was crowned by the

French Institute -- the different epochs of the development of

the heart and brain (dated 1782, and before Wolff?), the dis
section of the eye of the cuttle-fish, and of the viscera of
mollusca (prettier drawings than Cuvier's). What a gigantic
labourer in the field of science Hunter must have been ! He
began his studies late in life, and did not live to an advanced
age ; but still he seems to have found time to turn his attention
to every branch of natural and pathological science, and
whichever branch he did meddle with, came forth renovated

and improved from his magic touch. . . ."
   Dr. Simpson afterwards visited Oxford, Birmingham, and

Liverpool. At the latter place he makes a note of a visit
that greatly influenced his future life :--" Liverpool, Monday,

July 6th. --We breakfasted this morning with Dr. J. Vose, in

... IDuke Street. After breakfast we waited upon Dr. Macrorie.
      At seven set off to drink tea and spend the evening
with Mr. Grindlay and his family. . . . One of the Misses
RETURN TO SCOTLAND.                       63

Grindlay has a resemblance to Mary (his sister) ; much more
like that of a sister than of a second or third cousin. . . .

  I"Glasgow, 9th July 1835. -- Here am again in that most

sweet of all sweet countries, old Scotland. We left Liverpool

at nine o'clock last night, arrived at Greenock at half-past five
Ito-night. . . . Since leaving Liverpool
                                          had only eaten one

biscuit and a small bit of cheese at twelve o'clock to-day, and
a halfpenny- worth of ' Gibraltar Eock ' at Greenock. The

Ireason why ? was awfully sick."
                         CHAPTER IV.

   Elected President of the Royal Medical Society -- Inaugural Address --
          Principal Baird -- Negotiations with Dr. Mackintosh -- Paper on Her
         maphroditism -- Practice -- Rhymes --First Letter to Miss Grindlay --
         Hospital Work -- Mesmerism -- Appointed Assistant to Professor
         Thomson --Success as a Lecturer --Extra- Academical Lectureship --
          Address from Students -- Disposition and Temper --Candidate for the
         Professorship -- Marriage --Testimonials -- Success -- Letters.

  It was said a long time ago, by a man who had meditated

much on life and living, when describing the case of a prosperous

but ignorant man --" Moreover, he hath not seen the sun, nor
known anything." He might live many years, and yet get little

knowledge. He might have all that his soul desired, and yet be
denied the heart to enjoy it. There are more so called wide
awake men in the world than is generally supposed, who have
not seen the sun ! They neither look up nor around them.
With eyes, they see not. Few men have been more unlike the
members of this very wide- spread and numerous class than Dr.
Simpson. He had early cultivated the habit of the eye. Few
things escaped his notice. " He sees," said one, " not only every
thing that but great many that are not." The remark was
made with reference to his ready power of making facts and
circumstances serve as kind of alphabet, by whose association
he found words that told to him story few others heard. This
quality was of the greatest value to him when travelling.
Wherever he went nothing escaped his observation, and he had

no rest till he pieced his facts together, and reached inferences
is,
          a
                      a
                                    a
                  PRESIDENT OF THE " ROYAL MEDICAL."  65

helpful to him and others in his every-day life. The extracts1it,
from the journal of his Continental tour show how actively at:
                        I
work these powers had been. When he returned home, he soon
                              I
began to make good use of what he had seen and learned. In

session 1835-36, Dr. Simpson was elected Senior President of

the Eoyal Medical Society, the other Presidents for the year

being Dr. Martin Barry,1 -- " one of the manliest of Quakers, and

most endearing of men," afterwards highly distinguished as a

microscopist in Anatomy and Physiology, --Dr. J. H. Pollexfen,

and his own friend Dr. John Eeid. Later, he was chosen an

honorary member, a compliment seldom paid, and his name got
a place on the list with those of Jenner, Vaugelin, Cuvier, Aber-

nethy, Davy, Werner, Playfair, Berzelius, Astley Cooper, and
others of European or world-wide fame. " To be one of the
four annual Presidents of the Medical Society," says Dr. George

IWilson, " is to reach a very high honour ; and question whe

ther any dignity can compare in the eyes of a medical student

Iwith that which attaches to the office of Senior President.

have seen tears shed at the loss of a Presidentship, and the whole
student world is in commotion before the annual election." On

November 20, 1835, he delivered the President's Inaugural

Dissertation. His subject was Diseases of the Placenta. It

fell to him to preside at the annual dinner, and he reported
progress to Bathgate :--

   "My dear Sasdy, --We have just got a note to-night

from Principal Baird, accepting our invitation to the Medical
Society dinner. We did not believe he would accept, and
it is awkward, to say the least of as have to toast him

     Note Richard Owen, F.R.S., to Dr. Simpson. -- " desire to express my

conviction that the most important anatomical and physiological discoveries
that have been made in this country by the use of the microscope during
the present century are those which have been communicated by Dr. Martin
Barry to the Royal Society of London, which have been published in the
Philosophical Transactions, and have received the additional mark of the
estimation in which they have been held by that learned body, through the
award to the author, Dr. Barry, of the Royal medal."

                  E
66 SIE JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

as Principal of the University, and must make a speech about
the qualities of a minister and not a doctor --must, in fact, give
I Ia clerical sermon, and not a medical lecture.
                                             am afraid

must read the ' Scotch Worthies,' to see what a minister ought

to be, and of course must make Principal B. a very picture of a

clerical man. But, in truth, he is much more like some jolly

old Catholic Abbot, say of the Manuel1 Monastery, than a sedate

enthusiastic minister of the Scotch Church. . . . Many, many

thanks to Janet for the welcome present promised myself. --

Believe me ever most affectionately yours."

The writer of an able article in the Scotsman newspaper, May

10, 1870, graphically describes Dr. Simpson's appearance when
                                             He says : " Circum
presiding at a meeting of the Society.

stances led me to visit the Eoyal Medical Society, an institution

in which, for more than a century, the 6lite of the medical stu

dents attending the University of Edinburgh have been accus

tomed to assemble for the purpose of reading essays and discuss

ing medical and scientific subjects. The Presidentship of such a

Society is naturally an object of laudable ambition for every ad

vanced student or young practitioner, and many of the most

illustrious names that have adorned Science or Medicine have

recorded their elevation to that post as among their earlier

honours. On the evening referred to the chair was occupied

by a young man whose appearance was striking and peculiar.

As we entered the room, his head was bent down, to enable him,

in his elevated position, to converse with some one on the floor

of the apartment, and little was seen but a mass of long, tangled

hair, partially concealing what appeared to be a head of very

large size. He raised his head, and his countenance at once

impressed us. A poet has since described him as one of
'leonine aspect.' Not such do we remember him. A pale,

large, rather flattish face, massive, brent brows, from under which

shone eyes now piercing as it were to your inmost soul, now

1 The name of Principal Baird's estate near Linlithgow.
" ROYAL MEDICAL DISSERTATION.                                                                      67

melting into almost feminine tenderness, a coarseish nose, with

dilated nostrils, a finely-chiselled mouth, which seemed the

most expressive feature of the face, and capable of being made
at will the exponent of every passion and emotion. Who could

describe that smile ? When even the sun has tried it he has

failed, and yet who can recall those features and not realize it as
it played round the delicate lines of the upper lip, where firm

ness was strangely blended with other and apparently opposing

qualities ? Then his peculiar, rounded, soft body and limbs, as

if he had retained the infantile form in adolescence, presented

a tout ensemble which, even had we never seen it again, would
have remained indelibly impressed on our memory. ' You are in

luck to-night,' said our conductor, 'Simpson is President.'"

The Medical Society Dissertation was published in the January,

1836, number of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal.
Its preparation for the press cost him much labour: --" My dear
ISandy, -- promised Helen to write, but can't. It is five o'clock
I Iin the morning, and am confoundedly tired.
                                               have been up
Iall night correcting the last printed sheet of my paper.
                                                                                                   was

up all night on Monday -- never in bed, and have done with three

or four hours' sleep for several others. Hogh-hei, good night.

Ever most affectionately yours." His brother David wrote to
Sandy : " The doctor has got his paper finished, and happy we

all are at for think would soon have finished him with
a
                  it,

                 I

                                    it

                                                                                                a
his late sitting and his early rising."

He had at the same time other work on hand that tasked all

his energies. Several influential citizens were pleading for the

discontinuance of the Craigentinny marshes near Edinburgh,

where the sewage of the city was spread over grass lands, and

Dr. Simpson was preparing evidence against their salubrity.

  In the beginning of 1836 Dr. Simpson was elected Corre
sponding Member of the Medical Society of Ghent --the first of

  long list of foreign honours subsequently conferred on him.
In the spring of the same year, he was on terms with the late Dr.

Mackintosh, extra- academical lecturer on Obstetric Medicine,
68 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

with the view of lecturing conjointly with him, and ultimately

taking upon him the whole duties of the class. Dr. John Eeid
took great interest in the negotiations with Mackintosh, and in
his anxiety to see his friend in a position for which he believed
him admirably fitted, he wrote to Dr. Simpson's brother, John,

with reference to the money difficulty to the preliminary

arrangements. John's answer well illustrates the devotion of
the brothers to their " beloved James." Towards the close of

Eeid's life he found the answer among his papers, and forwarded

Iit to Dr. Simpson :--" send you the letter from your brother
IJohn which mentioned to you. It will be a pleasing memo

rial of a brother's love, and your own anxieties and struggles on
your starting fairly in the active business of life:" --

            I " Bathgate, 30th May 1836.

"Dear Sir, -- had your very kind letter last Thursday morn

ing, but without a date, relative to James. Nobody has his interest

more at heart than his sister, Sandy, and I, and you will confer

a most particular obligation on us by doing for him what you
Ican in regard to Dr. Mackintosh's arrangements.
                                                  must admit
Ithat after the meeting with Dr. Thomson at Moreland was a
Ilittle prejudiced in favour of his views, but am sure told James

in returning in the gig that he might use his own discretion,

Iand that should support him to the extent of all my abilities,

and so will Sandy. Be as kind to him as possible, and cheer him

Ion. Sandy and can easily raise £200 or £300 in the mean

time, and pay Mackintosh by instalments. Give him all the

consolation you can, and use all your exertions for his interest,

and such obligations shall never be forgotten by us.

   " In the concluding part of your letter you ask me to excuse

Ithe liberty you took in writing, which certainly most heartily

do, and in the name of my sister, brother, and myself, tender

you all our most warmest thanks for your attention and kind
Iness. Do not, if possible, let James's prospects be blasted, for
   would rather that my own heart were broken than that he
                         I Iam sure have told him again and
should be disappointed.
                     EXTRA-MURAL LECTURER.                                 69

again, both verbally and in writing, that he might consider
mine as the joint-stock purse of the family so long as it can be

Idivided. have to apologize to you for not writing sooner, but
I half expected to see James here on Saturday last.

  "If my presence in Edinburgh is required on the occasion, and

Ialtho' the coaches are very throng just now can easily mount

                     ' My bold grey,

                     For there 'a life in his hoof -clank

                     And hope in his neigh.'

    I" Excuse my not writing you holograph.                would rather ride

ten miles than write as many lines.                        John Simpson."

   Sandy was kept aware of the progress of negotiations with

Dr. Mackintosh :--

                                                    " 2 Teviot Row, June 10th, 1836.

   " My dear Sandy, -- You wonder at my not having written

you for eight or ten days, but the fact       iIs,  had nothing definite

to write. My arrangements with Mackintosh have not proceeded

further than what mentioned in my note to Mr. Dawson that
                     ;I                                    a;
is  to say, he offers me the Midwifery department of his museum
   a
at valuation fixed on by friend of his and another of mine, and
                         Ia
he lectures for me on any subjects may choose or think difficult
                                      a
for two, or three, or four sessions, provided begin next winter.
                                  it I        (a I
. He further wishes me to lecture next winter conjointly
.
        .

with him on Medical Jurisprudence                   subject which Dr

Fletcher taught) but am afraid that two lectures day

would be too much for me, and would distract my attention

from Midwifery in too great degree.           I     have made up my

mind to lecture on Midwifery in Edinburgh but whether with
                                                    ;

Mackintosh or not, whether next winter or the next again,                  is

...still doubtful. My only objection to Mackintosh's arrangement
    that brings me so suddenly on the field.               am by
is         is it         it

                  a          ;

                              is I
                                 iIf

                                       I
                                               I

                                                 II
                                                    I
no means so well prepared as could wish, but believe

teaching the subject to others        the best way to teach one's-

self. It             most extensive subject, and sometimes become

dispirited in thinking of but                 do begin, hope will
70 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

master it. . . . Dr. Thomson is in a great fury with        ,

Iwho led the opposition against him.  see him frequently,

and he speaks now of my arranging with Mackintosh as a
Imatter of course. . . . Dr. Allen T. and
                                           were breakfast

ing yesterday morning in Inverleith Row with Mr. Ellis (whom

John saw at Moreland). Dr. Lombard, a celebrated physician

of Geneva, was with us. . . .
I I" have not got my lodgings definitely fixed.
                                                 shall go to
IInnes, provided shall be allowed to live so far off from the
Ihospital.
            am not finally fixed, even in the hospital. Dr.
IHamilton has only newly returned from Paris.
                                                        am to see

Dr. H. to-night, and fix with him. The great objection to
IInnes's house is that it is up two flights of stairs.
... Iin Teviot Eow with a Miss Simpson.                 am living

                                         am scarcely off my
Ifeet from morning to night, running after this and that.
                                                           saw

fourteen patients on Tuesday in every different quarter of the

Itown · and accustomed as have been to sitting for four years,

my poor legs are like to rebel at the great use made of them.

I IAnd then the sitting up all night ; but my mind is made up for
it all, and am contented.      weary for Saturday eight days to

have a talk over the matter with you all at Bathgate. --Yours

ever,                                      J. Y. Simpson."

  In 1836 he wrote one important paper, and planned others

that were afterwards published. Having engaged to write the
article Hermaphroditism for Todd's Cyclopaedia of Anatomy
and Physiology, he was looking earnestly about him for illus

trative facts among the lower animals. Years before, he had

noted with much interest its occurrence among birds, and he
now asked his Bathgate friends to help him to specimens.

                                                " 2 Teviot Eow, Friday morning.
    " My dear Sandy, --Many, many thanks to you and to Mr.
Angus for your ready attention to my hen commission. The

Ione you have got must be a very interesting one, and have a

great itching to have the dissection of it just now, but have
                SCIENTIFIC WORK.                      71

made up my mind to resist the temptation for the present, and

will wait for some months till its plumage is in perfection, and

the strange circumstances stated by Mr. David Angus regarding

its habits be fully ascertained by some new experiments and

observations. John, perhaps, will be so good as keep her, or

him, at the Brewery, and there watch its habits for me till
Isummer.
          have half promised the skin to Professor Jamieson,

to stuff for the Museum. Mr. Simpson, at the poultry-market

here, has seen several hens resembling her, but nobody has

followed up the subject as a matter of scientific observation,
Iand therefore
                wish much to do so, and to collect as many

cases as possible. The other hen you mention you may send

in at once if you get her, provided she is an old one that has

changed into the male plumage. Such would be quite a case
Ifor my present paper.
                        am getting on satisfactorily with the
I Iessay whenever can get half an hour to sit at it ; but am
Ireally so busy otherwise, that begin to be afraid it will not
... Ibe ready in time.
                        have just now a constant journeying

from one part to another of the town from breakfast-time till

Ithree or four o'clock, when generally find myself in Duncan

Street, where Helen is always kind enough to keep a slice of
Ianything that has been at dinner for my tea.
                                               have never
Idined in Teviot Eow yet, except, some days when have not
Igot down, on a slice of bread and cheese.
                                            have almost
Ialways several visits between tea and supper, and sleep, can

... Iassure you, without rocking. The patients are mostly poor, it
is true, but still they are patients.  shall not be dis

heartened, but shall put a ' stout heart to a stey brae,' and

always remember the motto, which Mary alludes to in her very
Ifkind letter, of ' patience and perseverance,' etc.
                                                      my health
I Ibe spared me, do hope that may get into practice sufficient to
Ikeep me respectably after the lapse of some years ; but know
Iyears must pass before that. At present enjoy the best

possible spirits and health, and with all my toils, was never

Ihappier or healthier. On Wednesday morning was wakened
72 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

... Iby my bell at two, and the hospital nurse and Miss Eussell's
servant were both standing at the door for me.  got one
Icase over and Miss Eussell visited before four, when returned

home, got a cup of tea, and was not disturbed from my desk

Itill seven. Yesterday morning (Thursday) was again roused

at two to a bad case, was again back by four, and again wrote
Itill breakfast- time.
... Iance.              drink tea on these occasions at no allow

             had just retired last night to bed when Mr.

Cormack (whom John knows as the author of the work on

Creosote) called, and a woman having become ill in the

hospital, we went down there together. He slept with me, and

has just left me a few minutes ago to indite this long epistle.

I. . . Dr. Eeid and were elected Fellows of the College of
IPhysicians last week, without, believe, a single black ball.

IThe letter of credit arrived quite safe, and went yesterday to

pay from it the Government stamp for my diploma, which, it
I Inow seems, is £25 instead of £20.
                                      know not how shall

ever be able fully to repay John and you for all your kindness

in these money matters, and for all the still kinder expressions

which always accompany them. The thoughts about them

are the only ones which interfere with me at present in my
Ihappiness.
             have, too, been getting a case of some old but

still expensive works on Midwifery within these few days,

Iwhich, for my own sake, could not possibly miss, as they are
Ivery rare, and yet, for your sakes, felt extreme reluctance and

unhappiness in getting them placed to my account . . . And

believe me ever most affectionately,  J. Y. Simpson."

   The hen referred to above was forwarded a few days after.

" The hen," he wrote, " oh, it is really a glorious one, and will

make a beautiful preparation. It is perfect profanation for

Mary to speak of making cockieleekie with such a bird." But

Ihe had other than scientific wants to attend to. " received

my ale safe, and give the Johns my best thanks for it. Tell

IMary my boots fitted excellently, only could not approve of
                        HOSPITAL WORK.                                               73

the iron tackets. She says you were thinking of getting Geddes

Ito make me a pair, which cannot refuse, as they are so expen
Isive here, and wear so many of them. Tell John my paper

was very favourably reviewed in a late number of one of the
London medical journals, and that they are printing it in toto

there."

   Eeferring to his life at this time he said :--" In May 1836,
in order to become more thoroughly acquainted with practical

Imidwifery, applied for the situation of house-surgeon to the

Lying-in Hospital of this city, and, through the great kindness

Iand liberality of Dr. Hamilton, was immediately appointed to

    and continued to act in that Institution for upwards of
it,

         I

                                          it,
                                                                                                          :
                                              I
                                                                                                it,
twelve months." He had set his heart on this position, and

when, for several months, obstacles seemed to intervene, he
Ifwrote in much depression to Bathgate --"
                                            don't get

what shall do next ?" After his appointment his general

practice greatly increased. In the Hospital itself, his zeal,

activity, and enterprise were speedily felt. His patients were

now not the poor alone. Prospects were brightening, and he
again began to sing. After an interval of several years, " the

rhyming fit," as he called again visited him, and continued

without interruptions, throughout June, the month of his vaca
tion, which, he said, was given " to sentiment and somebody,"

and, in less force, till the end of 1837. Here are some of the

fruits. They are not much worth, but they help us to under

stand the man.

A Stray Leaf with some Stray Rhymes, for Preface to the
      Album of Songs, Sonnets, Songlets, etc. etc., of Miss Maria

       Bauchope of Kinneil. June 1837.
1
X.n. --The nightingaleaa

                is
                               a

                                                                  a
                                                                                  a
                        not native of Scotland, and the bird has

seldom been seen on this side of the Border. Several years ago, however,
one came and sung for some time in Kinneil wood, to the great delight
of his Majesty's neighbouring lieges, and he left behind him fair legatee.

Oh once lonely nightingale
   Stray'd afar to our northern strand,

Lured by love of upland and dale,
   And the charms of our mountain land.
Si SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

      At last, in the olden wood of Kinneil,

         He folded his wearied wing,
      And bade its waken'd echoes swell

         With notes so rich and ravishing,
      That the startled Avon stopped to chide

      The murmurings of his noisy tide,

      And man, enchanted with      the song,               long,'
      Stood charm'd " for many     a live-night

            List'ning to Nature's minstrel-king.

      'Twas neither far nor long he sought,

            For soon the minstrel's glancing eye

      The object of his fond wish caught,

            As e'en Maria's self was nigh !

      Then straight he poured into her soul

            That racy flood of living song,

      · By which, with siren-like control,

            The lady thralls her list'ning throng ;

      Those wild woodnotes of gloom and glee
      By whose strange soothing witchery

      O'er the still'd heart a charm is thrown,

      Forcing   the      sopfirmitagoifcmmaenlotdoy.owl n
          The  spell

But Miss Maria was not the " somebody " to whom the young

doctor's thoughts chiefly turned.  On his return from the

Continent he had visited Liverpool, with the view not only of

finding a ready port to Scotland, but mainly of making the

acquaintance of his distant relatives Mr. Grindlay, shipowner,

and his wife. He had already begun to think of one of the

Misses Grindlay oftener and more tenderly than of any other

of his lady friends. At the close of the session he wrote to

Miss Grindlay a very long letter, from which the following

extracts are made. The references to himself, his work, cir

cumstances, and prospects are not after the fashion of young

love. But they show his great anxiety to make the family

well acquainted with himself and his manner of life.

" My  dear  Miss         Grindlay. --' Long                          " May 6th, 1836.
                                                           looked and wished for

1 Among those who visited Kinneil to hear the nightingale sing in the

moonlight was a Bathgate weaver. After listening for a little,     "heIts'us ropnrilsyeda
the silent crowd by saying, as he turned away with contempt,

yellow yoit gane daft."
             LETTER TO MISS GRINDLAY.                      75

Icomes at last,' --so be it.          received your welcome epistle to

day, and was happy to see that you were keeping somewhat
Ibetter.
             hope you will have the good sense to get as well as
ever again --and that immediately -- in order to enjoy the pre

sent delightful weather. To keep unwell under such laughing

suns and smiling skies as we have had for some days would, to

say the least, be very stupid and ridiculous.
I" So my lectures have closed, and am again free, in every
Isense of that little but comprehensive word.
                                                was exceedingly
Iglad when they were finished--as really at last was almost
Ifinished with them. Since their termination, have had both
Iwhite and blue days -- the latter but rarely.
                                                have been busied

at ' orra ' moments with conducting the medical evidence for
Ifreeing poor Mr. J., the minister of K., at whose trial have

been three times across the water since you left. It is to be

resumed upon the 4th of June, when six or eight doctors from
IEdinburgh will compear as witnesses in his favour.
                                                     think

we are sure to gain.

  I" expect my English boarder next week, or rather the end

of this week. He is to give me £50 a year, and Tom Girdwood
£40 -- that
I
                        is,

                        aI
             as long as keep to my present humble lodgings.

   was supping last night with my friend Dr. M., who has come
to oppose me in my lecturing next winter. He has taken
                                                    IaI
self-contained house, at rent of £65, and intends to keep
                                                              it a
up with boarders. His mother his housekeeper.is       envy
him in nothing but the power of furnishing such      place.

Dr. has eight boarders, at £80 each per annum.       am
S.
        a

              I

                                   a
getting quite learned in these concerns, and would have said

more about them, had not happened just now to lift my head,

and take thought and sigh upon the matter. Then came

the idea that you would probably be inclined to laugh at the

unusual domesticwards strain my pen has been unwittingly

running into -- and so, and so, bid the subject for the pre
sent -- Goodbye.'

   " Nicholas Nickleby -- Why, Nicholas Nickleby surely as
'                                               is
                               !

                      I
76 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

good and clever and racy as Pickwick. The account of the joint-

stock meeting in the first number is inimitably good, and only too

true ; and the idea in the second, of the poor half-naked porter,
who had ' slept in a stable and breakfasted at a pump,' is enough
to keep up the character of Boz, were it nothing else. -- (There

Iis an episode !)
    " have just returned from bleeding Cinderella's mamma

for a severe attack' of cold. . . . You ask, Are we immense
Ifriends ?
              don't exactly know. That 's plain and plump at
least. Much more than we were perhaps --but not exactly

immense. Mr.                         wrote me some time ago that her aunt
Itold him accidentally that was to be accepted (what a fearful
Iword !) if offered (what a still more fearful operation
                                     ;

                                         is itI

                                                          !),I
and her friends in the country have set       down as 'all

settled.' It  all very flattering, and she    a sweet and
II
                  islovely girl, but not exactly the person who,think, would
                                  .
              Imake me happy, or at least happiest and since you left

have been presumptuous enough to think for myself in these

little items. . .
   " have been on the sick-list repeatedly since you left, with

headaches, etc. etc. hate the intermeddlements of these folks

...yclept doctors. They are really great pest, and bad patient.
          had my head leeched on the Friday, and on coming home
                                     a

                                             it

                                                   I

                                                                        a

                                                               Ia
from my evening visits on the Sunday at ten o'clock, found

message ordering me off to Kirkcaldy by six next morning.

slept two hours, and wrote out the evidence during the remain

ing six -- sat in Court from twelve o'clock on Monday till three
o'clock on Tuesday morning -- was at again after breakfast --
returned to Edinburgh about six on Tuesday evening --went to
bed for an hour, with swollen face -- rose at eight, and danced

at party of Mrs. Walker's till my face was considerably better
-- that till three on Wednesday morning, and when came
a                                    I

  I                                                                   a
         is,
                                 a                       I
home sat down to my lecture!!        have tried two or three

times to get up early since the lectures finished, but have been

regularly knocked up, or rather down again, with megrim
           VEKSES.  77

headache.  But, after all, perhaps it is only laziness. -- Yours
always,                                                J. Y. S."

   Yet he found time to write verses for ladies' albums. Among
these are six stanzas on " My Fatherland." One may serve as

--a specimen :

                           Oh bear me to my Fatherland,
                           Nor say the wish is wild and vain ;

                        My foot must touch its native strand
                           Ere this sick heart be roused again.

                           Strangers ! 'tis true your southern sky
                              Has tints more bright, a breath more bland,

                     But vain these charms to me --for why ?

                               'Tis not the blue sky of my Fatherland.

    Then there are three stanzas on a " Pansy, plucked from a

very rich bed of them under a young lady's special care and

cultivation :"

                    Would the Greek sage's creed were true ! 1
                        That when had passed life's struggling hour

                       The soul, at last unprisoned, flew,
                          Each to its own self -chosen flower

                    And (fated now no more to roam)
                          There found a bright Elysian home.

    But the month that was to have been given to song and the

enjoyment of nature's sunshine, had its shadows. Like many
thinkers, he had his periods of deep depression. Even then he

was becoming acquainted with that seriousness, if not sadness,

which comes to most men of studious habits, with growing fre

quency as years glide past. Miss Grindlay was on a visit to

some relatives at Cameron Bridge, Fife, when he forwarded the
following letter, in the erroneous belief that June 27th, not 7th,
was his birthday : --

                                          " 9 Deanhaugh Street, 28th June 1837.

   " My dear Miss Grindlay, --Yesterday was my twenty-sixth
birth -day; and what a fearful waste of time is summed up in that
little numeral ! When we deduct the periods spent in sleeping,

   1 " Pythagoras, in the spirit of true poetry rather than of philosophy,
conceived that the soul of man after death took up its abode in flowers, etc."
78 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

in eating, in amusement, in ennui, in idleness, and in doing

everything but what ought to have been done, it is awful to

think how small a fraction of time out of these twenty-six years
I Ihas been employed as it ought to have been.
                                           am always,
Ifthink, sad on my birth-day, and yesterday sadder than ever.
I were superstitious (and who is free from some little taint of it
Iat times ?) would almost regard yesterday as darkly ominous
Ito me. All day long was in the blues, and could not manage

to get my mind to look to the sunny side of this world and its

struggles. It was one of those days --those fitful days of gloom
--in which the past appeared to me as almost lost,--the future

as a labyrinth of vexations and disappointments, and poverty
Iand dependence.
                  got three wounds to my spirits during the
I Iday. First, was told of a lady whom was fully reckoning

upon for a patient, having called in another practitioner because

I Iwas not married. Second, had a pleasant promise broken to
Ime. And thirdly, and principally, felt dreadfully distressed

and out of humour with myself in having, however inadvertently

on my part, led you to suppose that your previous letter had
' offended me ' in some way. . . . Now you threaten to pry no

more into my affairs nor to write me again whatever is at the time

uppermost in your thoughts. But you must recall both resolu

tions, in accordance with your former offer to write me in friend

ship, for that friendship must surely be only fit for the frigid zone,

which is not warmed by all that feeling which puts ever to flight

Isuch calm and calculating resolutions as these two ; and do

most sincerely trust that ours is not destined to degenerate so soon.

You have full and unlimited powers to make all inquiries at my

pen about Cinderella or anybody else, to quiz me or tease me
I Iin any way your ingenuity may devise.
                                           shall, am sure,

never feel offended at you, and if you stop making all your usual

Iinquiries will be extremely apt to come to the conclusion that

/ have been your offender. Do write me again on Monday (you
Ican't guess how weary for these Monday evenings), and make
Ime certain that you are my friend again.
                                           have few, very few

indeed. . . .
                     VERSES.                              79

I" have seen a very flattering book to-night, a work that has

long been expected from Dr. Montgomery of Dublin, one of the

most rising professors and practitioners there. He has noticed

Ia little essay which sent some time ago to the Dublin Medical

Journal in a manner highly pleasing to me, and far, far beyond

its merits. There are six lines of pure egotism for you ! . . .

  I" was going to send you Dr. Sharon Turner's History of the

Flood, but could not get hold of it at the library. It is a most

interesting geological work. What did you think of Lyell ?

Would you like the first volume again, or any of the subsequent
Iones ?
         have sent Whewell's Bridgewater Treatise, which has

always been my favourite, among these works. You will find,

I think, one or two chapters near the beginning, and most of

those in the second part of the book, on the ' Stability and Vast-

ness of the Universe,' etc., very beautiful and interesting. You
Imay keep it for two or three weeks.
                                      have got the loan for nine

or ten days of the work on ' Enthusiasm,' which you will be

so good as to return me on Monday eight days. You will find

some chapters interesting, if you have not time to read the

whole. What do you think of my friend Dr. Hibbert's book

on Apparitions ? It is a very curious one. . . . Now, fully

Iexpecting to hear from you on Monday, remain, my dear

coz, your very sincere friend,        James Y. Simpson."

Dr. Simpson, in company of his friend Dr. Eeid, again visited

Liverpool in the autumn of 1 837. During this visit he inserted

a long poem in Miss  Grindlay's  Album,  on  The Last  of the

--Shipwrecked Crew

         O'er the dark seas his eyes are now
            With straining gaze and wildness cast,

         And on his broad and manly brow
            Thoughts are gathering thick and fast :

         These thoughts -- they reck not of the death
         That glares around, above, beneath,
         But far o'er oceans wide they roam,

         Where those he loves the most on earth
         Are nestled 'round one happy hearth.
80 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   On his return he wrote to the Misses Grindlay :--

                                   " 2 Deanhaugh Street, Tuesday, Sept. 1837.
   I"My dear Cousins, -- Here are we (I and the hat) safely
fixed at last in No. 2 Deanhaugh Street.  am happy to add
Ithat Dr. Eeid, Mr. Scott, and were never in any degree sea
Isick during the passage. Indeed, never had a more pleasant
Isail. After we left Liverpool
                                   sat musing upon deck till
sunset -- and a beautiful and gorgeous sunset it was. By that

time our vessel was dashing on most gallantly before a fresh

Ibut favourable breeze. . . . After tea Dr. Eeid and played at

drafts  that word correctly spelled till about ten. We
   it                              '

       ! (isI                              it a
                                                           ?)
                                                                                 a
                                                                                                            ;

                                                                                           a
then came on deck to enjoy the night-scene--and such night

as was         will not soon forget it. Our vessel was by that

time joyfully and merrily dancing along the coast of Man--
with the wide and open sea for ballroom, --and that old
   '

patent, silver-beamed lamp of Dame Nature's --the moon -- for

a  bright and laughing chandelier to -- and an orchestra but

here my simile must really stop, unless you can with me for

moment be disciples of the Old Greek astronomers, and believe

with them in the music of the spheres and stars, every one of

which doth (as                     writ, at least, somewhere or other in the
   I

                     it

                             ' is
beautiful moonlight scene of Shakespeare's Merchant Venice) --
                                                          .
                    in his motions like some angel sing,
        Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubim.' .        . of

                                                                   I
   " stopped in Glasgow till four o'clock, when Dr. Eeid and
set off for Bathgate. My friends there were all astonished at

my staying so long, more particularly since my principal pro

fessional opponent in Stockbridge had run away in my absence,

and some of his patients were promising to put themselves

under my charge. Of this, however, could have no know
I

        it

             I
                     I

                                     it

                                        I

                                                                                                   a
ledge in Liverpool.                have been most abundantly teased since

   came back, but bear all with the philosophy of Stoic.

Everybody about Bathgate, and many in Edinburgh here

(for seems have by my absence made more noise in the
                   MESMERISM.                                 81

Iworld than ever could do by my presence), knows a great
I Ideal more about her than myself do.
                                        was told since my

return the number of silk gowns she had when in Edinburgh

by one person, the number of bonnets by another, the shape of

her mouth by a third, the colour of her face by a fourth, the

exact amount of her fortune by a fifth, etc. The gentleman

who is to bring me letters from her does not come home till

--IFriday, instead of a week ago, which is abundantly teasing. . . .
remain, yours very sincerely,           J. Y. Simpson."

   He had great pleasure in hospital work, and did it thoroughly.
Recently he had often asked, " Cannot something be done to

render the patient unconscious while under acute pain, without

interfering with the free and healthy play of natural functions?"

At the earnest solicitation of an English friend, he had turned

his attention to Mesmerism, which at the time was much

talked of in the metropolis.   With eager promptness he at

once began to try to set it in useful relations. Might not the

fulfilment of his anaesthesia dreams lie in this direction ?

  I" My dear Sandy, -- was a great sceptic four weeks ago,

and laughed at it all, but have since seen enough to stagger

Ime. Tell John that mad dogs are nothing to it. Yesterday
    magnetized, for instance, a young woman, by waving my

hand only in a looking-glass behind her back, in which her

shadow was reflected, and she was so sound asleep in three

minutes that you could not wake her by pinching, rugging,

etc. etc., as severely at her as you pleased. It would just

Ihave taken place, believe, as well if the looking-glass had
Inot been there ; but tried the experiment with it to please

some one present. . . . Dr. Abercrombie, Alison, etc. etc.,

were present. Tell Dr. Dawson that he should come in and
Isee the effects.
                   don't know what to believe about it ; but
Icertainly the phenomena are very wonderful, and could
Inot have believed them except
                                had seen them myself. . . .
I have had all the principal medical men here seeing it done
82 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Iat my hospital.  have sent you an account of some experi

ments upon it at London, which you will find very diverting.
--Ever most affectionately yours,
                                              J. Y. Simpson."

I have heard him illustrate the " gullibility " of the mes

meric patient, by referring to the case of a nervous lady who

used to come to him daily to be set asleep. On one occasion

Ihe said :--" leave town to-morrow for London, but if you
Ithink of me at the appointed time shall bring on the sleep

in the usual way." He forgot his promise, but she went to

sleep at the minute named !

   In the autumn of 1837 he wrote to his brother :--

                                                                      " Saturday morning.

  I" My dear Sandy, -- write you by James Wallace to tell
Iyou how matters are getting on with Dr. Thomson, as dare

say you have heard or seen in the newspapers of his having

resigned his Professorship, and are anxious to know the result.

IAt the same time that was writing Mary last Tuesday morn

ing of his intention of retiring from public life, he made up his
mind to give in his resignation, and it was accordingly sent off

to the Lord Provost, and laid by him before the Council that

day. The Council referred it to the College Committee. . . .

If an assistant is merely recommended, Dr. T. says that he

shall recommend me to the Council, and not allow William to

take as would, in fact, be setting aside his hopes of ever
it,

      it

being elected Professor, or, at least,  I itwould plainly imply

their wish not to make him one. But this as yet quite
                                              is is     I
private affair between Dr. T. and me, and not to be men           a

tioned out of doors. In all probability shall be left to my

own exertions, and all your kindnesses again.        I  shall write

any further particulars by the earliest opportunity. -- am,

yours ever most affectionately, in great haste,

                                             "J. Y. Simpson."

An assistant was to be appointed, and Professor Thomson

strongly recommended Dr. Simpson.           In his letter to the
            INTERIM LECTURER ON PATHOLOGY.                      83

Town Council, Dr. Thomson refers to him " as fully qualified

to conduct the business of the Pathology class," and adds, his
" papers have been received with approbation by the profession

at large."

                               " Friday, half-past eleven A.M.
I I" My dear Sandy, -- write in great haste.
                                              have been up

writing since two o'clock this morning at a paper which is

going off to London, and it is time to be running to my patients.

. . . Did you read the scurrilous attack on Dr. Thomson in

the reports of the Town Council? . . . Dr. William came

down yesterday. He is not to be allowed to lecture this win

Iter by the Council, and am to be named to them on Tuesday

first, or second, as interim lecturer on Pathology for the ensuing

winter. They are to object to whomsoever Dr. Thomson pro

Iposes, so that shall be abundantly blackguarded, no doubt,

and perhaps not allowed. It may be given to some Professors

to divide the duty amongst them. My age is the great draw
I Iback.
            wish  had John's white head. . . . Tell Mary

Ifthat Miss Grindlay goes to Boness next week.  she has a
Ispare bed, should like greatly to offer her a night's entertain

...ment in Bathgate. She is very anxious to know Mary, and is
really an excellent creature.                   J. Y. S."

                                                "Tuesday forenoon, 31st October 1837.

I" My dear Sandy, -- write you with my mind whirling in

a vortex of doubts and difficulties. To-day the Pathology
I Iquestion comes on in the Council, and care not though be
Iout-voted.
             only wish that they will decide it one way or

another. Dr. Mackintosh died on Saturday of fever. . . .

  I" have been up writing a paper for the Edinburgh Medical

Journal since three this morning. . . . Tell Mary that Miss
IGrindlay is at Boness. She went yesterday ; but
                                                  per
suaded her past her Bathgate trip this time. --With kindest

Irespects to Janet and my nephews, remain, yours ever affec
                                              J. Y. S."
tionately,
84 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

                         " 80 George Street, Tuesday evening, seven o'clock.

I" My dear Sandy, -- have been elected interim-lecturer on

Pathology to-day, the Dean of Faculty having told the Council
that they could not interfere with Dr. Thomson's appointment.

The College Bailie has orders to instal me. There was much
squabbling about the matter. --In great haste, yours ever most
                                     J. Y. Simpson."
affectionately,

I" My dear Sandy, -- get on most famously now with the
Ilectures.
            talk them all from a small leaf of short notes, and

manage to gab out an hour, often so as to astonish myself at

my own fluency and impudence. Dr. T. is going to lecture on

I Ithe Wednesdays, which think rather bad of him ; but cannot
Ihelp it. He is to give me £100 for the six months' work.

rise regularly at three in the morning, in order to get all ready
Iby breakfast.
                 shall give you all particulars when out at

Christmas. . . .
   " Excuse great haste, and with kindest love to all, believe

me, ever most affectionately yours,  James Y. Simpson.

" P.S. --Many thanks for the shortbread.

" Friday forenoon -- running off to the class."

   At the close of the session an address, signed by fifty-three
students, was presented to him, in which they express their
" high sense of the zeal, fidelity, and success with which he dis

charged the duties of the professorial chair, their admiration
of his high talents, of the varied and extensive research which
he has displayed, and of his uniform and kind affability, which,
while it exalted him in the eyes of all as a teacher, endeared

him to each as a friend."

   Still in error as to his birthday, he writes to Miss Grindlay
in the summer of 1838 :--

                                                      " 21th June, nine o'clock p.m.

   "My dear Miss Grindlay, -- This is the 27th of June, and

Imy twenty-seventh birthday, and the day on which promised

to charge you a postage. Well, it is unfortunate that it is so,
BIETH-DAY MUSINGS.                                       85

I Ias do not happen to be in a very quill-driving mood.  am
Inot blue--no, not at all -- but have had a long day's work,

and would not ask my eyelids to-night to keep longer apart for

any person except your own cousinly self. Yes, 'tis certainly

again the 27th of June, and many things have happened in my

It' eccentric career ' since the same day last year.  has been a

year of wild downfallings and uprisings, -- of changing lights

and shadows. There was never a year, or at least (to speak of

Ithe winter alone) a session, in which did so much, and, at the

same time, so little. Indeed, last winter was a strange blend
ing of working and romping, -- of study and idleness, --of plea
sure and pathology, --of lecturing and laughing,--of investigat
Iing the phenomena of diseases and dinner parties, -- of agues
and quadrilles, --of insanity and coquetry.  had everything

in excess except sleep, and the paucity of it made room for

the superfluity of everything else,--good, bad, and indifferent.
If my head were clear enough to-night to cast up the gains

I Iand losses, dare say, or at least hope, that it would be in

favour of the former. . . .
  I" It was decidedly, as can see now, rather an unfortunate
I Istep that took when accepted of the interim-lectureship
Iof Pathology last winter.
                             ought to have been lecturing for

myself, and by omitting to do so have allowed others to get

Istarted before me in that field. But shall try and make up

to them next winter. The race of life is a long one in some

Irespects, so long that hope the advantage they have gained

will only stimulate me more to exert myself, with the hope of

Igaining upon them ere the end of it. . . . This summer

have been as yet comparatively idle, except in so far as my

practice is concerned, and that has increased considerably.
I IBut have been studying or writing too little.
                                                  had scarcely

a good enough stock of health, to be sure, to allow me to do
I Imuch ; but might and should have done more.
Ibegin directly to prepare my winter lectures.        intend to

                                                was up to-day

at three o'clock, finishing an essay for the next or October
86 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Inumber of the Edinburgh Medical Journal.                       don't rise so
Iearly above once or twice a week, though should do so. The
I Isubject is a new one ; and don't think me egotistical if say
If I Ihope to get some credit by it.
Iacting the hypocrite.              said otherwise would be

                        was informed this week that an Italian

translation in full of one of my essays had been published in

the Medical Journal of Milan. That is something like an

honour. It was also reprinted in a London journal. How
Ireally egotistical
                     am to-night ! That feeling will be de

stroyed by Saturday, for then the London quarterly journals

come down, and one of them will be sure to contain a slicy
Ireview of my paper on Cholera. So be it.
                                                                shall bear it
like a Stoic -- won't I? . . . Cinderella is quite recovered

       is
           a

                 I is,I
                                                     a
                                                          a

                                                                                                                                           ;

                                                                                                        a
again. . . . She     confess,       lovely young lady but

somehow or other have come to think this summer that

there     great difference between  lovely sweetheart and
lovely wife,--between the beauty and ornament of the draw
ing and ball room and that of one's domestic fireside, --be

tween companion in dance and        companion in life.
       a       if                   a                              .
                                           a
                        is                                          a. I
                            a
have no doubt that Cinderella will make good and beautiful

wife to any one who able to maintain her but have my
                                                             ;  I

strong doubts     she could make any one very happy where

there were many domestic cares and concerns to annoy. .
Now for sleep, but before doing so, let me, in conclusion, be

seech you to write me soon, soon shall always willingly pay(I
post). My kindest regards to the young ladies, and in the

meantime believe me your ever affectionate cousin,
                                                         " James Y. Simpson."

   In the session of 1838-39, Dr. Simpson delivered his first

course of lectures on Obstetric Medicine, in the Edinburgh
Extra- Academical School. His gifts as scientific teacher, and
his influence over his students, are referred to in documents

presented to him by his class at the close of the session. The
highest approbation expressed of " the unwearied diligence
                     is

                                                          a
SUCCESS AS A LECTURER.  87

 and assiduity with which he discharged the important duties
 of a teacher." " The ready and fluent manner in which the lec

 tures were delivered ; the extensive and intimate acquaintance

 with his subject, and with collateral branches of medicine,
 which he displayed ; and his mildness and suavity of manner "
 are specially referred to. Dr. W. Coke, who had been chosen

 to present the address, added, "Your lectures have, on all

 occasions, discovered such a depth of research, such an extent
 of reading, both of foreign authors and of those of our own
country, such an intimate acquaintance with every branch of

your subject, as often excited our surprise, and called forth
 our applause."

    His first session as a lecturer was a success. But this was
the reward of work, not the triumph of genius. Never, indeed,
had he worked so hard as during that session. He gave much
time and care to the preparation of his lectures, wrote several
valuable papers in the literature of his profession, kept himself
fully abreast of general medical science, and gave himself with
devotion to his now rapidly increasing practice. After tracing

Ihis life at this time, in comparing what he wrote and did with

his conscientious methods of writing and doing, have felt

that there are few instances, if any, on record, of so much work
well done in so brief a period. His hopes were high ; his love

of science deep ; he had a class in complete sympathy with

himself -- a never-failing spur ; he believed that work could

win success ; and his practice promised to yield a competency

and allow him to follow his scientific studies. All this kept
him in good heart throughout the Session. As it drew to a

close, and hours of idleness seemed for a season fairly within

reach, he fell back on his old habit of versifying ; he laughed

and " lisped in numbers." 1 In him, too, the child ever con

tinued companion of the man. He carried the fresh feelings
of childhood into the matured powers of manhood. Thus
through life his readiness to enter with children into childhood's

     1 Mrs. Thin, Ormiaton Lodge, North Brixton, at whose father's house
88 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

ways-- to romp with a girl, have a game with a boy, or to

sport with a kitten or a dog. After the close of the session,

his letters to his friends in Bathgate and Liverpool were more

than usually happy and playful.

                  " 2 Deanhaugh Street, April 12, 1839.
" My dear Miss Grindlay, --Have you got 7 Jd. to spare to
Ithe postman ?
                  have got half-an-hour to spare till my coffee

is ready, and intend patriotically to devote it to the good of

my country's exchequer, by fining you the said sum for your

wilful negligence and dead perverse silence. In lieu of your

I7 Jd. give you three facts (price 2jd. each), dear --very !
   I1. have at last taken the house round the

corner,           ...                                 £0 0 2|
I2. have hired a housekeeper from Dublin,
                                                       J0 0 2 £
3. Miss           is married at last to a sailor,
                                                        002

                                                      £0 0 7£

Dr. S. was, at this period, a frequent guest, has sent me a copy of verses

entitled --
Sleepy Snatches from my Rhyming Dream, and Ruminations regarding

       my excellent Chicken, 19th March 1839 (accompanied by the worthy
        creature's breastbone).

                  My noble, lordly, high-bred chicken,
                    Well wert thou worth a gourmand's picking ;
                     Thy savoury flesh, so sweetly pure,
                     Would have charmed the veriest epicure.

         Thou sacred bone that guard'st the breast,

         I summon thee from midst the rest !

         Let not one instant now be lost,

         But speed thee through the Penny Post.

On another occasion his card was handed in, bearing the following lines :--
                           " Dr. S., with great regret,

                  Finds himself so much beset

                  With sickly, dead, and dying,

                  As almost sets his eyes a-crying ;                             ,

                  Hence ye of No. 23,

                  Pray don't wait for him to tea."

"On one occasion," adds Mrs. Thin, "he took my sisters to see the

' capping ' in the College, and when the Professors entered, pointing to Pro
                                        that old gentleman? -- well,
fessor Hamilton,  he said, 'Do you see                                that's my

gown.' "
                      ROBERT CHAMBERS.                                     89

What do you think of your bargain ?--Yours very faith

fully,                                                     J. Y. Simpson.

  I I" P.S.-- don't know whether to add a postscript or not.

Iscarcely think you deserve one ; at least, know this, that to
Inone other among womankind would write one after having

now three or four unanswered. So pray consider yourself

highly honoured and flattered by it. . . .
" The facts in the preceding page perhaps require no com
            Ihas married a Yorkshire sailor.
ment. Miss                                                 pity him

most sincerely. Amen. Not at all sorry, not in the most

minute degree. . . .
I I" The house is perhaps bold.
                                                           was frightened after did
I Iit ; but feel did right. My practice has greatly increased
I Iin this neighbourhood, so could not dream of quitting it.

have drawn about £90 since 1st January, and probably may

make out £300 this year. My landlady is very kind to me,

but not civil to my patients, and forgetful of messages, so that

I would have been obliged to quit. All my friends advised me
Ito take the house in question. At last referred the matter to

Dr. Eobertson, who used to lecture me against housekeeping.

Considering the state of my practice, etc. etc., he strongly ad

        a
                  a
                          it,

                                      it

                                                      is,
vised me to take and so was closed at once. The rent
                                                           Ia
£28, front door, self-contained, oil-painted and papered, etc.II
etc. -- in all, most eligible situation, and comfortable home.        I I is

What sweet little word that one that have known for                                     is

years now in name, not in essence. . . .                   over

  "I shall be in the furnishing horrors after this week
-- sad job. My brother, the baker at Bathgate, gives me the
Ia

                            I

                                                    a
money required in loan, and pay him back as can. . . .
   " have been lecturing twice day for some time past, and

have very nearly broken my health once or twice, but shall

have fourteen days' vacation from that directly.           have lately

become acquainted with Eobert Chambers, the editor of

Chambers's Edinburgh Journal, delightful personage.        have
                      a
90 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

two notes lying before me from a young lady of great talent

who is writing some articles for his Journal. It is an odd sort

of case. She is intimate with Lord Jeffrey and Professor

Pillans, two great critics, who have praised her productions in

MS., and advised her to become authoress. None of her own

family know of them, and she has twice sent for me of late

(within the last three days) to listen to and have my advice

I Iupon them. It seems have one quality as a critic, that

don't flatter her so much as the others, and she is quite a char

acter to despise it. Now pray do write a word or two, or
Ireally shall take it as a sufficient hint that my silence would
                          J. Y. S.
be preferred.
" Your newspapers are good, but nothing to a letter."

   At Whitsuntide term, 1839, he took possession of the house

1 Dean Terrace, where a n ote from Mary soon reached him ;
" How do you like your ain Tvouse ? Every visitor from Edin
burgh brings us word of your prosperity, or rather of your in

Idustry and its reward. No one, am sure, rejoices more to
Ihear it than do." Since April he had been engrossed with

"plenishing, patients, and papers;" but, busy as he was, he
took great interest in the homeliest cares and wants of his

friends. Sandy was informed that -- " Tom's bakehouse took

fire on Saturday, and in a few minutes £60 worth of biscuit
was wasted," and asked to report that he had forgotten " Dr.
Dawson's trousers' piece, but he would send it on Saturday,
with a copy of his paper, which had been translated into
French, and praised by various English journals in very flatter
ing terms." Mary was told that he would " look to the gas

things, and make all arrangements about her gas lustre." In

nearly every letter, messages were sent to old school-fellows in

very humble walks of life, touching matters which he knew

would interest them, but which could not be of the least
moment to himself. " He could be considerate in a sick-room,

genial at a feast, joyous at a festival, capable of discourse with
DISPOSITION AND TEMPER.  91

 many minds, large-souled, not to be shrivelled up into any one
 form, fashion, or temperament."

     But other features of heart and mind were beginning to
 appear. Hitherto he seems to have fitted easily enough into
 the College circle of friends and fellow-workers, and had not
 shown much of that strong individuality -- or, as we might say,
 polarity -- of character, for which he was afterwards distin

guished. It rarely happens that men who shoot ahead of com

 panions, and climb rapidly to higher steps in life's ladder than
 they, carry with them the cordial sympathy and continue to be

 cheered by the love of all their old friends. The once happy
band is generally broken up into rival parties, and, too often,
 alienation and all the bitterness of party strife takes the place
 of confiding intercourse and mutual forbearance. When occa

sion and circumstances bring latent powers into action, and
give their possessor an advanced place in the race of life, many
of the friends left behind refuse to recognise any higher qualities
than those with which they were formerly acquainted. Suc
cess is attributed to happy accident, or to personal forwardness,
and not to the force of natural endowments, strengthened by

painful training and disciplined by persistently earnest work.
And as step after step in the ladder is reached, these unsym-

pathizing acquaintances console themselves through life by

Ireiterating, " Well, he is not so clever after all ; beat him at

school and at college." The critics stand still, but the world
moves on, because its leaders move.

    When Dr. Simpson began professional life, he had the
strongest conviction that with health and opportunity he could
climb to a leading place in it. Even from boyhood he had
been taught, that the only road to this was by hard work,
and that position is taken, not given. From the outset he was

resolved to win. His methods of work showed the strength

of will, and all " the battle in him." It is clear that, at least

at this period, he was ignorant of the fact, that some ends
are most easily reached by roundabout ways. He saw the
92 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

point clearly which he wished to gain, and struck away to

it by the shortest cut. He was plain of speech too, and

called " a spade a spade," not " an implement used by
the horticulturist to prepare the soil for the reception of
the seed." He might have, by soft circumlocution, saved
himself much trouble, and his friends a good deal of uneasi
ness. But he did not at that time, or ever, learn the lesson.
And he could be angry ; for with all the deep tenderness of
heart, his maiden-like softness of disposition, and his winning
gentleness, which drew to him the love of children, the con
fidence of strangers, and, what was not less suggestive, the
affection of dogs, on occasions a rugged sternness outcropped
which surprised men. But in his anger there were none of
those fruits so often met with in the world, of pitiful spite,
backbiting, or the meanness that rejoices to trip an opponent
in the dark. His anger was liker that graphically described
by old Thomas Fuller : " Anger is one of the sinews of the
soul ; he that wants it hath a maimed mind, and, like
Jacob, sinew-shrunk in the hollow of his thigh, must needs
halt ; nor is it good to converse with a man that cannot be
angry."1 True ; for both as to speech and behaviour society
has claims on all which cannot be disregarded without penalty.

In order that thinkers and workers may fit easily into the
place destined for them in their profession, corners of disposi
tion and rough points of individuality require to be rubbed off.
And fellow-workers in the same field are thereby saved some

 annoyance and much vexation. Nevertheless, there is virtue
 in feeling strongly and in speaking plainly, even when our own
 honest interests only are at stake, because all sincere men
 associate their interests with those of truth. But trials that

 come by plain speaking when the interests of truth demand
     are more easily borne than those which spring from mean

 professional jealousies. These have power to chafe, annoy,
 and irritate, which great trials have not. The weight of

                                               The Holy State.
it,

                                                              1

                                                                a
                                                                                                           a
                HASTY WORDS.       93

great sorrow is ever profitable, but the fruit of paltry annoy

ances is continual unrest. Great minds cannot despise them,

any more than the mastiff can the flies which on a warm day
Ifin summer disturb his repose.
                                   the effort to get rid of

them sometimes seems exaggerated, the explanation will be

found in the fact, that strong natures are not always on

their guard. Thus hasty expressions, random irony, unpre

meditated hard speeches, the look of impatience and irrita

tion, have often broken up acquaintanceships, and separated

friend from friend. Dr. Simpson had early experience of these

things. His habits of open speech and ready action in pro

fessional matters were fitted to lead to them. That he was
ashamed and vexed when little sparks kindled great fires, and

that he sought to be on his guard against the approach of

everything tending to alienate any one member of the Faculty
Ifrom him, there can be no doubt.
                                   find among his papers a

correspondence, in the autumn of 1839, which illustrates these

remarks. The letters are carefully put up, and marked by
himself " to be preserved," as a warning against giving to trifles

a weight they deserve not, and as a witness to himself that he

had failed in this respect. But for the care he took in pre

serving this record, the circumstance would not have been

referred to here. It was no more part of his true life at the

time, than the spark from the hoof is part of the high- mettled

steed.

On the forenoon of September 13, 1839, a few medical

friends, among whom were Dr. Simpson and Dr. Lewins of
Leith, were conversing together in the reading-room of the

College of Physicians. Soon the conversation turned to an
anonymous letter that had lately appeared in the newspapers,
on Queen's College, Ireland. " What a precious piece of hum
bug !" said Lewins, with reference to a remark of Simpson on

another matter. Turning to Lewins, and looking him full in
the face, he said, " That was a scandalous and lying article in
Ithe Observer.
                hope you were not the author of it?" Dr.
94 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Lewins was the author, though Dr. Simpson was not aware of it

at the time. But it was wrong to convey the impression, that he

believed it possible for any man, with whom he continued on
terms of intimacy, to write what is scandalous and lying. And

that Dr. Simpson felt this is clear from the preservation of the

packet. Serious results were threatened ; the preliminaries for

a duel were being arranged ; but by the friendly intervention
of Dr. P. D. Handyside, Dr. John Eeid, and Dr. Argyle Eobert

son, matters were amicably arranged, and the doctors "were
friends ever after." " Behold how great a matter a little fire
kindleth ! And the tongue is a fire." Yet ninety-six per cent. of

the professional heats and bickerings that break up friendships,

may be traced to rash and unintentionally uncharitable words.

So far as the merits of this case are concerned, the doctors were

equally to be blamed. Their friends showed them this, and

mutual expressions of regret were freely offered and frankly

received. " If any man offend not in word, the same is a per

fect man, and able to bridle the whole body."

   In the end of September, Dr. Simpson accepted an invita

tion, from his friend Dr. Montgomery of Queen's College,

Dublin, to visit Ireland. He returned by Liverpool, and called
Ion the Grindlays. " had," he wrote to Sandy, " a most de
Ilightful trip.
                 was fed and feasted most luxuriously by the

Dublin doctors, and received all sorts of kindness and good

promises from them. Mr. Grindlay's people were all very

kind."

Professor Hamilton resigned the Midwifery Chair in 1839,

and Dr. Simpson announced himself a candidate. His letter of

application to the Lord Provost, Magistrates, and Town Council,
                                             "
with  whom  the  election  lay,  is  dated,      1  Dean  Terrace,  Novem

ber 15, 1839." He had this in view when he visited Liver

pool, and, by becoming engaged to Miss Jessie Grindlay, he

took a step which removed what had been held to be one dis

qualification for the Chair --his being unmarried.
          CANDIDATE FOR THE PROFESSORSHIP.  95

I" My dear Sandy, -- have all but given up hopes of getting

the Midwifery Chair this time. Dr. Lee or Dr. Kennedy of

IDublin will probably gain it. have been told by a number

of the Council that they have no objection to me but my

youth and my celibacy, and that if any person in Scotland

          will, notwithstanding these defects. You know am
IIgets
       iIt,

                                             a

                                                                                                        .

                                          I
                                                         I

                                                                                                               a
superstitious, as much so as yourself, and dream always that

will yet be Professor in despite of them, though not just now.

am in no way dispirited by these views. It will make me

practitioner, though not Professor. . .    love to all, believe
   " Excuse great haste, and with kindest
                                            J. Y. Simpson."
me your ever affectionate brother,

But notwithstanding this fit of despondency, Dr. Simpson

set himself to bring every available influence to bear on his
election. The fruits of his " pluck " and his " push" very soon

began to appear. His friends were encouraged, and his oppo

nents astonished. That one so young, with so few men of

acknowledged influence to back him, and with the whole Col

lege party opposed to him, should become candidate in earnest,
                               ;a
seemed to many of the academical men, and to many out
siders also, rash act of presumption. And they tried right
          a

                      it
earnestly to defeat him.

From the outset                was clear the contest would be keen

and bitter, and the decisive vote very close. No one was

more early aware of this than Dr. Simpson. Thus his many-
sided efforts. He called the attention of eminent men at home

and abroad to the papers written by him he asked the help of

lay friends he sought the testimony to his efficiency from
          ;
                            ;
young scientific workers, of whose future eminence he cherished

the highest hopes and he waited personally on the patrons.

" A host of candidates," he wrote to Mr. Grindlay, " have

already appeared in the field. Most of them come forward on

the ground of their local or political influence, and my present
object to break down all their external fortifications, and to
      is
86 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

leave the decision to be made on the ground of merit, and of

merit alone. They have all either family or fortune influence.
I Ihave neither. . . . Willie Carmichael1 and had a pleasant
Idrive to Dalmeny.
                    was under medical orders ; for having
Iwritten and canvassed nearly seventy consecutive hours, at
Ilast felt so ill that had to apply to my medical friends."

Even the family taint of superstition gave him encourage

ment and help. His brother Sandy had lately read of some
one, who was " married and a Professor when only twenty-

eight," and had mentioned the fact to Mary, who had the gift

of "reading the cup." This practice, not yet banished from

rural and mining districts, was resorted to in the belief, that

future fortunes could be read from the arrangement of the tea-

dregs, on the cup being shaken. Mary forgot Sandy's infor

mation, and, transferring his facts to the region of her own

fancy, she made the cup record concerning James what the

memoir had truly recorded of another. James was told of the

cup's revelation, but not of the book. When Dr. Simpson was

expressing his wonder at the fulfilment a few months later,

Sandy related the whole story, to his great amusement.

The canvass was interrupted for a short time by an event of

more moment to him than the Professorship. On the 26th

of December 1839 Dr. Simpson was married to Miss Jessie

Grindlay. But there was no honeymoon. That was to come

later. The canvass required his immediate presence in Edin

burgh, and there his whole time was given to it When he

applied to Mr. Grindlay for his daughter's hand in marriage, he

informed him with great frankness of the whole state of
                                                           " May
his affairs, which at the time was far from satisfactory.
I," he wrote, " beg your attention to another subject. Last
I IFriday wrote to solicit what had long set my heart on --
...your daughter Jessie's hand in marriage.
                                             At the present

moment, though my friends tell me my chance for the Pro

I Ifessorship is excellent, yet believe myself shall not get it

1 Dr. W. S. Carmichael.
                         LETTER TO MR. GRINDLAY.                        9S-

       just now, as possibly Dr. Lee or Dr. Kennedy will, as strangers,

       be preferred over me. In asking then your daughter's hand,
       I ask
                a it,

                       I

                                    it
                not with any certainty of being elected, and thus
       having future at once at my feet-- ask for better or for
                                                     I is I

                                                                a it

                                                                iIf I
                                                                     I
       worse, whether succeed, or, what                more probable, do not

       succeed. But, taking             at the worst,  do think shall be

       enabled by my practice alone to maintain wife respectably.
                                                             tell you--
       At the same time am sure you will pardon me
                         I

       indeed,  it       my bounden duty to tell you -- that, as        stand
                     is

       just now, am in debt." The debt with which he chargedI
       himself was one sum of £200, which " Sandy, one of the

       best of men that breathes," had spent on his education, and

       another sum to which he thus refers -- " Again, he gave me last
       ;

           a

            it

             is I
                  I I it,

                       I
                                                                                         :

                                         I
                                                       I

                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                ;
       spring bill for £1 20 to assist me in furnishing my house. This

       has been renewed, and becomes due in January. He hopes to

       be able to pay and fondly imagined would have paid the

       half but this canvass has only involved me in new difficulties

       and besides, have endeavoured to assist my sister (who has been

       ...the only mother ever knew) to go out to Van Diemen's Land.
              As now, am self-sufficient enough to think that am

       as well off as regards station in my profession as any who started

       here in the race of life with me. They have all, believe, in

       this race been aided by friends or by private wealth. They

       have almost all been fortunate enough to have the protection

of father's roof during the first years of practice.              have had
II     ...no such advantages, but have stood and worked alone.I
      a                                                       I         ?I
have accumulated for myself library and museum worth
                                        a

£200, at least, amidst these difficulties. This have won by

my pen and my lancet, and these (as                    I  have already told

Jessie herself) are my only fortune. And now, could you

       trust her future happiness to me under such circumstances

       did not intend to ask her hand at present          I  fondly hoped

       might have first cleared myself of my debts." He then

pointed out that the fact of his losing patients because he was

unmarried, and that his celibacy was urged against him in his

                                        G
98 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

candidateship for the Chair, were sufficient reasons for his
pressing his suit.

   Any one of his opponents could have filled Dr. Hamilton's
chair with credit to himself and honour to the University.
Several of them were men of eminence, and had already won a
name in their profession. His social standing, youth, and want
of experience were all against him. But, on the other hand,
he had done more for the science of his profession in a couple
of years, than any one of them had done in a decade. And
what he had done was full of rich promise and marked by
methods of observation and research thoroughly scientific. He
had also shown skill as a practitioner, and the formed " habit of
the pen " as a writer. Conscious of all this, he claimed the
attention of men on the merits, apart altogether from the
testimony of others to his ability. Proudly aware of this, he
placed the record of what he had done and written on the front
of his application to the Town Council. Testimonials, remark
able for their freshness, heartiness, and strength, flanked his
statement of work and thought. Every step he took or allowed
others to take in his behalf, was marked by skill, insight,

I Ienergy, and quiet resolve. "Did not feel am the best
Iman for the Chair," he said, " would not go in for it." The

effect of all this, especially on some of the older men in the
University, was curious. An individuality of the most pro

nounced kind was making itself felt. A force was influencing

both them and the patrons, whose nature and tendencies they
had not been able to gauge or to define. The most judicious
and wise among them were puzzled, and did not know what to
 make of this determination and effort. Claims of capacity were
 alleged, and proofs of capacity offered ; but these were not
regarded ; and men, from whom only academical reserve,
 dignity, and calm impartiality might have been expected,
 hastened, almost uncalled, into the strife as fierce partisans.
Even Sir Charles Bell wrote a note, unworthy of him, to Dr.
Traill, sympathizing with him and his colleagues in their efforts
THE CONTEST.                                  99

to secure the Chair for another, adding that he had written a
letter, " to entreat the patrons to look more to the condition

and to the situations the candidates had filled with credit,

Ithan to their bundles of certificates, . . . some of which, must

say, have already by inference put shame upon us alL" Yet

the gentleman whom Sir Charles favoured lodged documents

in his own behalf extending to more than 150 large octavo
pages. " Great men are not always wise."

   Nevertheless the testimonials did their work well, as in most

circumstances they ever do. The patrons were not partisans.

They had no other way of ascertaining what a man had done

in a special department, except through the opinions of men

well qualified, on the merits, to give them. Common sense

and intelligence were the only qualities needed on the part of

the patrons. These they brought to bear on the matter in

hand, and to the impartial exercise of these is to be traced the

generally satisfactory character of the appointments made to

University Chairs by the Edinburgh Town Council.
    On the 2 2d January 1840 he wrote to Mr. Grindlay :--

  "My dear Mr. Grindlay, --If you only were here for a

few hours to see the bustle and turmoil connected with the

Iclosing weeks of a canvass, am sure you would excuse me
Inot writing oftener. Last night was the first in which have
Isat for a couple of successive hours, since came back, at my

Iown fireside, between tea and supper. have been up at four and

five, busy --and am preparing to sit up all night to-night to

Ifinish a catalogue of my museum, which am to print off to

morrow and next day. Dr. Kennedy has stolen a march upon

Ime on that point, and am, and have been for a week or two,

working double tides to make up. He is leading us all into a

great deal of additional expense in printing, and unnecessarily,

as we can show that we have better museums than his.
    " The contest now lies between Dr. Kennedy and me, and

each sends his spurs deeper into his horse's sides as we approach

the winning-post. A very good sign  that number of Dr.
                                    is,

                                          Ia
Kennedy's friends have begun to traduce me-- am everything
100 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Ibad, perhaps beat my wife by their accounts.                        value their

attempts at their proper price, and can laugh them all to scorn.
Some even of the Professors have begun as they seem in great
                           I
                                    I

                                                it,

                                                   aI
dread that       'poor baker's son,' should be made their equal or
           I I I,
superior.         aknow not how the election will end.               conceive
                       a
now that run capital chance. It will probably be turned by

one or two votes. Mr. Ritchie of the Scotsman, Councillor,

is  marshalling all my Liberal supporters, and Mr. Drysdale1

all my Conservative ones.         hope to be at least second -- and

that   is   assuredly something.  But must off to my cata

logue again, and with kindest love to Mrs. Grindlay and family,

believe me, your affectionate son,
                                                     " Y. Simpson, M.D."
               II I
    And again, three days before the election --is is
                         I
    " The canvass stands thus Dr. Kennedy andiIf :
                                   I                        :        are almost
                                          J.
                                                        is    is

                                                                I
the only candidates. There are thirty-three voters, and have
                                                                     I

secured fifteen of them, and      can manage to get two more,

which I is  extremely dubious yet, the Chair                mine. At the

worst, will be able to show myself the best man for in
                                                                     it it
Scotland, and that something. All my friends say will

at least advance me mightily in practice in year or two,
                                                            I
                                                                  a
iIf   continue to work as have done, which shall do, my
                                                                     if

health permits.

    " Jessie and were up at four this morning, writing the last
part of catalogue of my museum. It
       Ia                                                   now near twelve at

night, and have to go to the High Street to look after the printers
                          will slip this as pass into the post --but,
and their work.

as the money office shut at this late hour, you will require

to pay 2d. for it.        will write the result of Tuesday's poll."

    As the day of the election drew near, the unusual interest

taken in the city and among the students in this appointment

increased. Eeports were spread that Dr. Simpson's chief op

ponent, though good practitioner, was bad lecturer, and his
friends took step, always hazardous in such circumstances --
            a
                 a

                          1

                                                                  a

                                                                                                                                        :
                          The late Sir William Drysdale.
                    DR. NEILL'S DIARY.                 101

they brought him to Edinburgh to deliver a public popular
Ilecture, within a few days of the decision.
                                              was present, and

felt, as many other students did, that it would not damage Dr.

Simpson. One patron was said to waver, but he was not likely

to be influenced by this lecture. On the day of the election

the Council Chambers were crowded by students and others,

and when it was announced that Dr. Simpson had a majority

of one, loud and prolonged cheers filled the hall. But nothing
could better illustrate the great and wide interest taken in this

election, than the following extracts from the MS. diary of a

man of the time--the late Dr. Patrick Neill, of Canonmills,

printer, philosopher, and naturalist. Professor Fleming had

written to Dr. Simpson--

  I" am fully satisfied that your claims are very strong, and
Iought to be respected. Under such circumstances, have sent

off a letter to my old and valued friend Dr. Neill, urging your

claims upon his notice in such a manner as to induce him, I

have no doubt, to attend to them, and see that you get fair
Iplay.
        have likewise written in equally strong terms to

another old and valued friend who has a seat at the Council

IBoard, and who, am confident, will be equally attentive--

Sir John Graham Dalyell."
   But Neill continued opposed to, and Sir John Graham Dalyell

voted against, Dr. Simpson. Neill's Diary runs thus, --

                    "Midwifery Chair.         "13 Jan. 1840.

I" guess that the vote may at first stand thus--
... ...Kennedy,
...Campbell,. . . 6                               10
...Eenton,          12 Simpson,                     3

                                 Thatcher,

                              2
IThatcher and Eenton going off, guess that the ultimate vote
may stand thus :--

                    Kennedy, . . . 18

                    Simpson,     . . 15

                                 33

Nous vcrrons.
1 02 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

                                                                                  " 15 Jan. 1840.

   ". . . Observed that the Whig party are apparently urging the
election of Dr. Simpson as Obstetrician, to prevent his standing
in the way of Dr. William Thomson's getting the Chair of

General Pathology.
                                                                                     " 23 Jan. 1840.

   " Mr. Drysdale has announced that he knows of a majority

for Dr. Simpson already ! This, if true, is the result of a job !

For great experience is peculiarly required in the Obstetric

Chair. Nous verrons.
                                                          " Town Council, 28th Jan. 1840.

    " Lord Provost proposed that Dr. Kennedy should have a
room to lecture in, intra mania, some having reported that he

Iwas far from fluent ! But this was strenuously resisted ! fear,

now, that Simpson will have a majority of one or two ! This

is deplorable ; for we shall lose a man of great eminence.

" Midwifery Chair.          " 1st Feb. 1840.

" It having been reported that Dr. Evory Kennedy had no

utterance, he this day was advised to show his fluency in a

public lecture. The small Assembly Eoom was crowded, and

he acquitted himself well.  But whether this will aid his cause

I question.

                                                           " Tuesday, 4lh Feb. 1840.

"At Town Council to-day Provost Forrest proposed Dr.

Evory Kennedy, seconded by Tr. Stodart. Bailie Eamsay

proposed Dr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Drysdale. On a

division 17 voted for Dr. Simpson and 16 for Dr. Kennedy --

all the 33 being present."

   Dr. Simpson ever felt most deeply indebted to the majority

of the Town Council on this occasion. In addition to the
names of Mr. Eitchie of the Scotsman and Sir William Drys
dale, those of Bailie Grieve, Dean of Guild Law, late Lord

Provost, and Mr. Duncan M'Laren, now M.P. for the city, are
CONGRATULATIONS.                                          103

mentioned by him as friends who exerted      themselves most
heartily in his behalf.                      to his Liverpool

    Immediately after the election he wrote

relatives :--

" My dear Mother, --Jessie's honeymoon and mine is to
Ibegin to-morrow.
                   was elected Professor to-day by a
Majority of One. Hurrah ! ! ! Your ever affectionate son,

                                       " J. Y. Simpson."

To his father-in-law :--

  I" My dear Father, -- was this day elected Professor. My
Iopponent had 16 and had 17 votes. All the political in

fluence of both the leading Whigs and Tories here was
I--employed against me ; but never mind
                                         have got the Chair

in despite of them, Professors and all. Jessie and Mina send

their kindest love. Jessie's honeymoon and mine is to commence
to-morrow. --Your affectionate son,
                                             J. Y. Simpson.

" Tuesday, 4th Feb., 1 Dean Terrace."

Congratulations followed the election from men of science

at home and abroad, from patients, old school-fellows, and

relatives. His sister Mary's was perhaps more welcome than

any. The ship in which she and her husband had embarked

for Van Diemen's Land was still in the English Channel, and
Mary received early notice of his success. " My dear, dear,

Iand fortunate brother," she wrote, " have taken up my pen to
I I Iwish you joy, joy, but feel am scarcely able to write.

never believed till now that excess of joy was worse to bear
I Ithan excess of grief.
                   cannot describe how, but certainly
I Ifeel as never did all my life.
                                       hope we will still be here

to-morrow to learn all the particulars of this happy event. My

dear, dear James, may God Himself bless you, and prosper you
in all your ways. --Your sincerely affectionate sister, Mary

Pearson." Mary had guided him from childhood with deep and
104 SIE JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

watchful love. In her care and keeping he had often felt " as
one whom his mother comforteth." Her praise had frequently

been to him an excitement and spur to exertion. The care
with which he preserved her note from " Eamsgate Harbour,"

shows how much calm content it had given him -- linking, as

it forcibly did, this triumph in a great contest with the memory
of all the love and encouragement that he had received from
her and his brothers, but chiefly from her and his beloved
" Sandy."
                          CHAPTEE V.

   Courage and Work -- Squabble, 1840 --Attitude of the Medical Faculty
          -- Removes from Dean Terrace to Albany Street -- Increase of
         Practice -- Professional Literature -- Dr. Sharpey -- Expenses --
          Money Difficulties -- Love for Sandy -- Self-Help -- Continuous hard
          Work-- Birth of a Daughter -- Walter Gilchrist -- Bathgate Bairns --
         Introductory Lecture-- Success as a Lecturer --Large Class -- Maggie
          -- Increase of Income.

   Of the three objects which Dr. Simpson had set before him,

when he became an extra-academical lecturer, one, name, had
been established by the work that culminated in the Professor
ship. Another, bread, as the reward of work, began to follow.
The third, fame, had yet to be won. Even when anticipating
defeat as a candidate for the Chair, he saw his way to a large and
lucrative practice, should he work as earnestly in the future as

Ihe had done in the past --" which," he said, " shall do, if health

permit." His triumph in no way weakened his will for work.
Indeed, it was stronger than before, and he set about doing

what lay to his hand with characteristic promptness, energy,
and application. " Never before was he so thoroughly among the
strife of tongues and minds." The greater the difficulties, the
greater his determination to overcome them. Opposition which
would have disheartened most other men, only roused him to
greater exertion. Never was strong swimmer more elated in
breasting big waves, than Dr. Simpson was when battling for
what he believed to be truth, or in pushing into use, in the face
of strong resistance, new or improved methods of professional
106 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

treatment. Conscious of high devotion to his profession, greedy
for extensive usefulness, counting on the fame it sooner or
later brings, and endowed with powers of mind where great
natural strength had been sedulously cultivated, trained, and
disciplined in those wide fields of knowledge and research in
which from boyhood he had sought to walk, he was not only
ever on the watch for effective remedies for the sore ills that
flesh is heir to -- he had also the will and the skill to defend his

views against all comers. In the advocacy or defence of new

methods of treatment, or of new remedies, he seldom took
into account the prejudices, or even the honest convictions, of

others. It was enough for him, if what he proposed seemed

to himself good for his patients and defensible in science. The
physician is for the patient, and the good of the patient must
be his first and only care. To this point Dr. Simpson went
straight and at once. But in reaching it he often trampled on
the long-cherished convictions of professional brethren, and in
consequence made many enemies. Keen eyes watched him at
every step. Men whose accomplishments were at this time
equal to his own, and whose experience was greater, carefully
scrutinized his views and observed his methods. The slightest
mistake would have been as an opening in the joints of his
harness, which sharpened arrows were sure to find quickly.
Even prior to his election as Professor, these characteristic
features had been fully discovered, and they explain and
account for some of the personal bitterness that mixed with
the opposition to his claims. But at that time, and often after
wards, he had his reward in the love of his patients, in the
extension of science, in the thanks of his fellow-men, and in the
devoted attachment to his person of many of the most thought
ful and accomplished of the young men of his own profession.

    As Professor Simpson could not enter on the work of his
Chair till the following session, he was inclined to finish the
spring course of lectures previously intimated, but was other

wise advised. His friend Dr. J. B. Fleming, Manor Place,

                                                             I
"SQUABBLE, 1840."                          107

Edinburgh, who was present at the last meeting of the students

of the extra-academical class, says --" A few days after Dr.

Simpson's election to the Professorship in 1840,1 was asked
by two more advanced students, who had been his pupils in

the previous summer, to accompany them to see him give his

prizes.

  I" accordingly went with them, and we proceeded to a class

room in a detached building, situated between old Surgeons'
Hall and the Infirmary, and then occupied by him and by Dr.
Allen Thomson ; this must subsequently have been swept

away, for its site is now occupied by some of the wards of the

Surgical Hospital.
   " We took our seats amongst the students who had attended

his winter course of lectures, and Dr. Simpson soon came in.
He presented his prizes in his usual genial and kindly way,

making a few remarks on the Examination Papers as he pro
ceeded, after which he dismissed the class in words, as nearly

Ias can recollect, as follows --' It has been notified, gentlemen,
Ithat would commence a spring course of three months' lectures

on Midwifery in a few days hence ; but since then, having been

Ielected to the Professorship of Midwifery, have been informed

that it would not be suitable for me to do so when the six

Imonths' course was proceeding in the University ; that course

will therefore now not be delivered, and can only assure you

that it will be my great object to show to the patrons that they
have not bestowed on me the gown of Dr. Hamilton in vain.' "

His first academical experience was disheartening. Among
his papers is a small packet of letters marked " Squabble, 1840."
IThe matter itself is unworthy of notice.
                                           refer to it in order

to indicate the source of other and more important misunder

standings, that afterwards arose between Dr. Simpson and

several of his colleagues. At a meeting of the medical faculty
shortly after his election, the Deanship was offered to him in
circumstances and in a manner that seemed to present active

traces of the strong spirit of opposition shown to him by many
108 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

of the Professors when a candidate for the Chair. In refusing
the appointment, he had spoken in a way that gave offence,

especially to the Professor of Botany. On reaching home, he

sent the following note to Dr. Graham :--

I" Dear Sir,-- feel much distressed at the idea that you

should suppose me capable of entertaining or expressing any

doubt whatever of what you stated, as your personal belief, in
If Ithe meeting this afternoon.
                                 used any word or expression
Ithat could be so interpreted (and really can recollect none

such), it was at least as far as possible from my heart and wishes

to do so. You are one of the very last of the medical faculty

Iwhose good opinion should wish to forfeit.

  " It is probable that you may continue to look upon my line
of conduct to-day as an unfortunate one. It possibly may be

so ; but if you had been placed in the same position in all

I Irespects as have been during and since my election, fear

you would have found yourself under the necessity of acting

in the very same manner. At least, now that the matter is

I Iover, do feel that have done right in refusing the Secretary

ship under the extraordinary circumstances in which it was

offered to me, though the doing so was a duty a thousand times

more painful than all the trouble connected  with it could have

been.--Yours very respectfully,               J. Y. Simpson.

  " Tuesday, quarter after 5 p.m."

   To this frank, manly, and generous note, Dr. Graham
replied :--

                                    " 62 Great Kino Street, 19th May 1840.
    " Dr. Graham has received Dr. Simpson's letter of this date.
He will not again argue the matter to which it relates, and he
has now neither right nor inclination to advise. He cannot
think his own conduct requires explanation ; he merely begs to
state the position in which, in his opinion, matters stand, and
are likely to remain.
LETTER TO PROFESSOR GRAHAM.  109

   " Dr. Simpson alludes to circumstances ' during' his election.
These are, that his colleagues preferred another candidate for
the Chair of Midwifery, and used their best endeavours to pro
cure his election. They may have been mistaken, and after the

election every one of them wished to find it so.

    " Dr. Simpson alludes to circumstances after his election.
These are the subjects of the present discussion, which Dr.
Simpson thinks were derogatory to him, and meant to be so.
He persists in asserting this, notwithstanding a solemn denial
from every one of his colleagues. He ought to know that this
is flying in the face of the ordinary courtesies of life, the com

mon rules of civilized society, and cannot but render utterly
nugatory the desire of every member of the University, that
the right hand of fellowship, given in all sincerity to Dr. Simp
son after his election, should be the pledge of kindly feeling
and constant exertion for mutual benefit and the prosperity
of the medical school."

   Few will wonder that in these circumstances the following

reply was returned :--

    " Dr. Simpson is in receipt, through this morning's post, of

Dr. Graham's note of yesterday.

   " In that note Dr. Graham states that Dr. Simpson conceives

the measures about the Deanship ' derogatory to him, and meant
to be so.' Dr. Simpson does certainly think that measure, from
its time and circumstance, derogatory to him, but he did not

found that opinion on the ground that it was meant by the

Faculty to be so.
    " Dr. Graham avers that Dr. Simpson has received ' a solemn

denial from every one of his colleagues ' of any intention of
personal disrespect in the matter. With several of his medical
colleagues Dr. Simpson never interchanged one single word on

the subject.

   " Dr. Simpson considers it beneath his dignity as a gentle
man to rebut the insinuations made against him in Dr. Graham's
110 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

note regarding his want of knowledge ' of the ordinary
courtesies of life, ' and ' the common rules of civilized society.'

If Dr. Graham's conduct yesterday, and his note of this

morning, are specimens of the ordinary courtesies of life as
understood by Dr. G. (among the Medical Faculty), they are
(Dr. Simpson must confess) very different from any that he has
hitherto been accustomed to.

      " 1 Dean Terrace, 20th May 1840."

    To the regret of many who take a lively interest in the
University, misunderstandings of this kind have been frequent.
This is given as a fair specimen. The records of several occur
among Dr. Simpson's papers, but it is not my intention to refer

to any except such as have wider moral or scientific bearings.

It is clear from Dr. Graham's note that he shared in that

wretched and unworthy feeling against " the son of the baker,"
which had shown itself in much bitterness during the canvass.
But the new Professor was not to be put down. The weight

Iof his presence in the Faculty was at once felt. " have," he

wrote to Mr. Grindlay, " been battling with my brother Pro

Ifessors since came home in order to support the dignity of
I Imy Chair, and hope have sufficiently shown them that am

their equal in professional rank."
     The hostile attitude of active partisanship shown to him by,

I believe, a majority of the University medical faculty during

his canvass for the Chair is sufficient to account for, if not
even to excuse and vindicate, his suspicion of their want of

cordiality when he first took his place among them as an equal

and as a fellow- worker. It is never expedient for Professors to

take an active part in filling up a vacant Chair in their own
College or University. They may bear testimony in the
 strongest terms they choose to the fitness and ability of any
 one candidate, but here their interference should stop. Private

letters to patrons, or to members of the electing body depreciat

 ing individual candidates, and private communications plead
 ing personal or political obligations in favour of the man of
INCREASED PRACTICE.  Ill

their choice, almost always find their way to the public. For
Professors to engage in work of this kind is as little in accord
with academical dignity as with fair play. No doubt, no one
can be more deeply interested in the welfare and efficiency of

the College or University than the Professors themselves, and by
certificate they have full scope to show this. But since the
election does not lie with them, they act injudiciously when,
by any other means, they try to direct it. Perhaps, however,
the most dignified attitude in all such cases is that of perfect

neutrality. Then there can be no alienation between fellow-

workers, no want of complete cordiality, and none of that
suspicion of purity of motive on either side when friends find
themselves in opposition, often

                      " Beyond prevention of man's wisest care."

   For some time Dr. Simpson's practice as a physician had been
steadily increasing. He left the house in Dean Terrace, and

removed to 22 Albany Street, which he rented for several years.
After his election to the Professorship, the increase of his

Ipractice was rapid and important. " have made a bargain for
Ia carriage," he wrote to his brother. " have been up all

night writing a paper. Saw yesterday one Viscountess and
three ' Ladies.' Good for one day among the nobility." His

household and other expenses were now so heavy, and so many

demands were made on him almost daily to help old acquaint
ances or to give his time to the poor, whom he ever willingly
waited on professionally, that he was in some danger of yield

 ing to the temptation to forsake authorship for the more
readily remunerative work of daily practice. But his friend
Dr. Sharpey, for whom through life he cherished the warmest
love and admiration, kept him at his pen. His own bent
 towards the literature of his profession was so strong, that
the " kindly commands " of his friend fell on willing ears, and

 found a ready response.
                                                              " London, 20th May 1840.

   " My dear Simpson, -- Tweedie has just called upon me in
112 SIR, JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

utter despair about your paper. Unless you continue to give

... Iit him, he says he will lose credit altogether with the publishers.

     I have no interest in the matter, but really, in com

miseration for Tweedie, have ventured on the liberty of admo
Inishing you.
               hear that a set of people have been conspiring

to annoy you, and that they have commenced their petty

Ivexations ; how sorry am to hear some of their names ; but

all such attempts lead in the end to a reaction, for the great

mass are in favour of fair play. Write your paper, and put

for a motto ' Despectu Inimicorum,' as Frederick did when he

built a palace in the thick of warfare.

  I I I" have made some observations since saw you, which

think are not uninteresting, of which more anon.
    " Compliments to all mutual friends, etc., and believe me

ever, my dear Simpson, very truly yours,  W. Sharpey."

    Hitherto his personal wants had been so few, and his desires

so limited, that the £50 of salary received from Professor

Thomson during the years of his assistantship satisfied him.
Afterwards the fees of the extra-academical class, the small

income from practice, and the moderate honorarium brought by
most of his papers, kept him in comparative comfort, enabled
him to add to his library, and to form a museum of some value.
But when he entered on housekeeping in Dean Terrace, and
especially when he took steps to forward his candidateship for
the Chair, he began to find that the relations between expen
diture and income were not satisfactory. I n full view of this
he " married in faith." For his wife's sake, moreover, he had

in terms of a post-nuptial contract taken steps to insure his
life for £2000. The expense connected with the candidateship
for the Chair was about £500, spent chiefly in printing and

postage. He had been working in comparative obscurity. A

few of his professional friends knew what he was, what he had
done, and what he could do, but he wished to put this infor

mation before the public. Thus the very wide circulation
of his testimonials. He had resolved to be at the top of his
MONEY MATTERS.                                         113

profession, with the intelligent consent of practitioners and

patients. Had he lost the Professorship, he would have taken

a foremost place among his fellows as physician and accoucheur.

  Dr. Arnold was wont to say, " It is not labour but vexa

tion that hurts the man." Dr. Simpson had now both the

labour and the vexation. The thought that they were his by

his own free choice lightened the labour, but increased the

vexation. He had hope, a will to work, and remunerative work

in abundance, but the rewards were still in the future. One

responsibility and another had been undertaken, in the belief

that he could compel success. And he succeeded. But not
unfrequently patients and publishers were not prompt in

their payments. Meanwhile, wants were pressing, and pecu

niary liabilities had to be met. He had hitherto had the

means of his devoted brother Sandy to fall back on. But these

were at this time invested in a business carried on by relatives,

and were not available. Had they been within reach, Sandy
would have used them more freely for " Dear James " than for

himself. He felt his position very keenly. It was as hateful

to him as it was humiliating.  He was not a little discontented
with his lot :--
                                                         ,

" Thou found'st me poor at first, and keep'st me so."

The discipline bore good fruits in after years. To the remem

brance of his own condition and feelings at this period more

than one young man was indebted for sympathy and sub

stantial help, in the difficulties that beset the first years of
"Iprofessional life.
                      am ashamed to apply to you," wrote M.

from England, "but the loan of £50 would enable me to

hold my place here till fees come in." The money was sent

by next post.

   In these difficulties his father-in-law came to his help, and he

wrote :--" A few days ago my Scotch pride would have led me

to scruple about using the money transmitted, even in the way

Iin which you and Mrs. G. now propose, but am enough myself

                               H
114 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

again to accept with deepest thanks your kind proposal. The
delicacy with which you spontaneously proffered me the first
loan months ago laid me under a deeper debt to you than the
mere sum of money. . . . Let us understand one another thus

I Ifar-- pay you regular loan interest for whatever have already
Igot or may require; shall accept it on no other terms. My

sister and brother-in-law have again sailed. My brother-in-
law, it seems, was left £40,000 by the last will his brother

made in 1836. Your grateful and faithful son-in-law, J. Y. S."

    These and the references that follow to money transactions
are made, not only with the view of bringing out the difficulties
which beset the opening of a great career, but also, and chiefly,

Ito illustrate what might almost call his " helpless simplicity"

in the management of his own money affairs, and generally in

Ipurely business matters. But for the abundant proofs have
Ifound among his papers, would have been the last to credit

this. Yet the conviction is irresistible. In all such matters,
he trusted with perfect and implicit confidence, both in the
honesty and the disinterestedness of all that approached him.
Having clearly seen the end in view, he left others to work it
out in their way, and went on with his own duties. He had

ever a great aversion to reading legal documents and to going

thoroughly into the formal statement of business details. A

good illustration of this occurs in connexion with the post
nuptial contract just referred to. Others, in cases from which he
suffered serious loss, might be given. He wrote to Mr. Grindlay :

I--" am most anxious there should be a marriage- contract.

The tenure of life, particularly of medical life, is so uncertain,
that all contingencies should be guarded against, as far as lies
 in our power." The matter was accordingly trusted to English
 lawyers, and Dr. Simpson thought no more about it. The

 completed document reached him, and, as his brother's signa

ture was required, he forwarded it to Bathgate without having

 read it. Sandy, finding that the deed interfered both with his
 brother's liberty in the use of his own income, and excluded
                     MONEY MATTERS.                       115

himself from all claim in law, in the event of his death, to be

reimbursed from his property to the extent of his loans, returned

it without his signature ; expressing his grief that the brother,

whom he so much loved and for whom he had done so much,

should have asked him to be a party to such a contract. He

was not aware that James knew nothing of the obnoxious

clauses. Dr. Simpson was greatly vexed when he learned that

his favourite brother had associated these clauses with his

intention and wish, and that his friends in England blamed him
for the miscarriage of the contract. " As soon as the contract
"Ireached Edinburgh," he informed Mr. Grindlay,
                                                     wrote a

                                        it,

                                                  I
note to my brother, asking him to sign and Jessie sealed up

the whole and sent off next post. It was returned in the
                I I it
course of two or three days, with the letter which have here

enclosed, and which has caused me (from the very suspicion

hinted at in with regard to my intentions) much more mental
   I
                                        did not look into
        it
pain than should choose to confess to.
                              it it

                                  it I
                                              it
                                                      it
the deed in any way before sending on to Bathgate, and now

that have done so, cannot but conclude that would also be
I

foolish in me to adhibit my name to as at present stands."

Yet there not the least doubt he would have signed at once,
   is

without looking over, had been returned with Sandy's signaitI it

ture. He added --" could not do so without incurring the

greatest chance of my brother Alexander's displeasure and want

of further confidence in me. value his good opinion above that

of all mortal beings, saving that of my wife alone." He then

discusses the business aspects of the document with all that

ability, clearness, thoroughness, and tact, which he ever showed

when compelled to master the details of any subject. But thisI
matter vexed and hurt him. " have," wrote Mrs. Simpson to
her father, " left James asleep at present, though restless and

uneasy. He has been in bed for the last two days. He com

plains of pains over his body, especially in the head and side,
Ifwith palpitation.
                     the first deed we signed be quite legal

and binding, why insist on that long rigmarole confused
116 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

eighteen-page one, which is so different, and would lay down
the law for what it has no business with, and for what it was
never asked to interfere in ?" " The rigmarole " was dispensed
with, and a deed adopted in its place, amounting to little more

than the mutual --"All mine shall be thine, after payment

of lawful debts." The relatives in Liverpool and in Bathgate
were alike satisfied. The domestic shadow passed away. But
not before it had set in bold relief his deep affection for Sandy,
and his almost painfully acute sensitiveness to relative and
domestic trial. " First of all let me explain to you how very

groundlessly you throw blame upon my brother and his motives.

He has throughout life been my best and truest friend --my
father in most senses of the word. In our village he is looked
upon at this hour by all as a pattern of the strictest integrity.

 Eichard and you are at liberty to attribute to me whatever

Imotives you please, but pray you attribute none to my brother,
Iexcept of the purest honour and honesty -- for am convinced

 that he at least has not, and never had, a motive of action
 in this or in any other case, that was not as spotless as the

 unsunned snow. It grieves me a thousand times more to think

 him blamed, than it would to have that blame placed on my
 own shoulders." But this strong attachment was not limited

 to his favourite brother. It folded in its warm embrace, and

 in a very tender way, all the members of his father's house.
 Its manifestation in his own household was free and constant.

 Those near to him not only shared in his care, they got the
 full love of his large heart. No trial was felt so keenly as that
 connected with members of his own household. When stroke

 after stroke came, for the time they seemed to crush him. He
 could bear, without much effort, wounds from his fellows, and

 he could draw something like delight from struggles which he
  believed to be in the interests of science or of humanity, even
  when they separated him from acquaintances and friends. But
  when trials touched those on whom he lavished his affection,

  they prostrated him at once. Nervous headaches, pain in the
SELF-HELP.  117

side, and palpitation, soon showed the intensity of his sorrow.

In youth, the influence of such trials was not so protracted as
afterwards. His natural enjoyment of life and health, his

thirst for knowledge, the claims of necessary work, and the

absorbing desire for extensive usefulness, soon counteracted
tendencies to sadness and depression. But later it was different,

because --
                               " When sore affliction comes

                        In the decline of life, 'tis like a storm
                           Which, in the rear of Autumn, shakes the tree
                        That frost had touched before ; and strips it bare
                           Of all its leaves."

When it came thus to him, He who uses sorrow for the highest
ends with regard to His own children had provided for him a
refuge, had " covered him with an excellent covering," given
him to understand " that no man should be moved by these
afflictions," and led him to " know that we are appointed there

unto."

    "Self-help" was the burden of the earliest lesson Dr.
Simpson had received, and its influence on him was now more
apparent than ever. He had still to struggle with straitened

circumstances, and to face responsibilities difficult to be met.
The expenses of housekeeping were week by week increasing.
He had to pay with punctuality the premiums of his life in
surance, and the interest of borrowed money. But his feet now

stood on a platform where, if health were continued, a brilliant

 success was sure. This thought upheld him, and he worked
with a persistency, heartiness, and determination truly mar
 vellous. After days of unceasing toil, he refused to give to
 sleep more than three or four hours. He laboured, apparently
 without distraction, in circumstances in which, to most men,

 work would have been almost impossible. Patients began to

 crowd his house. From the outset he exercised a singularly

 attractive influence over the sick, and those who imagined

 themselves sick. Schemes of philanthropy got his attention.

 Friends sought his advice on matters outside his profession, and
118 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

he took up their case as if he had nothing else to do. Strangers
addressed him very much as if they regarded him a kind of

Attorney-General for the civilized world. Authors forwarded
their works, requesting his opinion or praying for a word in their
behalf. Young artists sought his patronage. Archaeologists began

to regard him as an authority, and to present many an AD.L.L.

to be deciphered.1 Parents, whom he had never looked in the
face before, came to consult him about wayward sons, who had
outgrown parental control, or who, they were sure, were very

clever, if only their speciality could be found. A retired

captain had discovered the constituents of a pill which, he was
persuaded, would, if believed in and taken as he directed, bring

the duration of human life back again to that of the ante

diluvian patriarchs, --" Would not Dr. Simpson introduce it
among his patients ?" A dashing Yorkshireman wrote as " the

friend of a friend of a former fellow- student," informing him that

he was a devoted and enthusiastic disciple of "Old Isaak."
He had learned that Dr. Simpson was attending the wife of

a nobleman, on whose property were streams that supplied

excellent sport for fly-fishers, --" He would feel for ever obliged

could he get him and another friend of his friend liberty to
fish." He had a willing ear, a kind word, a wise or weighty
advice for each, as the case required. Even stupid communi
cations were noticed. He had not yet begun to " let these odd
letters answer themselves."

   At night he gave himself to the preparation of class lec
tures, and papers in the literature of his profession. But

almost nightly, and often several times in a night, when cosily

    1 Oldbuck. -- " The stone bears a sacrificing vessel, and the letters
A.D.L.L., which may stand, without much violence, for Agricola Dicavit

Libens Luberu,"

   Edie Ochiltree. --" Ye 11 find, if ye have not fund it already, a stane

that ane o' the mason callants cut out a ladle on to have a bourd at the
 bridegroom, and he put four letters on't, that's A.D.I,. L. -- Aiken Drum's
Lang Ladle -- for Aiken was ane o' the kail-suppers o' Fife."

                                                                -- The Antiquary, ch. iv.
                 PROSPERITY.                   119

seated and in the midst of an interesting or difficult theme, the

ring of the door-bell told him of a summons to the bedside of

a patient. He soon began to know how the visitor regarded

the case, according as the ring was spasmodic and abrupt, quiet

and low, or loud but stately. The evil effects of all this work

and anxiety again and again showed themselves. Headaches --
nervous, digestive, cerebral --palpitation, and acute pain in the
region of the heart, frequently forced him to take to bed. While

helping and healing so many he took scant care of his own

I Ihealth. " Well or ill," he said, " must work. In fact, can't

afford to be ilL" Even in the beginning of his career, his work
was thus engrossing, and he gave himself to it heartily and
enthusiastically. But never merely for the money it was

expected to fetch. This was, no doubt, present as a motive,

but there was nothing base in it. On the contrary, when the

pursuit of riches goes hand in hand with generous feelings and
noble, unselfish acts, it takes its place in the list of the highest

of human efforts. Had the getting of gain been Dr. Simpson's

ruling motive, he would have looked more closely after his fees,

and have given less of his valuable time to work that brought

no fee. When urged by relatives and others to regulate the

management of practice so as to make the fee secure, he

Ianswered --" prefer to have my reward in the gratitude of

my patients."

On the 16th of October 1840 Mrs. Simpson gave birth to

their first child. The day following he wrote to Mr. Grindlay.

--" Jessie is exceedingly well to-day. Her daughter is a nice,
fat, sonsy, black-eyed lady, who seems to think that she has

nothing to do in this world except sleep and sip sugar and
water. May Heaven bless her little ladyship, and make her path

through life as smooth as this of her first day's existence ! . . .
I I" am busy preparing for my winter labours.
                                               am far yet
Ifrom feeling so strong as could wish, and must take care of

myself for the winter, so as to be able to continue my duties
Ithroughout it.
                 don't care about a hard run at work so far as
 120 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

I Imyself am concerned, but as Dr. Thomson lectures me, must

be cautious now, if not for my own, at least for my wife and

 daughter's sakes.

    " My drosky is to be ready next week. It will help me
through with my work for the winter. It is expensive to buy

Ias well as keep, but had no alternative but to get one, both

 to support my rank among my wealthier compeers, and to save
 my body from excess of work, when there was (as there is
 during the winter lecturing season) little time left to devote
to it."

    The earliest intimation of the birth had been sent to Bath

 gate, whence inquiries and congratulations soon reached him.
 The Bathgate people of that day regarded John Fleming,
.John Eeid, and James Simpson with great affection. Tidings
of their success brought joy to all, and those even who

had never spoken to them rejoiced as if a personal boon had

been conferred. Among the communications that reached Dr.
 Simpson, on the birth of his child, was one from an old school
fellow, Walter Gilchrist. Gilchrist had served an apprenticeship
as a shoemaker, at which trade he was then working. Like
 Simpson, he had been early smitten with a love of learning, and
an earnest desire to devote himself to the study of Medicine.

                                                   "Bathgate, Oct. 20th, 1840, Tuesday.

  I" My dear James, -- hear that you are now a father--ay, a
Ifather, -- and write to congratulate you on the happy occasion.

   " You can readily conceive that the news of the birth pro

duced a train of odd cogitation in me. ' Ay,' said I, ' and

Simpson is a father. He has had a most eventful career

during the last twelve months. In May 1839 a lodger, same

month a householder, in November a candidate for the Chair,

in December a husband, in February 40 a Professor, in October

a Father.' These were the points in your career on which my
Iimagination lighted as ran back the catalogue of immediate
I I Ievents.
need not tell you what thought when reflected
        " BATHGATE BAIRNS.                                   121

on us being at school together, for these would fill a volume.

"...Besides, we have conned over the same subjects before.
            May Mrs. Simpson soon be restored to health and to

Ithe hearth, and may her--your (shall strike out the y) --little

daughter continue to improve in strength and health, and as

she grows in years and personal grace, may the respect and

esteem of mankind, and the favour of her God be her portion !                    a is,

  I" must remark, however, that the hurry in the house will,
I fear, have done some damage to the Introductory. On this
I Isubject have my fears ; trust you will be far advanced with

it. Eecollect, go the length of rehearsal. Eloquence, -- that

speaking eloquence, -- looked for, and you must give them
I
    .I

                               is
little. Dr. Dawson and Mr. Todd are coming in to hear you,

and should not wonder although there might be others.
"
    ..  am labouring away at the Epitome of Surgery.                               .
                                           I
                                                                      .          my
                                                                                .
Let the first impression be good and effective. -- remain,

dear James, yours ever affectionately,

                                                    " Walter Gilchrist.

   " To Professor Simpson, now father of a family."

   Some years ago heard an old minister say, in Dr. Simpson's

presence --" When think of Fleming and Eeid and Simpson,
I
cease to wonder at any news of the rise of Bathgate bairn.'"
      a                                    a
                 a                               a
                                                     '
                  II
                                                                                              ;
                                        aHere was another giving himself to shoemaking and surgery

labouring at the last while mastering handbook of science.

Gilchrist ultimately graduated, and, through Dr. Simpson's help

and influence, became practitioner in Leith. There were other

school-fellows equally clever, who, however, signally failed in
the race. " You see that man slaking lime, and half hid in the

vapour," said Dr. Simpson to his friend Dr. Archibald Graham.
" When
        boy, he was the cleverest of our class, and great
                                           is
                                                          a
friend of mine. Love of whisky has been his ruin. He might

have risen higher than any of us, but now he scarcely fit to

be poor hodman."

   In the beginning of November 1840 Dr. Simpson delivered

his introductory lecture as Professor of Midwifery, to crowded
                                           a
122 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

class of students and personal friends. The lecture was a great
success, and fully answered the expectations of his hearers.

   " A man may be known by his look, and one that hath under
standing by his countenance, when thou seest him." At this

period it would have been impossible for any intelligent ob
server to pass Dr. Simpson, even in a crowd, without being
attracted by his appearance. The form, as a whole, was more

slender, and the face-furrows of thought were less deep
and broad than in mature years, yet all the characteristic
features of his person were boldly outlined. Though in
height a little below the average stature of his countrymen,
strangers seldom noticed this, because of the general massive-
ness of his appearance. He could even stand side by side with

Christopher North, and suffer less by the contrast than taller
men. His frame, compact and well-knit in all its parts, ever
suggested aspects of physical power generally associated with

men of greater stature. A slight want of proportion between

the trunk and the lower limbs gave an appearance of shortness
of leg as compared with length of arm, and this was increased
by his quick, short step in walking. His hands have been
described as " typical medical hands " -- an expression held to
imply narrow palm and tapering fingers. But this is a mistake.
The fingers were short and fleshy, the palm thick and broad,
and the web of the palm covered more of the last joint of the
fingers than is commonly the case. His sense of touch was

exquisitely, almost painfully, delicate. To touch a rough

substance -- a bit of sandstone, for instance --" made," he said,
" his flesh creep." His broad deep chest was coped by strong
shoulders, whose thick plump muscle kept them from appearing
square. A short neck, and his habit, when speaking, of bringing
the point of the chin in on the breast, hid his throat and made
 head and chest look like one piece. There was a rounded

massiveness about his whole frame. It had no corners. At

 any time he was never slightly made. Even in boyhood he
 was described as a " thick-set, fat, sonsy callant ; " his charac
 teristic mental vigour, strength of will, gentleness of disposition,
PERSONAL APPEABANCE.  123

and general suavity of manners harmonized well with these

physical features, and indeed were written on his countenance.

They were seen in the height of forehead and breadth of brow,

over which shaggy masses of hair pressed as if to protect it ;

in the free space between the eyes ; in the deep lines which ran
from the base of each curved and wide nostril to the angles of
the mouth ; in the firm upper lip, and the full under one, the
broad chin, and long deep under-jaw ; in the breadth of face
across the cheeks, which in youth were marked by maiden
like dimples ; and, generally, in the symmetrically developed

large head, suggestive of what was afterwards found to be the
case, " a large brain with enormously deep convolutions." The

eyes were full, but the changeful light in them made it

difficult to say what was their colour. They could not be

said to be blue or grey or hazel, but they suggested each of

these colours, tinged with a curious golden hue, according to the

thought or emotion of the moment. All this begat the im

pression, even on those who came under his care for the first
time, of rare mental power, combined with almost womanly
tenderness and deep feeling. " Mira in sermone, mira etiam in

ore ipso vultuque suavitas."
    He was greatly delighted and encouraged by his large class.

To Miss Grindlay --

   " My dear Isabel, --Have intended to write for days and

weeks past, but very busy, and every moment is gold.
   " Am delighted, of course, with the class. Had to apply to

the Council for additional sittings, and again for some days
students standing for want of seats. For the first time in the

Ihistory of the University the Midwifery is the first, mean

the largest, class within its walls. It is very satisfactory to

have beat in the race not only my friends of the Medical
Faculty, but all the thirty bald and grey-headed Professors.
Dr. Alison, who changed his hour to lecture at the same one
with me, has a very small class. Don't he deserve it ? He

has broken his own head and missed mine.
124 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

I" have drawn upwards of £600, with graduation fees in
I Icluded.
         can't expect so large a class again, but then hope

my practice will improve and make up for it. No word of

boarders, but all is so still and nice, my tea is so very cosy and

I I Icomfortable when come home at five -- that--that do wish

might get through my difficulties without them.
I"The carriage sweeps along smartly.
                                                 could not get

through without it this winter. Am a good boy, and rise

always at four, but bed, if possible, at ten.

  I" Do you know, sometimes fancy the students ' gane gyte '

when they come crushing into the room to hear me lecture.

   "'My daughter! oh my daughter.' Ay, there's the rub.

I do love the little Marmazette so. She said not a word on

Monday -- was asleep during the ceremony. Mr. and Mrs.

Macredie here. Won't answer yet to Maggie. Cannot get my

tongue around Margaret. Jessie makes a famous nurse. . . .
I" got Mary's picture hung up to grace the baptism. May
IGod bless her !  do think my little daughter like her. --Yours

always.                                                                               J. Y. S."

To his brother--

I"My dear Sandy,-- send you the letter of credit for
I£100.
         can, without inconvenience, send another £100 for a
month. Have got the largest class in the University. --Yours

ever,                                                                                 J. Y. S."

He was now in good heart and hope. He could work without

the anxiety, irritation, and distraction that pecuniary diffi
culties bring. He had not, indeed, got past the breakers, in

this respect, and into calm, deep water ; but he saw his way

a
     it,

                   it

                                     I
                                                                                   a
to and felt to be near. Meanwhile, he thought to tide

over the difficulties by receiving one or two young gentlemen
"Ias boarders. But he was not successful.
                                                                                      heard of one

boarder, but his relations now wish him to be merchant, not

doctor. For Jessie's sake and my own am glad."
CHAPTER VI.

Religious views --State of the Scottish Church -- First Session as Professor
--Illness -- Memoir on Leprosy and Leper-houses --Minute and pains
taking Research -- Methods of Working-- Extracts --Chair of General
Pathology -- Extracts -- Professor                  -- Graduation
--High views of Professional         Reid's Speech  --Interest in  Address
                                    Responsibility                  Church
Affairs --The Disruption --Joins the Free Church.

   While attracting the attention of men by the manifestation
of great powers, and intermeddling with most branches of
knowledge, if not literally speculating de omni scibili, it is

remarkable that, up to this period, there is scarcely a trace
among Dr. Simpson's papers and correspondence of the least
interest in religious matters, or even in the state of the Scottish
Church, which, for several years, had been getting much atten
tion from thoughtful men. One meets occasionally with that

acknowledgment of " deity," so common even where there is no
distinct or definite belief in a personal God. There is too the

uninfluential use of the words " almighty," " providence,"
" creator," and " heaven," when called to witness striking
events, or to endure personal or relative affliction. But this is

often seen where there is no love for God as a Father, and no

trust in Christ as a Saviour. In a word, there was that

baptized heathenism which often becomes the broken reed on

which noble and richly-endowed minds are content to lean.

Several Churchmen, more than Church matters, had attracted
his attention, in connexion with their advocacy of schemes of

philanthropy. But it is abundantly evident that he had never
126 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

thought deeply, if at all, on his own relation to God, or his own

hopes in time and for eternity. There are, indeed, proofs of
deep unrest, at a time when onlookers may have thought his
growing influence and rising fame were bearing the fruits of
complete content and quiet satisfaction. Once and again we
find him giving expression to this in a hazy way, stretching
out his hands, but not unto God ; craving for what came not to
him in all the blessings wherewith God was crowning him.
Some well-meaning, but not very judicious people, seeing his
fast-increasing influence, and discerning in him the strong
sense, manly brain, and tender heart, fitted to be of highest
usefulness in the cause of Christ, wrote anonymous letters,
or forwarded religious tracts under blank cover in the hope
of influencing him. But the cowardice implied in attempting
good in this way was sure to disgust him, as it does most men
of sense. One or two of these communications he put away
among his papers, with the mark " Eeligious !"

    The absence of references in his correspondence to the con-
tendings and claims of the Church is remarkable, because in
Scotland these have ever been linked up with the extension of
primary education, philanthropic zeal, and the revival of personal
religion. We must seek the explanation of all this in the
absorbing interest of scientific pursuits, professional struggles,
and ever-deepening ambition during these years. In 1839 and
1840 he held his place in the race with the greatest difficulty.

    So far as Church affairs were concerned, indifference could not
long continue. The minds of most of his patients were full of
them, and he was forced to give them his attention. After his
marriage, he attended the able and impressive ministry of the
late Dr. Muir of St. Stephen's Church. Dr. Muir's direct
personal appeals from the pulpit, and the atmosphere of
spirituality in which all his public services then stood out,
could not fail at least to shed a healthy reflex influence over
his hearers. His discourses were earnest and evangelical.
Few could listen to them without being led to take some
CHURCH QUESTIONS.  127

interest in the cause of religion and in the work of their own

Church. It was so with Dr. Simpson. Under Dr. Muir's

ministry he began to think about religion, but without any efforts
to become religious. He did not regard religion as a matter of

vital moment to himself, but rather as a system of becoming-
nesses-- that which, in some indefinite way, had relation to
present life and hope, but was chiefly a thing whose value and
use are for the future : good at death, but not in life. Now,

though this acknowledgment often assumes the form of an

easy and complacent patronage of Christianity, and serves as a
substitute for love to the Saviour, it is not to be decried.

They who rest in it may miss the highest blessing, but where-
ever it is honestly present, it brings good to the household and

to the State.

   Alive to everything connected with Bathgate, he was led by
an incident that occurred there, in April 1841, to give his
attention to Church controversies. The movements carried on
by the Evangelical party in the Established Church, to secure
for the people their right to a voice in the calling of ministers,

and to provide chapels for destitute and populous districts, had

evoked much opposition from Dissenters. Men of extreme

political opinions not unfrequently disturbed the meetings, held
by the Church party to advocate their views. " We had a row,"

wrote his brother, on the 1st of April, "in the kirk last night

 at a meeting called to petition Parliament for the abolition of
Patronage. The Chartists filled the church, put William
Eobertson in the chair, and, of course, had it all their own way
for a short time. But Mr. Martin (the parish minister) ordered
the gas to be turned off, and after a good deal of howling they
departed." The row in the Bathgate church led him to inquire

 into the views of the contending parties, and to look beyond
 them. As a Churchman, he sided with the Church party and
 his friend Mr. Martin. As influenced to some extent by the
 ministry of Dr. Muir, his sympathies went with the Evangelical,
 as opposed to the Moderate, party in the Church itself.
128 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   Dr. Simpson's first session as Professor of Midwifery bore
conclusive testimony to the wisdom of the patrons in electing
him, and showed clearly his singular fitness for the Chair. His
genial bearing among the students, the earnest way in which
he did the work of the class, the forcible and lucid style of his
prelections, his breadth of view as a public teacher, the
pleasant talk and sallies of quiet humour with which he often
relieved the dry exposition of methods of research or the
didactic statement of principles, the abundance and freshness
of his illustrative facts, and his happy art of laying fields of
thought outside of his profession under contribution, to give
force and clearness to the special topics under review, all

conduced to make him a favourite of the students generally,
and to win the admiration, respect, and love of those who
were foremost among them in mental power and accomplish

ments.

   As the close of the session drew near, he began to yield to
his archaeological tastes, giving them, however, a professional
direction. The insight he had obtained, when writing a paper
on Malaria, into the relations between the sanitary condition of
cities and the public health, convinced him that, in this depart
ment of research, much might be found to shed light on the
notoriously insanitary state of Scotland in the past, and much
also fitted to be of present use both to practitioners and sani

tary reformers. Forms of --disease leprosy, for example --

largely prevailed in Britain in times past, which are now rarely
met with, except as stray cases. The task he proposed to
himself for early spring- work was a memoir entitled " Anti
quarian Notices of Leprosy and Leper- Houses in Scotland and
England." His attention had for several years been turned to
this subject, and he had gathered many facts, and consulted
many works. Yet he began to put these in shape when he had
work on hand that led him to say, " 0 that there were double
twenty-four hours in the day !" But the busiest men have
 always most time for work, and the best work is always done
AILMENTS.                                                192

by those who have most to do. Busy idleness is the daily toil
of many in all professions, and little good comes of it. Dr.
Simpson sought and found relaxation in the work of his pro
fession, by giving himself to true and hard work in depart

ments outside of his daily duties. It is in the business of life

as in the lessons at school. We find relief, freshness of spirit,
and heart for more work, by turning from one task to the

diligent pursuit of another which demands different methods,

and calls into action entirely different powers. The youth who
in one day is compelled to turn from Greek to Mathematics, or

from the latter to Zoology, may, even though he work con
tinuously, do equal justice to each branch of study. But
though, to Dr. Simpson, work of this kind brought its reward
in healthy intellectual impulses and fresh elasticity of spirit,
he had had so much in hand during the session that he did

not escape the penalty of overwork. This might have been
expected. He had resolved to go early to bed, and to be up
betimes in the morning, but throughout the session " late to
bed and early to rise " had been his rule. When recovering

from a very sharp and severe attack of illness, he wrote to

Mrs. Grindlay :--

I" My dear Mother, -- take up my pen to show you that I

am well again. You ask the name of my ailments. The
I Idoctors (a horrid set !) alleged had bilious fever.
                                                        was my

self afraid it was to be another attack of common continued
I Ifever, but got the turn on the third day.
Iif not quite, as strong as before.           am now nearly,

                                     was out with Dr. Eobertson

to-day, and had a walk in the Zoological Gardens with Johnnie,
IMaggie, and Janet Johnstone.
                                     believe that, like other

things which we often blindly look upon as misfortunes at the

time, my late illness may be a blessing to me in so far that it
Iwill make me stronger and abler for my winter labours.
                                                         have
Inot been well for a considerable time past, and this believe
Iwill, with due care, make me stronger than would otherwise

I
130 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

have been. . . . Kindest love to Helen, etc. --Yours ever
                                           J. Y. Simpson."
affectionately,

   The memoir on Leper- Houses was read before the Edinburgh

Medico-Chirurgical Society, March 3d, 1841. It was after

wards extended and published in three parts in the Medical

and Surgical Journal in 1841 and 1842. The care, time, and
labour bestowed on it must have been very great, and the
research immense. In the notes nearly five hundred references

to authorities are given, many of these being to works of whose

existence few even of well-read students are aware. Char-

tularies, printed and MS., Eegisters of old Eeligious Houses,

Books of Monasteries, Annals of particular places, Eecords of

Burghs and Town Councils, old Acts of Parliament, Eecords of

Criminal Trials, Latin, English, Scotch, and French Histories,
Accounts of Eeligious Orders, Eoyal Ordinances, Monkish

Chronicles, Books of Antiquities, old Travels, and a multitude
of other works in

                             " Thoughtful lore and Btudies sage,"

are drawn on for illustrative matter. In the appendix he gives
a list of one hundred and nineteen leper-houses which he
had traced in Britain, with their description, and the date of

their foundation, or of the earliest notices of them. Few men
had in a higher degree the faculty of finding all an author had

to say, and few knew better to what sources to turn for infor

mation on any topic. During his student life he had ransacked

departments of knowledge on which was gathered the dust of
ages. And when he set himself to think out a subject, all that

had ever been written on it seemed to come at once within

reach. The mass in his hand became plastic, and yielded to

his touch. The heat and radiance of his genius penetrated   it,
and the reader came to regard more as the property of the
writer than of the author whose name bore. Even quotations
                 it,
                         it
                                        a
were seldom used by him like patches on garment They
were, like bits of fine mosaic, harmonized by being used to bring

out an exquisite figure, or to realize  a  rare pattern.  The
LEPER HOUSES.                131

following extracts indicate the character and scope of the

memoir on Leprosy :--
   " Few subjects in Pathology are more curious, and at the

same time more obscure, than the changes which, in the course
of ages, have taken place in the diseases incident either to

the human race at large, or to particular divisions and com

munities of it. A great proportion of the maladies to which

mankind are liable have, it is true, remained entirely unaltered
in their character and consequences from the earliest periods

of medical history down to the present day. Synocha, Gout,

and Epilepsy, for instance, show the same symptoms and course

now, as the writings of Hippocrates describe them to have

...presented to him upwards of two thousand years ago.
    " Since the first medical observations that are now extant

on disease were made and recorded in Greece, various new

species of human maladies have, there can be little doubt, made
Itheir original appearance.
                             need only allude to Smallpox,

Measles, and Hooping-cough. Again, some diseases which

prevailed formerly, seem to have now entirely disappeared

from among the human race. . . . Other maladies, as that most

anomalous affection the English sweating-sickness of the

fifteenth century, have only once, and that for a very short

period, been permitted to commit their ravages upon mankind.
And lastly, we have still another and more extensive class,

including maladies that have changed their geographical

stations to such an extent as to have made inroads upon whole

districts and regions of the world, where they were formerly

unknown, leaving now untouched the localities which in older

times suffered most severely from their visitations. Among

this last tribe of diseases no one presents a more curious sub

ject of inquiry than the European leprosy, or tubercular elephan

tiasis of the middle ages. This malady is now almost entirely,

if not entirely, unknown as a native endemic disease on any

part of the continent of Europe, and yet from the tenth to the

sixteenth century it prevailed in nearly every district of it*
132 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Laws were enacted by princes and courts to arrest its diffusion,
the Pope issued Bulls with regard to the ecclesiastical separa
tion and rights of the infected, a particular order of knighthood
was instituted to watch over the sick, and leper hospitals or
lazar-houses were everywhere instituted to receive the victims
of the disease. . . .

    " That an immense number of leper-houses existed on the
Continent at the period mentioned is abundantly shown in
many of the historical documents of that age. Louis vm.
promulgated a code of laws in 1226 for the regulation of the
French leper hospitals ; and these hospitals were at that date
computed to amount, in the then limited kingdom of France,

to not less than 2000 in number (devx milk leproseries). They
afterwards, as is alleged by Velley, even increased in number,
so much so, that there was scarcely a town or burgh in the
country that was not provided with a leper hospital. In his
history of the reign of Philip n., Mezeray uses the same
language in regard to the prevalence of leprosy and leprous
patients in France during the twelfth century. Muratori gives

a nearly similar account of the extent of the disease during the
middle ages in Italy ; and the inhabitants of the kingdoms of
Northern Europe equally became its unfortunate victims. . . .

   I" The Scottish lazar-houses that have thus enumerated,

though few in number, are still sufficient to show that the
disease for which they were instituted was generally diffused
 over the extent of the kingdom. Thus we have found the
 establishments in question spread from Berwickshire to Shet
land, and from Aberdeen to Ayr. . . .

    " It is believed that the name of the village of Liberton (two

 miles south of Edinburgh) is merely a corruption of Liper town
 --liper being the old Scotch term for leprosy. . . This idea is
 certainly in no small degree countenanced by the circumstance
 that the lands of Upper Liberton (Libertune) in some old writs
 are described under the name of ' terrarum de Spittle town '

 (Hospital town). . . .
LEPER HOUSES.  1 33

    " This ' oily or balm well ' of Liberton was sufficient to
excite the admiration and engage the protective care of the

credulous King James vl In a curious monograph, on the

virtues of the well, published at Edinburgh in 1664, the author,
'Mathew Mackaile, Chirurgo-Medicine,' indulges himself (p.

"...1 1 7) in an historical eulogium and anathema in regard to it.1
            In these early times, the very words employed to

designate the disease show its extent and severity. Somner,
Lye, and Bosworth, in their several dictionaries of the old

Anglo-Saxon language, all quote the remarkable expression,
' seo mycle adl,' ' the mickle ail,' or great disease, as signifying
' elephantiasis or leprosie ;' and it is worthy of observation, in

reference to the same point, that the delightful old French
chronicler, Sir John Froissart, who visited Scotland in the

time of Eobert n., applies, as we shall afterwards see, the

analogous term of 'la grosse maladie' to one noted case of
leprosy in this country. . . .

   " At the present day, tubercular leprosy is still regarded as
a disease which sets at defiance all the powers of the medical
art. Our ancestors had so firm a belief in the same doctrine,

that in the case of one of the unfortunate wretches who was
tried in Edinburgh in 1597 for witchcraft, amongst the gravest
of the accusations brought against the panel was this, that she
(Christian Livingstone) affirmit that she culd haile (cure)
leprosie, ' quhilk' (the libel adds) ' the maist expert men in

   1 " His Majesty King James the Sixth, the first monarch of Great Britain,

of blessed memory, had such a great estimation of this rare well, that when
he returned from England, to visit this ancient kingdom of Scotland, in
anno 1617, he went in person to see it, and ordered that it should be built
with stones from the bottom to the top, and that a door and a pair of stairs
should be made for it, that men might have the more easie access unto its
bottom, for getting of the oyl. This Royal command being obeyed, the
well was adorned and preserved, until the year 1650, when that execrable
regicide and usurper, Oliver Cromwell, with his rebellious and sacrilegious
accomplices, did invade this kingdom, and not only defaced such rare and
ancient monuments of Nature's handwork, but also the synagogues of the

God of Nature."
   134 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   medicine are not abil to do.' Some of the means of cure she had
   Iemployed have never, am afraid, been allowed a place in any
   Iof our pharmacopoeias.
                            may allude therefore, as a specimen,
   Ito one of them, amongst others, viz. (and quote the words of

   the libel), 'she took a reid cock, slew  it,bakedbannock
                                                   is .
   (cake) with the blude of and gaf (gave) the samyn to the'
                                                           ."
   "...leper to eat.' . . .it,                               a
                  Most of the Scottish leper-houses were very poorly
                                                                     aa
   or not at all endowed. Their principal subsistence seems

   to have been derived from casual alms. Each of the doomed

   inmates of the hospitals was, like the leper-struck heroine of

   the old Scottish poet Henryson, by

              . . . cauld and honnger sair
       Compellit to be ane rank beggair.'

   The inmates of the Greenside or Edinburgh lazar-house were

   allowed four shillings Scotch (about fourpence sterling) per
   week, and for the remainder of their subsistence they were,

   according to the original rules of the institution, obliged to beg

   at the gate of their hospital. The leper-house at Aberdeen was

   supported from the public funds of the town. .

   When recovering from the attack of illness by which, for

   several weeks after the close of his first session, he was un

   fitted for his usual work, Dr. Simpson found himself in con

   troversy well fitted to test his mettle. It was alleged at the

   time that several of his colleagues opposed his election to the

   Chair, on the plea that he was not person of culture-- not mana
   of letters. " He may know Midwifery well enough," they said,
   " as many old women throughout the country do, but his know

   ledge of medical science and its literature     meagre." A

   movement was now originated by certain prominent members

   of the medical faculty, for the discontinuance of the Chair of

   itGeneral Pathology. Dr. Simpson saw his opportunity and
   used with all the more heart, that he felt himself contending
   in the interests of general medical science, as well as in sup
   port of his own convictions on this particular case. Hard blows

t
CHAIR OF GENERAL PATHOLOGY.         135

were given and received. To suppress this Chair would, he

believed, be injurious both to the University and to science

itself. As science advances, the limits of its various branches

are better seen and more sharply defined. Instead of grouping

several related branches under one department with one Pro

fessor, there comes to be a desire for subdivision of branches

and an increase of teachers. Such views, favoured originally by

Cuvier and other distinguished men, were being realized on the
Continent. This was Dr. Simpson's strong position. The dis

cussion gave him an opportunity of showing, how wide and

accurate a survey he had taken of the whole field of medical

science. The controversy called forth all his powers. But he
soon felt, that it was not so hard a thing as he had at first

thought to cope even with such able opponents as Alison and
Syme. His statement of the question, his appeals to the

authority of many of the ablest men of the day, and to the
usage of the medical schools in France and Germany, the
philosophical breadth of view indicated in dealing with the
merits, the skilful summing up and trenchant disposal of ob
jections, all bore witness to his skill as a controversialist, his

attainments as a man of science, and his wide literary culture.

Having stated, at a conference of the Faculty, that the views

expressed by him were not new, but had formed the burden of
an introductory lecture in 1837, when assistant to Dr. Thomson,

he was challenged to produce the lecture.

   " At the late conference between the College Committee and

Medical Faculty, strong doubts were expressed as to whether

there exists any difference between disease as considered in the

course of General Pathology, and as considered in the Courses
                                    I then placed myself
of Practice of Physic and Surgery.

(perhaps my colleagues may think with very little judgment)

under the promise of publishing such parts of my Introductory
ILecture as might find written, for the purpose of pointing out
I Ithe difference in question.
confess have no great hopes of

making the subject in this way very clear to the non-medical
136 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Igentlemen belonging to the College Committee.  publish the
Ilecture, however, such as find it in my secretary, with this
Idifference only, that have added illustrations from Geography
Iand Natural History to elucidate the question.
                                                 have de

prived the whole as much as possible of medical technicalities,

and corrected the expressions where it was necessary to do so in

consequence of the rapidity with which the lecture was ori

ginally composed, a few days only having intervened between

Ithe period at which was appointed to deliver the General

Pathology Lectures, and the actual commencement of my duties

as interim Lecturer on that branch. . . .
   " The term Pathology, in its widest signification, may be

defined to be the sum of our knowledge relative to the deviations

which occur in the state of Disease in the functions and struc

ture of the different parts of the living economy. It compre

hends within its range of investigation the intimate nature and

seats of diseased actions, (Pathogeny) --the consideration of the

morbific agencies, physical, chemical, vital, and mental, by which

these actions are directly or indirectly produced, (Etiology) --

the external phenomena or symptoms to which they give rise,

(Semeiotics) -- the diversified forms that they assume --the
courses that they follow, -- and the various alterations in organic

structure with  which    they may stand connected, (Morbid
Anatomy).       several  classes of facts relative to the human

   " But these

economy in the states of disease, and conjointly forming the

objects of study in the science of Pathology, may be contem
Iplated under two different points of view.
                                             shall endeavour

briefly to illustrate these two views, as the distinction between

them constitutes the distinction between General Pathology and

the Practices of Physic and Surgery.

   " In the first place, we may take one view of morbid pheno

mena, and consider them precisely as they present themselves
in those natural combinations or groups of symptoms that

constitute particular diseases or particular species of disease,
PHENOMENA OF DISEASE.                                                137

and to which specific names have been assigned, such as Apo

plexy, Smallpox, Gout, Aneurism, Hernia, White Swelling,

etc. etc. Apoplexy, with Smallpox, and each of the individual

diseases now named, is characterized by a certain distinctive

series of symptoms, which occur in a certain regular concourse

and succession. The whole natural history of Apoplexy, and

of other individual species of disease, --that the consideration
                      I
                                                                is,
of the internal morbid conditions of the economy on which
they each depend, --of the causes by which they may be each

--produced, --of the characteristic symptomsand course which they

each exhibit, of the effects to which they each give rise, -- and

of the different methods of treatment which they each require;
--the consideration,
                      say, of all these various points, when

taken together and viewed in relation to single, specific, or in

dividual diseases, constitutes the study of what has usually
been termed in the German and Dutch Schools Special Patho

logy, the Pathologie externe and interne of the French, and the

Principles and Practice of Physic and Surgery of the Medical

Schools of this country.

   " In the second place, however, we may take another, and, in

many respects, more important view of the phenomena of
is,

      it a

                      a
                                             is

                                                                         a
                                                                                             a
diseases. Apoplexy, Smallpox, and every other individual

disease, as were, definite and individual Compound of

certain congeries of symptoms, causes, effects, etc. The Special

Pathologist, as we have just seen, considers morbid actions in

this light. But instead of looking upon Apoplexy and other

diseases as isolated objects, each of them having compound

character, we may break down or analyse one and all of the

maladies to which the human system liable, into the different

Constituent Parts or elements of which they are respectively

composed, and afterwards re-arrange and group these parts or

elements together so that, from the field of general disease, all

identical and allied symptoms, --all identical and allied ex
citing causes, -- morbid alterations, etc. etc., shall be carefully

collected and classified together. Then will be in our power
                      it
138 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

to consider every individual morbid phenomenon which

diseases as a whole exhibit, -- every individual morbid condi

tion, functional or organic, to which the human economy is

liable, -- every morbid alteration of structure that may occur in
its several parts, -- and every morbific cause, whether external
or internal, which may be capable of deranging --as so many

separate and distinct objects of investigation; -- and each one
                                                          it,
                                                                    a
of them can be thus studied, not simply as seen in and belonging
to one single disease, but as seen in and common to greater

or less series of the whole diseases of the economy.
   " By considering in this second and analytical manner all

the different individual external phenomena or symptoms of
diseases, all the different morbid conditions of the human

economy on which these symptoms depend, all the various
changes which occur in its organic structure, and all the dif

ferent individual morbific causes that may act upon that

economy, as each forming constituent part or element, not
   a
                        a
of one, but of greater or less number of different specific

diseases, --and by thus being enabled to trace the history and

relation of each single symptom, each single cause, and each
single effect of morbid deviation, throughout all the series of

specific diseases with which may stand connected, -- medical
                    a

                               it

                                          a
                                                       a
men have been enabled to collect and establish series of
                                                          a
general facts or principles, which, by diminishing the number of           a
special or isolated facts, that the mind might otherwise require
to keep in remembrance, tend in very great degree to facilitate

and advance the study of Medicine as science, and promote

its application as  practical art. These general facts or

.principles relative to disease, when confirmed by observation,

experience, and sound inductive reasoning, and arranged in

systematic form, constitute the principles of General Patho
logy. . .

    " The General Pathologist, however, directs his attention not

so much to the connexion and classification of the various

symptoms of the disease, as to the nature and causes of each of
                 ZOOLOGY AND ANATOMY.                                     139

the symptoms individually ; and each of them forms for him a

separate and distinct object of inquiry. Thus he studies the

several premonitory symptoms of the Headache, Drowsiness,

--etc., the Coma and Stertorous breathing which occur during
the attack, -- and the Palsy which is so often seen succeeding

                 -- not in combination, but as so many in
or accompanying  it,

dividual morbid states, common to greater or less number of;
                            a

other specific diseases and he considers the Pathological nature
of each of these states, not in reference to its occurrence in

Apoplexy alone, but in reference to its occurrence in all the         it
diversified morbid conditions of the economy in which may
present itself --in other words, he treats of these symptoms all
              ;

severally, under their respective general doctrines. Thus, to com

mence with the last on the list, he treats of the Palsy attendant

upon Hemorrhagic Apoplexy, when considering the general

history and causes of Palsy as an individual symptom, --he

directs his attention to the torpor of the cerebral functions

                 it,
                           a
                                                             a
accompanying     when discussing the different varieties and
pathological causes of Coma, -- and so on in regard to the various

other Symptoms observed in the disease. . . .
   " Let us take another illustration from Zoology and Com

parative Anatomy. The pure Zoologist studies any single

individual animal, as lion, an eagle, or whale, in relation to

its own individual distinctive characters, --its own peculiarities
of external form and appearance, --its own peculiarities of
internal structure,--its own habits and actions, etc. etc. The

Comparative Anatomist, on the other hand, analyses each of

these, and all other animals, into their component parts, and

considers these component parts in relation to one another. In

this way he      enabled to arrive at some general facts and
a
                  is

                                                               a
                                                                   a
principles which the simple Zoologist could never reach. Thus,

for example, the Comparative Anatomist, in studying the brain

as constituent part of the structure of large portion of the

animal kingdom, has, by comparing the appearance and struc
ture of this organ (the Brain) in great number of different
HO SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

animals, enabled us to acquire a knowledge of the mode of for
mation of the organ, of the relative importance of different parts

it,

     ;
                                                                                  :

                                                                          a

                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                     .
of etc., that we could never otherwise have attained. By the

same analytical plan, the Comparative Anatomist has enabled

us to trace out the different general types of structure which the

Heart, the Intestines, the Skeleton, the Skin, the Head, the

Anterior Extremities, etc. etc., present in the animal kingdom at

large and upon the basis of this knowledge, the human Physio
logist has in late years been enabled to draw great number of
most important generalizations with regard to the structure and

functions of the corresponding parts in the human subject.                                                                                              .

" Now, to apply this illustration -- the Zoologist studies each

individual animal singly and by itself, in the same way as the

Special Pathologist studies each individual disease singly and

by itself. Again, the Comparative Anatomist first analyses,

and then re-arranges and classifies together, the constituent
parts of individual animals, in order to draw out some general

facts or laws with regard to the formation, structure, type, etc.,

of each of these single and more or less common constituents

of the animal frame, in the same way as the General Patho

logist first analyses, and then re-arranges and classifies together,
the constituent parts of individual diseases, in order to draw

out his general facts or laws with regard to the formation, etc.,

of each of these single and more or less common constituents

of morbid action, -- thus giving himself an opportunity of

studying each individual pathological general fact or principle

--as one entire whole, -- as one connected chain, while the

Special Pathologist has, from the different nature of his pur

suits, to content himself with studying in those broken and
                               it
disjointed links in which
                                              .

                                             ."
                           it  presents itself to him in the

phenomena of individual species of diseases. .

These general positions are fully illustrated by special

cases. In tracing the subordinate divisions of his great theme,

he shows how many and important services  it      fitted to render

                                              is

the physician.
"MAGGIE."  141

   His friend Dr. John Eeid was appointed, in 1841, to the
Chair of Anatomy in the University of St. Andrews, and the
Edinburgh men honoured him with their congratulations at a
public dinner. Dr. Alison presided, and Dr. Simpson acted as
croupier. In Eeid's reply to the complimentary speeches of

the evening, he referred to his past friendship with Simpson.

I" In the croupier recognise my earliest friend, a native of the

same village. We were rivals at school and at college. We
were fellows in the playground. In short, we stood to each
other from boyhood upwards in every possible relation, whether
of an educational, warlike, delicate, or social character, which

the warm and fitful feelings peculiar to boyhood and youth can
produce. And now that the more staid sentiments of manhood
have sobered the exuberance of youthful feeling without de
tracting from its sincerity or warmth, we both look back with
feelings of unmingled pleasure to those scenes which memory
luxuriates to recall, and over which imagination delights to
ponder." Dr. Simpson's delight in these scenes increased with
his years. When weary, depressed, and overworked, " a run
to Bathgate " was as an excellent medicine.

   Another year glided past, in which growing professional
success and quiet domestic enjoyment mingled with much hard

work and some trial.

                                          "23d December 1841, 22 Albany Street.

  I"My dear Mr. Grindlay,-- have some paper before me

to scribble two or three letters for the post, and take the liberty
of sending one of the sheets to you.

   "We are all well and hearty here. Maggie has just been

before tea laughing and skirling at a great rate. She tries to
walk by a hold, and appears to think herself mighty clever

when she manages a few steps.

  I" My class has turned out better than at one time expected.
I Ibelieve have the second largest among the medical faculty.

   I" have been very busy in practice for several weeks past,

and often wish the day were thirty hours long in order to get all
142 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Idone that ought to be done. Yesterday had the honour of

waiting professionally on several ' Honourable ' ladies -- on

three daughters of Lord     , on Lady D., and in the even

ing on Lady A.

  I" am using two horses, one for the day, and the other for

the evening work. Maggie often sits and chuckles over her
apple-pie book, and seems to admire most the part of ' G gobbled

it."
" With kindest love to Mrs. G. and all in Bedford Street,

believe me, your very affectionate son,  J. Y. Simpson."

At the close of the year he had saved as much as he thought
Iwould carry him over all difficulties. " If am allowed to
Ikeep my health next year," he wrote to Sandy, " trust to be
Iable to lay aside a still larger sum.
                                         sometimes cannot help

thinking of the great difference a few years have produced.

INot long ago was more proud of being asked to attend John
IYoung's journeyman's wife than have been this year in being

called to attend a Countess." But with his wonted readiness to

respond to every application for money, he sent his savings to
a friend. Writing to his brother, he says :--" Mr.
                                                          did

not get the returns he expected to fill up his bank account

I Iagainst New Year's Day, and sent him what had accumu

lated in the last week of December, so as to leave myself quite
If Ibare.
      you could therefore send me in £100 should feel
Igreatly obliged.
                   will be able to give it you again in March

or April.                                                 Dr.

  "I have got another money matter to look after.

Hamilton's daughters last week sold the Hospital with all its
Ifurniture, beds, tea-cups, etc. etc.
                                       had put in £30 of furniture
Imyself, which was obliged to buy back on Thursday last from

Mr. Brown, the purchaser, with all the other things, to put into

a new hospital. The Hospital is necessary for the class. We

Iare ordered to flit to-morrow, and have not yet got a house.

expect to get the use of the Fever Hospital for a few weeks to
Iput our poor patients in.
                            must exert myself for some months
                 CHURCH DISCUSSIONS.                   143

to come to get a new hospital set a-going. ' A stout heart to

a stey brae.'
" Let Mr. Fergusson put my name on the Lodge Society if it
Iwill do any good.
                       wished to run out at Christmas, but found

it utterly impossible to steal away.
   " Give my kindest compliments to Janet and family, with all

the happiest wishes of this happy season.

  I" hope you are pleased with the reading of Dr. Keith's
books. They lead one onwards like novels. --Yours very

affectionately,                       J. Y. Simpson."

I" My dear Sandy, -- ought to have acknowledged ere this
I Ithe receipt of your kind order for the £100.
                                                   shall now,

think, be able to clear all off the last fortnight, and get nearly

£150 of fees.

  I" had a letter from the Earl of M. yesterday, stating

how greatly pleased he and the Countess were with my services,

etc. etc.

" Great Church discussions here ! Twenty-four of our
I IEdinburgh clergy are to go out.
                               am half pleased that am
                                                               If
not sitting under one who does go. Dr. Muir remains.

Iotherwise, would certainly have seceded too.
I" have wagered Mr. Angus that 400 ministers at least will

leave their churches.

" You will see in yesterday's Advertiser (last page, first
Iadvertisement) an advertisement of mine for a house.
                                                       want

to get farther west, if possible.

  I" was out two miles into the country this afternoon seeing

professionally a niece of the Marquis of Lothian.
" Hope all are well, and with kindest regards, believe me,

yours ever affectionately,            J. Y. Simpson."

The pleasure his success gave to his relatives brought him

more gratification than the success itself did. His sister's joy

was a source of deep content.  To a note from Mrs. Simpson

Mary answered :--
144 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

                           " 8th April 1842.
  I" am delighted with your description of your dear little
IMaggie. All that you write of James, my James (for have

Iboth a mother's and a sister's love for him) is just what
Iexpected.
            knew he would be as kind a husband as a brother.
IIt is with feelings of proud joy hear of his unbounded

success. Long, long may he be spared to be useful to others,

and a joy to us all."

    Another child, David James, was added to the family

group, and he wrote to his father-in-law :--

  I" Jessie, William ina, Maggie, and are all fondly hoping

that you will be down with us on Wednesday to witness the
little stranger's christening. We think we could give you
occupation here for a few days, and it would delight us all if
you would only come. With the Glasgow Eailway it is now a

less tedious journey. Do come and join our merry-making.

My brothers from Grangemouth and Bathgate are to be in.
   " The little fellow thrives like a mushroom. Maggie has

got a go-cart to-day, and seems perfectly amazed at her own
performances in walking in it.

  I I" wish you very much to come down for other reasons.

have been looking at the outsides of several houses for flitting
farther west, where my business is lying more and more.

There are several in Charlotte Square, Queen Street, etc., and

we would have a ramble through them all if you would only

come down."

   In compliance with a long-established custom, one of the

medical faculty addresses the newly-made graduates at the

close of their academical career. In 1842 this duty fell to Dr.

Simpson, on which occasion eighty-seven candidates had con
ferred on them the degree of Doctor of Medicine. The address
gives a clear indication of his views at that time of profes
sional life and responsibility.
GRADUATION ADDRESS.  145

  IHe said, --" gladly avail myself of the combined privilege

and duty which devolves upon me on the present occasion.

IAnd, in the first place, would employ it for the purpose of

congratulating you upon the honours you have this day obtained

--honours the highest in Medicine which this or any other
British University can confer. You have won these honours
by an arduous and a prolonged course of study. For years

past you have been accumulating the store of professional
knowledge necessary for their purchase, by your labours in the
class-room and in the closet, and by your study of disease by

the bedside of sickness and suffering. To obtain the requisite
knowledge many of you have perilled your own health, nor
scrupled to breathe the poisoned breath of infection itself.
And all of us could, with heartfelt regret, recount the names of
some, who, commencing their studies along with you, might
perhaps have been sharers in the joys and honours of this
hour, had they not perished in their careers under the dangers

to which the very nature of their calling exposed them--

noble, but alas ! young and early sacrifices at the shrine of
professional duty. During the few moments, however, which

Iwe are yet to spend together, would speak not of the past

but of the future,-- not in regard to what you have already
accomplished and encountered as professional students, but of
what still awaits you as professional practitioners, -- not of the
mode in which you have conducted yourselves heretofore, but
of the mode in which you ought to conduct yourselves here

after.

    " First of all, there is one opinion of primary importance,

Ibecause of primary danger (an opinion that fear is only too

common amongst you), against the spell of whose blighting

Iinfluence would warn and guard you with all the earnestness

of the most heartfelt conviction. Many of you imagine that,
with the present attainment of medical honours, all your

medical learning and labours are at once to cease; --that

with your diplomas in your possession, you may henceforth
                                                 K
146 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

banish all professional books and investigations from your
thoughts ;--that you leave these walls, not practical tyros, but
proficients in every kind of professional acquirements. No

idea could be more groundless and unsound --no error could

be more fatal to your future prospects and progress in life.
This day is to be dated as the day of the true commencement,
rather than of the true consummation of your professional

studies and exertions. It is, at best, but a momentary halt

after the first and easiest stage in the journey of professional
life ; and your march onward must be one, not of diminished,
but of redoubled energy and diligence.

    " The medical practitioner should never cease to be the medi
cal student. His whole course must be one of continued and

accumulating instruction and research. The vast importance
as well as the vast extent and rapid march of our profession

demand it. . . .

   If" there is therefore any single truth which you ought to

engrave 'upon the table of your hearts' more deeply than

another, it is this,--that if you aspire after professional dis

tinction (and who amongst you does not ?) you must assidu
ously enrich and extend your store of professional knowledge by
continued and constant observation, reflection, and reading. Let

no opportunities escape you of personally watching and study
ing for yourselves the diversified phenomena and results of
morbid action and of remedies. And though you are hence
forth to practise medicine as an art, and as a source of pecuniary

Iemolument, still, beseech you, continue to look upon, and

love, and investigate every part of it with all the ardour and
zeal of a science. Do not suppose (as has been often alleged)
that the study of practical medicine as a department of scien
tific knowledge, is in any respect incompatible with the exer
cise of practical medicine as a department of professional gain

It is totally the reverse. The more you know of disease --the
more deeply and enthusiastically you study its phenomena --

the greater will be the interest which you will take in every
                ADVICE TO YOUNG PHYSICIANS.                                             147

ailment submitted to your charge, in every symptom of and
in every change in --an interest certainly altogether inde
                it,
                         is

                               it

                                      is
                                                                        it,
pendent of, and immeasurably above, the incentive of pecu

niary reward, but one that still in itself the surest ultimate

road to that very result, because       the surest means to bind

you to your patients with all that zeal and all that devotion,

that are so properly considered by the public as alone worthy

of such reward.

   " In struggling onwards towards fame and fortune in the

practice of your art, place from the first all your hopes                               ad
.

                                         of
                                                                   of
vancement upon the breadth and extent   your medical abilities

alone. . . And let me strongly forewarn you against one fre

quent error. Young physicians often dream that by extending

the circle of their private acquaintances they thus afford

themselves the best chance of extending the circle of their

private patients. In following out this chimerical view, much

invaluable time frequently lost, and, what worse, habits of
                is
                                                             is

pleasure and indolence are often, with fatal effect, substituted

for those habits of study and exertion that are above all price.
No man will in any case of doubt or danger intrust to your

professional care the guardianship of his own life, or of the life

of those who are near and dear to his heart, merely because

you happen to be on terms of intimacy with him. The self-

interest of human nature forbids it. To have professional
faith and confidence in you, he must respect you in your call
ing as physician, and not merely in your character as social
.a

                         of
                                              of

                                                                                     a
friend and companion. The qualities for which he might

esteem you in the latter capacity are often the very reverse of
those which would induce him to confide in you in the former.

The accomplishments which may render you acceptable in the
drawing-room, are not always those that would make your

visits longed for and valued in the chamber of sickness and

sorrow. . .                             medical practitioners,

  " In entering upon the active duties

form your earlier habits business and study with anxious and

watchful care.
148 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   " Every man has the power of forming what habits he will.
The same duties, however irksome in the first instance, when

gone over resolutely and uninterruptedly day after day at the

same time, are soon, by their mere periodic repetition, con

verted from tasks into fixed habits and sources of pleasure.
Their non-performance at last will, like their very performance

at first, become matter of pain and disquietude. . . .
    " Above all, teach yourselves carefully to save your time, and

to methodize all your pursuits.

"The two great commodities which the physician carries

into the mart of the world to barter for the goods of life, are
Ihis professional knowledge or advice, and his time.
                                                                                                        have

urged upon you to enlarge the quantity and enrich the quality
of the former ; and in order to accomplish this great object,

let me now solicit you to save and economize the latter. Let

your time be a property of which you are truly avaricious,

and of every item of it be able to render to yourself a proper

reckoning. It is by carefully preserving, conjoining, and

making diligent use of these broken and disjointed portions of

it, which others thoughtlessly waste and destroy, that almost
all the highest reputations in the medical profession have
                             it

                                              a
                                                      is a

                                                                                                     !

                                                          it
been formed.

  If" any one amongst you will only assiduously save up every

odd moment and otherwise lost item of for the next twenty

years, and properly use these gains, you will have snatched,

from perhaps utter waste, time enough to work out for yourself

almost any reasonable reputation that the emulous ambition of
your heart may aspire after. You may thus have actually

lived, at the age of thirty or forty, life much longer than he

who has already numbered his threescore years and ten. In

one single particular, has been calculated that the simple
difference between rising at six and nine o'clock in the morn

ing, for the space of forty years, nearly equivalent to the

addition of fifteen years to man's life
    " He who has the proper covetousness of time in his heart,
                 ELEMENTS OF SUCCESS.                                                                    149

will find out, during the remainder of the day, innumerable

other opportunities of contributing to his own saving stock of

it,
          of

                                             .
                                                  .

                                                       of

                                                                                                     is
by adding thereto many other moments and fragments

which the world at large are profligately and recklessly casting

away from them.  .

" Ever cautiously guard against either your mind or body
                                        all slavery -- the self-
being degraded into that most debasing

slavery indolence. Do not vainly flatter yourselves, as too

often done by the young members of our profession, that, in the
chances of our calling, fortune may, while you still repose in

drowsy sloth and idleness, search you out in order to lay her

gifts at your feet. To obtain these gifts you must arise and

actively pursue her. Industry and diligence are the only

offerings on your part for which either fortune or fame will

exchange with you the riches of their rewards. No certain

advance to high professional standing can be made, except
be purchased by the free expenditure of such coin and cur
a
                                                                        a

                                                                        it
rency.

  If" any of you ever come to speak of your expectations and

prospects always withering under the evil eye of luckless
fate, be assured beforehand that you are only, in disguised

terms, so far confessing to yourselves and to others your own

apathy and misconduct. Misfortune and mismanagement are
terms much more synonymous in reality than mankind in

general will believe. In all our worldly pursuits, as in all our

professional studies, we are liable to be conquered, more by

our own supineness than by the difficulties of our undertak

ings--more by ourselves than by our subjects. You are each

endowed with the proper elements of success, you will only
                                        if

Ifproperly use them.  you labour honourably, diligently, and

indefatigably in your calling, few or none of you will find

cause for ultimate complaint. Whatsoever thy hand findeth'

itto do, do with thy might.'.   .     .

  " In starting on the journey   of of  active life, plant before your

mind's eye an exalted standard          professional excellence, as a
150 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

high, and, it may be, distant landmark, which you predetermine
Ifto strain every nerve to reach.
                                   you thus set an exalted mark

before you, the very elevation of your aim will impart a cor

responding elevation of tone and character to all your motives

and actions. You may fail in entirely reaching the high goal
before you, but the very effort to reach it will add to the

vigour of your professional powers and reputation. You can

not all be Hunters and Bells, Cullens and Thomsons, Aber-

crombies and Alisons, but you may all be greater and more
distinguished men than you otherwise would be, if you will

hold their noble examples in view, and emulate their habits of

indefatigable application and industry. And be not dismayed

by apparent difficulties in the road to professional distinc

tion. . . .
I" Hitherto
             have been calling upon you to enlarge and

extend, by every means in your power, the sum of your profes

sional knowledge, with a view to your own personal considera

tions and personal prospects. But there is another and a

Ihigher view under which would beg to urge upon you the

same considerations.  You are to practise your profession now,

not only under a sense of the duties which you owe to your

selves, but still more under a sense of the higher and heavier

duties which you owe to your patients.
    " When the medical man first settles down in practice, he,

by the mere act of this settlement, enters into a kind of moral

contract with those who are to become his patients. They, on

their part, agree to intrust entirely to his professional care and

keeping, property which, to them, is greater than the riches of
Croesus --their health, namely, and their lives. He, on his

part, pledges to protect and preserve for them these inestimable

gifts, by all the best directed means that medical science has

devised. Though it may be argued that

                      ' It is not writ so in the bood,'

yet the obligation is not the less real. The contract, though
                            DUTIES TO MEDICAL BRETHREN.                   151

silent, is not the less solemn. It is a grave and inviolable

bond of duty and conscience on the part of the practitioner, --

one of faith and confidence on the part of the patient. See to

it,
                                   a

                                                                     is,
therefore, that you are always prepared to fulfil perfectly and

promptly your portion of the conditions of this important and

rigorous mutual contract Whatever                                         under its seal, com

municated to you as matter of professional confidence, must

ever remain buried within your own breasts in all the silence

and secrecy of the grave. Whenever called upon for your aid,

you are bound by duty, law, and honour, to obey the summons.

If busied and immersed in any engagement, then must that

engagement be instantly broken, unless                                    be purely profes
                            I
sional one.
                                         it

                                                                      a
                                                                                    a
" have spoken of the duties which you owe to yourselves,
Ifand the duties you owe to your patients.I
                                                                          the limits of the
           is
present address had permitted, would fain now have added

few observations on your duties to your medical brethren. In

no walk the young physician more apt to err, than in at

tempting to follow out the mutual rules of ethics and etiquette

observed among medical men. The error may be from pure

ignorance, and not from intention, but the verdict always
severe. Let me only state that here, as in other circumstances

of life, you will find the beautiful and golden rule of Do unto
                                        '

                                               it
                                                             ' is
others as you would have others do unto you,' universally
Ifapplicable. And let me counsel you,
                                                                          be possible, as

much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men.' Never

disparage the practice or the character of any one of your medi
cal brethren -- never interfere in any way or on any account
in the treatment of any patients except your own -- and what
if it                                                                     ;
      if                                                                                      :

                         ;                                                                 it
ever you do or say in the exercise and conduct of your calling,
do as the eyes of the whole profession saw you, --speak

as all their ears heard you.                                              ever
   " On this matter permit me to add one word more

guard against allowing feelings of professional invidiousness to

instil their canker into your souL The gifts and rewards of
152 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

the profession may be occasionally awarded by the public with

injustice ; but such adjudgment is certainly the exception and
Ifnot the rule.
                 another happen to outstrip you in your pro

fessional course, let it rouse up within you, not a spirit of
malicious envy, but a spirit of generous emulation ;-- let it

lead not to feelings of repining and to relaxation in your

efforts, but let it rather urge you onward with a stronger and

more determined energy of action. Whatever ground you do

gain, gain it by fair and open competition. Never allow the

darker part of your nature to persuade you to the attempt of

overtaking him who has distanced you in the race of life, by

any unjust efforts to lame the character, and thus diminish the

speed, of your adversary. And if such attempts are made by
others upon you, have no dread of them, -- if ' you are armed

strong in honesty,' -- if you have pursued--what every man

who respects either his own honour, or the honour of his pro

fession must always pursue-- a line, namely, of irreproachable

truth, and unbending rectitude of conduct. ' Be thou as pure

as snow, thou shalt not escape calumny.' In as far, however,

as regards your personal feelings, the self-knowledge of your

own pure uprightness and integrity will always serve you as
an impenetrable panoply -- ' robur et aes triplex '-- against the

most sharp and cunning shafts that others may choose to aim

at you ; the self-approval of your own conscience will be always

to your own heart an infallible antidote against their poison ;

and, again, as far as regards your worldly interests, rest assured

of this, that the world itself will seldom or never allow you to

suffer from any unjust attacks uttered by the tongue of profes

sional slander, or from any false detractions dictated by a mere
spirit of ' crooked malice.' . . .

   " The fetters of academic discipline are now, and for ever,

to be struck from you. You are about to pass from the closet

of the student into the busy and bustling scenes of active life.

The great city of the world is already throwing open her gates

to receive you. Through that city you must now pass,
FAME AND FORTUNE.  153

' whether through its darkness or its splendour, its profligacy
or its virtue, its misery or its happiness : and in it all the
honours of time and of immortality are to be gained or to be

lost.' The avenues to its temples of fame and happiness are
as open to you now as they ever were to any of your prede
cessors. The approaches to them are, as heretofore, beset on
either side by ten thousand temptations. Pursue earnestly

and undeviatingly the direct course of Christian and profes

sional duty, and then you need fear not. But tremble if you
allow yourself to be drawn aside from it at any one point.

Temptations that may at first lure you from your path with

the ' gentle hand of a grace or a pleasure,' will, if yielded to,

soon hold you with the iron grasp of a giant. Your future
career is a matter of your own selection, and will be regulated
by the conduct which you choose to follow. That career may
be one of happiness or of self-regret ; one of honour or of
obscurity ; one of wealth or of poverty. During it the present
fond hopes of professional fame and fortune that breathe in
the breasts of all of you may be won or lost, may be fulfilled or

falsified, may be nobly realized or ignobly ruined."
   The reader will observe how earnestly he exhorts the young

physician to save and economize his time. The duty of saving

the moments, and letting the minutes look after themselves,

was a favourite subject when he was called to speak to students.
But in his estimate, the quality of the work was the all-impor
tant element in life. Of a hard-working, thoughtful doctor
who died young, he said : --" He was older than some of us

that are twice his age !"
             " We live in deeds, not years ; in thoughts, not breaths ;
               In feelings, not in figures on a dial.
                 We should count time by heart-throbs. He most lives
                 Who thinks most, feels the noblest, acts the best.
                 Life 's but a means unto an end -- that end,
                 Beginning, mean, and end to all things -- God ! "

    Ere 1842 had half run its course, Dr. Simpson felt himself

freed from all those worldly distractions and painful feelings
154 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

which had beset his career for some years. Hitherto fame had

shot far ahead of fortune ; now they were going hand in hand,

and increasing day by day. In the opening of 1843 he wrote
to Alexander :--

                                                       " 1st Jany. 1843, 10 o'clock P.M.
   " My dear Sandy, -- Jessie joins me again in wishing you all

a happy, happy, happy New Year.
I" The banks are shut to-day, or otherwise
Iclosed an order in the box.                would have en

                              will send one to-morrow for
I£200, which, with the £100 gave you when you were last in
Itown, will relieve the promissory-note gave you some years
Ifago.
        you have  it,be so good as burn it.

                   I!
" As a feeble, alas too feeble, mark of the feelings of grati

tude which David and and all of us owe to you, have sent,
                                            J.
as New-Year's offering to the kindest of brothers, box with
a                                              I
few articles. In choosing these, Jessie has endeavoured to
  II a                                                  a
select those which she hopes Janet will find really useful.
" The whole
             is     small, small repayment of the boundless
                 a

debt owe you.

    " write in great haste to get the box off with the woman

Heugh, and in the meantime remain ever most affectionately

yours,                                      Y. Simpson."

    The Disruption of the Church of Scotland took place ona
May 18, 1843, an event which Dr. Simpson regarded with great
interest, and which afterwards came to be associated in his  a
mind with some highest forms of personal religious experience.
More than year before, he had offered to wager with Mr.
Angus, merchant, Bathgate, that at least four hundred ministers
would leave their livings, should the Government refuse the
claims of the Church. His confidence in the honour of public
men was not misplaced. They had pledged themselves to
definite course of action, and he believed they would be found
sincere, honest, faithful, and true. The event showed that
there was still in Scotland, as in the past, much of the stuff that
martyrs are made of. Dr. Simpson had avowedly tried to keep
clear of ecclesiastical discussions, and wished to be held neu
CHURCH PRINCIPLES.  155

traL But he soon found this impossible. He could not con
tinue indifferent to their bearings on the private rights of

conscience, the rights and liberty of Christian congregations,

the question of Church and State, national character, and poli
tical progress. He saw, too, that the men who were foremost
in these discussions, and in defence of popular rights, were

foremost also in all schemes of general philanthropy. The
few exceptions, as Dr. Alison and one or two more, only made

this the more apparent. It would be out of place here to

enter into a history of the contendings which ended in the

IDisruption. But may indicate the principle that underlay

the movement, and found expression in the event in which
the movement culminated --the more so because of the deep
interest Dr. Simpson took in the matter. The principle re
ferred to is well expressed in the resolution of the General
Assembly of 1838 :--" That the General Assembly of this
Church, while they unqualifiedly acknowledge the exclusive
jurisdiction of the Civil Courts in regard to civil rights and

emoluments secured by law to the Church and the ministers

thereof, and will ever give and inculcate implicit obedience to
their decisions thereanent, do resolve, that as it is declared in

the Confession of Faith of the National Established Church,

that the Lord Jesus is King and Head of the Church, and hath
therein appointed a government in the hands of church officers,
distinct from the civil magistrate, and that in all matters
touching the doctrine, government, and discipline of the

Church, her judicatories possess an exclusive jurisdiction,
founded on the Word of God, ' which power ecclesiastical ' (in
the words of the Second Book of Discipline) ' flows from God
and the Mediator, Jesus Christ, and is spiritual, not having a

temporal head on earth, but only Christ, the only spiritual

ruler and governor of His Kirk ;' and they do further resolve,

that the spiritual jurisdiction and supremacy, and sole head
ship of the Lord Jesus Christ, on which it depends, they will
assert, and at all hazards defend, by the help and blessing of
that great God who, in days of old, enabled their fathers, amid
156 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

manifold persecutions, to maintain a testimony even to death
for Christ's kingdom and crown. And, finally, they will firmly
enforce obedience to the same on all office-bearers and mem
bers of this Church, by the execution of her laws in the exer

cise of ecclesiastical authority wherewith they are invested."
    The Courts of Law refused to look at the Church's claim to

co-ordinate jurisdiction. They ordered Presbyteries to ordain

men over congregations which refused to receive them. They
interfered with the Church in her exercise of discipline, and

generally, by a series of decisions, ruled that the Church as

established by the State was under the control of the Courts of

Law appointed by the State. An appeal was made to the

Legislature against the unconstitutional interference of the

Court of Session. But in vain. In the House of Commons,

in a house of nearly three hundred and fifty, only seventy-six
members recorded their votes in favour of the Church's claims.

The Government of the day declared, that the claim of the

Church of Scotland was so unjust and unreasonable that the
sooner the House extinguished it the better. The Church saw

only one way of escape from this thraldom, and she walked in

that way. A majority of members of the Assembly of 1843

gave up all connexion with the State. The act, however, was

not a secession. It was a disruption. Those who left State

connexion carried with them the claim to be held the national,

though disestablished, Church of Scotland ! All Dr. Simpson's

sympathies went with these men, and he became a Free Church
man, a step which, in the long-run, came to have important

bearings both on his inner and higher life, and on his interest
in Christian work.1

  1 A good deal of scepticism prevailed as                        to the event, and the  numbers
                                                                  man vowed he would
likely to come out. One eminent medical                                                  eat " all

who should be the fools to give up their good livings in such a cause." The

dmaeyssaagftee, r--th"eIfDisyrouuptaioren   a  friend sent   him  a bag of salt, with the sarcastic
                                           to  be true to   your  vow, you will need to put the

ministers in pickle !"
                      CHAPTEE VII.

   Increasing Success -- Birth of his second Son -- Death of Maggie -- Mrs.
         Simpson to her Mother -- Notes to Sandy --Aristocratic Circles --
         General Influence --Subject of many Prayers -- 52 Queen Street --
          Contrast -- Men of Genius -- The Philosopher's Stone -- Controversy
         -- Mental Qualities --Formidable as a Controversialist -- Statistics of
          Amputations -- Professor Syme-- Stafford House --Engrossing Work
          -- Charges of Neglect.

   In the summer of 1843 he informed his brother, that his

practice and fees were far exceeding his highest expectations.

IHe added, " am very busy just now. Jessie has a parcel of

books to send to the youngsters. She is going to send you a

Iportrait of my doctorship. wish to give your Free Church

library a help. Would books or money suit best?" In

September of the same year his second son was born. " We
expect you at the baptism," wrote Mrs. Simpson to her father.

" Old Dr. Keith is to give him his name, --Walter Grindlay.
Dr. George Keith left us on Saturday morning ; he will be

back for a day or two next week before setting out on his

travels. We will all miss him very much." The next year
opened brightly, but it was to be one of deep trial to them

alL

  I" My dear Sandy, -- hope the box arrived safely last night.
I IDid tell you, in the hurry yesterday, that had started my

new carriage ? It is a very handsome affair, and exceedingly

comfortable inside --painted claret, with red lining, and eight

windows in it It appears light enough for my little horses,

but may prove too much for them if hard pushed.
158 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON".

" My Royal patient keeps very well. She is a most un

affected, happy, laughing lassie, always pleased herself, and

trying to please others also.
    " The Marchioness of Breadalbane, the Countess of Lincoln,

etc., are likewise located in the Palace under my professional

care, and the old Palace is quite converted into an hospital. It

looks very bright and cheerful when the court is lighted up at

night.
I" When are you to be in ?
                                 shall be tied here for two
Imonths with M., etc. etc. etc., or would break off and show

you my claret curricle.
   " Any word of Dr. Dawson coming to town ?

  I" have been exceedingly fortunate in getting the Princess

as a patient, because it quietly places me at the top of the

practice on this side of the Tweed. She is the constant theme

of talk in our Edinburgh circles at present, and crowds wait

occasionally in the streets to see her.

"With kindest respects to Janet and family, believe me,

yours ever most affectionately,          J. Y. Simpson.

" 2d January 1844."

  IThree months later he wrote -- " Since 1st January have

received £1000 in fees, and expect soon some hundreds to add

to this."

   In the end of May death crept into the prosperous and

happy household. Their pet, Maggie, was taken from them
after a brief illness. To his sister-in-law at Bathgate he

--wrote :
   " My dear Janet, --My own dear Maggie was taken from

me this morning between nine and ten o'clock. She was

attacked with measles a fortnight ago, and was subsequently
seized with a very bad form of sore throat, which, after

several days' struggle, at last became worse on Friday night,
and proved too strong and fierce for her little emaciated body.

It was ultimately so heart-rending to witness her terrible anxiety
AFFLICTION.                                   159

and restlessness, that her demise was almost a release to all of
us. She asked for a ' drink of water' for her little parched and

burning throat a very short time before she died, but then, and

for hours before, was unable to swallow it.

  I" My dear Jessie has behaved herself well under the stunning

blow, and is better than could have hoped for. Though

dreadfully broken down, she is submitting to our affliction

with great fortitude. My dear Maggie's life has been a short
one, and in these first hours of grief looks almost like a dream,

Ibut a dream that will, hope, leave behind it fond, fond,

fond recollections of her and of her brief sojourn with us here.
As we look now at her white corpse, it seems strange and in

explicable that she does not breathe and move. To-morrow we

Iwill all, fear, feel the change to be more a reality than we

can at present. For her the change is one for a better and

brighter and higher world than this.
   " Kindest regards to Sandy, and may he and you be long,

long spared from the agony of watching the death struggles
and death anguish of any child of yours. --Believe me, my dear

Janet, yours very affectionately,             J. Y. Simpson.

" 22 Albant St., Edinburgh, Sunday evetung."

                                      TO MRS. GRINDLAY.

   " My dear Mother, --Between nine and ten o'clock this

morning our dear, dear little Maggie was taken from us. Oh !
may her early demise be a blessed means to teach us all how to
undergo, with all the necessary preparation, that great change
through which she has passed. Perhaps in the all-wise dispen
sations of Providence, He who gave her unto us has thus early
snatched her from our keeping, with the view of thus blessing
us in our seeming hard affliction. Let us hope and pray that
it may be so. Mina wrote you last night. About six in the
evening she suddenly became so fearfully pale and faint that

we were afraid that she was to be removed from us then. She
1 60 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

rallied again, however, and was betimes worse and better

during the night, sometimes breathing and dozing pretty

quietly, but ever and anon waking up and staring around with

looks of terrible anxiety. Her bonnie large eyes looked larger

than ever, and though often distressing to witness from the

death-agony in them, still they lighted on one and all of us now
and again with a placidness and beauty which it soothes and

melts one's heart to remember, now when the whole scene of

anguish is closed. She named her mamma not long before she

died, and among her last words was a whispering cry for a

drink of water, but long ere then her parched throat was for

ever, alas ! closed against it.
    " Aunt Johnston had kindly sat up with us all night, and

Ishe and Mrs. Eoss were with us when death at last came.

was called down- stairs a few moments before, but a hurried

ringing at the bell brought me suddenly back to witness the

last gasps.
    " She is now stretched out on a little bed that Mrs. Eoss

gave her, in the parlour off the drawing-room. Her eyes are
quite open, and she looks beautiful, but still as if suffering. As
we look at her it seems most strange and inexplicable that she

does not yet still breathe and move. . . .
   " My own dear Jessie has behaved herself under this sad and

stunning trial with -- as she ever does--the greatest propriety

Iand fortitude, but her mind is one which fear will suffer

I Ilonger and more deeply than many others. She teaches me

resignation, and am sure that now and always could never

have a better and more valuable wife.               She thinks
    " Poor Mina seems to-night utterly prostrated.

probably you, and perhaps Mr. Grindlay also, will kindly pay
Ius a visit just now.
                       am sure we would one and all of us be

ever delighted to see you both with us --provided you will

allow your other duties not to require you elsewhere.

  I I" have written a long, long note, absurdly so, but oh !

hope you will excuse it under the circumstances ; for now that
              DEATH OF "MAGGIE."      161

our dear Maggie has left us, it is a source of pleasure of an in
describable kind to be thus allowed to talk of her, even on

paper.

   " With kindest love to Mr. Grindlay, Isabella, and Eichard,
believe me, my dear mother, your very affectionate son,

                                                           "J.Y.Simpson.

   " Sunday evening, 22 Albany St."

                       TO ALEXANDER.

" My dear Sandy, -- My dear Maggie is to be interred on
IThursday at two o'clock. Jessie and hope you will kindly
Icome to us.
              have bought a piece of ground in the new
cemetery, in Inverleith Eow, for mine and me.--Your ever

affectionate brother,                 J. Y. S."

                            MRS. SIMPSON TO HER MOTHER.

                                                                                   " Sunday evening.

  " My dear Mother, -- It was this day week that our darling

Maggie was taken from my keeping into that of her Heavenly

IFather. To say that do not feel her loss bitterly sometimes
I--' miss her all day everywhere,' --would be belying myself ;
I Ibut dare not repine, know that the Lord doeth all things
I Iwell, and though know not now, shall hereafter. Even now
I Ican perceive many mercies in the dispensation, and fervently

trust we will find her death more blessed to us than even her
life -- sweet, sweet indeed though that was. Indeed, if it be

/possible for a mother to have a difference in her love, or a

partiality, had for Maggie. She was so sweet, so gentle, so

Ireflective beyond her years, so sensitive ; but now see it all--
I looked upon the gifts and forgot the Giver. Eeasons upon

reasons flow on me. My own passage to the tomb is so far

I Ismoothed. When thought of death, she was the one dreaded
Iprincipally to leave ; so shrinking, so delicate, fancied she

most needed a mother's love to shield her from the evils to

come ; but God has taken all care from me. He has secured my

                                                      L
] 62 SIR JAMES y. SIMPSON.

/dear one's happiness -- have no doubt. You know the Scrip
Iture promises.
                 look upon Davie and Walter now with
Itrembling. Pray for me, my dear mother ; need help.
" Davie has come out amazingly since his illness --so intel-
             »
ligent and                    as if he had  assumed  part of Maggie's
            so affectionate,

character as well as his own.
   " Walter is a sweet merry child, more like Maggie in ap

pearance and form than Davie, though much fairer than either.

. . . Yours ever affectionately,            Jessie Simpson."

With chastened feelings, and longings after higher views of

life and work, Dr. Simpson returned to the routine of daily
duty. The child " who had gone before " had been very dear to

him. Her death left a deep scar on his heart. Years after,

when it might have been thought by most to be forgotten, even

the incidental mention of the name she bore led him to de

scribe her smiles and talk of her winning ways. He long con

tinued to speak of her, as if he could still say, --

            I" Do what I may, go where will,

                 Thou meet'st my sight ;
            There dost thou glide before me still --

                  A beam of light.                   !"

            I feel thy breath upon my cheek,
            I Isee thee smile, hear thee speak

    His work now lay chiefly in the department of the medical
art to which he had devoted himself. But it is a mistake to
suppose that it was confined to this. His general practice as a

physician was extensive and important. In his special branch

of practice he was already recognised as the leader. The report
of his success as an accoucheur, and of his skill in the treatment

of the diseases of women and children, was attracting to him
the rich and noble in numbers that increased month by month.
Worldly cares had ceased to trouble him. His letters to Sandy
were still frequent, but shorter than before, though ever fresh,
confiding, and full of heart. Details of money difficulties dis
appear, and are replaced by references to simple incidents in
              ARISTOCRATIC PATIENTS.               163

the home circle--the children's ways and prattle, chance
meetings with " Bathgate bairns," and memories of Maggie. As
he knew it would much gratify his brother to learn his in

fluence among the nobility, he kept him informed of his visits

into circles that lay far away from that of the Bathgate house

hold :--

I" expect Jessie and Davie home on Tuesday. Captain

IPetrie has got a free pardon from Sir James Graham.
   " was at Hamilton Palace last week seeing the Marchioness
Iof Douglas.
              have half promised to go to London to her in

March. She pressed me to stay and have the honour of dining
Iwith the Duke of Cambridge.
                                 preferred having the honour
Iof refusing, as Forbes Angus was waiting for me.
                                                   have got

an old chest of Cullen's drug drawers.
I" In November expect to bring into the world heirs to the
IEarldoms of W., E., and M Of course calculate on the three
Iyoungsters being all boys.1 Probably may make a run out for a
Iday before the session begins.
                                 all but agreed to make a visit

to Lord and Lady Douglas at Brodick Castle, and try to shoot

grouse !"

   In these and many other cases there were not only the sub
stantial rewards of liberal, in some instances princely, fees, but
also fruits he valued as highly --the thanks and lasting friend

Iship of the heads of many great houses. " need not tell you,"

wrote the late Duke of Hamilton, when Marquis of Douglas,

Ihusband of the Princess Marie Amelia of Baden, " all feel on
I Ithis occasion, and assure you feel great pleasure in writing
Ito you, as can never forget your former kindness." In the

same packets with similar notes from noble and distinguished
persons, are many from widely different classes. To him they

were equally gratifying. A Lammermoor shepherd hopes " the
Lord will bless him and his for all his kindness to Jean." A

   1 Two of the hoped-for youngsters were boys.  In the case of R., the son
and heir came three years later.
164 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

shoemaker tells him --" Tammy 's been another callant since
you saw him ; we thank God for such a doctor." A minister
writes, enclosing a fee, which was returned --" To you, under

I IGod, feel indebted that have still her who is the light of my

heart and hearth. We cease not to remember you in our

prayers." Hundreds of such cases occurred, and, in the ma

jority of them, there was the prayer for blessing on himself, his
house, and his work. He would have been the last to think he

had done anything deserving such deep thankfulness, but those

on whom he waited, and the poor, the widow, and the father

less, for whom his help was ever ready and free, would not have

felt it unbecoming, had he taken up the words of one who in

the olden time found some solace in the midst of overwhelming
sorrow in remembering his work among men, -- " When the ear

heard me, then it blessed me, and when the eye saw me, it

Igave witness to me : because delivered the poor that cried,

and the fatherless, and him that had none to help him The
Iblessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me : and
Icaused the widow's heart to sing for joy.
                                            was a father to
I Ithe poor, and the cause which knew not, searched out. And

they waited for me as for the rain." No doubt at this period,

and long after, he regarded these promises to pray for him as
commonplace remarks, or like the " yours ever sincerely," of
the subscription to a letter-- mere expressions of courtesy. But,

for the most part, they were much more. They were the heart

felt expressions of many who believe that God hears the prayers
of all who come to Him through Christ. This was the influence

which, unconsciously to himself, was, in ever deepening power,

gathering round him, and was destined to bear the richest

fruits.

While working with devotion and unceasing application in

his own sphere, Professor Simpson had an eye for the whole

field of professional effort. No paper of any value in medical
Ifliterature escaped his notice.
                                  the author was a country

practitioner, he never failed to "look him up" the first
VISITS TO THE COUNTRY.         165

time he was in his neighbourhood. His friend Dr. Turner,

of Keith, has communicated an instance of this. He says :

I" On returning from my professional rounds late in the evening

of a cold stormy day about the end of 1844, was informed

that Professor Simpson of Edinburgh had called an hour or

two before, on his way home from visiting a patient in a dis

tant part of this country, and, not finding me in, had left
word that he would be glad to see me at the ' Gordon Arms
Hotel ' here, where he was to stay for the night, intending to

start early next morning by post-chaise to join the south train

of the Scottish North-Eastern Eailway at Aberdeen, for railway

communication in the north did not then extend beyond the
I IGranite City.
need scarcely say that was not slow to avail

myself of the opportunity thus offered, to make the personal

acquaintance of one even then well and favourably known in the
Imedical world by reputation.
                               found him seated alone at tea,

and, the first greetings over, was little less surprised than

Igratified to hear him say, ' remember your face very well. We

attended Knox together in 1831-2.' The customary reserve of

a meeting between strangers was forthwith at an end, giving

place to what seemed more like a reunion of old friends. How

it came that the recognition was not mutual, how that remark
able face and form, that ' head of Jove and body of Bacchus'

(to quote Gerald Massey's quaint but happy description of his
exterior), could have passed from my remembrance in the course

Iof a dozen years, cannot well understand. But such was the

fact. Our student days were, so to speak, lived over again ;

the College, the Infirmary, and old Surgeons' Square supplying

Ieach its quota of pleasant memories. Isolated as had in a

great measure been, since beginning practice, from the men

and things of the past, the after career of our Edinburgh

coevals, teachers and taught, was little known to me ; but Dr.

Simpson's information on this head, both for its extent and its

minuteness, was really amazing. Nor was the kindly interest

he felt in all of whom he spoke, whether these had ' obtained the
166 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

prize,' or fallen behind in the professional race, less apparent.
In short, his off-hand biographic sketches, with comments, were

manifestly the outcome alike of a keen intellect and of a warm

heart.

  I" The pleasure of this interview owe to the publication,

shortly before, of a paper of mine in Dr. (now Sir John Eose)
Cormack's Medical Journal. Some of my observations had

been tested and substantially confirmed by Professor Simpson,
the details of his investigation having been given in a subse

...quent number of the same periodical, and the two communica
tions afforded us a further theme of conversation.  In the
Icourse of our conversation,
                              could not help expressing my

wonder that the duties of his Chair and of his large and daily-

increasing practice left him so much leisure for reading and

writing, for it was the characteristic of his frequent contribu

tions to medical literature that their every page was loaded
with references to authorities, ancient and modern, down to the

latest on the subject in hand, references involving an amount
of research seemingly possible only to 'lettered ease.' He
replied that it was his habit to keep any subject that might be
' on the stocks ' constantly in his mind's eye, and to employ, for
thinking it out, reading up for or committing his ideas to
writing, the smallest odds and ends of time left vacant in the
a
        it,midst of his daily or nightly labours. As an example of this
literary husbandry, he mentioned that just then he had in pre
                I
                                      it,
paration paper which he was to read on the evening follow

ing to the Edinburgh Medico-Chirurgical Society, and which

he had been dictating the few previous mornings, while dress
ing, to an assistant who wrote short-hand. Of that com

munication to the Society cannot with propriety speak in

other than general terms, as my reminiscences are intended

for the eye of the general reader, but the facts and arguments

advanced in  now familiar to the profession, have revolu

tionized our practice in an important, and by no means rare

emergency. His manner in explaining his views.the ingenuity
                   REMOVAL TO QUEEN STREET.                    167

and happy readiness of resource with which he aided the
demonstration by means of a plate and a biscuit lying on
the table before him, are fresh in my memory as the occur
rences of yesterday."

Before Dr. Simpson removed from Albany Street, the popu

larity and the usefulness indicated by such communications as

those given above had fully set in. He soon found his house too

small for the number of patients that now waited on him, and

inconvenient for his general practice. He wished to remove
farther west. In February 1845 he informed Mr. Grindlay
that he had " purchased a house this morning in Queen Street.

It lies between Castle Street and Frederick Street, has a fine

                   a
                       is
                           a
                              it,
                                          a
public garden before and small one with stable and coach

house behind. It has four more rooms for beds than our

present one, and          storey higher. It not fashionably done
                                                is I is
up, but looks good comfortable place. The kitchen flat will

need some repairs and alterations.                     only heard of forty-
                                                         ; it
eight hours ago, and had no intention of moving this year.

The price   is is  £2150. The feu-duty                   about three pounds

yearly. It         probably the most central part in the town, and

so far favourable. Nor    is      the price of property likely to
                                  rising higher and higher in Edin
decrease there. In fact,  it

                              is

burgh. The dining-room flat contains two back rooms there

are two drawing-rooms and bedroom in the second flat;
                                             a

four bedrooms in the third (one of them very large, and an

excellent nursery), and four also, but smaller, on the fourth

flat. The money to be paid at Whitsunday.                will have
                   is

                                               I

no difficulty in getting my own house let.
   " We are all well. Excuse haste, and believe me, my dear

Sir, your very affectionate son,                         J. Y. Simpson."

  This house was afterwards greatly enlarged. All the past

was brought vividly before him when he entered his new

dwelling. It was great contrast to the home of his boyhood

and youth -- house of four rooms, one of which answered as
            a
                       a
168 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

kitchen, parlour, bedroom aud shop.1 Not unfrequently he
dwelt on the success implied in the contrast.

  It is evident from Dr. Simpson's correspondence, that not a

few artists and men of letters were greatly obliged by his kind,

often unsolicited, and ready help and encouragement, at times
when they greatly needed some man of influence to take an

interest in their work. A note from a friend, or the sight of

what they were working at, at once secured a welcome, kind

and cordial as if they had long been fast friends. In some

cases this had its disadvantages. The mode in which they
were received, the deferential bearing which he ever held to

men of genius or of talent, and the cheerful, sparkling conversa

tion at the breakfast -table or at lunch, beguiled more than one
to trust him with details of their life and present condition,

studiously concealed from older and more intimate acquaint
ances. When he saw pecuniary help was needed, it was freely

offered. In some instances it had better, perhaps, been with
held. In others, it was of the greatest use. He tried to be

judicious and discriminating, calling his gift a loan, and ad

vising steady application to every-day commonplace remunera
tive work. But some of his acquaintances were dreamers whom
help enabled to go on dreaming, instead of doing with their

might the work that lay to their hand. They took all they got,
and " asked for more." Yet men of this stamp found a ready way

to his sympathyand his purse. Otherevenless shrewd men would

soon have discovered that the genius in such cases was only --

                 " God's glimmer that comes through the ruin top,"
-- not likely to shed much radiance on the darkness outside.

It is difficult to account for the interest he took in men of this

kind, or for the patience with which he continued to listen to

their schemes, and their complaints of the want of sympathy
with which the world in general regarded them. An example

   1 After Dr. Simpson's death, Alexander bought the house in which he was
born, removed the partition that divided the upper rooms, and furnished the
place as a hall for religious services. He believed this would have greatly
gratified his brother.
LITTERATEURS.                       169

may be given. A friend introduced an acquaintance as " a

man of great literary attainments, and a writer in some lead

ing journals." A good deal of intercourse followed, and sub

stantial help was given, even in the knowledge that the man
was in search of the philosopher's stone !--" a solid substance,"
he wrote, " which, combined with lead, or tin, or some other

metal, would form gold." Protesting that he cared little for
" the base metal," he was, he said, spending " his days and

nights in the laboratory to discover the art of making it by

compounds of metals baser stilL" Yet in his communica

tions there are evidences of literary power, and a good general

knowledge of some of the most recondite speculations of the

ancient physicists and of the alchymists of the middle ages :--

" My dear Sir, --Would you have the goodness to add your

valuable and much desired testimony to that of Sir William

Hamilton (as per certified copy enclosed), that, from my

Idevotion to science, and my profession as a literary man, am

entitled, while labouring under pecuniary difficulties, arising

from the uncertainties of my profession, and not from immoral

character or habits, to derive some benefit from the Literary

Fund at London for behoof of persons placed unfortunately in

Isuch a position as have occupied for the last two years ?
I IThat am still in the class of the unfortunate regret to say,

... Imore particularly to you ; but to this vexatious subject it is use
less at present to allude further.  have, almost ever since
I had last the pleasure of corresponding with you, been employ

ing my time to the best possible advantage in the preparation

of a work of some interest and importance, but, unfortunately,

even that slender resource has of late utterly failed me, and,

I Ilike many a literary brother as good as am, have been

breakfasting on a waistcoat, dining on a shirt, and supping on

Ia pair of tough old leather boots, so that am forthwith under

the dire necessity of applying to the Literary Fund, provided

I ... Ifor behoof of poor unfortunate devils such as am.

cannot refrain from occupying a little more of your valuable
170 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

time in more particularly alluding to the subject of the work,

if such it can be yet called, being not yet put into shape and

Iform, on which have been so intently engaged for at least

sixteen or eighteen months, that the razor has not crossed my

chin above half-a-dozen times till now. Well, then, having

accidentally discovered that oxygen and other of the more
recondite elements of nature, commonly, but now it appears
erroneously, supposed to have been discovered only in com
paratively modern times, were, in fact, perfectly well known to

the ancient chy mists or alchymists, at least to the more highly-
initiated amongst them in their enigmatical way of treating

Iof the sciences, soon found that this fact affords a key to

much that is obscure in their writings, and that, indeed, it opens

up the way to a curious and interesting, as well as important,

chapter in the history of ancient science -- that it affords
materials, in short, for a curious and interesting treatise on the

ancient history and practice of chymistry, comprehending much

matter of a novel and startling description, as, you will no
doubt anticipate, cannot but be the case, if such elements as

I Ioxygen, hydrogen, etc., were in reality well known to the

highly-initiated alchymist, and have no doubt shall clearly

prove this to have been the case. And not only so, but it is

evident, as this key to obscurities has clearly pointed out, that

 these ancient chymists possessed a most delicate and compre
 hensive knowledge of chemical affinities, and were acquainted
 with a law of chemical union, relative to metals, of which
 modern chymists are entirely ignorant, but which manifests
 itself in a wide and glaring hiatus in the known laws of the
 union of solids with solids, a subject admittedly still involved

Iin certain points, in much obscurity. The law to which

 allude is one so obvious in its nature, as a likely law of chemical
 union, that it is only astonishing it should have escaped the
 acute observation of modern chymists. And it must have been
 discovered long ere now had they not been lured aside by other
 interesting and comprehensive laws with which they have
                CORRESPONDENCE.                                         17 1

preoccupied their field of speculative and practical observation.
Whether Dr. Samuel Brown has at length obtained a glimpse

I Iof the law alluded to do not know, but think it is possible

from the peculiar bent of his practical pursuits."

In another :--

" My dear Sir, --After having already so severely tested

your kindness in other respects, although, so far as regards my
Ipresent poverty itself, am not only not ashamed of
                                                                 '      but

were not that still disables me from standing clear in my          it,
' it
               it

               I

                             (I
accounts with all the world                 had almost merely said, with

you, for you have yourself alone been to me almost all the

world in this respect), would otherwise glory in my difficul

ties, without the least compunction, as sacrifice of heart and
                                               a

soul and body to science and no enlightened lover of science
   I
                                      ;
such as you, am assured, can feel the slightest diminishment,

but, on the contrary, feel compelled to entertain an increase of

respect and sympathy for any one whose poverty or tempo

rary embarrassments have arisen from the devotion of his life to

science, and his contempt for mere life of slavish devotion to
                                         a

mammon.
   " am convinced that the occasion of your silence must
I

either be absence from home, or hurried and constant occupa

tion at home, which, however humiliating          it it  may be to think

so, must have driven all recollection of this matter out of your

head. Intentional, am perfectly satisfied, cannot be neverI
       ;I
theless my position in consequence for the last fortnight has not
been the less painful but will not trouble you by further allu
                I                                                ;

sion to that, for daresay, notwithstanding may appear other           I
                                                  it

                                                              ;
wise, you have quite enough to trouble your mind and the know

ledge of such probabilities renders me all the less discontented

with my own lot, especially since derive happiness, nay,I
delight, in the pursuit of my studies, far excelling in intensity

anything which ever experienced, or ever expect to experience,
   I

in the mere possession and expenditure of money. Could
                   172 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSOX.

             I Ionly pay the two or three debts owe, should go on in my

                     own way, and with such humble work as that which lately
                   ministered oil enough to the lamp of life, without the slightest
                     spark of envy, or anything but entire indifference to all that

             Imoney could procure (unless it were books, though even these

                      could dispense with), for, in the lowest depths of physical

              Iwant-- cannot call that misery in which there is excitement

                     and delight so vivid, so intense, in such circumstances, as you
                   know, much more often than in halls of worldly grandeur,
                     riches, and comfort, have the noblest and most valuable of
                     discoveries, and the most highly-honoured and noblest of men
                     shone out upon the world."

                     Again :--

               I" My dear Sir, -- am utterly at a loss what to say to you

                   in return for your surpassing goodness of heart to one so little

             I Ideserving of it as am. Much hesitation and delay could
             Inot help incurring ere could resolve on applying to you at all
             I Ifor such a testimonial as required, just because feared the
             Iresult, and felt that was not in a situation wherein it was

                     possible for me so to act as to prove to you my consciousness

            Ithat you had already done far more for me than ought to

                     have permitted you to do, and my determination to resist a
                     further increase of the deep debt, both moral and pecuniary,

             I Iwhich already owed you. Yet cannot but confess the heart
            I Ifelt thankfulness with which accepted a loan, which had

                     resolved that nothing but the most dire extremity should impel
                       me to receive. . . .

              I" As to your position, really think you are not to be envied.

                   No one, so indefatigable a lover and labourer in science as you
                   have been, is at all to be envied in the endurance of a life of
                     turmoil which those very labours and that very love have
                   ultimately rendered it a duty to science and society themselves

            Ito submit to ; but hope the time will soon arrive when you

                   will have it in your power to throw off much of that murderous

w
        LULL IN CONTROVERSY.                                 1 73

Iexertion which know myself, and have been told by those whoit,

ought to know, that you have gone through in time past. . . .

  I I" am delighted to know that have been anticipated in my

own idea, derived from facts of my own discovery, that all
chemical discoveries are only re-discoveries. Yes, depend upon

    my dear sir, that not only such the fact as regards all
past discoveries, but all discoveries still in embryo. We know
that Sir Humphry Davy, who was so much of sceptic as to
say that sooner than London would be lighted with gas St.
Paul's would be seen to dance minuet with Westminster

Abbey, that even he admitted the probability that gold
combination, and that might yet be discovered how to pro

..."duce that combination artificially.
        it
                     is

                            a
                                                      a

                                                                  is
                                                                             a

The correspondence continued throughout 1845, but does
        a
                                               a!

                                                  a

                                                         it
not appear that, after all his experiments,               substance was

obtained, which, being afterwards combined with tin or lead,

produced gold sufficient to repay the loan

   There had been for considerable time lull in controversy.

Dr. Simpson had been able, without distraction, to give con

tinuous devotion to practice and to the work of his class. He

had written good deal, and done vast amount of daily work,
     a                                                 a

without crossing the paths of professional rivals, or demanding

from practitioners attention to any new methods of treatment.

But the lull was of brief duration. In the beginning of 1845,

he had been called to vindicate his claim to priority in the

suggestion and adoption of improved modes of treatment in
certain delicate forms of disease.1 In the summer of the same

year he had to ward off attacks made, he believed, with deli
berate intention, on his skill as physician and his character

as gentleman. In both cases he had the sympathy of many
1a
                                                    a
of the most eminent professional men, some of whom not only

hastened to congratulate him on the attitude he assumed, but

freely to express their opinions of his antagonists. "There

     See Provincial Medical Journal, 1845. Controversy with Dr. Radford.
174 8TB, JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

are, and ever will be," writes one, " some of our profession, who

by their conduct are most deservedly entitled ' the medical

non-contents.' Their principal work seems to be to carp at

and cavil with every one who goes one step beyond them

selves; and such is their abhorrence of everything beyond

their own mean position, that whoever dares utter the word

improvement is sure to be immolated at the shrine of their

envy or malice." Others followed in the same strong and

pungent manner, several of them, alas ! in terms that violated

those laws of charity and gentlemanly bearing whose breach

they condemned in others. " There would be no great ones, if

there were no little ones."

    Dr. Simpson's mental qualities and habits of study made
him a formidable opponent. " Keen to perceive the truth, he

was equally vigorous in his announcement of
                                     a       and cared
                                                     it,

                                                                          a
little to what cherished opinion his statements might run

counter. Hence came contests where little quarter was given

or received. He was  a       dangerous antagonist to meet at

joust, and though he could use the keen edge of steel, he
oftener despatched his antagonist with heavy mace of facts

or figures, which those who had neither his industry nor his

powers of memory could neither refute nor set aside. Hence

he made many enemies, for he had run counter to many preju

dices, and the old spirit which had opposed his election to the

professorial Chair cropped out ever and anon, showing that    it

was smothered, not extinguished."1

From the time he attended the surgical classes, he had been

much impressed by the great number of deaths that followed
important amputations. He believed this to be far in excess

of what might have been expected, when the nature of the
operation and the skill of the operator were taken fully into
account. Even in 1845, the views to which he afterwards gave
ripe expression in his tracts on Hospitalism were much in his

mind. They were, indeed, only one aspect of his long-cherished

                     Scotsman, May
1                                    1870.
                                 9,
              SURGICAL STATISTICS.  175

desire after more potent means than were then employed, for

the preservation of health and the diminution of the death-rate
in cities and populous districts. This desire was now strongly

influencing him, and he resolved to bring his professional

brethren over to his views. The first step towards this was to

obtain statistics of death after amputation, in hospital, and in
town and country private practice. In the search for statistics,

and the use he made of them, he trampled on many sensitive

toes. The department of surgery, it was held, was one he had

no right to interfere with. It was beyond his sphere. He

knew nothing about it. Let the cobbler keep to his last.

These, and like expressions, met him on all hands. Inferences

he never dreamt of were drawn from his endeavours. Hos

pital surgeons concluded, that he wished to charge them with

results for which he would have been the last to hold them

responsible.  The professional atmosphere became charged

with electricity. The slightest offence given, often from want

of thought, caused an explosion. Any want of courtesy, shown
unintentionally, to men distinguished in his special branch

of practice, speedily assumed most exaggerated importance.

Though keenly alive to this state of matters, and regrettingit,
he held calmly on in the way he had chosen. His views of

the value of human life, and his deep sympathy with human
suffering, kept him steadily working towards the end he had in
view. But his progress was often hindered. There were few

among the older practitioners, or even among the men of his
own standing, who were willing to move as rapidly as he. He
had to walk slowly, to remove prejudices, to confront adversaries

ready to do battle for old methods of working, or rather, perhaps,
for their own old methods, and he had to bear to have his motives

misunderstood and his acts misrepresented. The public health

was more to him than his own comfort, and the interests of
humanity more than personal vindication. He did, no doubt,
occasionally deal rather roughly with any adversaries that

dared to face him in the race, and he was apt to thrust them out
176 SIK JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

of his way without giving much heed to the manner of doing
it. But he refused to hold himself responsible for the irritation,

angry feelings, and petty personalities that so often outcropped.

All the dust raised was never permitted to hide the high ends
for which he worked --the alleviation of suffering and the

preservation of lives to the domestic circle and to the State.

Whatever tended to this was not, he held, the interest and

work of any one class, but of every philanthropist.

  It would not profit much to enter particularly into the con

troversy to which his statistics of surgery gave rise. He had

the sympathy and the intelligent approbation of almost all the

rising young men of his profession, and the thanks of several

of his distinguished fellow-workers. Dr. Eeid wrote--

  I" My dear Simpson, -- Have you heard that am a papa ?

Mrs. E. and little daughter are doing remarkably welL The

jackdaws continue to manifest their former contempt for

science. . . .
I" think you can flummus the surgeons capitally if they set
Iup the line of defence you mention.
                                      have put down on a

slip of paper accompanying this the result of amputations of the

thigh in the Edinburgh Eoyal Infirmary, furnished by the Statis

tical Tables drawn up by Peacock and myself, and you will

perceive that the cures, instead of being 1 in 3, are far below

this. If they argue that hospital practice is not a fair criticism

of the success of amputations, and that private practice furnishes

different results, then it may be replied, that if in their opinion

the average mortality of 1 in 3 in any particular operation

renders that operation illegitimate, amputation of the thigh in

a public hospital is an illegitimate operation. Even exclud

ing the cases of primary amputation, the success in secondary

amputations, according to the tables referred to, is a little
below 1 in 3.

   "My Statistical Tables are printed in Cormack's Journal

for August 1842. Peacock's Tables were not reprinted in any

Iof the periodicals, as far as am aware. . . ."
               PROFESSOR SYME.  177

    " To pursue truth," says Mr. Macilwain, in his Memoirs ofit ita is,
Abernethy, " regardless of the multiform errors and conven
tionalisms, amidst which experience has generally shownit,
almost all subjects to have been involved ; unmindful of the
a
rebukes and obloquy by which too often the best-conducted

investigations are opposed and assailed ; and yet to let no

angry passion stir, -- no conviction that we are right engender

an improper idea of our own superiority, or a disregard for the,
claims of others ; this overcoming of the world (we had almost
said) is intensely difficult, for it is in fact overcoming ourselves."
Simpson felt this difficulty once and again in the course of these
statistical inquiries. He had to bear a good deal of abuse.
But, like the sun in Addison's fable, in which the owls are

represented as voting him "troublesome, impertinent, and
inquisitive," Simpson's continued work seemed to say, " The

Ionly revenge shall take of you is to shine on."

   It was at one time my intention to do no more than mention

the early want of cordiality between Professor Simpson and his
eminent colleague, Professor Syme. But it once and again

obtained such publicity, and has such a prominent place as
signed to both in the medical journals and the newspapers,

that demands special notice. It moreover, instructive to

trace to its source.

    For some time the personal irritation and bitterness that
mingled in the contest for the Professorship appeared to be
falling out of sight. Dr. Simpson and the colleagues who had
opposed him were apparently working in harmony for the inter
ests of the University. But the breach was not healed. There

was morbid touchiness about both parties, which led them to
take offence on the slightest cause -- readiness, indeed, to find
occasion for fault unworthy of all concerned. The notes from
Sir Charles Bell and Professor Syme, published by Dr. Kennedy
with his testimonials, surprised and annoyed Dr. Simpson.

                                                            M
 178 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

 They revealed a bias, a strong feeling of partisanship, and a
prejudice that unfitted them to look at the intrinsic merits of

his claim. The former had tried to cast suspicion on his testi
monials, by referring to many of them as given by "good-

natured people, merely to do a civil thing to a friend," -- a style
of remark both unkind and unfair. And Mr. Syme had ex

pressed his opinion in that curt, stinging style which he could

ever so easily and deftly employ against an --adversary :

" Having been requested by the friends of Dr. Kennedy to ex
press my opinion of his qualifications for the Chair of Midwifery,

Inow vacant in the University, feel no hesitation in stating, that

of the candidates at present in the field, he is out of all question,
according to my judgment, the one that ought to be elected.
James Syme." Here was the well of bitterness. The " out of
all question," savoured so much of studied, deliberate contempt,
that it would have been hard for any man -- hard even for a

truly Christian man --to forget or forgive, however high might

be his opinion of his own attainments, or however deeply con
vinced of the unworthiness of this mode of opposition. But it
should be remembered that Dr. Simpson was not the first to
show that the Professorial contest was not forgotten. During
the discussion on the expediency of continuing the Chair of
Pathology, Mr. Syme had characterized facts stated by his
colleague on good authority, as " matters of fact in an extra
ordinary degree inaccurate." This mode of statement had been
met by Dr. Simpson in a quiet and gentlemanly way. But he
had since meddled more than once with surgery, and this was
not to be borne. And Mr. Syme soon had an opportunity to

show his animus. In a professional paper published in the
London and Edinburgh Medical Journal, July 1845, under Case
third, reference is made to a physician-accoucheur, in terms far

from complimentary, and fitted to damage the reputation and
detract from the skill of any man. After describing the case,
which was one of great interest to professional men, and re-
LETTER TO DR. BEILBY.  1 79

fleeted the highest credit on the skill of Mr. Syme as an
operator, he goes out of his way to have another hit at physician-

Ifaccoucheurs. " these gentlemen," he says, " directed their

attention to the principles and practice of surgery in general,
there might be some propriety " (in confiding the treatment of
such cases to them), " but, as by education and profession they

are usually physicians, and in their practice abstain from treating
surgical ailments or performing surgical operations, it does seem
surprising that in a region where the difficulties of diagnosis

are so great, and the execution of operative manipulation is
beset with so many obstacles, that they should venture upon
the management of purely surgical details." And much more
in the same style. The conductor of the Journal, Dr., now Sir

John Eose Cormack,1 who was on terms of intimacy with Dr.

Simpson, and with whom, indeed, the commencement of the
Journal was planned, gave him early notice that an attack on

him by Mr. Syme was to appear in the next Number. A bitter

controversy ensued, which, as is so often the case in such dis

putes, came ultimately to turn on a point of feeble interest to
any one. " Did Dr. Simpson say that Dr. Cormack had been
told by Mr. Syme that he had him in view in his remarks, or

was this only Dr. Cormack's own inference V The result of

all this was to widen the breach between those eminent men

--a result which all interested in medical science must have

greatly deplored.

TO DR. BEILBY, PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS,

                                             EDINBURGH.

   " My dear Sir, --As Mr. Syme has thought fit to address to

Iyou a second printed letter, hope you will excuse my troubling

you with some remarks in reply.
    " First, Allow me to direct your particular attention to the

subjoined note from Dr. Eobertson. His correlative evidence
appears to me to be of special value in the present instance, as

                                                     1 Of Paris.
180 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Ihe was the first person to whom communicated the details of

my meeting with Mr. Syme, --and that within five minutes

after the meeting itself occurred, and when everything was still

recent and fresh in the memory. Dr. Kobertson's remarks

Ifully illustrate what formerly stated, that Mr. Syme has given

a disingenuous and untrue statement of almost every minor

detail in his first letter to you. In his second letter, Mr. Syme

reverts to one of these minor details, and to one only, and he

evidently attaches, in his own mind, some importance to it.

But ex uno disce omnes. Speaking of the place where we met,

in the house of the patient to whom we both happened to be

called, Mr. Syme states, ' he (Dr. Simpson) admits having
intercepted me at the chamber door of the patient.' Now Mr.

ISyme knows perfectly well never did in any way admit of

any such thing, --and further, that, on his part, both the alle

gation of such admission is a deliberate misstatement to you, and

the circumstance averred to be admitted is in itself incorrect.

For when we met, Mr. Syme had not in truth ' nearly reached'

the patient's bedroom door (as he avows to you in his first
letter),--and far less was he actually ' at' it (as he next inad
vertently asserts in his second). Neither statement is perfectly

consistent with fact, while each so far contradicts the other.

Trifles, such as these, may perhaps, and properly, be considered

by you of little moment, but when exaggerated and misrepre

sented, they serve, in hands like Mr. Syme's, to give a false

colouring to a simple story ; and they may serve also, as in

this instance, by the slight but palpable contradictions they

display, to expose the dishonesty of those that use them, when

it is impossible, from the nature of the case, to adduce more

direct and express evidence of that dishonesty.

  I"Secondly, In my former letter, mentioned that, unfor

tunately for himself, Mr. Syme had ventured to hazard one

Iassertion on a point which admitted of more than mere personal
evidence.  refer to Mr. Syme's affirmation that Dr. Cormack

had ' never ' told me that any part of his (Mr. Syme's) paper
                LETTER TO DR. BEILBY.                  1 81

Iwas an attack upon me.  adduced Dr. Cormack's own evidence

to prove that Dr. Cormack had told me so. Instead of apo

logizing for having been thus led to make to you and to the

College a statement that was not true, Mr. Syme attempts,

with Dr. Cormack's assistance, to back out of the difficulty, bj

anxiously mixing up the truth or fallacy of his assertion with a

second and totally irrelevant question, viz., whether Mr. Syme

did or did not state to Dr. Cormack, that his forthcoming
Ipaper contained an attack upon me.
                                     am not aware that any

one ever affirmed that such a statement had been made by Mr.
ISyme to Dr. Cormack.
                       never did. And the matter in dispute

was one totally different, and far more simple. It had no

reference of any kind or in any way to what Mr. Syme had or
Ithad not said to Dr. Cormack on the subject.
                                                       had reference

solely and entirely to what Dr. Cormack had or had not, on his
own authority and opinion, said to Dr. Simpson in regard to it.

IDr. Cormack stated to me (and took it and repeated it entirely

on his own authority and opinion) that Mr. Syme's forth

coming paper contained an attack upon me.              Mr. Syme

simply and flatly denied to you that Dr. Cormack had ever

made any such remark to me. This is the sole and only point

of his charge against me on this count in his first letter to you.1

Dr. Cormack's published letters to me and to Mr. Syme, prove

that, like some of Mr. Syme's other assertions, this one had no
Ifoundation in truth.
Iremark more.          regret deeply to be obliged to add one

                believe Mr. Syme knew the charge, as far as
I was concerned, to be quite false, at the time that he printed

and circulated, among the Fellows of the College of Physicians,

the letter containing it. That letter was printed on the 23d.

Two or three days previously, as is unhappily admitted by Dr.

Cormack (see the last note in his published circular to you),
Mr. Syme had seen and had read in manuscript, Dr. Cormack's

I1 " ' It may be proper to add, that, immediately after this occurrence,

called upon Dr. Cormack, to inquire if he had told the Professor of Mid

wifery, that any passage of my Paper had been written against him, and was

assured by that gentleman that he had never done so.'  [See Mr. Syme's

first Letter ]
182 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

letter of the 5th, in which Dr. Cormack explicitly admits that

he had told me of the attack he was to publish from Mr. Syme's

Ipen, as being in his (Dr. Cormack's) opinion an attack upon me.

    " Thirdly, Mr. Syme states to you-- ' deny having acted or

expressed myself unbecomingly towards Dr. Simpson, in regard
to a patient.' Mr. Syme may possibly think that he did not
act or express himself unbecomingly in the case refer to but
                                                   (?)

                                                         I

                                                                                                  ;

assuredly no other member of the profession could entertain

the same opinion of the same behaviour. We both spoke of
each other's conduct in the houses of patients, --and so far were

both wrong. In the house of patient to whom called Mr.
Syme (she was at the time residing next door to him),--he
denounced my conduct as improper and unprofessional. In
                a

                                  I

the house of the next patient, to whom we were both called,

and where the interview so often alluded to occurred, de
                                                     I

nounced in my turn his conduct as improper and unprofessional.
But there was this difference. --Mr. Syme took an opportunity

of speaking of me disparagingly when my back was turned                                              ;I

spoke of him disparagingly when he and met face to face. He                                                ;
                               'I
             spoke against me openly to my patient's husband and friends'
               spoke against Mr. Syme to Mr. Syme himself privately, and
I
             when there was no third person present to overhear us.                                  '
            '    " Pray, which of the two pursued the more unwarrantable

             and unpardonable conduct
                " Mr. Syme hints that, during the six weeks that elapsed
                it

                  I'
                           I?
between these dates,' ought to have sought an explanation from

             him. believed quite unnecessary, as his conduct appeared to
             I

             me to be beyond any possibility of explanation but simply;

             --resolved, in consequence, as stated to more than one medicalI

             friend at the time, --to avoid Mr. Syme's professional company in
             future, --and that too, without announcing my decision to the

             President of the College of Surgeons. Besides, Mr. Syme

             knows that, under the circumstances,  was more his duty
                I

                                     it
             to offer explanations and an apology, than mine to demand

             them. Since he did not, determined, at least, to tell him my
                  LETTER TO DR. BEILBY.                    183

Iimpressions of his conduct.       should have done so, he avers,

earlier, as ' the business of graduation frequently brought us

together.' This 'frequently' means that we were twice or

thrice present together at meetings of the Medical Faculty in

the interval ; but whatever Mr. Syme's creed and practice may

Ibe on this matter, did not think proper to arrogate to myself

the right to interrupt the public business of my colleagues with

any private matters of Mr. Syme's and mine. Besides, Mr.
Syme knows that from our professional engagements it rarely

Ior almost never happens, that at such meetings he and are

both present together, either at the beginning or end of them,

or could hence have time or opportunity for discussing any

private matters.
I I I" feel that in one primary point have erred.
                                                   ought not

in the first instance to have condescended to notice from such

a quarter such observations as Mr. Syme has published in Dr.
ICormack's Journal, even though was told by the Editor that
Ithey were, in his opinion, meant for me.
                                           should have re

membered, that the nature of Mr. Syme's paroxysmal attacks

against sections of the profession in Edinburgh, or individual

members of and the means in which he indulges in order to
        it,

         I
                              I
support them, are now so well known as not to stand in need,
the one of exposure, -- and the other of refutation. Believing this,

and believing at the same time that all such disputations as

that into which have been most unwillingly dragged by Mr.

Syme, do discredit to the profession, shall not, in any pro

bability, annoy you with any future remarks, let Mr. Syme

affirm or deny whatever further his fancy may dictate. By

acting otherwise, and by giving myself the trouble of answering

in detail each new assertion that he may choose to impose

upon you and the College of Physicians, fear should only
                  I

                             4,

                                       I
                                          J. I
mischievously foster his morbid appetite for professional con

troversy and railing. -- remain, my dear Sir, very respectfully

yours,                                        Y. Simpson.

" 52 Queen Street, August  1845."
184 SIB, JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

DR. SIMPSON TO DR. ROBERTSON.

   " My dear Sir, --Immediately after seeing Mr. Syme on the

I28th June, called upon you in driving homewards, and detailed

to you minutely all the particulars of our meeting and inter

Iview. Be so kind as note down the more leading facts that

then stated to you. And let me add, that if you do not strongly
Iobject, shall print the letter you send me in reply to this. --
                                      J. Y. Simpson.
Very faithfully yours,

" 52 Queen Street, 4th August 1845."

                                DR. ROBERTSON TO DR. SIMPSON.

  I" My dear Sir,--In reply to your note, beg to state that

you called upon me on the afternoon of the 28th June, on your
way home from Ainslie Place, and recounted to me minutely
the details of an interview which took place between you and
Mr. Syme. . . .

    " You informed me that you had been called to see a boy
who had fallen down stairs ; that you had found the bones of
the fore- arm fractured, and the lip bruised ; that as there was no

occasion whatever for alarm or haste, you had advised the rela

tives to wait the arrival of one of the several surgeons who had

been sent for ; that on coming down stairs from the patient's bed
room, as you reached the flat below, you met Mr. Syme hurrying

up, told him the nature of the accident, and requested him to
speak with you for a minute in the drawing-room ; that you
there told him that you had just read his observations in the
newly published number of Dr. Cormack's Journal, and that he

must be aware his attack upon you was a piece of unfounded

professional slander ; that on hearing your remarks, he began

to shake with passion, and looked as if ' suddenly struck with

 Chorea ;' that he then demanded your authority for alleging
that his attack in the Journal was upon you, and that you
 replied that Dr. Cormack himself had stated so to you. You
 further stated to me, that before leaving the room, you said
 to Mr. Syme that you had 'one remark more which you wished
       CONTROVERSY.                                        185

to make, namely, that his conduct towards you in the case of
    was, as he must be aware, utterly contemptible.' --
I remain, dear Sir, faithfully yours,
                                       J. A. Kobertson.

"58 Queen Street, 4th August 1845."

I wish it had been possible to let these squabbles drop out

of sight. They are not in any sense worthy. But they shed

light on the origin of much of the opposition to Dr. Simpson's

work, to which reference has yet to be made ; and they show

the bitter fruits of the attempts --inexpedient, if not illegiti
mate --to influence the patrons in filling up the Midwifery

Chair, on other grounds than the merits of the respective can

didates. But in recording them, it is not beyond the province

of the biographer to express profound regret, that two such

men as Simpson and Syme were found in life-long antagonism.

Many who loved Simpson, and thanked God for his admirable

qualities of head and heart, for the greatness of his gifts and

his single-hearted devotion to the interests of humanity, held,

at the same time, the greatest of Edinburgh surgeons in high

admiration and esteem. His great accomplishments, the

rapidity and accuracy of his diagnosis, his unsurpassed skill
Ias an operator, the copious brevity, if might so express
                                               if          of

his description of cases --in point of style models not only fora
                                                              it,
the surgeon, but for students in all departments of natural
science --and even that brusquerie which seemed ever saying,I

"hands off," to all comers, but which hindered him not to
speak to patients " in his own short, kind way, pitying them

through his eyes,"1 all united in winning the regard and

admiration of impartial onlookers.

The tidings of these encounters soon reached London.

" My dear Simpson," writes Mr. Fergusson, " herewith

transmit speculum, which brought under notice last season,
Ia     I
of which beg your acceptance.          know not any of the
               p.

              II
kind have yet reached Edinburgh.       occasionally have little

    1  Horn Subicciwe,  379 (7th edit. 1871).
186 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

to do with such instruments, and fancy (possibly because it is

my own contrivance) that this kind is of the very best. Cer
tainly none have ever been made with such a brilliant interior,

which, moreover, cannot possibly be tarnished. They are
made of many shapes and sizes. This one answers but for

general purposes.
I" hear of you often, and always rejoice to hear how great
Iyour success has been. Among your achievements,
                                                  have

been gratified by the manner in which you have kept a certain

Iold friend of mine in proper order, no one, since left, having

had the courage to do so but yourself. --Believe me, yours very

faithfully,                              Wm. Fergusson."

Called to London professionally in September 1845, he wrote
to Miss Grindlay :--
                                      " Stafford House, Sunday.
I" My dear Isabel, --As  have just risen from dinner, and
Iam not disposed just now for study, will (provided you will

I Iallow

   "
me) scribble you      a page.  and,  as  think, just in time.
arrived here on       Friday,

They were all very kind to me on my arrival ; and my rooms

look into St. James's Park, with one of the prettiest views in

London. Stafford House is situated between St. James's and

Buckingham Palaces, and hence in a most royal vicinity. The

house itself is most magnificent, particularly the entrance hall.

The hall is the whole height of the house, of enormous breadth

as well as height, has a hanging stair on its sides of twenty or

more feet in width ; its walls are, from top to bottom, solid

and variegated marble, broken with enormous marble pillars,

and immense mirrors multiplying the effect of the whole. The

stairs and landings are covered, every inch of them, with red

cloth, and the balustrades and roof are deeply inlaid with gold.

The whole looks a fairy scene ; couches and chairs are thrown

around the hall, stairs, and landing, and the family seem some

times to dine and drink tea in this part of the house. Lord

             took me to-day through the drawing-rooms and pic

SBlantyre
                   STAFFORD HOUSE.                        187

ture-galleries. The walls and roofs are ebony and gold, and

look magnificent.  The family are all good, loveable plain

folks. We all dine at the hour of two (how unfashionable !)
tea at five or six, supper when you please. To-day our dinner

party consisted of the Duke, Marquis of Stafford, Marquis of

Lorne, Lord Blantyre, Lady Lorne, Lady Constance Gower, etc.

Lord  seems to me the greatest aristocrat of the whole,

Ibut apparently is very sharp and clever.  did not like him
Iyesterday, but sat next him to-day at dinner, and he talked

and smoothed down wonderfully. Mr. Eashleigh, the M.P. for

Cornwall, was on his other side. His wife went down to

Edinburgh two weeks ago to be under my care. Lady Lorne

is a very sweet, unaffected girl, and so is my patient. The

IDuchess is sick, and had to prescribe for her to-day. She

seems very gentle, and quite a domestic woman ; her figure is

magnificent. The Duke is in appearance very like Dr. Muir

of Edinburgh, and the resemblance seemed both to strike and

Iamuse Lord Lorne when mentioned it at dinner to-day. They

all eat as fast as Americans. Our dinner-table is a round one,

piled with fruit in the centre, and a few dishes around the

sides. All meats are brought from the side- table. The plates

of silver; the potato-dishes large, plain, Scotch wooden

' cogues ;' our wines, port, sherry, and claret.          have

  I I I" have been very happy since came -- 1st, because

plenty of time to give to my own beloved books and papers ;

I2d, because am beginning to feel rested ; and 3d, because the

family are so kind as to put me quite at my ease.
   " My advent to London this time is certainly a very different

Ione from what it was ten years ago. Yesterday took a stroll

out and bought the enclosed Life of me, published on the day
Iof my arrival. Is that ominous?
                                     have been mightily

diverted by and laughed till was sore at the account of
      it,

                J.

                        I

                                                                            ?

                                          a I it
                                                        I
the courtship. What will Jessie say  Send     up to Dr.

Petrie when you are done. It will amuse him.  think

must purchase one for Walker. Have just had note from
188 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Lady G., asking me to visit her professionally.  Nonsense 1--
Yours ever affectionately,
                                                   J- * . S.

   At the close of the year he could look back on much work
attempted and much done. His class was large. His practice
was still increasing, bringing with it name, and fame, and
golden fruits. He had, too, been able so to seize occasion as

to find time for important contributions to scientific literature,
several of them of permanent value. But a time was at hand,
" when the demand for his services became far beyond the power
of any man to answer, when his natural kindness of heart pre

Ivented him from refusing to undertake to try to give relief,

when he could not tell a patient plainly, ' cannot undertake
to see you,' and yet found his time insufficient to enable him
to do so. When hundreds were languishing to see the physi
cian whom they almost endowed in imagination with miracu

lous power, whom nevertheless he was compelled to disappoint,
partly by the unceasing demands on his attention, and partly,
 no doubt, from that utter want of method which characterized

 his arrangements, and that very concentration of powers on

 one object which often refused to be distracted even by the

 claims of sickness for relief -- and yet indefinable as all this

 was, and justly calculated to incense those who were dependent
 on his professional skill, and many of whom might have come
 from distant quarters to get his aid, yet it was a strange tribute
 to that wonderful mastery which he exercised over his patients,

 that however angry they may have been at marked and often
 persistent neglect, one kindly word or one smile from him dis

 pelled it all, and gratitude took the place of upbraiding."1
     The state of matters at 52 Queen Street, so well described

 by this writer, might have been witnessed any day in 1846.

 It afterwards became greatly more apparent. But even at this

 time patients sought him in such numbers that had he given

 only a few minutes to each, the day would have been too

                                       1 Scotsman, May 9, 1870.
WORK.  189

Bhort to enable him to overtake the half of them, and all other
work would have been out of the question. But his class had to

be attended to. Dangerous cases at a distance claimed his care,
and got it readily. He had to fulfil promises made to con
ductors of public journals. Practitioners in town and country
who came to solicit his attention to cases of interest and diffi

culty could not be turned away. Strangers of note and of no

note --English, Continental, American --dropped in at breakfast-

time or at lunch and took up a good deal of his time. Letters
reached him daily in dozens, from practitioners who would
have felt insulted had they been answered by any hand but his

own. In other ways he allowed his time to be broken in on.

When, in 1846, a vacancy occurred in the Chair of Anatomy, one
candidate and another applied to him in terms that indicated
their belief that he had taken the place of another Professor,
who used to be known as the " Chair-maker," from his success in

matters of this kind. Then there were ladies of rank and wives

of professional gentlemen who backed their claims to immediate

attention by letters from their husbands. It would not be true to

say that his attention was distracted in the midst of all this, be
cause he refused to let it be so. He gave himself to the cases

that seemed most important ; sometimes to less important ones

pressed persistently on his attention, especially by professional
friends. But all could not be overtaken, and reports soon

spread that his patients were neglected, that dangerous cases
were not closely watched after his first interference with them,

and, generally, that there was something altogether wrong and

blameworthy in all this. In every profession there are men
who are ill at ease when in company with those who are taller

than they by head and shoulders, who grudge the rising fame
of brethren, who think themselves as good as they are, and

believe they would have been equally successful had they been
favoured with the same chances :

               " Why has such worth without distinction died ?
                    Why, like the desert lily, bloomed to fade !"
190 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

This is the class to which evil reports against a neighbour may

generally be traced. Its zeal in circulating charges of neglect,
to the risk of life even, soon became apparent. But there were

others, whom Dr. Simpson knew to be friends, tried and true,
who heard the reports with sorrow and alarm, and took the

earliest opportunity to offer their advice, for which he was
grateful. " The tongue of the wise is health."

                               "Queen Street, 6th April 1846.
" My dear Dr., --Nothing but the high esteem and affection
I Ibear you, and the deep gratitude which
                                           feel for un

bounded kindness and attention when sickness and death were

present in my own family, could induce me to take up the

pen on a subject which must be very painful to you, and in
I Iwhich have no right to interfere.
                                      trust, however, to your

considering my doing so as the act of a true friend. It is to

point out to you the reports which are everywhere current of

your inattention to patients who place themselves under your

care ; that you neglect one set for the sake of another ; that you

make appointments, keep patients in their beds waiting for you

day after day; that letters remain unanswered, and that

patients are often left in ignorance whether they are to alter,

continue, or give up the remedies you have prescribed ; and, in
short, it is said by some that a patient cannot with safety

intrust herself to your care from these causes. Now, my dear

Dr., allow me to say candidly that in these matters you are

not doing justice either to yourself or your patients, and that if

even a slight foundation be given for a continuance of these

reports in the public mind, no talents, however great, will

ultimately bear up against them.
   " Now such instances of inattention must result from one of

two causes : either that you have more practice than any

single individual is equal to, or that there is a want of due
Ifarrangement.
                the former, in my opinion you should decline

taking charge of a portion of your patients, to whom you feel
Ifyou cannot do full justice.
                               the latter, let your arrangements
FRIENDLY ADVICE.                                          191

be changed. Whenever on leaving a patient you fix a day for

again visiting her, enter it at the moment in your visit-book.

Let it be at all times most correctly kept. Each day let a list
Ifof the visits be made out.
                              there be any which you find you

cannot accomplish, let a note be immediately sent to the patient

intimating the circumstance, and fixing when you will call.
If sent for unexpectedly to a case in which you are likely to be
Idetained, let a message be sent to those expecting you.
                                                          am

certain if you were to adopt some such method, you would do
Ifaway with many of the current reports.
                                          in the same manner

you have not time to answer letters of consultation fully at the

time they are expected, let a short note be written mentioning

the circumstance. Now, my dear Dr., excuse me for stating

the absolute necessity of some change being made. Your

present mode must be injurious to your patients, and will
Iultimately be much more so to yourself.
                                          have again to beg
you to excuse me--that you will attribute my interference
I Isolely to the interest take in all that concerns you, and that
   know the advantage that is taken of these things by interested

individuals, and those who have no kindly feeling towards you.

-- I remain, my dear Dr., ever faithfully yours,
                                             " J. A. KOBERTSON."

  I" have another little matter," wrote Dr. Sharpey. " D.,

now a physician in L., called on me lately. In the course

of our conversation about Edinburgh folks, he seemed to be

sore that in a case in which he consulted you, you had not

written him yourself, but put him off with a formal letter by
Iyour secretary or assistant.
Ithis, although, of course,    think it right you should know

                               have never let D. know my

intention. If a favourable opportunity should occur, it might

be well to write him a friendly letter, and refer to the circum

stance with the view of explaining it. English practitioners

are very touchy about these things, and our surgeons and

physicians (Chambers and Brodie) always, if well, write
192 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

autograph epistles, especially to practitioners.  IBut must

say that D. rather felt it as coming from an old acquaint

ance.                       might venture to say anything on the

  I" should say
        it
matter) that your best plan would be to make an amanuensis
write in your name, you speaking in the first person, and youif (iIf

appending your signature. There could be no objection to

this in professional correspondence. --Yours very sincerely,
                                                               " W. Sharpey."

That there was some cause for these interferences on the

part of friends cannot be denied. And, of course, blame lay
with Dr. Simpson he neglected any case he might have over

taken, or did not make some provision for the treatment of any

cases he knew to be serious, but which were beyond his own

reach.

Patients who thought themselves aggrieved, seldom failed to

make    known by personal communications, by their rela

tives, or their usual medical attendant. As all communica

tions from patients were preserved, have had an opportunity
                            I

                                           is
of perusing them. They are thousands in number. The pro

portion of letters of complaint among these very small, com
pared with those expressing gratitude for kind attentions or

for health restored. Some of them, moreover, are most unreason

able. No doubt, had Dr. Simpson adopted the business methods

recommended by his friends Sharpey and Eobertson, he could

have given systematic attention to more patients than was pos

sible otherwise. It was clear he could not do justice to all.

To have said, " cannot see you, my hands are already too full
        I

of work," would only have increased the crowd. When, for ex

ample, he made known his unwillingness to attend patients out

of Edinburgh, whose cases were not special or dangerous, the
object he had in view was frustrated. Patients hastened to

Edinburgh, and swelled the company that waited daily in

Queen Street. The difficulty of obtaining his advice and

                            *
                                      PATIENTS.                                             193

          attendance only stimulated nervous patients to extra efforts.

          In many instances when called to see them in their own

          homes, or in lodgings, he found them not so ill as they

          imagined, and left them to seek the aid of other practitioners.
          Not unseldom this led to evil. Gossiping men are not likely

          ever to perish from the earth. The remark dropped thought
          lessly, and without any bad intention, " You are the third or
          Ifourth
                   have been asked to attend in consequence of Dr.

          Simpson's forgetfulness," or a like expression, led to exaggerated

          reports of neglect, sometimes of death from neglect. There
          were also instances in which he believed a patient might be left

          for a season without injury, or in which delay was necessary,

          before he could decide on the kind of treatment. His want of

          an exact system of registration sometimes led to their dropping

          out of sight, and both they and he suffered in consequence.
          Frequently, when interrupted in a case of importance, or in the

          midst of earnest conversation on a subject of great interest,

          and asked to wait on a patient, he would promise to call on the

          morrow. But not having made a note of his promise, when the

          morrow came other demands crowded on him, and the engage
          ment slipped out of memory. Some bore this with great

                                    ,

                                      I
                                                               a
                                                                  it,
                                                        I
                                                                                        aa
          patience, got a friend to remind him of or sought him at
          his own house. But others, holding themselves personally

          insulted by his treatment of relatives, demanded an apology.
" recapitulate what occurred," wrote Colonel of Dragoons,
I" that there may be no mistake as to facts.
                                                 have now to
         ,
          request that you will oblige me with an explanation of course
          of conduct not only at variance with all the duties of profes

          sional person, but inconsistent with the common and acknow

          ledged courtesies of life.  claim an explanation as the

          husband of Mrs.         and also as your obedient servant,
                   Colonel of
                               Dragoons." In this case Dr. Simpson

might have shown, that the facts recapitulated contain his vin

dication, but he left the matter alone.
   Dr. Eobertson was in error when he referred to " the

                                      N
194 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

neglect of one set for the sake of another." Neither exalted

rank nor great wealth determined the kind of attention be

stowed on patients. The precedency of the application, the
appearance of immediate danger, or the rarity of the case in

medical practice, combined with its scientific interest, were the

elements that chiefly influenced him. When adventitious cir

cumstances intervened, they were such as personal friendship,

old ties of neighbourhood, school-companionship, or, not un-

frequently, the knowledge that the patient was more or less

closely related to men from whom he had received personal

unkindness, misrepresentation of motive or act, or public oppo

sition. Many illustrations of his devotion to friends and their
Irelatives might be given.
                            have pleasure in mentioning one.

He had learned incidentally at the close of his day's work that

was dangerously ill. After a drive of more than twenty

miles in a dark night, he looked in on the sufferer a little after

midnight, and prescribed remedies that at once checked the

progress of the disease, and, in the long-run, brought health.

There are proofs among his papers, that persons of exalted

rank and great wealth had their full share of the inconvenience

arising from want of immediate attention to written communi

cations, or the delay of personal visits. In many cases, how

ever, the delay and apparent neglect were intentional. Treat

ment prescribed was expected, after a time, to assume symptoms

on which he calculated conditionally. But when they occurred,

patients and their friends became alarmed, and concluded that

they would not have happened had he been unremitting in his

attendance. He might, indeed, have warned them of this, and

so far have prevented misapprehension.  But had the symp

toms not appeared, the alarm and injury would have been

much greater, especially in the case of nervous patients. Had

he loved fees more, he would have kept a correct list of his

patients and of the number of visits paid to them. This would

not only have greatly increased his income, it would have

saved much of his time also. Multitudes who waited on him
                 PATIENTS.  195

day after day would have been more sparing of their visits, had

they felt a fee was expected for each, and many who were not

seriously ill would have trusted themselves to other practi

tioners. But he ever shrank from arrangements that seemed

to him fitted to associate the idea of remunerative trade with

the practice of his noble profession. He may have been in

Ierror on this point ; think he was ; but it is difficult to attach

much blame to acts which spring from this impression. Self

ishness and cupidity could have no hold of the heart of one

who acted thus. But more : he was not responsible for many

of the instances of reputed neglect, and in some of them he
Iwas justified.
                 have found that frequently his notes of in

struction to country practitioners were, on the return home of

patients, withheld from motives of delicacy. They were un

willing to make known that they had sought other advice, or

they were unwilling to make neighbours aware of their ailings.
When compelled by the course of the disease to consult
another doctor, the effects of the delay were generally charged

to Dr. Simpson. There were, moreover, communications left

unanswered which he would have most willingly attended to.

He once showed me three letters just received. One contained

a fee for £100 ; another was from Germany, from an unknown

correspondent ; and the third from London. By the post

mark on the first he learned who was the sender. It contained

only " With compts.," and no name. In the second he was

asked to inform the writer when he was likely to be in Lon

don, and was requested to write to him there ! In the third

he was told " he would oblige by desiring Duncan and Flock-

hart to forward a bottle of the medicine obtained a year ago."

The medicine might have been got, but the writer neglected to

Igive her name ! " will get a good blowing up some day for

not replying to all these notes," he remarked, as he put them

away to wait for an answer. There are notes from patients
requesting a visit at their hotel, and from friends of patients

telling him he would find them at their hotel in Princes Street,
196 StR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

but forgetting to name the hotel. In one instance of this

Ikind was with him when he called at two hotels, asking in

vain for a patient in whose case he was much interested. He

found her at the third. He was, also, often annoyed at the

manner in which fees were paid. One man of wealth enclosed

£10, in circumstances in which £100 might have been expected,

Iadding, " am not sure if the amount is more or less than is
Iusual on such occasions, but will be guided by what you say

when you acknowledge this." It was not acknowledged, and
note after note arrived in fevered haste --" You have not ac

knowledged remittance on 12th of £10; Ihopeit reached you?"
Later, " There surely must be some mistake," etc. And later
still, " Your conduct is so surprising," etc. But in vain. Per

haps the writer would have been more indignant had he known

the treatment his fee received. It was put carelessly into a

capacious pocket, which received and held, often for a week or

two, many strange epistles. During a boisterous night his

sleep was disturbed by the rattling of the window-frame, and

drawing on the pocket for a bit of paper, wherewith to tighten

the loose sash, the £10 note had come readiest to hand, and
was employed for this purpose, and found by Mrs. Simpson in
the morning in its useful position. His only remark was,

"Oh! it's that £10." Then he received communications
which no busy man could afford time to answer :--

" Dear Sir, -- As Lady                           "May 25, /46.
                        's last and very urgent letter
Ihas been, as usual, unattended to by you, am determined to
Imake another attempt to elicit a reply from you.
Ifore, to do so now.                               beg, there

                      shall not say one word as to the neglect

with which Lady Anne's letters have been treated by you.

Your own conscience must be a sufficient monitor on that sub
ject. --Yours truly."

The " very urgent matter " was a question touching the ex

pediency of applying three leeches to the hip -joint, as recom

mended by him, or of two, as prescribed by the local prac
                    DEMANDS ON HIS TIME.                             197

titioner, whom Dr. Simpson knew to be a man of sense and
skill.

   The growth of his influence exposed him to many applica
tions he could not so easily set aside. When any of his col
leagues were concerned he acted with readiness and cordiality,
and never grudged the time given. Here are two specimens,
out of many that might be quoted, of this kind of communica

tions, that got a good deal of his time :--

                    DR. TODD TO DR. SIMPSON.

" My  dear    Sir,            "  3 New   St., Spring  Gardens, June  9, 1846.
                                          aided me    on a former
                    --You        kindly                              occasion

in re Allen Thomson.

  " A new colleague of yours undertook, three years ago, three

articles for the Cyclopaedia.
I I" can get neither the mss. from him, for which
                                                                     am now

waiting, nor even a civil answer to my letters, which have been
Ivery numerous. This latter is too bad.
                                                      am unconscious of

having given him any occasion of offence, unless, indeed, in my

Ilast letter, in which spoke pretty plainly about his utter want

of courtesy.
" Will you oblige me by seeing him, and ascertaining the
Ireal cause of his proceedings ?
                                         do not wish to think un
I Ifavourably of a man of his abilities ; but must say that

have never before experienced such treatment from a person

calling himself a gentleman.
   " He did not hesitate to ask me for a testimonial when he

Iwas canvassing for the Chair, which sent him, as you are

probably aware. Even this he had not the civility to acknow

Iledge, although know that he did so to others.
  I I" should also be glad to know whether may have any

reasonable expectation of getting the articles.

  I" must apologize to you for imposing this trouble upon

you in the midst of your manifold engagements.
                    Ihas, think, shown himself in his true
"Your friend
198 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

colours, and will be in future understood and shunned by all
respectable men. --Believe me, my dear Sir, yours sincerely,

                                                                   " E. B. Todd."

           SIR GEORGE BALLINGALL TO DR. SIMPSON.

                I I"Altamont, Blairqowrie, nth Sept. 1846.

" My dear Sir, -- regretted very much that had not time

to call upon you, when in Edinburgh for a few hours last week;

and my object in writing now is to see if you can do me the

Ifavour of transmitting to Lord John Eussell (with whom, be

Ilieve, you have the honour of being acquainted) a copy of my
last Introductory Lecture.  have reason to believe that my

project of establishing lectureships on Military Surgery in Lon

don and DubUn has been pressed successfully on the attention

of some of the members of the present Government ; and if you

can take the liberty of soliciting the Premier's attention to
     you will oblige me very sincerely. --Yours ever very faith
it,

fully,                               Geo. Ballingall."

   In the midst of so much to engross his time and attention,

eminent men of less deep affection and weaker home sym
pathies might have been led to forget, or to act as they
forgot, relatives moving in circle much humbler than theirs.
But his heart went out as freshly and earnestly to them all as
before :--
                 I                                a
     " My dear Sandy, -- was very, very sorry to hear you
Ifwere complaining so much.;a                            : if
                             we had not our examinations
                       I                                    is I
would come out to see you but you can do much better come

in to me for few days, and have no doubt you will soon
get well. In such affections, one of the principal remedies
           II a
the use of hot baths. We have one both here and in Albany

Street, and    am sure you would benefit greatly by them.

Jessie and will take no denial, You will have room, bath,

and bedroom here for your sole use.  I  am always down at

dinner, and with bowls, etc. etc., we think we could get your
            ERSKINE HOUSE.                       199

time spent agreeably --at least we will strive to do so. We

know Janet and you could not both leave at the same time,

but do bring one of my nephews to be your bedfellow. Such

complaints should not be thought light of, and you must, my

Idear Sandy, come to me. Jessie and will expect you on
Friday. --With kindest regards to Janet, yours ever affec

tionately,                                       J. Y. Simpson.

" Starbank, Trinity, Wednesday."

   He greatly needed rest, and a complete change of scene and
circumstance. The opportunity soon came. He was invited
by Lord Blantyre to visit Erskine House, where for a brief
season he greatly enjoyed himself. But Bathgate affairs were
not forgotten. While referring to them he enters into some
charmingly simple details touching ladies' head-gear, for the

special information of his sister-in-law, the baker's wife :--

I" My dear Sandy,-- daresay you will be wondering what

has become of the Scotsman.

  I" have been down here for three weeks at Lord Blantyre's,
Iand never thought of the papers till found a great parcel of

them yesterday huddled together. Jessie takes charge of them
Iall at home, and directs them, and never thought of my
Ineglect till yesterday.
                          go home to-morrow, and they will all

be sent right again.

  I" have been down dining and sleeping at Mr. Ewing's of

Strathleven,-- was on the top of Dumbarton, and had a beau

tiful view.

  I" While here have been repeatedly at Loch Lomond, Gare

Loch, etc., hunting, etc., and feel a great deal stronger of it all.

Jessie has been at St. Cyrus with the children.

"Erskine House is very large and gorgeous. The hall

is 118 feet long. The Duchess of Sutherland, the Marquis

and Marchioness of Lorne, and two Ladies Gower have made

up, with myself, all the strangers. We have also two very
200 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

little lords -- Lord Albert Gower, three years old; and Lord

Campbell, eleven months.

  I"Tell Janet think now artificial flowers very ungenteel.

The ladies here wear nothing but real flowers in their hair, and
every day they come down with something new, and for us
males to guess at. Often the Duchess wears a simple chaplet
of ivy leaves, sometimes a bracken leaf is all she sports in her
head ornaments, and beautiful it looks. Eowans and ' haws '

are often worn, beaded into crowns, or flowers, or chaplets.
Heather, also, is a great favourite. On Thursday, Lady Lome
came down with a most beautiful chaplet tying round and

keeping down her braided hair. It was a long bunch of

bramble leaves and half ripe bramble berries -- actual true

brambles.

  I" They have been all exceedingly kind to me, and really

feel quite at home among them, though the only wititled per
sonage at table. --Yours ever affectionately,

                                                 " J. Y. Simpson."

The closing words remind one of Sir Walter Scott's reference

to his own feelings, when his success opened to him free access

Ito the dwellings of the great :--" do not mean to say that my

success in literature has not led me to mix familiarly in society

Imuch above my birth and pretensions, since have been readily

received into the first circles of Britain. But there is a certain

intuitive knowledge of the world to which most well-educated

... IScotchmen are early trained, that prevents them from being
much daunted by this species of elevation.  have never
Itherefore felt much elevated, nor did experience any violent

change in situation by the passport which my poetical char

acter afforded me into higher company than my birth war

ranted."
CHAPTER VIII.

ANAESTHESIA.

Physician to the Queen -- Use of Ether as an Anaesthetic -- Letter to

     Dr. J. B. Fleming -- Preliminary Objections -- Police Statistics of

      Drunkenness -- Drs. Locock and Protheroe Smith on Ether-- Dr.
      Magnus Eetzius --Dr. Kreiger --Chloroform -- Cases -- Note from
      Listen -- Notes from the Duchess of Argyll, Lady Blantyre, Dr.
      Christison, Dr. Johnston of Berwick, and Dr. Locock -- Claims of M.
      Flourens -- Religious Objections --Put on the Defensive --Dr. Morton
      --Dr. Jackson-- Letters to Dr. Bigelow -- Second Pamphlet --Dr.
      Meigs -- Religious Objections --Dr. Ashwell-- Critical Examination
      of Scripture -- Opinion of Dr. Chalmers --Results -- Letter from Sir
      James Clarke, Her Majesty's Physician -- Complete Success.

In January 1847 Dr. Simpson was appointed one of Her

Majesty's Physicians for Scotland. The tidings first reached

him in the following communication from the late Duchess of
Sutherland :--

                                                    " Stafford House, January 18th.

   "Dear Sir, -- It was a great pleasure to me to receive

yesterday a letter from the Queen, telling me that she should
have much pleasure in complying with the request, ' which his

high character and abilities make him very fit for.' The Queen

adds that it will be officially communicated to you. -- I remain,

dear Sir, yours very truly,  Harriet Sutherland."

   He was proud of this token of Her Majesty's favour.

  I" My dear Sandy, -- believe you will be glad to hear that
I am to be appointed one of Her Majesty's Physicians for

Scotland. The death of Dr. Davidson (who succeeded Dr.
202 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Abercrombie) has left a vacancy in the Scotch Eoyal House
hold. Her Grace the Duchess of Sutherland wrote directly to

the Queen wishing for my appointment, and she has sent me

an extract from a letter of Her Majesty to her Grace, saying
that she (the Queen) would nominate me, ' which ' (to quote the
Queen's note) ' his high character and abilities make him very

Ifit for.' Flattery from the Queen is perhaps not common

flattery, but am far less interested in it than in having

delivered a woman this week without any pain while inhaling
Isulphuric ether.
                    can think of naught else. No emolument
Iis directly connected with the office, and do not talk of it
Iyet, because it is not yet officially announced to me.
                                                           had

I

                       it,
                              is
no ambition for but several of the older hands here were

candidates, and there some satisfaction in beating them so

easily. Lord John Russell does not yet know of Her Majesty's

resolution, as his lady wrote me to-day that he was going to

exert his influence for my nomination.  I ;I        breakfasted

   " had one gay day in London lately

with the Secretary of War, dined with the Mistress of the

Kobes, and had tea and an egg with the Premier.     went with

Professor Murphy to see all the crack doctors at an evening

discussion Society, and (oddly enough) found some of them busy

speaking against me and my published opinions.      was driven
                                                 I

                                                        a
to speak in self-defence, and set them right. It was curious

coincidence my popping in upon them at the time.
" Kindest regards to Janet and alL--Yours ever most affec
                                        J. Y. Simpson.
tionately.

" Friday evening."

   The congratulations that followed showed what strong holda
he had already taken of the public mind. Her Majesty's act
was most popular. Sir James Clarke and other eminent
practitioners in the metropolis, high officers of State, distin
guished foreigners, and leading men among the nobility,
hastened to inform him of their personal gratification. The
                   ANAESTHESIA.                    203

following note from the tenth Duke of Hamilton and Brandon,
grandfather of the present Duke (1873), indicates the very
cordial way in which the honour was regarded by many noble

men: --

                   " Postman Square, February 4th, 1847.

"Sir, --The Duchess unfortunately, in consequence of the
Isad state of her eyes, cannot write herself, but
                                                   hope you

remain convinced of the grateful sense we both entertain of

your ability in treating, and attention to, the Princess Marie,

our daughter-in-law, two years ago in Edinburgh.
    " We were truly glad to see that an honorary tribute had

been paid to your merit by your late nomination to the Queen's

household establishment. . . .

  I" rejoice in any opportunity that enables me to assure you
Iof those sentiments of esteem, with which am, Sir, your most

obedient servant,                H. and B."

   The reference to the inhalation of sulphuric ether, in the

Iletter to his brother, and the strong expression, " can think of

naught else," show how intensely interested he was in the
discovery. Ever since he witnessed the terrible agony of the
poor Highland woman, even under the knife of one of the most
expert surgeons of his own or of any day, he had been casting

Iabout him for some mode of relief to such sufferers. " most

conscientiously believe that the proud mission of the physician
is distinctly twofold, namely, to alleviate human suffering as
well as to preserve human life." On the 21st of December 1846,
Mr. Listen amputated a thigh, and removed, by evulsion, both
sides of the great toe-nail, while the patients were under ether.
And now Dr. Simpson was convinced that even the severest
surgical operations might be made painless. His mind was fully

occupied with the thought. If in the surgeon's hands a patient

could be rendered insensible to pain during an operation,
might not the same agent be made fruitful of blessing in the
hands of the accoucheur ? On the 9th March 1847 he wrote to
204 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

his friend Dr. J. B. Fleming, then stationed at Secunder-

abad :--

  I" My dear Sir, -- have sent you a short paper on Ether.

All here use it in surgical operations, and no doubt, in a few

years, its employment will be general over the civilized world.

We do not know yet who was the original suggester, Mr. Hick
man, Mr. Wells, Dr. Jackson, or Dr. Merton. But it is a ' great

thought,' if ever there was one.

    " The great secret of its exhibition is giving a large, full, and

Irapid dose of it at once.          have taken it myself to
    " With many other medical men,
try its effects. It is the only just way of judging of it. --With

best wishes for your success, believe me, very truly yours,

                                              "J. Y. Simpson."

  "I can think of naught else." This was almost literally

true during the summer of 1847. The successful use of ether
in the case mentioned in his note to Sandy was immediately
communicated to the Monthly Journal of Medical Science, and
fuller information was supplied in the March number, under
the title " Notes on the Inhalation of Sulphuric Ether in the
Practice of Midwifery." This motto, from Shakespeare, was

affixed --

                                  "Not poppy, nor mandragora,
                        Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world

                           Shall ever medicine thee to such sweet sleep."

In these Notes he said, " Abundant evidence has of late been
adduced, and is daily accumulating, in proof of the inhalation
of sulphuric ether being capable, in the generality of indi

viduals, of producing a more or less perfect degree of insensibility
to the pains of the most severe surgical operations. But

Iwhilst this agent has been used extensively and by numerous

hands in the practice of surgery, am not aware that any one
has hitherto ventured to test its applicability to the practice of

IMidwifery. . . . Within the last few months have had op
ANESTHESIA.  205

portunities of using the inhalation of ether, in many cases of
great difficulty, as well as in ordinary ones." He then specifies
the cases, and afterwards endeavours to trace the idea of the
use of anaesthetics to its original source. " Long ago, in dis
cussing this subject, Haller adduced the authority of Harvey,

Smellie, Lamotte, etc., to prove that there may be births while
the mother is ' ignara, stupida, et sopita, et immobili, et
apoplectica, et epileptica, et convulsionibus agitata, et ad
summum debili.' " Some curious illustrations are given, and

I Ihe concludes, " have stated that the question have been

repeatedly asked is this : Will we ever be ' justified ' in using

the vapour of ether to assuage the pains of natural labour ?

Now, if experience betimes goes fully to prove to us the safety

with which ether may, under proper precautions and manage

Iment, be employed, then, looking to the facts of the case, and

considering the actual amount of pain usually endured, believe

that the question will require to be quite changed in its
character. For instead of determining in relation to it whether
we shall be 'justified' in using this agent under the circum
stances named, it will become, on the other hand, necessary to

determine whether, on any grounds, moral or medical, a pro
fessional man could deem himself 'justified in withholding

and not using any such safe means as we at present pre

suppose this to be.' " In the cases specified in this paper,

he was assisted by one or more professional friends, -- as Dr.
John Moir, Dr. Graham Weir, Dr. George Keith, and Dr.

Ziegler.

     The Notes were printed separately, and widely distributed

among professional men at home and abroad. Though he made
no other claim for himself than that of priority in the use of
 ether in his department, he yet felt bound to publish the facts,

 and to secure their wide circulation, with the view of forcing it
 on the notice of practitioners, and of urging its adoption in the

 interests of humanity. Neither time, labour, nor expense was
 spared. But he soon found he had entered on a work which
 206 SIB, JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

 was speedily to task his highest powers of thought, perseverance,
and patience. Custom, prejudice, professional jealousy, fancies
touching the inevitable lot of man and the alleged therapeutic
blessing of the consciousness of pain, joined to the timidity
natural to many of his accomplished fellow-workers, all began
to bear bitter fruits. He found hesitancy where he looked for
forward zeal, strong opposition where cordiality was counted
on, and adverse public criticism -- the worse to bear when he

believed he could trace it to private malice. But he was sure
of his ground,,and resolute not to leave it. His early ambition

had been
                                                                  " To employ

                               The mind's brave ardour in heroic aims."

And he had now another great opportunity. He determined,
should need be, to appeal from the profession to the patients
themselves, and thus to constrain even unwilling practitioners
to use ether, should he find it answered all his expectations.
Meanwhile, though not fully satisfied with ether, he was firmly
convinced that there were other therapeutic agents which, if
introduced into the system, would answer all the ends he had in
view. He now set himself to search for these. In the course of

his inquiries, his suspicions of the unsatisfactory character of

ether as an anaesthetic were confirmed. It was not likely to suit

general practice. He saw, too, more clearly the true force of
the objections sure to be urged against the use of any such
agent. One of these, of a very general kind, constantly met
him on the threshold of his inquiries. Waving, some said, the
discussion of other questions of great importance, is there not

danger, if not even positive injury, to the individual, in the use
of anything that puts will in abeyance, or that, for the time,

destroys self-consciousness ? Would you not at least produce
evils similar to those that result from stupefaction by alcohol

or any other powerful narcotic? Most men would have ac
cepted this general plea as a bar to the use of anaesthetics, or,
at least, have tried to escape by pleading a specialty in favour
              ANAESTHESIA.              207

of their employment in disease. But Dr. Simpson asked in
turn, --Is the mere condition of intoxication as injurious to the

body as is generally supposed ? The objectors had thus a new
subject thrust on them. He sought the answer in his own

characteristic way. Might not the police books shed some
light on the subject ? In reply to a communication on this

question, Dr. Tait wrote :--

              " Edinburgh Police Office, 17th March 1847.
"Dear Sir, --In reference to the subject about which you
Ispoke to me yesterday,
--facts :                beg to send you the following

"It Iis now five years since  was appointed Surgeon of

Police, and during this time the average number of cases of

individuals in a state of intoxication brought to the office has

been 5671 annually, being in all 28,357. Out of all this num

ber only three have died, and it is even questionable if simple

intoxication was the cause of death in these instances, although

Iit may have indirectly contributed to it. The number that

may have been called to examine is about 400 annually, the

Igreat majority of which was requested to see at my usual

visits to the office, and not sent for to see. Fifty per annum

Iwill be about the number of serious cases to which am ex

pressly called, and active treatment may be required in eighteen

or twenty of these. So that, altogether, whisky must be one
Ifof the most harmless of all poisons.
                                        any further informa
Ition is wanted upon the subject, will be glad to furnish it. --

Yours truly,                            William Tait."

   Dr. Simpson, it need scarcely be added, was not looking

either at the sin of drunkenness, or at the moral and physical
evils which are its fruits. He simply wished to know, what
one so favourably situated for such observations as a police
surgeon could tell him of its physiological influence. Dr.

Tait's letter in reply is curious, though it fails to shed much, if

any, light on the matter. Indeed, this kind of evidence was not
208 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

admissible. That the object in view was simply to ascertain
the effect of the use of anaesthetics, under the authority and
presence of a medical adviser forbade comparison.

    But all were not sceptics. Dr. Simpson was much gratified
by the readiness with which several Edinburgh practitioners
accepted his views. From London, moreover, he received
communications of special interest.

                     FROM DR. LOCOCK.

                                                " Hertford Street, March 8, 1847.

   " My dear Sir, --Many thanks for your pamphlet on the

Iether inhalation, with which have been much interested.

People here and in Paris are getting frightened about as the
                                                    it,
                                                        a
arterial blood becomes black under its influence, and few

deaths have occurred. In time will get to its level, after
                                    it

                                         I
going through the usual preliminaries of over-praise and under-

...praise, and after the ordinary mischief from the injudicious
applications of valuable discovery.              find the ether inha
                 a

lation, not pushed to the degree of producing stupor, mosta

effectual and rapid relief in dysmennorrhcea --try it.--Yours

very sincerely,                                     C. Locock."

                     FROM DR. PROTHEROE SMITH.

                     " 15 John Street, Bedford Row, April 21, 1847.
" My dear Sir, -- Ether here
                                    at discount amongst the
                                    is

                                     I
                                              a
obstetric practitioners generally.      have, however, tested its

powers, and am satisfied of the justice of your opinions.        I

have written paper advocating its adoption. The first part
          I
                  a
of my paper (illustrated by cases) now in the hands of theis

printer.  am desirous to ascertain the number of cases in

which you have employed this agent, and the result to both

mother and child, with the view to sustain my arguments in

its favour by your extensive experience. Should you feel dis

posed to give me any other facts of practical interest to append

to my paper, shall feel greatly obliged.         I  have entered at
          I
                 CHLOROFORM.                 209

some length on the physiology of the question, and shall be

glad our views correspond on this subject.

I"Dreadfully tired from having just completed my paper,
which   was obliged to write hastily, believe me, always

yours,                                       Protheroe Smith."

Dr. Magnus Eetzius, a Danish obstetrician of high scientific

attainments, in a letter dated April 6, 1847, first put in a clear,

succinct, and definite shape two chief objections to the use of

ether, later urged by others with great warmth and pertinacity

against the use of chloroform. Dr. Simpson was thus early
prepared to deal with them. These had reference to the in

fluence of the will of the patient in seconding the efforts of

the physician, and to, what some held to be, the beneficial

influences of the action of a creative law.

An eminent Eussian practitioner saw some of the same

objections, but he saw also their answer, and informed Dr.

Simpson of his views. Dr. Kreiger of Berlin writes :--" Your

paper on the administration of ether in obstetric practice was

read with the highest interest at a meeting of the Obstetric

Society of our city. It has elected you an honorary and corre

sponding member." Thus, by his energy and perseverance, the

use of ether had the attention of medical men all over the

world turned to
a                and they were thereby prepared to give

                            :

                            it,

                        I
                                I
immediate heed to the great discovery which now made his

own heart glad. On the 10th of March 1847, he communicated

   paper on Chloroform to the Medico-Chirurgical Society of

Edinburgh --

   " From the time at which first saw ether-inhalation suc

cessfully practised in January last, have had the conviction

impressed upon my mind, that we would ultimately find that

other therapeutic agents were capable of being introduced with

equal rapidity and success into the system, through the same

extensive and powerful channel of pulmonary absorption. . . .

   "With various professional friends, more conversant with

                 o
210 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

I Ichemistry than am, have, since that time, taken opportu
Inities of talking over the idea which entertained of the pro

bable existence or discovery of new therapeutic agents, capable
of being introduced into the system by respiration, and the
possibility of producing for inhalation vaporizable or volatile
preparations of some of our more active and old-established

Imedicines: and have had, during the summer and 'autumn,

ethereal tinctures, etc., of several potent drugs, manufactured

for me, for experiment, by Messrs. Duncan, Flockhart, and Co.,

the excellent chemists and druggists of this city.

   " Latterly, in order to avoid, if possible, some of the incon

veniences and objections pertaining to sulphuric ether (parti
cularly its disagreeable and very persistent smell, its occasional
tendency to irritation of the bronchi during its first inspira
tions, and the large quantity of it occasionally required to be

Iused, more especially in protracted cases of labour), have

tried upon myself and others the inhalation of different other

volatile fluids, with the hope that some one of them might be
found to possess the advantages of ether, without its disadvan

tages. . . .
    " Chloroform was first discovered and described at nearly

the same time by Soubeiran (1831), and Liebig (1832) ; its
composition was first accurately ascertained by the distin
guished French chemist, Dumas, in 1835. . . .

  " It is a dense, limpid, colourless liquid, readily evaporating,

and possessing an agreeable, fragrant, fruit-like odour, and a

saccharine pleasant taste.

    " As an inhaled anaesthetic agent, it possesses over sulphuric

ether the following advantages :--
  " 1. A greatly less quantity of chloroform than of ether is

requisite to produce the anaesthetic effect ; usually from a hun

dred to a hundred and twenty drops of chloroform only being
Isufficient ; and with some patients much less.
                                                 have seen a

strong person rendered completely insensible by six or seven

inspirations of thirty drops of the liquid.
                   CHLOROFORM.  211

" 2. Its action is much more rapid and complete, and generally
Imore persistent.
                   have almost always seen from ten to twenty

full inspirations suffice. Hence the time of the surgeon is

saved ; and that preliminary stage of excitement, which per
tains to all narcotizing agents, being curtailed, or indeed
practically abolished, the patient has not the same degree
of tendency to exhilaration and talking.

    " 3. Most of those who know from previous experience the
sensations produced by ether inhalation, and who have subse
quently breathed the chloroform, have strongly declared the

inhalation and influence of chloroform to be far more agreeable
and pleasant than those of ether.

  I" 4. believe, that considering the small quantity requisite,

as compared with ether, the use of chloroform will be less ex

pensive than that of ether ; more especially, as there is every
prospect that the means of forming it may be simplified and

cheapened.

   " 5. Its perfume is not unpleasant, but the reverse ; and the

odour of it does not remain, for any length of time, obstinately
attached to the clothes of the attendant, -- or exhaling in a dis

agreeable form from the lungs of the patient, as so generally
happens with sulphuric ether.

   " 6. Being required in much less quantity, it is much more

portable and transmissible than sulphuric ether.
   " 7. No special kind of inhaler or instrument is necessary

for its exhibition. A little of the liquid diffused upon the

interior of a hollow-shaped sponge, or a pocket-handkerchief,
or a piece of linen or paper, and held over the mouth and
nostrils, so as to be fully inhaled, generally suffices in about a

minute or two to produce the desired effect." . . .
   After referring in detail to the chemical constitution of

--chloroform, he adds :

   " It is perhaps not unworthy of remark, that when Soubeiran,

Liebig, and Dumas engaged, a few years back, in those inqui

ries and experiments by which the formation and composition
212 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

of chloroform was first discovered, their sole and only object
was the investigation of a point in philosophical chemistry.

They laboured for the pure love and extension of knowledge.

They had no idea that the substance to which they called the

attention of their chemical brethren could or would be turned

to any practical purpose, or that it possessed any physiological
Ior therapeutic effects upon the animal economy.
                                                  mention

this to show, that the cui bono argument against philosophical

investigations, on the ground that there may be at first no

apparent practical benefit to be derived from them, has been
amply refuted in this, as it has been in many other instances.

IFor feel assured, that the use of chloroform will soon entirely

supersede the use of ether ; and, from the facility and rapidity

of its exhibition, it will be employed as an anaesthetic agent in
many cases, and under many circumstances, in which ether

would never have been had recourse to. Here then we have
a substance which, in the first instance, was merely interest

ing as a matter of scientific curiosity and research, becoming

rapidly an object of intense importance, as an agent by which

human suffering and agony may be annulled and abolished,
under some of the most trying circumstances in which human

nature is ever placed.

  I" Since the above observations were sent to the press, have --

through the great kindness of Professor Miller and Dr. Duncan
--had an opportunity of trying the effects of the inhalation of

chloroform, to-day, in three cases of operation in the Eoyal

Infirmary of Edinburgh. A great collection of professional

gentlemen and students witnessed the results, and among the

number was Professor Dumas of Paris, the chemist who first

ascertained and established the chemical composition of chloro
form. He happened to be passing through Edinburgh, engaged
along with Dr. Milne Edwards, who accompanied him, in an

official investigation for the French Government, --and was, in

no small degree, rejoiced to witness the wonderful physiological

effects of a substance with whose chemical history his own

name was so intimately connected.
CHLOROFORM.  213

   I" append notes, obligingly furnished to me by Professor

Miller and Dr. Duncan, of the three cases of operation. The
two first cases were operated on by Professor Miller, the third
by Dr. Duncan. In applying the chloroform in the first case,

I used a pocket-handkerchief as the inhaling instrument ; in
Ithe two last employed a hollow sponge.

    " Case I.-- ' A boy, four or five years old, with necrosis of

one of the bones of the fore-arm. Could speak nothing but
Gaelic. No means, consequently, of explaining to him what

he was required to do. On holding a handkerchief, on which

some chloroform had been sprinkled, to his face, he became
frightened, and wrestled to be away. He was held gently,
however, by Dr. Simpson, and obliged to inhale. After a few
inspirations he ceased to cry or move, and fell into a sound

snoring sleep. A deep incision was now made down to the

diseased bone ; and, by the use of the forceps, nearly the whole
of the radius, in the state of sequestrum, was extracted. Dur

ing this operation, and the subsequent examination of the

wound by the finger, not the slightest evidence of the suffering
of pain was given. He still slept on soundly, and was carried
back to bis ward in that state. Half an hour afterwards, he
was found in bed, like a child newly awakened from a refresh
ing sleep, with a clear merry eye, and placid expression of
countenance, wholly unlike what is found to obtain after ordi

nary etherization. On being questioned by a Gaelic inter
preter who was found among the students, he stated that he
had never felt any pain, and that he felt none now. On being

shown his wounded arm he looked much surprised, but

neither cried nor otherwise expressed the slightest alarm.'

   " Case IL--' A soldier who had an opening in the cheek --

the result of exfoliation of the jaw --was next made to inhale.
At first he showed some signs of moving his hands too freely ;
but soon also fell into a state of sleep and snoring. A free

incision was made across the lower jaw, and from this the

dense adhering integuments were freely dissected all round, so
as to raise the soft parts of the cheek. The edges of the open
214 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

ing were then made raw, and the whole line of incision was

brought together by several points of suture. This patient
had previously undergone two minor operations of a somewhat
similar kind ; both of them had proved unsuccessful, and he

bore them very ill--proving unusually unsteady, and complain

ing bitterly of severe pain. On the present occasion, he did
not wince or moan in the slightest degree ; and, on the return
of consciousness, said that he felt nothing. His first act, when
apparently about half awake, was suddenly to clutch up the
sponge with which the chloroform was used, and re-adjust it
to his mouth, obviously implying that he had found the inha

lation from it anything but a disagreeable duty.
    " ' This case was further interesting as being one of those

operations in the region of the mouth, in which it has been
deemed impossible to use ether, --and certainly it would have

been impossible to have performed the operation with any
complicated inhaling apparatus applied to the mouth of the
patient.' "

    This paper was afterwards published as a pamphlet, with
the title, " Account of a New Anaesthetic Agent, as a Substitute

for Sulphuric Ether, in Surgery and Midwifery." It is in

scribed to " M. I. Dumas, Member of the Institute, Dean of

the Faculty of Sciences, Paris," and bears the motto, from

IBacon, " esteem it the office of a Physician not only to restore

health, but to mitigate pain and dolours." The pamphlet
caused a great sensation. Four thousand copies were sold in

a few days, and many thousands afterwards. It is still asked

for.

     The three objects Dr. Simpson had set before him at the

outset of his medical career --bread, name, and fame --were
now secured. He had accomplished much good work, whose

fruits would continue associated with his name throughout the
ages. He had made a discovery, which, in itself, gave him a
claim to one of the highest places among the great and wise of
all countries and of all times.
                            CHLOROFORM.                                            215

   In a note to the communication to the Medico-Chirurgical

Society reference is made to Mr. Waldie, Liverpool. He wrote
at the time of the publication of the pamphlet to the same :--

   I" My dear Sir, -- send you the first of the enclosed papers
Iwhich have myself sent off. My wife sent two yesterday --
I Ione, think, to Dr. Petrie.
                                      am sure you will be delighted to
Isee part of the good results of our hasty conversation.
                                                                                   think

II will get hold yet of some greater things in the same way.
   " had the chloroform for several days in the house before

Itrying as, after seeing such heavy unvolatile-like liquid,
                 it,
   I
                             it
         it it,                  it

                                               a

                                                                      '

                                                       'I

                                                                                                  a
   despaired of and went on dreaming about others.                                       all
    " The first night we took Dr. Duncan, Dr. Keith, and

tried simultaneously, and were all under the table in

minute or two.              it I
   " write in great haste, as wish to scribble off several letters.
   " Be so good as say what you think may be the ultimate?

selling price of an ounce of          Duncan and Flockhart charge

3s. for the ounce.

   " There has been great demand for the pamphlet yester
day at the booksellers' here. --Yours very truly,it
                      is a                        " Y. Simpson.
   " EdiSbURGn, 14th November 1847.               is is J.

   " P.S. -- By the bye, Imlach tells me Dr. P. to enlighten

your medical society about the 'morality' of the practice. have
                                                            I

                                                                           ?
a  great itching to run up and pound him. When the meeting

   " The true moral question          Is practitioner justified by
                              a i 's,
                                           a
any principles of humanity in not using       itV I  believe every

operation without           just piece of the most deliberate and

cold-blooded cruelty.                                But the word

   " He will be at the primary curse, no doubt.

translated 'sorrow' truly 'labour,' 'toil;' and in the very
                    is

                             it

                                                            '

                                                              it '

                                                                             is
                                                                                a
next verse the very same word means this.                   That does
   " Adam was to eat of the ground with sorrow.'

not mean physical pain, and was cursed to bear thorns and

thistles,' which we pull up without dreaming that                                  sin.
216 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

    " God promises repeatedly to take off the two curses on

women and on the ground, if the Israelites kept their covenant.

See Deut. vii. 13, etc. etc. See also Isaiah xxviii. 23; extir
pation of the ' thorns and thistles ' of the first curse said to
come from God.

   " Besides, Christ in dying ' surely hath borne our griefs and
carried our sorrows,' and removed ' the curse of the law, being
made a curse for us.' His mission was to introduce mercy,
not sacrifice.

  I" Go up and refute him if don't come."

    Communications of great interest soon reached him. Pro
fessor Miller forwarded the following note from Liston, and
later a memorandum of another interesting and difficult case :--

                                  " November 11th, 1847.
" My dear Miller, --The ' chloroform ' is a vast advance
Iupon ether.
              have tried it with perfect success. You must

have an affair to administer it. It is not bigger than the snuff

box you were wont to carry.  Simpson deserves all laudation.
                                                              E. L."
--Thine always,

    Communications of a different sort gave Dr. Simpson great
pleasure, as indicating the cordial way in which his discovery
was welcomed in influential circles. Two of these are given

--one from the Duchess of Argyll, which does the highest

honour to the writer, and indicates truly noble qualities both

of head and heart. The other is from Lord Blantyre :--

                                  " Eoseneatu, November 27.
I"Dear Dr. Simpson, -- cannot resist writing one line to
Iwish you joy of your discovery.
                                  think your life must be a

very happy one from the relief of not witnessing pain, which

it must be as painful to see as to bear. May all blessing and
Isuccess attend you.
                        think you should have warned Mrs.

Simpson before you tried the chloroform ! The Duke joins me

in congratulating you.
           CHLOROFORM.                                                                              217

I" hope my Mull lady is by this time under instruction. --
                                                                                     E. Argyll."
Ever yours, obliged and truly,

                                                  "Erskine, 19th December 1847.

I" My dear Sir,-- should be glad to keep a bottle of chloro

form in the house to give to people in any bad accident, while
Ibeing operated on or removed to the infirmary.
                                                                                     could also

give a bottle to our village Doctor,1 who has to attend bad

accidents in the mills, etc. He is a sensible man, and not

Iyoung. Before doing so wish to know if you would dislike

my doing so ; and you will be right to veto it if you think

there is any risk of bringing the chloroform into disrepute,

before it is well established, by a bad use of it. But it seems
Ifto me little to be feared.
                                                                                     it,
                                                                                                 a
                                 you allow us to use pray desire

Duncan and Flockhart to send me two bottles (perhaps pint

each), with directions for use.  I  have read the pamphlets with

interest.  never could realize any religious objections. The
is
    a

        I
chloroform has been discovered through no occult science
                                             is
                                                                    a

                                                                                ;

                                                                    it
       parallel discovery with vaccination, etc., though still

greater boon, because more universal. It used with thank
fulness, and not in opposition to God. --Yours very sincerely,

                                                                    " Blantyre."

    There are also among his papers great number of letters;
from practitioners many of them, of much value, from dis:

tinguished men of science --              a

             DR. (NOW SIR ROBERT) CHRISTISON TO DR. SIMPSON.                         4
                                                " 40 Moray Place, Saturday, Dec

   " My dear Sir, -- am going to send off letter to Dumas,

giving him summary of the doings in chloroform since he left

    It soon found its way to villages, where its use was guarded with praise

worthy care. When on an antiquarian excursion to K., Dr. Simpson's
youngest son, who accompanied him, had an attack of toothache. Going
into the druggist's shop, kept by a lady, Dr. asked for a little chloroform,
but the gentle dispenser said, " Na, na we dinna sell chloroform to folk that
kens naething aboot it."
1

                 a

                 I

                                                                             ;
                                                                                 S.

                                                                           a
   218 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   Ius. Most of it is written, and hope to finish it to-day, and

   despatch it to-morrow.

      " Am I right in saying that you have yourself used it in

   private or at the Maternity in twenty-nine cases ?
   I" was knocked up early this morning to see
                                                       , assistant-

   surgeon of the  . He was to have dined with us on
   I IThursday. When first saw him yesterday found he had
   ... Ibeen three days ill-- a very interesting case.
                                                           took

   chloroform with me. In fifteen seconds the hiccup, which had

   been incessant for five hours, ceased at once : after a little spasm

   of the arms, and a few ugly mouths, he fell into a soft sleep.
   I. . . Unluckily, however, had not enough to go on with it.
   IDelirious rambling succeeded for an hour, and left him at
   ...half-past six, still talking comically.
                                                   In his delirium he

   asked, ' Who was Anaesthesius 1 What had he to do with it ?
   I know Dumas was concerned with the discovery ; but what
   I Ibusiness had Anaesthesius with it ?'
                                                told him should ask
   Iyou. Poor fellow ! he is terribly ill, and have but faint hopes

   ... Iof his recovery. But there could be no question of the tempo
   rary relief he obtained from the chloroform.        am yours

   most truly,                                     R Christison."

                DR. GEORGE JOHNSTON TO DR. SIMPSON.

   I" My dear Sir, -- write this note to thank you for the kind
   Iattentions received from you on my late visit to Edinburgh.
   I I Ihope to avail myself of the information received.
                                                           have
   Ino words to express the delight still feel in thinking of the

   Iquantity of suffering the poor woman in the hospital was saved
   by your means.  trust she goes on well. Accept of my

   sincere thanks, and believe me, with great respect, yours very

   truly,                                          George Johnston.
      " Berwick-on-Tweed, December 5th, 1847."

                   MR. LAWRENCE TO DR. SIMPSON.

   " Dear       Sib,-- Accept         " Whitehall  Place, Dec. 8th, 1847.
                               my best thanks      for your account of

*
                               CHLOROFORM.    219

a new anaesthetic agent, as well as for former obliging presents

of your valuable contributions to the advancement of medical

science and practice. We had tried chloric ether at St.

Bartholomew's, and found that although it possessed the advan

tage of being unirritating to the respiratory passages, it was not

sufficiently powerful. Mixed with sulphuric ether in equal

quantities, it answered very well. As soon as we heard of the

Ichloroform, which suppose to be the active part of chloric

ether, we immediately made trial of it.

   "The result of our experience is that it is preferable to

sulphuric ether, although there is no considerable difference of

effect. It does not irritate the bronchial membrane ; it acts

rather more quickly, and the effect is more lasting than that of

the sulphuric ether. Struggling to a greater or less extent, but

... Inot to an inconvenient degree, has been observed in a proportion
of the cases.          remain, my dear Sir, yours very faithfully,

                                              " Wm. Lawrence."

The news of the discovery was received in Paris with the

greatest interest. Its merits were freely canvassed in the

French schools of medicine, enterprising surgeons hastened to

           and the conductors of the medical journals devoted
employ     it,
                          it,
leading articles to in some instances claiming for M. Flourens

and France the honour of the discovery.
   " Lorsque L' Union Midicale" dit docteur G. Eichelot, gérant,

" dans les premiers jours du mois de Janvier dernier, signalait
    premiere l'attention du corps médical de France les re-
la
                 la

                    a
marquables effest des inhalations éthe^es, qui pouvait preVoir

qu'avant             fin de l'année, Tether,  peine en possession de
                                 a
                                           a
l'heureux privilege d'enlever       la chirurgie ses affreuses et

inutiles tortures, se verrait détr6ne' peut-§tre par une sub

stance encore plus bienfaisante  ?  Une découverte produit sur

l'intelligence humaine l'effet du choc de l'acier sur silex
                                              le

                                                                 :

de nouvelles decouvertes lui succedent avec la rapidite* de

l'éclair.
220 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

    " M. le professeur Simpson, d'Edimbourg, dont nous avons
déjà souvent enregistré les intéressants travaux, après des essais
nombreux, poursuivis avec autant de zèle que de succès, vient
de mettre en évidence un fait d'une grande importance, mais
déjà constaté en France par M. Flourens, c'est la propriété
anesthésique du perchlorure de formyle ou chloroforme. . . .
Avant de publier sa découverte, M. Simpson a observé avec
soin les effets du nouvel agent anesthésique dans des cas
nombreux et variés : avulsions des dents, ouvertures d'abcès,

traitement de l'hydropisie enkystée de l'ovaire par la galvano-

puncture, accouchemens, opérations chirurgicales plus ou moins

graves ; il l'a même administré avec succès dans des cas de

névralgie et pour faire cesser les souffrances de la dysménorrhée.
Par le hasard le plus heureux, M. le professeur Dumas se
trouvait à Edimbourg à l'époque où ont été pratiquées les pre
mières opérations chirurgicales dans lesquelles on ait eu recours
publiquement aux inspirations de chloroforme. Ces faits en
acquièrent un plus grand degré d'authenticité ; et, comme le
dit M. Simpson, M. le professeur Dumas n'a pu voir sans un

vif intérêt les merveilleux effets d'une substance à l'histoire

chimique de laquelle son nom se trouve si intimement attaché.
Ces opérations ont été pratiquées dans l'infirmerie royale

d'Edimbourg."
   The objections to the use of chloroform in some of these

communications soon assumed a formidable attitude, and had
to be dealt with. Both in this country and in America,
earnest attempts were made to rob him of the honour and merit

of the discovery. He was thus put on his defence. In his

papers on Ether he had shown a determination to compel the
acknowledgment of the soundness of his views, and a sturdy
resolution to give adversaries no quarter. These qualities

were even more apparent in his advocacy of chloroform. A

paper in opposition, by Dr. P., surgeon, Liverpool, has been re

ferred to. It was read to the Liverpool Medical Society in
November 1847. He regarded the question as " A Branch of
CHLOROFORM.                                     221

Medical Ethics," and argued against the use of Anaesthetics on
Ithe moral ground alone.
                          notice this paper chiefly, because it

gave definite expression to views floating hazily in a not unin-
fluential class of medical minds,--a class whose influence over

patients Dr. Simpson most dreaded. Though not named in

after discussions, it was evidently the cause of many of

"Ihis statements. Dr. P. said, -- became increasingly aware
Ithat must trench upon what might really appear to be ex

clusively the province of the divine ; but in which, neverthe

less, in our professional standing, and in the standing of

baptized men as opposed to heathens, we must assuredly have

our place, and that a most important one. . . .

  I I" When was in Edinburgh during the last month, had

several conversations with Professor Simpson, and found that

he advocated most strongly its use, not as the exception, but as

the rule. . . .

  I" contend that we violate the boundaries of a most noble

profession when, in our capacity as medical men, we urge or

seduce our fellow-creatures, for the sake of avoiding pain alone

-- pain unconnected with danger, --to pass into a state of

Iexistence the secrets of which we know so little at present.

say secrets, because from the dark chambers of that existence

we have as yet had presented to us but fitful and indistinct

gleamings, and these so little to encourage the gaze of a thought
Iful and modest eye, that should be sorry indeed to expose
Iany human being unnecessarily-- much less one whom
Iesteemed or loved--to influences whose nature
                                                more than

suspect.

    " What right have we, even as men, to say to our brother-
man, ' Sacrifice thy manhood, -- let go thy hold upon that noble
capacity of thought and reason with which thy God hath

endowed thee, and become a trembling coward before the

presence of mere bodily pain'?

   "What right still less have we, as baptized men --men
having a Eedeemer, and gifted with the Holy Spirit to be our

                                                                   /''
222 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Comforter, -- what right have we, ungratefully or unbelievingly,

to forget all this, and be willing to go under the deep stupor of

a power the influences of which, and connected with which, we
I Iknow so exceedingly little ?
must confess that view with

sincere pain, and no little instinctive shrinking of my spiritual
being, this exhibition of our nature, --this willingness to let our
existence drive whithersoever it listeth, at the humour of any

Iexperimenter on her track. . . .                 was struck

   " In connexion with this part of the subject,

with a remark in Professor Simpson's last pamphlet, where it

is said ' that patients themselves will force this remedy upon

Ius.' Now, ask, is not this a mark of disorder ? Are they to

be suffered for a moment to decide upon such a subject ? and

are we to be influenced to give up our judgment and place
Ibecause they may forsake theirs ?
                                    make these remarks in no

Iungracious feeling towards Professor Simpson ; on the contrary,
   admire his professional talents greatly, and am much indebted
Ito him for his kindness to me when in Edinburgh.
                                                   think,
Imoreover, considering the fascinating nature of the remedy
have been speaking of--rendered still more acceptable and

pleasant to the taker of it by the recent discovery of chloro
form by him,--and bearing in mind also that we grasp readily

Iin our terror of pain at almost any measure of relief, think
Ithe Doctor may prove too true a prophet, and fear much that

in the end many patients will take the law into their own

hands secretly or more openly. . . .

  I" have said nothing upon the natural or physical merits of
Ithis preparation ; that has yet to be determined by time ; but

cannot help suggesting to those who recommend it so indis

criminately, how they would feel in the event of death being

clearly traced to its use in an ordinary labour, or during or

after some surgical operation, when it was employed merely to
Ifrelieve pain, and when there was no dangerous disease.
                                                          one

death took place out of every 500, and that one was caused by
the remedy, would it not be something to meditate upon ?
                    CHLOROFORM.                                   223

Besides, we have as yet had no time to watch other conse
Iquences; but one, fear, in particular, will become more
I I I Icommon, -- mean insanity.
                    wish may be mistaken, but

greatly fear it."

   Neither the logic of the paper nor the texts of Scripture
brought to bear on " this branch of medical ethics," were likely

to impress thoughtful practitioners, but the views were stated

in a way calculated to influence certain patients to refuse the

boon now put within their reach. This Dr. Simpson determined

should not be. Like a skilful general, he first carefully surveyed

the positions taken up by all sorts of opponents, and then gave
himself heartily to the task of, as he said, " shelling them out,"

in the interests of medical science and of Christian philan

thropy. He found the task even more difficult than he had

anticipated. There were secret foes as well as open adversaries

to be met This forced him into tactics he would fain have

avoided. But how was he to get his case a fair hearing in

his
                                                      " Appeal

                To those who, weakly reasoning, strongly feel "!

He could not expect his opponents to enlighten their patients.

But he was convinced the majority of patients would welcome

the blessing, so soon as they had the merits of the controversy
fully and fairly before them. There were men ever ready " to
hint a doubt and hesitate dislike," " to shoot out the lip and

shake the head," so long as patients could not study the matter

for themselves. It was not to his taste to enter into profes

sional details in public discussions. But, in the case on hand,
he took patients into his counsel, wrote his papers in a style

and in terms plain to the uninitiated, and appealed to facts

in every way fitted to move their sympathies and to carry
                    It was afterwards urged as a complaint
their convictions.

against him, that he " told the public what the profession alone

should have known." "Of Dr. Collins's objections about your

writings being too popular," wrote Dr. Montgomery, of Dublin,
224 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

I"1 really know nothing. . . . But one thing                              certainly

know as a fact, that the pamphlets on anaesthesia or chloro

form have been most industriously circulated through every

Iclass in this city (at whose suggestion, or whether at any one's

suggestion, know nothing), in which pamphlets many things

are submitted to the perusal of the public which in my judg

ment were better withheld." But if there was blame here, at

whose door did it lie ?

  Dr. Simpson saw from the outset, that if the use of chloroform

                     it                                                   fell
                                          it,
                                           it
was to bring to man all the blessing he associated with

to him to free from suspicion, and set above controversy.
a
To this he now gave himself, with all that singleness of heart,
       it
concentration of mind, and wonderful energy that leaped into

action whenever the interests of humanity were at stake. No

sacrifice of ease was grudged no stone was left unturned. His
                  ;

skill as scientific physician, his extensive reading in the

literature of his own and other departments of medicine, his

mastery of true methods of historical criticism, his wide, yet

accurate, attainments as an archaeologist, his confidence in the
value of statistics and his expertness in their use --these were

all brought to bear on the views he wished to establish. He

had to make good his own claim to the merit of the discovery,

to turn aside the opposition of practitioners wedded to old ways

of treatment, to deal with the alleged scriptural objections to

its employment, to insist on its universal use in the interest of

sufferers, and to be able, as the crowning part of great argu
                  a

                     it

                        a
                                                                       a
ment, to point to results in support of his statements. And so

he set his face like flint against all objectors. He resolved to

win, and he won.

   In establishing his claims, he traced the history of anaesthetics.

" Sulphuric ether was first practically adopted for this purpose

in 1846 by Dr. Morton, dentist at Boston, in America. Subse

quently Dr. Charles T. Jackson of that city claimed the merit

of having suggested to Dr. Morton as an agent capable of

producing insensibility to pain. But the power of producing
CHLOROFORM.  225

by the vapour of sulphuric ether, an insensibility exactly like
that produced by the inhalation of nitrous oxide gas, had been

long previously known. The fact had been already often pub
lished by several American authorities, as by Godwin (1822),
Mitchell (1832), Professor Samuel Jackson (1833), Wood and
Bache (1834). Eichard Pearson was the first to suggest the
inhalation of sulphuric ether in medicine in 1795 ; and he then
described its employment in some cases of phthisis, asthma,
hooping-cough, etc. The sedative effects of its inhalation in
these affections have been noticed by almost every author who

has written at any length on the Materia Medica during the

first half of the present century. In 1816, Mysten proposed

and described a special instrument for the inhalation of sul
phuric ether. The idea, however, of securing by some artificial
means the human body from the pains and tortures inflicted by
the knife of the surgeon, is by no means a thought either first
broached or first acted upon in recent times. For the produc
tion of anaesthesia a variety of measures had been suggested,

and some used, long before sulphuric ether and chloroform were

applied to this purpose. In 1828, Dr. Hickman appears to have

proposed the inhalation of diluted carbonic acid gas as an agent
capable of inducing insensibility in surgical operations ; and the
anaesthetic properties of carbonic acid have been long known
and often witnessed in the experiments constantly performed
before travellers on the dogs which are made to breathe this

gas in the Grotto del Cane near Naples. In 1800 Sir Humphry

Davy threw out a hint as to the possibility of applying nitrous

oxide as an anaesthetic. In 1784 Dr. Moore attempted to pro
duce local anaesthesia in limbs requiring amputation or other

operations, by previously compressing and obtunding the nerves

of the implicated extremity --an idea, however, which was
suggested long before Moore's time by Ambrose Pare\ In the

sixteenth and seventeenth centuries various authorities, as

Valverdi, Hoffmann, etc., suggested the possibility of producing

temporary anaesthesia during surgical operations, by a plan

                                                             p
226 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

sometimes successfully adopted by modern robbers, viz., by
such an amount of ' garrotting,' or compression of the vessels

of the neck as would produce the requisite amount of stupor and

coma. Some surgeons also proposed to induce before operating
a state of fainting, and consequently of insensibility, by a

previous profuse blood-letting, etc The administration of a

large opiate has been also repeatedly suggested and tried by

various authorities ; but the amount of dose required to produce

true anaesthesia and insensibility to the pain of a surgical

operation was found to be far too large to be free from im

minent danger to the life of the patient
    " But at a still earlier date different medicinal agents seem to

have been suggested, and practically employed too, for the pur

pose of producing a state of anaesthesia during surgical operations.
These agents were sometimes used in the form of odours or
vapours, or by inhalation ; and sometimes they were administered

by the stomach. Two different drugs appear to have been more
particularly used at different epochs with the view of inducing

insensibility to the agony and torture otherwise following the
surgeon's knife, viz. preparations (1.) of Indian hemp (Cannabis
sativa, var. Indica) ; and (2.) of Mandragora (Atropa mandra

gora).

    " The anodyne, ecstatic, and anaesthetic effects of Indian hemp,

            . it

                  is a
                                                               ' it,
                                                                                   is
and of the various preparations made from as bang, hachish,
etc., have been long known in Africa and Asia. . . . Some
high Biblical commentaries maintain that the gall and vinegar
or myrrhed wine offered to our Saviour immediately before His
crucifixion was preparation, in all probability, of hemp, which
was in these, as well as in later times, occasionally given to

criminals before punishment or execution; while 700 years

previously  possibly spoken of, according to the same

authorities, by the prophet Amos as the wine of the con

demned.' . .                                                                           now

  "The other plant mentioned--the Mandragora --

vanished from the materia medica, but its therapeutic virtues
CHLOROFORM.  227

certainly seem to call for some renewed investigation. Most
of the old Greek and Eoman physicians and writers, such as
Galen, Aretaeus, Celsus, etc., ascribe to it strong soporific
powers; and several of them, but especially Dioscorides, Pliny,

and Apuleius, describe its decoction or tincture as endowed
with such anaesthetic powers that those drinking a proper dose

of it are insensible to the pains of the surgeon's knife and

cautery. ' It is given,' writes Dioscorides eighteen centuries

ago, ' to cause insensibility (jiroietv avaiadrja-iav) in those who

are to be cut or cauterized, for being thrown into a deep sleep

they do not perceive pain.' The observations of Pliny, Apu
leius, etc., are to the same effect. In the twelfth and thir

teenth centuries Hugo of Lucca used, and his pupil Theodoric
(who died in 1298) has described, a somniferous ball or sponge,
' Spongio somnifera,' the vapours raised from which were

capable, when inhaled, of setting patients into an anaesthetic
sleep during surgical operations. This somniferous ball was,
in the first instance, made by filling and imbibing a sponge

with dried extracts of mandragora, opium, and other sedatives;

and when required for use the sponge was dipped for a time
in hot water, and the patient made to breathe the vapour thus

raised from it till an anaesthetic sleep was produced. A

modern French surgeon, M. Dauriol, states that he has success

fully induced a state of anaesthesia in various surgical patients

by the means described 600 years ago by Theodoric. Why the
mandragora fell into disuse as an anaesthetic agent in surgery
does not appear in any professional records. . . .

    " The older authors do not always give explicit accounts of the

substances and preparations which they recommend for use as

anaesthetic agents. Occasionally they affect an air of secrecy
and mystery with regard to their composition and character.
Thus, in the eighth book of his Natural Magic (1608), Baptista
Porta gives various recipes for medicines which produce
sleep, insanity, etc. Amongst others he describes a ' sleeping

apple' (pomum somnificum), made with mandragora, opium,
228 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

etc., and the smelling of which binds, he avers, the eyes with

a deep sleep. Subsequently he states that there can be ex
tracted from soporific plants ' a quintessence which must be

kept in leaden vessels, very closely stopped, that it may not
have the least vent, lest it fly out. When,' he continues, ' you

a
            a

                 it,
                                     a

                                   it,

                                                                ;

                                                  a

                                                 it

                                                                    a
would use uncover and hold to sleeping man's nostrils,

whose breath will suck up this subtle essence, which will so be
siege the castle of his senses that he will be overwhelmed with

    most profound sleep, not to be shook off without much

labour. After sleep no heaviness will remain in his head, nor

any suspicion of art. These things,' Porta adds, 'are mani

fest to wise physician to wicked one obscure.' Meissner

relates, with considerable detail, that towards the close of the

seventeenth century, secret remedy was exhibited by Weiss

to Augustus II. of Poland, while his Majesty was asleep, and

during the state of anaesthesia thus induced the King's diseased

foot was amputated. The operation was done without the

royal patient's consent, and its performance was not discovered

by him till the following morning.
    " The former general belief in the idea that degree of anaes
                                                                           is
thetic and prolonged sleep could be induced artificially by                      is a

certain medicated potions and preparations,1                                           shown by the

frequency with which the circumstance                                      alluded to by our

older poets and story-tellers, and made part of the machinery

in the popular romance and drama. In the history of Taliesin

(one of the antique Welsh tales, contained in the Mabinogion),
Ehun described as having set the maid of the wife of Elphin
   a
     is
into deep sleep with powder put into her drink, and as
                                         a

                                                    a
                                                                      :
                                                                                              ;

                                                                                              is
    Jocelyn, in his Life of St. Kentigern or St Mnngo of Glasgow, -- a bio1
graphy written about the year 1180, -- speaks of Theneu, the saint's mother,

having probably had given to her lethargic or anaesthetic potion at the

time of her  pinroftehseseodrliyginuanlknmowonnkisimh prLeagtninatio--n."    The passage          remarkable.
   quote                                                                   Constat nobis        sumpto potu
I

             it

                                      :
oblivionis quam phisici letaragion vocant, obdormisse et in membris inci-

sionem, et aliquociens adustionem, et in vitalibus abrasionem perpersos,

minime sensisse et post somni excursionem, qua) erga sese aditata fuerant
ignorasse." -- (Vita Antiques Sanctorum Scotia, p. 200.)
       CHLOROFORM.                           229

having then cut off one of her fingers when she was in this

state of artificial anaesthesia.
    " Shakespeare, besides alluding more than once to the sopo

rific property of mandragora, describes with graphic power in
Eomeo and Juliet, and in Cymbeline, the imagined effects of

subtle distilled potions, supposed capable of inducing, without
danger, a prolonged state of death-like sleep or lethargy. And
Middleton, in his tragedy of ' Women, beware Women,' pub
lished in 1657, pointedly and directly alludes, in the following

lines, to the practice of anaesthesia in ancient surgery :--

             I' 'II imitate the pities of old surgeons

                  To this lost limb --who, ere they show their art,

                       Cast one asleep, then cut the deseased part. '

Indeed, the whole past history of anaesthetics is interesting, as

a remarkable illustration of the acknowledged fact, that science

has sometimes for a long season altogether lost sight of great

practical thoughts, from being unprovided with proper means

and instruments for carrying out these thoughts into practical
execution ; and hence it ever and anon occurs, that a supposed

modern discovery is only the re-discovery of a principle already

sufficiently known to other ages, or to other remote nations of

men."

Dr. Glover of Newcastle was the first to lay claim to priority

in the use of chloroform as an anaesthetic.  But his claim was
very quickly disposed of :--

            I " Edinburgh, 52 Queen Street, 3d December 1847.

" Dear Sir, -- have been very busy during the last couple of

weeks, and very unwell to boot, with the prevailing influenza ;

Iotherwise you might have heard from me sooner. Besides,
Iwas anxious you should have time to calm down before

wrote you.

  I"In your note of November 14, you observe (and quote
Iyour own words, italicized in your own manner) -- ' have just

read your pamphlet on Chloroform, and could hardly believe

Imy eyes, when found that you had not taken the least notice
230 SIB, JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

of my laborious researches on the chloride, bromide, and iodide

of defiant gas, on chloroform, bromoform, and iodoform (pub

lished five years ago), in what purported to be a history of all

that was known with regard to the physiological properties of
Ithose bodies.
                observed this power of producing narcotism,

and in one experiment, even the insensibility of the animal to

pain (experiment 64th), and called attention to the remarkable

properties of these bodies generally.'
I" In answer to these observations,
                                        have the two following

remarks to make :--                                     having

  I" 1. was most innocently ignorant of your ever       I have

written one word on chloroform, or aught allied to it.

no pretensions whatever, it is true, to be deeply learned in

Ithe literature of Materia Medica or Toxicology, but find on

talking over your letter with some professed therapeutists and

chemists here, that they were just as ignorant of your paper as
I Iwas.
         am not aware of your remarks being mentioned in

any one work on Chemistry, Materia Medica, or Toxicology.
I IIf" But 2.
                had known your paper, am not at all sure
Ithat would have quoted it in such a pamphlet as that which
I Iyou allude to. For in it do not profess to give the whole
therapeutic and toxicological history of chloroform.    was

engaged with its anaesthetic properties, as produced hy inhala

tion. . . .

  I" suppose you build your alleged claim of having discovered

the anaesthetic properties of chloroform on the sentence, --' No

motion could be excited by pricking or pinching the limbs.'

But assuredly you do not make one single observation to show

whether their want of motion was the result of the paralysis of

motion, or of the paralysis of sensation. In your concluding

summary and remarks you do not even allude to this want of

Imotion or sensation as having been observed. And dare

say you did not, for the simple reason that you were perfectly
aware, that narcotic and narcotico-acrid poisons in fatal doses

would before death produce the same results.
                    CHLOROFOBM.                              231

" Altogether, you poisoned and half-poisoned several animals

by injecting chloroform into their blood-vessels, stomach, and

peritoneum, but surely this has nothing to do with the anaes

thetic effects of chloroform as inhaled by the lungs. . . .
I" If you look again at my pamphlet you will find that
Ithere stated that
                    had tried the chloride of defiant gas
I(Dutch liquid). For my pains only got a headache, and a

feeling of constriction at the throat, which was troublesome
Ieven next day at lecture.
                            experimented both on an old

specimen of Dutch liquid which belonged to Dr. Hope, and a
new one made for the purpose and given me by Messrs. Dun

can and Flockhart.
I" On the first occasion on which
                                          detected the anaesthetic
Ieffects of chloroform, the scene was an odd one.
                                                   had had

the chloroform beside me for several days, but it seemed so
unlikely a liquid to produce results of any kind, that it was

laid aside, and on searching for another object among some

loose paper, after coming home very late one night, my hand
chanced to fall upon and poured some of the fluid into
tumblers before my assistants, Dr. Keith and Dr. Duncan, and
                    '

                      it,I
                            I

                                                                  '
                                                                      a

                                                         J.

                                                                                         S.
myself. Before sitting down to supper, we all inhaled the
fluid, and were all under the mahogany in trice, to my
wife's consternation and alarm. In pursuing the inquiry thus

rashly, perhaps, begun, became every day more and more

convinced of the superior anaesthetic effects of chloroform, as
compared with ether. --Yours faithfully,
                                                   Y.

" For Dr. Glover."

   The claim to priority urged by Dr. Morton, of Boston, United
States, was put more definitely, and continued more persistently.

Nor was so easily met. It became so intimately associated

with the controversy between Dr. Morton, and his countryman,
Dr. Charles T. Jackson, concerning the first use of sulphuric
ether as an anaesthetic, that considerable difficulty was ex
perienced in extricating from all side issues, and placing
it
                      it
                                                                     it
232 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON,

by itself in the front. When the news reached America that
Dr. Simpson had successfully employed chloroform, Dr. Jack
son wrote : --

                                                            " Boston, Dec. 30, 1847.

I" Dear Sir, -- thank you cordially for your pamphlet on

Ithe use of chloroform as a substitute for sulphuric ether, and

for the kind note written in it to me. rejoice with you in

this addition to our knowledge of anaesthetic agents, and shall

feel proud of having so distinguished a name as yours associated

with mine in this grand work of alleviating human suffering.

  I" In my first trials of your method, thought you had used
Ithe same article had experimented with, viz., chloric ether,
Iwhich prepared by distillings off proof spirit, from a solution
Iand mixture of chloride of lime (hyperchlorite of lime), but

soon discovered that your fluid contains the radical of that

ether, or rather the pure perchloride of Formyle, while mine

                   it,
                       it,

                              it

                                              I
                                                     Ia
was an alcoholic solution of and therefore did not serve as

substitute for sulphuric ether.
   " have prepared your article, and am now fully convinced,
is

  I

                a
by experimental trials, that your substitute for sulphuric ether

    really new thing, and deserving of very great credit.
am really delighted with and have done all in my power to

introduce it. My laboratory has been crowded with surgeons
and dentists, who are in search of your chloroform, and have

...laboured hard to prepare and give  forth to the most eminent

men.
" do not know how well you are informed as to the history
I
   IIof the discovery of etherization, but presume you are aware

that made the discovery that insensibility to pain was

effected by the inhalation of sulphuric ether vapour, and that

communicated my discovery to an ignorant dentist of the

name of Morton, who, instead of being humbly thankful for

this valuable information, endeavoured to appropriate the dis

covery, and by associating himself with  patent solicitor,
                                         a
                                                                       a
forced me to save even half of my discovery by joining in
         CHLOROFORM.                               233

I Ipatent which most fully abhor, and which broke loose from

as soon as possible, and declared myself the sole inventor and
Idiscoverer, and declared that would not sustain an abomin
Iable and false patent.
                         appealed to the French Academy of

Sciences, and had the whole case laid before that learned body,

Iand understand that the committee are unanimous in favour of

my claims as the sole discoverer. All that Morton did was to act

Ias a mechanical agent in my hands, in the first application of
the ether in extraction of a tooth.      had previously ascertained

that insensibility to pain was produced by inhalation of the

Iether vapour, and took all the responsibility in its application.
  I" detest patents in medicine, surgery, or in scientific dis

coveries, and have never received a cent from sales of patent

Ilicenses. On the contrary, have been put to heavy expenses

for advice, in defending myself from the insolent assumptions
Iof Morton and his copartners in the ether trade.
                                                   hear that

you sent a letter to that Morton, and he makes a great parade

I I it,of and pretends that he has tried your substitute with suc

cess, but no one who knows about         believes him. He used
                         I

                                  it
sponges which he had saturated previously with sulphuric

ether, and he has not, so far as know, yet seen the chloroform

in its pure state.

   " hope you will in no way countenance the absurd and

piratical claims of Morton, who always filling the papersis
with his absurd advertisements. --Yours respectfully,

                                                    " Ch. T. Jackson, M.D."

   As wish to limit the references to the discovery of chloroI

form chiefly to this chapter, interrupt the course of this
narrative, in order to notice the last earnest attempt made to
rob Dr. Simpson of the honour. This occurred when he was
extremely ill. But with his wonted energy, power of intellec
tual concentration, and ready mastery of facts, he grappled in
argument with his opponent, and anew put his own claims to
the honour of the great discovery on basis not likely ever to
                                         a
234 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

be disturbed. The first letter is entitled -- " Historical Letter

on the Introduction of Anaesthetics in Dentistry and Surgery
in America, and on their first employment in Midwifery in

Great Britain." It was published in the Medical Times and

Gazette, January 22, 1870. The following extracts indicate the
scope of this communication : --

   " In the last number of the Medical Times and Gazette there

is copied the chief portion of a letter published at Boston by

Dr. Bigelow, senior, and referring to the history of anaesthetics

Iin America and in this country. Early in this year for

warded the following communication to Dr. Bigelow in reply :--

--" ' Dear Sir,                        " ' Edinburgh, January 3, 1870.
                 There has been sent to me from America a

Chicago newspaper, containing a letter of yours which is

alleged to have been published in a late number of the Boston
Medical and Surgical Journal. In this letter you speak of the

bestowal upon me, some months ago, by my fellow-townsmen,

of the rank of an honorary burgess of Edinburgh ; and you

comment, in terms of bitterness, upon the subject, and upon
I Iwhat
Ision.
said -- or rather upon what did not say --on that occa
  feel assured that if you or any one else had felt as
Inervous and timid as did on rising to address the public

meeting which witnessed the presentation, you would not be

Iastonished at anything did allude to, or did not allude to ;

Ior that failed in adverting to numerous matters to which

I might and ought to have adverted.

  " ' The gravamen of your charge is this :--In his extempore

address to me on the occasion in question, the Lord Provost
thought fit to allude to some of my professional investigations,

and specially to those bearing on Anaesthetics, Acupressure, and

Hospitalism. He spoke of the application of chloroform to the
assuagement of human suffering as among the ' greatest medi
cal discoveries of modern times.' In replying on the spur of

Ithe moment to this, among other remarks, stated simply in a

sentence the amount to which chloroform was now used for
CHLOROFORM.                                   235

anaesthetic purposes, by adverting to the great extent to which

Iit was manufactured by one single firm at the present day.

might, if there had been time, have added evidence of the ex

tent to which it has superseded all previous anaesthetics, by

stating the amount of its manufacture by other firms here and

Ielsewhere. But had many other subjects to advert to besides
Ichloroform, and only a few short minutes within which was

expected to include them alL According, however, to your

Iviews, am very deeply blameable for not taking up a subject
which the Lord Provost did not allude to--viz. the history of
Ianaesthesia. You hold that should have entered, to a greater

or less extent, into some historical notice of anaesthetic agents.

The history of them has always taken me a full hour in my
IUniversity lectures ; and in these lectures
                                              have year after

year paid heartily every due compliment to the most impor

tant part borne in the consummation of the practical applica

tion of anaesthetics by America, particularly by the cities of

Hartford and Boston, and specially by the energy and genius

of Dr. Morton. . . .

   " ' In the way of a climax, you terminate one of the para

Igraphs in your letter with the statement that was not the

" first man " to inhale a vapour to such an extent as to destroy

I Isensibility. Most certainly was not ; and certainly never

was foolish enough to claim to be so. In the course of my in

Ivestigations have, however, experimented upon myself with

various vapours, the innocuous or the poisonous effects of

which upon the body were previously altogether unknown and

Iunascertained ; and have sometimes suffered in consequence.

As a Professor of Therapeutics, you must surely be well aware

that the first experiment of breathing a vapour to such an ex

tent as to destroy sensibility was made neither in America nor

in our own days. Without adverting to the acknowledged
fact that it was accomplished with the vapours driven off from

hypnotic vegetable extracts by the older surgeons, from Hugo

de Lucca and Theodoric downwards, let me remind you that
236 SIE JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Sir Humphry Davy boldly --and notwithstanding he had
witnessed occasional deaths in animals from it-- made the ex

periment to which you advert many times upon himself in the
last year of the last century with nitrous oxide, and further
found that headache and other pains disappeared under its

influence.

   " ' About forty years ago, Faraday in this country, and God-
man in America, showed, as the result of their observation and
experience, that the effects of the inhalation of the vapour of
sulphuric ether were quite similar on the nervous system to
those produced by the inhalation of the vapour of nitrous oxide

gas-- a truth subsequently proved by many pupils in many

chemical and other schools in your country, as well as in mine,

Iby their inhalation of ether. Your remarks, as far as under

stand them, imply that it is your belief that Dr. Morton was
the " first man " of " sufficient courage " to breathe " a vapour "
so as to produce a state of anaesthesia. But you must know as

Iwell as do, from the official documents laid before the Senate

of the United States, that this is doubtful even as regards the
course of matters in America ; for it appears in these docu
ments (1st) that Dr. Jackson avers that he breathed with this
effect sulphuric ether earlier than Dr. Morton ; (2dly) that be
fore Dr. Morton made the ultimate experiment upon himself

in 1846, he made it first upon others, and particularly upon his
pupil Mr. Spears ; and (3dly) that two years previously (or in
1844), Dr. Marcy, of Hartford in Connecticut, had successfully

excised a tumour from a man who had been rendered anaes

thetic for the purpose by the vapour of sulphuric ether; whilst
at that same early date, in the same city, Dr. Horace Wells
had extracted teeth from a dozen or more patients rendered
insensible by inhaling nitrous oxide gas according to Davy's
 suggestion.' "

    The second letter bears date " April, 1870 :"--

   I" My dear Sir, -- A few months ago saw in an American
                       CHLOROFORM.                   237

general newspaper the gratuitous attack upon me which you

had published in the Boston Medical Journal, but of which
you had forgotten to send me either an intimation or a copy--

doubtless from accident and not from intentional discourtesy.

ITowards the beginning of the present year, sent, in reply to

your groundless accusation, an answer in the form of a letter

Ito yourself ; and subsequently received from you a written

note in which you stated you were ' not disposed to pursue the
Isubject further.' In consequence
                                   dismissed the matter en
Itirely from my mind ; and deeply regret, both for your own

sake and for the peace and character of our honourable pro

Ifession, that you have not adhered to your resolution. For

have just received a slip of printed statement, unaccompanied

by one word of writing, but drawn up in the form of another

letter from you to me, in which you continue the subject in

terms perhaps still more bitter and personal than before. On

1.

               it,
first perusing my impression was that was too querulous
                       I of
in tone and temper to deserve an answer. . . .I

                               it
                                          of
" Tendency to confusion from the discovery chloroform
             rapidly following that sulphuric ether.

" From some communications which have lately received

from America find that your observations have stirred up
I

there, in some minds, the idea that have held up the intro
duction of chloroform as an anaesthetic in Edinburgh to be

antecedent, in point of time, to the introduction of sulphuric

ether in Boston.       feel sure that you and will mutually
                    I               I

agree that never anything so wild or extravagant was hinted

or suggested by either of us. The first case of an anaesthetic

operation under sulphuric ether occurred at Boston on the 30th
September 1846. The first case of an anaesthetic operation
under chloroform occurred at Edinburgh on the loth Novem

ber 1847. During the intervening thirteen months had
worked much with sulphuric ether in midwifery, etc. and
                                                it

                                                 ;I
some of our surgeons, here and elsewhere, had used more or
238 Sift JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

less extensively ; but it was not by any means adopted by
alL At the same time, you must allow me to remark that the
ideas on the subject in your own mind, which have excited
you to write, have, it appears to me, become chiefly bewildered
and confused in consequence of one thing -- namely, of the
rapidity with which chloroform thus followed as an anaesthetic
after the discovery of sulphuric ether ; and in consequence also

of the relative practical adaptability and superiority of the
former in many respects, leading speedily to its general sub
stitution in Europe, Asia, Australia, etc., for the latter.

     " 2. Earliest anccsthetic operations in America, and their
                   connexion with Hartford and Boston.

    "From ancient times anaesthesia in surgery has been at
tempted by various agents or anaesthetics ; but till latterly
with very uncertain or equivocal effects. At the present time
three kinds of anaesthetics are principally and specially used
in practice, viz. :--

  I" 1. Nitrous oxide gas, now, believe, employed extensively

           in dental surgery, etc., since it was re-introduced a few

             years ago by Dr. Evans of Paris ; but originally sug
            gested by Sir Humphry Davy in 1800, and practically
           and successfully employed by Dr. Horace Wells in
           Hartford in 1844.
   " 2. Sulphuric ether, first used by Dr. Morton, at Boston, in

               1846.

   " 3. Chloroform, first employed in Edinburgh in 1847.
    " There have been latterly used, also, from time to time,

Ivarious minor anaesthetic agents, but none of them, believe,

to any great practical extent; though in all likelihood, some will

yet be discovered of types superior to any we as yet know.

IIn my former letter to you, and on different other occasions,

have, with other writers, shown that the ancient surgeons --
Mediaeval, Roman, and Greek --were long employed in the
search after surgical anaesthetics, and so far succeeded, by mak
                      CHLOROFORM.  239

ing their patients inhale the fumes of narcotic vegetable ex

tracts, drink solutions of them, etc. etc. Apparently afraid

that the history and uses of these olden surgical anaesthetics

would detract from the merit of the Medical School of Boston

in the discovery of the anaesthetic properties of sulphuric ether,
you bitterly denounce in your letter to me the study and con

sideration of them. Eest assured that no wishes or declama

tions, either on your part or mine, will wash out or obliterate

Ithat or any other points of the past history of surgery. ' did

not desire,' you exclaim, ' to provoke this mediaeval history.'

But was not your sole cause of complaint against me this --that

in speaking to the Town Council of Edinburgh one or two

Isentences regarding chloroform, omitted-- most erroneously

in your opinion -- to refer to, or speak of, the past history of

anaesthetics, say for a quarter or half a century backward ?

' Your prolix mediaeval history,' you again querulously com

plain, ' is simply irrelevant, and its application illogical.' It is

Iin no degree illogical ; but believe that it would have been

quite irrelevant if brought before the Town Council of my

native city. My letter to you, as you further again bitterly

observe, is ' occupied with a cloud of antiquarian dust, of which

the only apparent result is to obscure the truth and create a
confusion in the mind of the readers, in the midst of which

chloroform may be advantageously introduced.' Surely, my

dear sir, this undignified and calumnious sentence is unworthy

alike of the heart and of the pen of Dr. Jacob Bigelow, and

requires no answer from me. . . .

  " A short and adequate experience of a dozen or more cases

soon satisfied Dr. Horace Wells and others that teeth could in

this way be extracted without pain, however much trouble

there might be in preparing and applying the gas with the im

perfect means then in existence. His affidavits of its success

are unchallengeable.  His friend Dr. Eiggs drew six teeth from

one patient, at one sitting, without any suffering whatever.

During this time also, he seems to have discovered the great
240 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

point which we now know to be so essential in the successful

exhibition of nitrous oxide -- namely, that it should be breathed

as pure as possible, and without any mixture of atmospheric air.
   " Elated with his discovery, he in a week or two proceeded

to Boston, in order to lay it before the medical faculty there,
and show its effects. He first made it known there --accord
ing to his own account --to Drs. Warren, Heyward, Jackson,

and Morton, the last gentleman being a former pupil and part

ner of his own, and destined to be the future discoverer of

anaesthesia by sulphuric ether. . . .        An American
   " But now mark what subsequently occurs.

dentist works out to its practical results the suggestion pub
lished in England half-a-century before by Sir Humphry

Davy, and which you seem to wish to efface from anaesthetic

records, and he travels a long distance to place the important

result before the Medical School at Boston, and some surgeons
of the Massachusetts Hospital. There is a slip in the single
experiment allowed him. He is spurned and hooted away.

In doing this the Medical School of Boston thus delays the

whole subject of artificial surgical anaesthesia for a couple of

years. Was not the Medical School of Boston then, in your
violent language, ' chargeable with the continuance of operative

tortures' for that period, much more than Sir Humphry

Davy ? Did not your school stamp out --and thus prevent for
two years more --the ' most beneficent discovery,' to use again

Iyour own grandiloquent words, ' which has blessed humanity
since primeval days of paradise'?     am using here not my

language and logic, but yours. . . .

          " 3. Etherization, or Ancesthcsia, in Midwifery.

    " The first operations under anaesthetic inhalations in America

occurred, therefore, as we have seen in the last section, at Hart

ford, and not at Boston. In Hartford it was effected by an

anaesthetic gas, long before suggested by Sir Humphry Davy.
But at Boston you at first retarded, for a time, the whole pro
CHLOROFORM.  241

gress of anaesthesia, by rejecting the evidence of it offered you
by Dr. Horace Wells. For, to quote the words of Dr. Eiggs,
' there (in your school) he met with a reception so cold that,
after a single imperfect trial of the gas, amidst the sneers of
those around him, he left Boston in disgust, and sick at heart

at the unfair disposition manifested towards him.' Besides
erring in this direction, you must permit me to add that in my
opinion some of the Boston physicians have also erred in quite
an opposite direction. For, after once making the discovery of

the superinduction of anaesthesia by sulphuric ether, you seem
inclined to hold that the subsequent merit of everything
connected with etherization belongs to Boston, and to Boston

exclusively. . . .

  I" In your last letter you begrudgingly state to me, ' do not

now question that you were the first to use ether in labour ; '
and then you superciliously add, ' but who first introduced
anaesthetics in obstetrical practice is a matter of limited im

portance.' According to the testimony, however, of our late
mutual friend, Sir John Forbes, the application of anaesthetics

to midwifery involved many more difficult and delicate pro

blems than its mere application to dentistry and surgery. New

rules required to be established for its use--the time during
which it could be given ascertained --its effects upon the action

of the uterus, upon the state of the child, and upon the par

turient and puerperal state of the mother, etc., all required to
be accurately studied. Would it increase or diminish the
tendency to convulsions, haemorrhage, and various other com
plications ? Moral and religious questions also came to be in
volved, and required to be duly answered. The Boston patent

for the use of sulphuric ether, taken out by Drs. Morton and

IJackson, did not, believe, include its employment in mid

wifery ; and your son, Dr. Henry Bigelow, weeks after its use
was first begun, deemed it only ' adapted to operations which
were brief in their duration, whatever be their severity. Of
these the two most striking perhaps are amputations and the ex

                                                                      's
242 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

traction of teeth! This was published in November.  When I

saw Mr. Liston in London, during the following Christmas holi

days, he expressed to me the opinion that the new anaesthetic
would be of special use to him -- who was so swift an operator --

as he thought, like Dr. Bigelow, it could only be used for a brief
Itime.
        went back, however, from this London visit to Edin

burgh, bent on testing its applicability to midwifery, and found

that it could be safely used for hours, etc. . . .
    " You profess to deem it a ' matter of limited importance '

who first introduced anaesthetics into midwifery. Perhaps it

is so. But you will excuse me adding that at the time of the

first application of anaesthesia to obstetrical practice -- amidst

the hundreds and thousands of practitioners who were then

Iengaged in midwifery in the old and the new world -- hap

pened to be the first who took up the subject and worked out

most of the problems connected with it. Any one of these

hundreds and thousands might certainly have done the same,

but did not do it. . . .

   " 4. Alleged neglect of American claims in writing a sketch

                         of the history of Anccsthetics.
   " The chief or only subject of your attack upon me in your

Ifirst article, was the frivolous allegation that, when last year
Ireceived the honorary burgess -ship of Edinburgh, and when
Ihad to speak on various and different topics, omitted to do

justice to your city and to America, by omitting to talk of the

Idiscovery of sulphuric ether as an anaesthetic when was

called upon to answer an observation or two of the Lord Pro

vost's on chloroform.1

    1 ' ' Lest there be any mistake regarding the grounds or supposed grounds of
all the war which you have tried to stir up against me, let me here cite in
full the Lord Provost's remarks on chloroform, and my reply to them. The
Lord Provost, let me state, was one of the most intelligent and intellectual
men of the age, William Chambers, Esq., the well-known author and pub

Ilisher. His address to me in presenting the burgess ticket was spoken ex

tempore, and find that his words on chloroform are somewhat differently
reported in our three morning journals. The version most favourable for
                                                   CHLOROFORM.                                           243

   " In your last letter, following out the same jealous strain of

complaint, you argue that, besides the alleged omission in an

I Iimpromptu speech, was guilty, in an article which had

calmly written upon chloroform in the Encyclopaedia Britannica,
of not doing ' justice to the great American discovery.' The

article in question was printed in a volume of the Encyclopaedia

for 1854, and has been republished in a second volume of my

works, collected and edited by Drs. Priestley and Storer. In

that article, after denning chloroform and stating its composi
tion, modes of preparation, physical, chemical, and physiological

Iproperties, have described at length the various therapeutic

uses to which and consequently any other similar anaesthetic,
could be applied in surgery, in midwifery, in medicine, and in
                            it,

                                                ;
medical jurisprudence and ultimately have occupied the lasta
three columns of the article by brief historical sketch of the
various anaesthetic agents which have been used previously toI
the introduction of chloroform. And this historical sketch
                                                                                                         is

the special object of your new attack.                          otherwise,    history of
                                                                them from   the earliest
   " In giving, in my lectures and

anaesthetics, have sometimes traced
    is                                             it

           I                                                          is

                                                                       Ia
                                                                                                      :
                                                                                I'
you the one you select --the Daily Review -- and as follows -- will not

dwell on what you have accomplished in medical science.                     will only allude
to your discovery -- the greatest of all discoveries in modern times--of the

application of chloroform in the assuagement of human suffering. That was

a  great gift to mankind at large, and well befits us, the Corporation of

Edinburgh, to mark our sense of the great act of beneficence on your part by

this small compliment.' His Lordship subsequently alluded to my writings

on "AWcuiptrhesrseugraer,d  Hospitalism, etc. etc.   chloroform,   replied in the two fol
                             to the observations ona
                                                                a

                                                               I
lowing sentences -- You adverted to the discovery of anaesthetic effects of
              it

                         :
                             '
chloroform. Perhaps you will allow me to state that there are various manu

factories of in Great Britain, and that single one of these, located in Edin

burgh, makes as many as eight thousand doses day, or between two million
and three million of doses every year -- evidence to what a great extent the

practice now carried of wrapping men, women, and children in a painless
    is

sleep during some of the most trying moments and hours of human existence                                ;

and especially when our frail brother-man            is         laid upon the operating-table,

and subjected to the tortures of the surgeon's knives and scalpels, his saws

and his cauteries.' -- (See Journal of the Gynaecological Society of Boston, No.

6,  p. 370.)
244 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

known periods downwards to the present day ; but more fre

I Iquently have followed the inverse order, because have found

it more instructive and interesting-- viz., that of tracing them

gradually backwards from their most recent to their most
Iancient form.
                have followed this last method in the said

article in the Encyclopedia Britannica, and have hence first

mentioned chloroform as then the most recent anaesthetic in
the two following lines :--' The vapour of chloroform was

first proposed by Dr. Simpson as an anaesthetic agent in

1847.' . . .

   " But then comes your other accusation, that in enumerating

Ithe different methods of producing anaesthesia have adduced

chloroform first, sulphuric ether second, carbonic acid third,

nitrous oxide fourth, etc., to ' cover '--to use your own repre

hensible words--' this inversion of historical order in favour of

the self-exaltation of the writer . . . who availed himself of
this opportunity principally to place himself conspicuously in

the foreground.'

  I" Believe me, feel difficulty in commenting upon these

criticisms of yours; they are essentially so groundless and
Iabsurd ; and know them in my own heart to be so utterly
Ifuntrue.
           an American or English schoolboy were asked to

give a retrograde chronological list of the Presidents of the

United States, or the Sovereigns of England, from the present

time to the commencement of this century, would he not be

gin with General Grant and Queen Victoria ? According to
your logic, however, that would imply ' self-exaltation ' on the

part of the pupil ; and to avoid this he ought to commence
with the Presidents Johnson and Lincoln, or King William the

Fourth. But would not such a strange historical obliquity and

misstatement, if unhappily indulged in, bring down condign

punishment and contempt on the disciple ? And is there not

...occasionally truth in the saying that ' sages sometimes do as

foolish things as schoolboys'?

  If" we try to put into a summarized form the data which
CHLOROFORM.  245

we have been discussing regarding the introduction of anaes

thesia in America and this country, it appears to me that we

might correctly state the whole matter as follows :--

   " 1. That on the 11th December 1844, Dr. Wells had, at

Hartford, by his own desire and suggestion, one of his upper
molar teeth extracted without any pain, in consequence of his

having deeply breathed nitrous oxide gas for the purpose, as
suggested nearly half-a-century before by Sir Humphry Davy.

   " 2. That after having with others proved, in a limited series
of cases, the anaesthetic powers of nitrous oxide gas, Dr. Wells

proceeded to Boston to lay his discovery before the Medical
School and Hospital there, but was unsuccessful in the single
attempt which he made, in consequence of the gas-bag being

removed too soon, and that he was hooted away by his audience,

as if the whole matter were an imposition, and was totally

discouraged.

   " 3. That Dr. Wells's former pupil and partner, Dr. Morton
of Boston, was present with Dr. Wells when he made his ex

periments there.
   " 4. That on the 30th September 1846, Dr. Morton extracted

a tooth without any pain, whilst the patient was breathing
sulphuric ether, this fact and discovery of itself making a new
era in anaesthetics and surgery.

   " 5. That within a few weeks the vapour of sulphuric ether
was tried in a number of instances of surgical operations in

Boston--Dr. Morton being generally the administrator ;--and

ether vapour was established as a successful anaesthetic in

dentistry and in surgery.
   " 6. That in January, and the subsequent spring months

1 847, the application of sulphuric ether as an anaesthetic in
midwifery was introduced, described in our medical journals,
and fully established in Edinburgh, before any case with it was
tried in Boston or America.

   " 7. That on the 15th November 1847, the anaesthetic effects
of chloroform were discovered in Edinburgh, and that it swiftly
246 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

superseded in Scotland and elsewhere the use of sulphuric
ether, and extended rapidly and greatly the practice of anaes

thesia in surgery, midwifery, etc.

  I" am very sorry to have taken up so much of your time

and my time with such a petty discussion as the present. It

Ihas extended to too great a length ; but am a sad invalid just

now, and quite unable to write with the force and brevity re

Iquired. With many of our profession in America have the

honour of being personally acquainted, and regard their friend

Iship so very highly that shall not regret this attempt --my

--last, perhaps at professional writing as altogether useless on
my part, if it tend to fix my name and memory duly in their

love and esteem. --Yours very truly."

Before forwarding this letter to America he wrote to his
Rfriend Dr.  H. Storer, of Boston :--

                                                                          " 9th April 1870.

  I" My dear Dr. Storer, --At the time received the printed
Islip containing Dr. Bigelow's second letter, was laid up, in

consequence principally of over-fatigue and distant travelling

Iwork, with a severe attack of rheumatism in the chest (I have

had two attacks of rheumatic fever before), from which am
Inot likely to recover. Amidst my sickness
                                            have tried to

dictate an answer to Dr. Bigelow, which has become far too

Ilong in my hands, but have printed and will be sent to you
it
                              it
                                     is
                                                          it,
                                                             it

                                                          I
when the printing of  completed, by the next mail.               send

through you as my last offering to the Gynaecological Society

of Boston, to use as they see fit. The separate copies which

will be sent to you, distribute privately, or use them as you

think right. Please ask the Boston Medical and Surgical

Journal to admit my answer as an antidote to Dr. Bigelow's

efforts. There never was more unjust or unjustifiable attack
I
     I

                                        aa
than this. know from the utmost depths of my own conscience

that never said or wrote single word to detract from the

mightiness of the discovery of anaesthesia by sulphuric ether
                  CHLOROFORM.  247

at Boston in 1846. But surely the discovery of another anaes

thetic by me, a year afterwards, more powerful, practical, and

useful than sulphuric ether, was in itself a fact of no small

Imoment, and tended, well know, immensely to spread the

use of anaesthesia on this side the Atlantic. Perhaps some
one, within ten or twenty years, may discover another and

better type of anaesthesia than we yet possess. Is a man that

does so to be denied all merit, because sulphuric ether was

found out to be an excellent, if not perfect, anaesthetic at Boston
Iin 1846 ?
            had no idea of the character and extent of Dr.
IWells's merits till latterly looked over more carefully the

official volume of evidence in the matter, published by Dr.

Morton. According to the latest London journals, some seem

to be adopting nitrous oxide gas for various operations besides

tooth-drawing.

   " Our Lord Provost Chambers, who made the speech at which

Dr. Bigelow cavils so much, has been living in Italy for the

Ilast six months, and has just returned to town, and daresay

is startled to find that a sentence of his has given rise to such an

unfortunate and petty warfare. My assistant, Dr. Coghill, has

just told me that a patient of mine, who has been here from

Boston for some months, has received a copy of Dr. Bigelow's

Iletter from America by the last post. suppose this shows how

active some Bostonian physicians are against me in this matter.

Surely, in common courtesy, Dr. Bigelow ought to have sent me

a proper and authenticated copy. Probably the strife has

been fanned, it is suggested to me, by one or two medical men
in this city --for there are one or two in our lists who have

Iquarrelled bitterly with me, though have never quarrelled

with them. They are old pupils, who ought to have felt grati

I Itude for what had done for them ; but have found, what

many others have found, that what ought to be deep gratitude,

sometimes, and without any apparent cause whatever, becomes
Ideep malignity.
                  forgive them most heartily all they have

done. God has made my life sufficiently successful to a degree
248 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Ifar beyond my deserts, and have been ever happy in doing the

work which He has allotted to me. May He ever prosper you

in your work, and hold you under the guidance of His eye !
" With the kindest remembrances to all your friends, believe

me, ever yours truly,      J. Y. Simpson."

   In our own country he found that his fears of opposition
from practitioners were not exaggerated. In meeting this he set

out with the proposition -- " Mere opinions and prejudgments

are not sufficient to settle the question of the propriety or im

propriety of Anaesthetic Agents." This he illustrated by refer
ring to the history of Vaccination. During the latter half of the

last century 30,000 individuals were computed to die annually
of smallpox in England ; but now not more than a third of
that number perish from this cause in England and Wales.

" If a similar rate of reduction in the number of deaths from

smallpox holds good --as we have every reason to believe is
the case --in the other kingdoms of Europe, then, out of 220

millions of people that inhabit this quarter of the globe,
400,000 or 500,000 fewer die of smallpox than, with a similar

population, would have died from this malady fifty years ago."
Yet at the time of Dr. Jennet's first announcement of vaccina
tion, in 1798, the proposal of substituting vaccine for variolous

inoculation was encountered by various members of the pro

fession with incredulity and ridicule, and direct and determined
opposition. An Anti- Vaccine Society was formed, calling upon
the people to suppress this innovation as " a gross violation of
religion, morality, law, and humanity." The leaders of the
opposition were professional men. "The projects of these
vaccinators seem to bid bold defiance to Heaven itself --even to

the will of God," said one. " The law of God prohibits the

practice ; the law of man and the law of nature loudly exclaim
against it," cried another. " Every proposed improvement," said
Dr. Simpson, " seems to be met with the same invariable array
of objections and arguments. The discovery may be new, but
        CHLOROFORM.                                     249

the grounds of opposition to it are not new, --they are merely

the old forms of doubt, and difficulty, and prejudice used on

former occasions, recalled and reproduced anew. Thus, not
only in their leading principles and spirit, but in most even

of their minute details, identically the same arguments that

forty or fifty years ago were urged against the propriety and

safety of vaccination, or a hundred years ago against small
pox inoculation, have within the last few months been again

invoked and used against the employment of etherization."

   Fully convinced of the value of chloroform in his own

department of practice, he laboured to show that it was fitted

to bring even greater blessing to the department of Surgery.
On the 1st of December 1847 he communicated another paper

on the subject to the Medico-Chirurgical Society, and after

wards published it with the following quotations on its title-

page--  " Serve me -- as Mandragora -- that I may sleep."

                                                    Webster's Duchess of Malfy.

                          " But there U

           No danger in what show of death it makes,

           More than the locking up the spirits a time,
           To be more fresh, reviving."

                                                          Shakespeare's CymbeUne.

The speedy demand for this pamphlet, and the large number

of copies sold, again showed the strong and lively interest

taken by the public in all that related to chloroform.  One or
two extracts follow :--

    "Among the many improvements by which the operative
part of medicine has, from time to time, been enriched, few or
none have exerted a more potent, or a more beneficial influence
over its advancement and progress than the introduction, in
the sixteenth century, of the application of ligatures to arteries,

with the object of arresting the haemorrhage attendant upon
surgical wounds and operations. Previously to that time,

surgeons had no other means of stemming the flow of blood --

after amputation of the limbs, for instance -- than by scorching
250 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

over the raw and bleeding wound with a red-hot iron, or by
plunging it into boiling pitch, or by applying strong potential
cauteries to its surface. With laudable efforts to diminish the
fearful severities of their practice, they exerted their ingenuity

in devising, as it were, refinements upon these necessitous

cruelties. Thus Hildanus, the patriarch of German surgery,
amputated the limbs of his patients with red-hot knives, in
order that he might divide the flesh and sear up the vessels at
one and the same time. Upon all these practices, the great and
happy suggestion of Ambrose PanS, viz., to shut up the bleeding
vessels by constricting or tying them with slender ligatures,

was a vast and mighty improvement. It at once made the

arrestment of haemorrhage in operations far more simple, more

certain, and more secure. It saved immeasurably the sufferings

of the patients, while it added immeasurably to their safety.
But the practice was new, and an innovation ; and conse
quently, like all other innovations in medical practice, it was
at first, and for long, bitterly decried and denounced. The
College of Physicians of Paris attacked Par£ for his proposed
new practice ; they attempted, by the authority of the French
Parliament, to suppress the publication and dissemination of
his observations : and, for nearly a long century afterwards,
some of the Hospital Surgeons of Paris continued, with the
characteristic obstinacy of the profession, to prefer cauterizing
bleeding arteries ' with all the ancients,' rather than simply
tie them ' after the manner of a few ignorant and presump
tuous moderns.' 'Without' (writes the late Mr. John Bell)
-- ' without reading the books of these old surgeons, it is not
possible to imagine the horrors of the cautery, nor how much
reason Pare had for upbraiding the surgeons of his own time
with their cruelties. . . . The horrors of the patient, and his
ungovernable cries, the hurry of the operators and assistants,
the sparkling of the (heated) irons, and the hissing of the
blood against them, must have made terrible scenes ; and
surgery must, in those days, have been a horrid trade.'
                          CHLOROFORM.      251

"The sentiments which Mr. Bell here expresses are those

with which the human mind often looks back upon our opinions

and practices, when these opinions and practices are past and

gone, and have become mere matters of history. In the above,

as in many other instances, we never become fully awakened

to the cruelty and enormity of some of our established doctrines

and doings, until, from time to time, an advance is made in

civilisation or science, and we find that this or that doctrine and

practice, with all its attendant sufferings and inhumanities, was

in reality utterly unnecessary, and utterly uncalled for. In

general, however, long years elapse before this new aspect of

matters is duly seen ; or, at least, duly acknowledged. While

the practices themselves are in full operation, the mind, en

thralled by education and habit, cannot be easily made to view

them in their true character ; and when, in the progress of the

march of knowledge and science, their propriety and perpetua

tion come at last to be challenged and contested, human

passions and prejudices ever (as in the above instance of
cauterization) rise up to argue for, and insist upon, the con
tinuance and safety of the past, and the total impolicy and

high peril of any attempted alteration. But time passes on,
                          sometimes abruptly --generally almost im
and brings witha
                     it,
perceptibly -- perfect change of doctrine and practice. Any

surgeon who, in the days of Pare\ dared to arrest the haemor

rhages from his amputation wounds, by applying ligatures

instead of red-hot irons, would have been denounced by his

compeers. Any surgeon, on the contrary, who now, at this

present day, dared to arrest the haemorrhages from his amputa

tion wounds, by applying to the bleeding vessels, not ligatures

but red-hot irons, would as certainly be denounced by his

compeers, and his talents, as well as his humanity, would be

strongly challenged. We look back with sorrow upon the

pitiless practices in that respect of the contemporaries and
opponents of Pare\ In the course of years our successors in

the profession will, most sincerely believe, look back with
                 I

                                       "N
252 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

similar feelings upon the alleged 'insignificance,' and 'pro

priety,' and 'desirability' of pain in surgical operations, as

maintained by many members of the profession at the present

--day; and they will equally marvel at the idea of men of

humane men -- complacently confessing and upholding, that

they prefer operating upon their patients in a waking instead

of an anaesthetic state ; and that the fearful agonies which they
thus inflict --the agonies of the surgeon's knife -- should be

endured rather than avoided -- quietly and decorously submitted
Ito, and not attempted to be eschewed.
                                        have elsewhere dis

cussed, at some length, the strange opinions and practices of

some modern surgeons upon this alleged propriety and neces

sity of pain in surgical practice and surgical operations. On

the present occasion my object is to offer some remarks re

garding the pains attendant upon parturition, and the propriety

of alleviating and annulling the sufferings of our patients in

obstetrical practice and obstetrical operations. . . .

   " Is it right for the physician to interfere with these fearful

sufferings and agonies in order to save and shield his patients

from the endurance of them ? Is it proper for him to exercise

the skill of his art so as to moderate and remove these ' almost

')?...intolerable pains {fere intolerabiles dolores  have often

  I"These questions, and questions like these,

during the currency of the present year heard complacently

put by medical men, --men, too, whose opinions and actions

in other matters, and in other respects, were fully and truly

actuated by that great principle of emotion which both impels

us to feel sympathy at the sight of suffering in any fellow-

creature, and at the same time imparts to us delight and grati

fication in the exercise of any power by which we can mitigate
                               ISuch questions,
and alleviate that suffering.                        repeat, are

seriously asked by physicians and surgeons, the professed

object of whose whole science and art is the relief of human

disease and human suffering. They are questions propounded

with all imaginable gravity and seriousness by individuals who
CHLOROFORM.                                              253

(in a mere abstract point of view) would, no doubt, strongly

object to being considered as anxious to patronize and abet

human misery, or traffic in the perpetuation of human pain. . . .

   " All pain is per se, and especially when in excess, destructive

and even ultimately fatal in its action and effects. It ' exhausts
(says Mr. Travers) the principle of life.' ' It exhausts (says

Mr. Burns of Glasgow) both the system and the part.'     ' Mere
pain (observed the late Dr. Gooch) can destroy life.' "

Anxious to learn whether the use of chloroform was spread

ing as rapidly in America as at home, he wrote to his friend

Dr. Meigs, Professor of Midwifery, Philadelphia, a letter, in

which he reported progress in Britain. In a communication

dated Philadelphia, February 18, 1848, Dr. Meigs gave him

the information desired, and added :--

  I" readily hear, before your voice can reach my ears from

beyond the Atlantic, the triumphant reply that an hundred
Ithousand have taken it without accident.
                                           am a witness that

it is attended with alarming accidents, however rarely. But

Ishould exhibit it to a thousand patients merely to prevent the
Iphysiological pain, and for no other motive, and should in
Iconsequence destroy only one, the least of them, should feel

disposed to clothe me in sackcloth and cast ashes on my head

Ifor the remainder of my days. What sufficient motive have

to risk the life or health of one in a thousand, in a questionable

attempt to abrogate one of the generical conditions of man ?
    " As to the uses of chloroform in the medical or surgical

treatment of pain, the question changes. . . .

  I" have a far more pleasing duty to perform in saying that

your name is become as well known, perhaps, in America as it

is in your native land, and in congratulating you upon the

extension of your fame.

  I" had yesterday the pleasure to read your interesting

letter to my class in College, consisting of several hundred

young gentlemen, who listened to your words with the same

respect as they would have paid had they been pronounced by
254 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

your own lips. They will in a few days hence begin to disperse
themselves over all the States in this Union, and thus will

have it in their power to report the latest date of your opinions
Ias to chloroform.
                    shall also allow it to be published, with this

reply, on the 1st proximo, in the journal called the Medical

Examiner.

  I" You will herein perceive the readiness with which assist
Iin disseminating your views. It is not without regret that

find myself opposed to your authoritative opinion in this

special case. Such dissidence ought not, however, in the least

degree to affect those sentiments of respectful consideration

Iand of real esteem with which, dear Sir, am very faithfully,

your obliged and obedient servant,  Ch. D. Meigs."

The letter of Dr. Meigs appeared, as promised, in the Medical

Examiner. The high respect which Dr. Simpson had for Dr.

Meigs, and his desire to cany the sympathy, and, if possible,

secure the co-operation of all intelligent practitioners, led him

to write a long letter in answer to his objections. After dealing

with these in detail, and bringing much fresh illustration in
support of his views, he concludes :--" ' Perhaps,' you observe,

I' am cruel in taking so dispassionate a view of the subject.'

Of course it would ill become me to press any such judgment

Ion you. But feel this, that you and I, and other teachers of

Midwifery, are placed, in reference to this question, in a posi

tion far more fearfully responsible than ordinary medical prac

titioners. The ordinary obstetric practitioner has little or no

power, except over the relief or the perpetuation (according as

he may choose  of his own immediate patients. But you and
I,

              I it)

                            it

                                                                                                  a
as obstetrical teachers, may, through our pupils, have the

power of relieving or continuing the sufferings of whole com
munities. If, perchance, you persist for some years longer in

your present opinion, will have the effect of inflicting large

amount of what conscientiously believe and know to be

altogether unnecessary agony and suffering upon thousands of
                      CHLOROFORM.               255

Ifour fellow-beings.  you review and alter your opinions,
Iwhich earnestly hope you will do, and make yourself suffi

ciently acquainted with the peculiarities in the mode of action

and mode of exhibition of chloroform, a vast proportion of human

suffering may, even within the next few years, be saved by your
If Ihappy instrumentality and influence. . . .
                                                had to re-write
Ior revise these observations, would perhaps have stated them
Iwith more accuracy ; but must send them as they are ; and
Ialong with them beg to send also the most sincere esteem and

reiterated respects of, my dear Sir, yours very faithfully, J. Y. S."

There had been a lull for six or eight weeks in the attacks,

secret and open, which for some time he had been forced to

meet. But the opposition had been gathering strength. The

opponents had been nursing their wrath.

                                         TO DR. ASHWEIX.
                                                                                "March 11, 1848.

  I" My dear Doctor, -- have been laid up for the last twenty

hours in bed, ill, and quite undone for the time, from breathing

Iand inhaling some vapours was experimenting upon last night,

with a view of obtaining other therapeutic agents to be used

I Iby inhalation ; and write in bed. A few hours ago received

the Lancet. Your strange paper in it has done me a world of good.

I have seen the time when such a scurrilous attack as yours

would have irritated me. Now-a-days such things produce the

I Ivery reverse, so that fancy am getting quite hardened.

Great abuse and great praise sound to me now very much alike.

I IFor feel that the greater the good can ever accomplish for

my profession and for humanity, the greater will always be

the temporary blame attempted to be heaped upon me by

the bigoted portions of the profession. . . .
   " Of course you are aware that it would be quite infra dig.

in me to reply publicly to such a personal attack as you have

Ichosen to send to the Lancet. Nor have time and strength

at present to put you right on all the points you touch. But do

steal away for forty-eight hours from London, and take up your
256 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

abode with me here (where you will find a comfortable bed, a

fork and knife, and a hearty Scotch welcome awaiting you), and

I will readily convince you how utterly you are in error on all

points. . . .

   "In our professional duties omissions and commissions

Iamount to the same crime in principle. And believe all

your reasonings and efforts amount to this ' Eed Indian result.'

To prolong your medical prejudices, you argue that you and

your brethren are entitled to perpetrate medical cruelties and

torture on the poor women who commit themselves to your

care. To confess to you the truth, my blood feels chilled by

the cruel inhumanity and deliberate cruelty which you and

Isome members of the profession openly avow. And know

that you will yet in a few years look back with horror at

your present resolution of refusing to relieve your patients,
merely because you have not yet had time to get rid of some

old professional caprices and nonsensical thought upon the

subject. . . .

   " In the meantime let me allude to one or two of your most

prominent errors in the libel alluded to.
   " In some particularly absurd remarks in your P.S., in which

you seem to doubt the truth of the Bible relation of the sleep
of Adam, you say, ' Dr. Simpson surely forgets that the deep

sleep of Adam took place before the introduction of pain into

Ithe world, during his state of innocence.' Now will not

offend you by comparing the theological opinion of John Calvin

with the theological opinion of Samuel Ashwell, but let me ask
you one single question : Is it anywhere stated in your Bible

that pain came in with sin, or that there was no pain endured
Ifwhen there was no sin ?
                           so, then let me add, your Bible

differs from mine. . . .

"'Certainly the great discoveries of Robert L. have never

exceeded in their enunciation the dignified modesty of true

science.' Capital ! Does this allude to the fifty alleged

cardiac ganglia, which were found by Professors Owen and
              CHLOROFORM.                                257

Bowman to have no existence ? Your remarks and those of

a Mr. G. (poor fellow, he is evidently, as we say in Scotland,
' not himself'), in a recent number of the Lancet, about me
writing in the Morning Post, and a number of other deliberate

analogous falsehoods, have given me a far higher idea of the

Iimportance of the application of anaesthesia than had before.

He says Denman, etc., did not follow such plans. Neither did
I. But then the subject is so much more momentous than

any Denman, etc., wrote on, that the public have taken it
up and will force it on you and other recusants. You might

as well hope to stem the Thames as to stem it. . . .
    " ' Unnecessary interference with the providentially arranged

process of healthy progression is sure sooner or later to be

followed by injurious and fatal consequences.' Hence all the
Ifrailway accidents and deaths.
                                 you refuse to interfere with a

natural function because it is natural --why do you ride, my

dear Doctor? you ought to walk, in order to be consistent.

Chloroform does nothing but save pain, you allege. A carriage

does nothing but save fatigue. Which is the more important
to get done away with ? --your fatigue, or your patients' screams

and tortures ?                          He is a better man

   " You quote Paul Dubois against me.

than you take him for. Pigné (Dupuytren's nephew) was
here a fortnight ago. He tells me Dubois uses chloroform now

constantly.

  I" rejoice at such bitter personal attacks and absurd misre

presentations as you and poor G. indulge in, for one reason. It
looked as if no one were going to oppose the practice in the

way that the historical fools, Dr. Eowley, Lipscomb, etc., opposed
I Ivaccination, etc., and as had predicted would occur.
                                                         have

no fears now on this score. For it is quite certain that

other Eowleys, etc., will appear now, as of yore, and that my

prediction will be true. . . .
    " For the infliction of this long letter you are indebted to

my sickness.

              K
258 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

I" In conclusion, let me assure you feel no anger at your
Iindecent attack.
                   do feel ashamed for you, but not angry at

you. Do come north to Edinburgh -- see all -- and you will find

I can pardon all such absurdities as you have committed, and
convert you in addition. Do come.--Yours very faithfully,
                   " J. Y. Simpson."

   In this letter Dr. Simpson refers to illness brought on by
inhaling vapours, when in search of other anaesthetic agents.
A good deal of risk and much discomfort were incurred in the

search. When he apprehended danger he was the first to ex
periment. His butler, Clarke, who had a high opinion of the
properties of " chlory," as he called chloroform, found him on
one occasion lying in his room, apparently unconscious, and
suffering from the effects of a recent experiment. To some
friends who were watching him, with a good deal of alarm, the

butler remarked, -- " He '11 kill himsel' yet wi' thae experiments;

an' he 's a big fule, for they '11 never find onything better nor
chlory." Though Dr. Simpson was unable to speak at the
time, he heard quite distinctly the butler's remark, more
graphic than complimentary. But it helped to rouse him.1

    Towards the end of 1847 Dr. Simpson's attention was
repeatedly called, both by patients and practitioners, to the
religious objections against the use of chloroform. This led
him to publish a third pamphlet, entitled, " Answer to the

Eeligious Objections against the Employment of Anaesthetic
Agents in Midwifery." The following texts are placed on the

   1 Among other experiments, Dr. Simpson had got an effervescing drink
prepared with chloric ether in aerated water. At a dinner party this was

brought forward and tried, pronounced to be very pleasant, but rather heady.

The butler took the remains of this new beverage down-stairs and gave it
to the cook, saying it was champagne. Shortly after drinking it, she fell

on the floor insensible. The butler rushed into the dining-room, saying,

"For God's sake, sir, come doun; I've pushioned the cook." Dr. S. with

some others ran down-stairs, and found their patient lying on the floor,

snoring heavily. The butler explained that he had given her a glass of "the
new champagne chlory." As there was no danger, the incident created a

hearty laugh.
               RELIGIOUS OBJECTIONS.  259

title-page :--" For every creature of God is good, and nothing
is to be refused if it be received with thanksgiving." -- 1st

Timothy iv. 4. " Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good,

and doeth it not, to him it is sin."--James iv. 1 7. The religious

objections were founded chiefly on the words of the primeval

curse pronounced on man after the Fall. Dr. Simpson quoted

the whole passage, looked at it in the light of other portions of
Scripture, examined it critically clause by clause, appealed to

the best exegets as authorities for his inferences, and concluded
that the religious, like the scientific objections, had no founda

tion, except in the prejudice or ignorance of those who made

them. There is much curious information brought to bear on
this question, and evidences of considerable skill in the use of

Scripture as self-interpretative. The curse on the serpent and

on the ground are reviewed, and the deep sleep brought on
Adam is skilfully adduced in support of the practice for which
he argued. " Those who urge, on a kind of religious ground,

that an artificial or anaesthetic state of unconsciousness should

not be induced merely to save frail humanity from the miseries

and tortures of bodily pain, forget that we have the greatest of

all examples set before us. He follows out this very principle
Iof practice.
               allude to that most singular description of the

preliminaries and details of the first surgical operation ever

performed on man, which is contained in Genesis iL 21 :--" And
the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he

slept, and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh

instead thereof."

  IIn another part of the pamphlet he says :--" Probably may

be excused adding, that my friend Professor Miller informs

me that when reluctantly consenting to write the elaborate

article on Etherization, which he afterwards penned for the

North British Review, he stated to Dr. Chalmers, who solicited

him to undertake the task, ' that if he wrote the Medical, Dr.

Chalmers should himself write the Theological part.' Dr.

Chalmers at once professed that he did not see any theological
                       260 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

                      part pertaining to it. Mr. Miller then explained to him that
                         some had been urging objections against the use of anaesthesia
                    in Midwifery, on the ground of it so far improperly enabling
                    women to avoid one part of the primeval curse. At last, when
                      Mr. Miller was enabled to convince him that he was in earnest

                         in saying that such ground had been taken, Dr. Chalmers

                   thought quietly for a minute or two, and then added, that if

                        some ' small theologians ' really took such an improper view of
                      the subject, he should certainly advise Mr. Miller ' not to heed
                      them ' in the article. Dr. Chalmers's mind was not one that

                        could take up or harbour the extraordinary idea that, under the
                         Christian dispensation, the God of mercy should wish for or
                      delight in the sacrifice of woman's screams and sufferings in

               Ichildbirth. Perhaps he thought also, as have heard other

                   clergymen state, that if God has beneficently vouchsafed to us
                    a means of mitigating the agonies of childbirth, it is His

                        evident intention that we should employ these means. The
                        very fact that we have the power by human means to relieve
                      the material sufferings, is in itself a sufficient criterion that
                        God would rather that these sufferings be relieved and removed.

                If He had willed and desired them not to be averted, it would

                      not be possible for man to avert them. For while it is our
                    duty to avoid all misery and suffering that is avoidable, it
                        would certainly be impossible for us to eschew any that God
                        had permanently and irreversibly decreed should not be
                        eschewed." Later, Dr. Simpson reiterated these views, and

                        urged others on the same side, illustrated by fresh facts, and
                      enforced by new considerations, in an able letter to Dr.
                      Protheroe Smith. His arguments were conclusive. The
                        religious objections were seldom heard of afterwards. Both
                      patients and practitioners became ashamed of them. But he
                      soon found how much need there had been for all the labour,

                        anxiety, and time he had devoted to this subject. Professional
                      friends, whom he had thought least likely to yield to such
                        views, thanked him for the relief they had got by this pamphlet

    -"

t
         RELIGIOUS OBJECTIONS.        261

And letters reached him from India, China, and America, as
well as from different parts of Britain, written in the same

strain.

    Numerous communications from patients, many of whom
moved in the highest circles of Britain, gave him much gratifi

cation, as showing how readily they had accepted the great

boon.

  "I like much," said one lady, "the arguments you use,

in answer to the religious doubts of the faint-hearted, more
Iespecially that in paragraph 5.
                                  hardly think there can be

any lady so foolish now as to refuse the aid of chloroform."

  I" am very sorry," wrote another noble lady, " to find you

have been so great a sufferer from this terrible influenza.

I trust it is over now, and that you will have no more returns

of it. Many thanks for the pamphlets, and the one on the

religious view of the use of chloroform, etc., is most interesting.

Had it been my happy lot to have been one of your patients
I Iunder these circumstances,
                             do not think should have

troubled you with many objections to its use. What a blessing

you have been the means of conferring on poor suffering woman

Iby this discovery, and hope all scruples about the propriety

of its use may speedily vanish. There is an admirable article
Iupon your pamphlets which have also just been reading in
Ithe Scotsman of Saturday.
                             am rejoiced that you have

answered in print the objections which have been raised on

Ireligious grounds, for was very anxious you should do so."

         FROM THE DUCHESS OF ARGYLL.

I"My dear Sir,-- am very grateful to you for all your

... Ikindness about your Mull pupil, and very glad to receive your
most interesting pamphlets.       have given chloroform to

our Dr. here and at Inverary, and they both intend using it.

   " It must make you very happy, dear sir, to have discovered

so great a blessing. Next to the cure of souls, there can be no

more wonderful blessing bestowed on man than to have been

                                                                     '·
262 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

allowed the possession of such a ' gift of healing.' May the
Giver of all good gifts long give you strength and health for
the comfort of so many, and for your own happiness !

   " The Duke's best regards, and believe me, very truly yours,
                                                  " Elizabeth Argyll.

   " Roseneath, Jan. 24<A."

    But few of these letters gave him such deep and pure plea
sure as one spontaneously offered to him by a colleague, who
knew better than most men the meaning of " the much tribu
lation," and, better still, the import of the words, " tribulation
worketh patience, and patience experience, and experience
hope." Dr. George Wilson describes his own feelings when in
the hands of the surgeons. In his case, as in others, " the
operation was necessarily slow ; and chloroform--one of God's
best gifts to His suffering children --was then unknown." 1

    The letter is entitled, "Anaesthetics in Surgery, from a
Patient's point of View."

  I" My dear Dr. Simpson, -- have recently read, with mingled

sadness and surprise, the declarations of some surgeons that
anaesthetics are needless luxuries, and that unendurable agony

Iis the best of tonics. Those surgeons, think, can scarcely

have been patients of their brother surgeons, and jest at scars

only because they never felt a wound ; but if they remain ene

Imies of anaesthetics after what you have written, despair of

convincing them of their utility. My present object in writing
is not to supplement your arguments in favour of the adminis

tration of anaesthetics to those who are about to undergo sur
gical operations ; but, as one who knows from personal experi
ence what operations were to the patients before ether or

Ichloroform was employed anaesthetically, am anxious to state

certain reasons in justification of their use, which only those
who suffered without their help are in a condition to urge.

  I" Several years ago, was required to prepare, on very short

                                    1 Hora Subiecivai, p. 377.
                   DR. GEORGE WILSON.                                     263

warning, for the loss of a limb by amputation. A painful

disease, which for a time had seemed likely to yield to the

Iremedies employed, suddenly became greatly aggravated, and

was informed by two surgeons of the highest skill, who were

Iconsulted on my case, that must choose between death and

the sacrifice of a limb, and that my choice must be promptly

made, for my strength was fast sinking under pain, sleepless

ness, and exhaustion.it,
                       a
  I" at once agreed to submit to the operation, but asked a

week to prepare for not with the slightest expectation that
the disease would take favourable turn in the interval, or that

the anticipated horrors of the operation would become less

appalling by reflection upon them, but simply because was so
                          if

                              a
                                            a

                                           it

                                                          it,
probable that the operation would be followed by fatal issue,

that wished to prepare for death and what lies beyond
I

whilst my faculties were clear and my emotions were compara

tively undisturbed, for knew well that the operation wereI
speedily followed by death, should be in condition, duringI
the interval, in the last degree unfavourable to making pre
paration for the great change.

    " The week, so slow, and yet so swift in its passage, at length

came to an end, and the morning of the operation arrived.
There were no anaesthetics in those days, and took no pre
                   a
                                 a

                                              I
parative stimulant or anodyne of any kind, unless two cups of

tea, which with fragment of toast formed my breakfast, be

considered such.

   "The operation was more tedious one than some which

involve much greater mutilation. It necessitated cruel cutting

through inflamed and morbidly sensitive parts, and could not

be despatched by few swift strokes of the knife.  do not
                 it it
                       it a

                               I
                                 I

                                         I

                                                                      is

                                                        I
                                                          I
suppose that was more painful than the majority of severe

surgical operations are, but am not, believe, mistaken in

thinking that was not less painful, and this all that wish

to contend for.    occasioned, will say nothing. Suffering

   " Of the agony
                    264 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

              Iso great as underwent cannot be expressed in words, and thus

                      fortunately cannot be recalled. The particular pangs are now
                      forgotten ; but the black whirlwind of emotion, the horror of
                      great darkness, and the sense of desertion by God and man,
                      bordering close upon despair, which swept through my mind

              Iand overwhelmed my heart, can never forget, however gladly
              I would do so. Only the wish to save others some of my

                      sufferings, makes me deliberately recall and confess the
                       anguish and humiliation of such a personal experience; nor

              I Ican find language more sober or familiar than that have

                       used to express feelings which, happily for us all, are too rare
                       as matters of general experience to have been shaped into
                         household words.

                I" From all this anguish should of course have been saved
             Ihad been rendered insensible by ether or chloroform, or other

                       wise, before submitting to the operation. On that point, how

              Iever, do not dwell, because it needs no proof, and the testi

                       mony of the thousands who have been spared such experiences
                       by the employment of chloroform, is at hand to satisfy all who
                          are not determined not to be satisfied.

                        " But there are other modes in which anaesthetics may serve
                       a patient than by rendering him insensible at the period of his
                     undergoing a surgical operation, and it is to these modes of
                       service, which may not strike even the most humane and
                       thoughtful surgeon, and cannot be matters of experience except

              Ito patients who have not taken anaesthetics, that seek mainly

                       to refer in this letter.

                 "I am not gifted with physical courage. Physical courage
              I understand to signify that consciousness of a power to endure

                     bodily agony, which accompanies a certain temperament. Its
                       possessors know from the first instinctively, and by and bye
                       learn from experience, that a blow, a cut, a burn, an attack of
                     toothache, or the like infliction of injury, or onset of pain, can
                       be endured by them, though unwelcome, up to an extent of
                       considerable severity, without excessively incommoding them

I
   DR. GEORGE WILSON.                                     265

or exhausting their patience. From severe injuries and dan

gerous diseases such persons recover, fortified by the assurance

that they can bear without flinching what would make others

complain loudly ; and they are not afraid to anticipate suffering,
believing that they will be able to bear it. This estimable

virtue is possessed more largely by men than by women, and

by savage than by civilized men, and may or may not be

accompanied by moral courage.

  I" belong, on the other hand, to that large class, including

most women, to whom cutting, bruising, burning, or any similar

physical injury, even to a small extent, is a source of suffering

never willingly endured, and always anticipated with more or

less of apprehension. Pain in itself has nothing tonic or bracing
in its effects upon such. In its relation to the body, it is a

sheer and unmitigated evil, and every fresh attack of suffering

only furnishes a fresh proof of the sensitiveness possessed to

pain, and increases the apprehension with which its attacks are

awaited.

   " When I, accordingly, made up my mind to submit to the

operation proposed to me, it was with the fullest conviction

that the pain it would occasion would far exceed my power of

Ipatient tolerance, and prepared for simply as for dreadful
   I                                       aI
necessity from which there was no escape.it,           aawoke each

morning from troubled sleep to reconsider the whole reasons for

and against submitting to the surgeons, and by painful effort

reached again the determination not to draw back from my

first resolution. From all this distracting mental struggle,

which reacted very injuriously on my bodily constitution, I

should have been exempted, had been able to look forward to

the administration of chloroform. A far greater amount of

internal composure and serenity would then have been mine,

and this mental peacefulness would have been powerful aid
                                           a

towards sustaining my strength, and fitting me to bear the

shock of the operation.
    " Again, concealed from the relatives who were about my
I
266 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

sickbed what awaited me, knowing that an announcement of

the impending operation would occasion them the greatest grief,

and fearing that the expression of that grief would utterly shake

Imy resolution. On the very morning of the operation, per

formed my toilet with peculiar pains and care, with a view to

disarm their apprehensions on hearing that the surgeons were to

Ipay me a visit that day ; and had at least the satisfaction of
Iafterwards learning that the ruse was successful. But need

scarcely say that the mental tension occasioned by this reserve,

and the continued effort to play a part, was a prejudicial exer

Ition, and kept my faculties injuriously on the strain. Could

have told my friends that the operation would be painless, we

                                        it,
                                                            a

                                                     I
                                                                I

                                                                                     it
should have conferred about and they and would have been

saved much distress.
   " Further during the operation, in spite of the pain
II
occasioned, my senses were preternaturally acute, as have
               ;
                                    ;;been told they generally are in patients in such circumstances.

watched all that the surgeons did with fascinated intensity.

still recall with unwelcome vividness the spreading out of the

instruments the twisting of the tourniquet; the first incision;

the fingering of the sawed bone; the sponge pressed on the

flap the tying of the blood-vessels the stitching of the skin
                                        a                        a
and the bloody dismembered limb lying on the floor.
                                                              ;                            ;;
"Those are not pleasant remembrances. For long time

they haunted me, and even now they are easily resuscitated

and though they cannot bring back the suffering attending the

events which gave them place in my memory, they can

occasion suffering of their own, and be the cause of disquiet
it,                                                              a
   a
which favours neither mental nor bodily health. From memo

ries of this kind, those subjects of operations who receive

chloroform are of course free and could even now, by some
                                        ;

                                                    I I,
                                                                  I
Lethean draught erase the remembrances                           speak of, would

drink for they are easily brought back, and they are never

welcome.

   " How far my experiences agree with those of others who have
                DR. GEORGE WILSON.                                                    267

I Iundergone similar operations do not know, but except that

may have a more active and roving fancy or imagination than

Isome of my fellow-sufferers, cannot doubt that my experiences

are not singular.
    " That the dread of pain keeps many a patient from submit-

ing to operations, which would save life, is notorious ; but the

dread of a particular mode of inflicting pain is a more dissua

sive motive with many than the dread of the pain so inflicted.

Hundreds every day endure the great torture of toothache,

rather than the small torture of the extraction of the tooth.

Women, in particular, suffer prolonged agonies for months,

rather than submit to a fraction of the same amount of pain at

a surgeon's hand, because, as produced by him, it takes the

form of an incision with a sharp knife ; and a red-hot iron is
held in such horror by most persons, that rather than be touched
by though the pain occasions but momentary, they will
if it,
              it

                     is
                          it
                                                       is

                                                                                a
                                                                                  is
endure the application of chemical caustics which occasion tor

ture for hours.                                        service by
   " Anaesthetics render all such persons as great

rendering them insensible to the accompaniments of an opera

tion, as by rendering them insensible to its pain. It true

that they felt no pain, they might be as calm and even curi

ous spectators of the dismembering of themselves as in dreams

all men are, of what in waking life would be the most agonizing

realities. But  not less true, that sufferings equal to those

of the severest operations are experienced by patients, in the

course of acute or aggravated maladies, without being followed

by the crushing effect of the operations which they rival in

power to occasion agony and surely this not to be wondered
                a

                             ;

                                              a
                                                   is
at. Before the days of anaesthetics, patient preparing for an

operation, was like condemned criminal preparing for execu
tion. He counted the days till the appointed day came. He
counted the hours of that day till the appointed hour came. He

listened for the echo on the street of the surgeon's carriage. He

watched for his pull at the door-bell for his foot on the stair
                ;
                                                                                   ;
268 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

for his step in the room ; for the production of his dreaded in
struments ; for his few grave words, and his last preparations
before beginning. And then he surrendered his liberty, and
revolting at the necessity, submitted to be held or bound, and
helplessly gave himself up to the cruel knife. The excitement,
disquiet, and exhaustion thus occasioned, could not but greatly
aggravate the evil effects of the operation, which fell upon a
physical frame predisposed to magnify, not to repel, its severity.
To make a patient incognizant of the surgeon's proceedings,

and unable to recall the details of an operation, is assuredly to

save him from much present and much future self-torture,
and to give to him thereby a much greater likelihood of re

covery.
   " Further ; the horror with which attached relatives regard

the prospect of operations on those very dear to them ; a horror
far surpassing that with which they would, in many cases, hear

of such operations awaiting themselves, leads them often to dis

suade their friends from submitting to surgical interference.
The issue in too many cases that the poor patient listens,
though but half convinced, to their arguments tries doctor
after doctor, and remedy after remedy, only to be compelled in
is,

                                               ;

the end, after weeks or months of prolonged suffering, to sub
mit to the operation. The prospects of recovery, however, in

such cases, are too often immensely lessened by the physical

exhaustion and enfeebled general health which have resulted

from the delay. The knowledge on the other hand that         is, a a
mother, sister, wife, or child, will be carried unconsciously
through severe operation, cannot but rob of half its horrors
in the eyes of friends, and will make them often the allies
aa
              a
                                   a

                                                  it

rather than the opponents of the surgeon, and keep them from

showing the false kindness to their relatives, of dissuading

them from submitting to the only treatment which promises

Icure.                                  have been urging,

   " The sum you will perceive of what

that the unconsciousness of the patient secured by anaesthetics
                 DR. GEORGE WILSON.                               269

is scarcely less important than the painlessness with which they

permit injuries to be inflicted on him. To steep his senses in
forgetfulness, and throw the whole intellectual machine out of
action, when if allowed to work, it only moves with a rapidity

and irregularity which threaten its integrity, and permanently

injure  a it,    to do him service, second only to that of saving
             is  I
him from suffering. And to makea              is itimpossible for him to
                          I
recall scene of horror, and torture himself by going over and
over all its incidents again and again, also to do him signal
service. Nor need more be said concerning the service done to
                                                                  a
his friends.
    " plead therefore for the administration of anaesthetics on       I
a
the grounds enumerated.                   fear you may think my confessions
  I
     aIexaggerated, but can most honestly declare that they are not.

When first heard that anaesthetics had been discovered,

could not and would not believe it.           have since thanked God
                                          it
many time, that He has put into your heart, and into that
                                            if is I
of other wise and humane men, to devise so simple and so safe
                                                              is
way of lessening pain.
" As for the fear entertained by some, that the moral good

which accrues from suffering, and intended by the Euler of
all to be secured by will be lost agony evaded by sufferers
                 I
having recourse to anaesthetics, we may surely leave that to theit,

disposal of Him who does all things well. The best answer to:

                                     '
such complaints have heard, was that given by an excellent

old lady to another, who was doubting whether any of the

daughters of Eve were at liberty to lessen by anaesthetics the

pangs of child-bearing                    You need not be afraid,' said the

wiser lady, that there will not be enough of suffering in the'

world.'
"I think not; but may you be honoured still further to
reduce its sum. --Yours most truly,
                                                     An Old Patient."

   In this letter Dr. Wilson wished to conceal the sex of the
writer. When Dr. Simpson used in support of his views, he
                                          it
270 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

referred to it as from an esteemed professional colleague.
" But, uncle," said his nephew, Dr. Alexander Simpson, " Dr.

Wilson wrote it with the view of hiding even the sex of the

author." "Nonsense!" was the reply; "how can that be,

when he speaks of shaving?" This was the construction he
had put on the expression, " On the very morning of the ope

Iration, performed my toilet with peculiar pains and care."

He could keenly sympathize with his colleague when he
"Isaid,
         am not gifted with physical courage!" His own
Ifsensibility to pain was most acute.
                                              even a very slight

wound on a finger came to require dressing, he shrank from

the operation with nervous dread. No wonder he set so

much value on everything that tended to alleviate physical

pain, and that he rejoiced with great joy over his discovery.1

   1 Not a few of the letters that reached him were amusing.              Here is
one :--

" My  dear   Sir, --In return  "East Hermitage, Leith, 9th Feby. 1848.

                               for your two excellent pamphlets, I beg your
acceptance of my latest edition of poems and songs. On the other side I
I Icop"y
an extemporary   wrote the other day on hearing a noisy preacher.
 must thank you  for the unexpected notice of me in your second pam
phlet. --Believe me very truly yours,               Rob. Gilfillan.

                                " Impromptu.
             " Cauld, can Id the kirk, and naething warm,

                Except the preacher's roaring ;

             His voice --like taking chloroform --

                Set a' the folk a-snoring.
             But when they woke, they a' declared,

             That neist time he was ranting,

             He 'd find, in token of regard,

               A congregation wanting ! "

Even hints   to butchers found their way to the public :--    kill,  and  in  order
             Extinction. --Mr. S. St. had a ten-score pig to
" Painless

to render its death easy he caused a piece of sponge to be soaked in chloro

form, placed in a cone of the form of an extinguisher, and the snout of the

animal placed in this. After inhaling the spirit for some time the pig became

perfectly unconscious, when the operation of killing was performed. Not

a struggle nor a squall resulted, and the blood flowed just as freely as under

ordinary circumstances. To borrow an Irish witticism, ' the pig would

only awake to find itself dead.' This example might be copied with general

advantage."
TIMID PRACTITIONERS.                                      271

   But epistles of commendation were not the only communica
tions with which he was favoured. Timid practitioners still held

Iback. " dare not try it upon the rich," wrote a leading pro

fessional man from Dublin, " for my own sake, nor upon the

Ipoor, for their sake, until see something more definite about

its dangers and safeguards." Doubters were still in force,
alarmists were coming to the front, routine was " dying hard,"
and showing its spite in anonymous contributions to public

journals. Even hesitating friends felt called to point out

dangers.

FROM DR. G., FEBRUARY 15, 1848.

I" wish you would persuade our Legislators of the necessity

of taking more pains than they do for the protection of human

Ilife. think such things as chloroform and arsenic are so

liable to be employed as the instruments of crime, that the

selling of them to unknown parties, and without a minute of

the facts, ought to subject the vendor to penal consequences.

It is of a piece with the neglect of regulations for preventing
loss of life by shipwreck. It would be easy to secure pas

sengers on board of vessels against the avarice of shipmasters,

by wise regulations as to the number of passengers and the

number of boats, waterproof jackets, etc., which they should

carry. But our collective wisdom prefers fighting party battles

to enacting useful laws.  \

I" think the chloroform is almost sure to be used as the

means of debauching innocent women, which goes greatly

to strengthen the argument for Legislative interference.  A

scoundrel would quail at the mere process of minuting his

name, address, and the quantity of the drug, with the date, in

the apothecary's book, and at the necessity of asking some one

to certify to the vendor his identity as the person he pretends

to be.                                        instances   in

  I" think you will not be long ere you have

abundance of this species of crime.
272 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

" For the Burkes and the Hares chloroform is the readiest

implement they could desire, if it can be got without restric

tion."

        FROM DR. P., JULY 24.

    " What does Dr. Simpson say to the deaths from chloroform ?

I suspect pure chloroform undergoes change by keeping ; but

that the hydrate keeps better. In this respect it is something

like hydrocyanic acid. We had a narrow escape from killing

a patient at the London Hospital, by employing pure chloroform

which had been kept. The same liquid a week or two previously
was good. By keeping it had acquired fuming properties,

from hydrochloric acid."

                               FROM MR. D., SEPTEMBER 15.is,

  I" At this moment, however, shall not trouble you with any

more lengthened detail of particulars merely affecting myself;

I am more anxious to occupy my space at present in some

allusion to what appears to me to be a point of great im
portance in the science of chloroform. In one of the extracts

I Isent you, hinted my belief that chloroform is capable of

evolving the state of trance, and hence of simulating all the

phenomena of death. Now a case has since occurred, in which

a young woman was actually not only entranced by the use of
chloroform, but buried in that condition. The particulars you

will find among the new batch of extracts now enclosed. It

must also be recollected that the lower animals do revive from

its influence after exhibiting appearances very like those of
death. But instances of full entrancement are probably only
possible in the human race --hybernation notwithstanding.

IAnd think it will generally be found that instances of the

deepest entrancement will be those most suddenly, or even
unexpectedly excited -- that that the more sudden or rapid
the transition to insensibility, the deeper will the degree of

entrancement be."

    Alarming reports of death from the inhalation of chloroform
               DB, MAGNUS RETZ1US.  273

were almost weekly getting into circulation. These disturbed
Dr. Simpson the more when he found that their authors could
not be clearly identified, and summarily dealt with. He had,
however, the painful impression that they emanated from

practitioners. At length a case of death occurred at Newcastle,
which the Coroner of the district attributed to the use of

chloroform. This afforded him an opportunity to bring the
matter under the notice of his class.

   This he did in February 1848, and showed from the medi
cal evidence at the inquest, that death could not have re
sulted from the inhalation of chloroform. His lecture on the
occasion was published in the Scotsman. The report of the

case had excited a good deal of public interest, and the expla
nation, which was eagerly looked for, was held to be conclusive
that the girl had died from asphyxia, or artificial choking. The
energetic and decided way in which he brought the Coroner
and others to book, did much to put an end to alarming

reports.

The results of the use of chloroform in Surgery and Mid

wifery was the last branch of Dr. Simpson's great argument in

its favour. Within a few months after its discovery, he was

able to point to these with feelings of joy and thankfulness.

Since then the blessings have been increased a thousandfold.

And the statistics of practice in private life and in public

hospitals all over the world, bear testimony increasingly not

only to the inexpressibly vast amount of pain saved, but also

to the number of lives preserved, and especially to the great

reduction of the death-rate, in the worst cases of surgical and

obstetrical practice. Some of the special cases reported to him

at a comparatively early date gave him the highest satisfaction.

His friend Dr. Magnus Eetzius wrote from Stockholm, De

--cember 21, 1847 :

   " Your application of the chloroform, or what we call formyl-

superchloride, to bring on the anaesthetic state, is a very great
Iimprovement.
               have already tried it three times in
274 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

obstetrical cases, and one time on our celebrated chemist Baron

Berzelius, who, since a fortnight, unhappily is felled from a

paralysis of the lower parts of the body, in consequence of a
Ispinal disease.
                  was obliged to apply on his back four large

maxas at the side of the spine, and nevertheless he has complete

feeling in the back and the paraplegical limbs. He was quite

unconscious of pain during and after the operation, asking, as

Ihe awoke, if the firing should not soon begin. Alas ! am

afraid nothing will help."

   Later, he received from Sir James Clark, Her Majesty's

physician, the following note :--

                                                           " London, April 19th, 1853.

  I" Dear Dr. Simpson, -- beg you to accept my thanks for

your book.     You certainly are the most industrious man in the
profession.
               It is really surprising that with your extensive

Iand harassing practice you can find time to bring forth a volume
every year.    have not yet had time to look into  it          but

Sharpey, who has read good part of  it,  tells me      is it,  very
                     a
                             a
pleasant reading on rather dry subject. . . . But am almost
                                         I

forgetting to notice the chief object of my writing you, which

...was to tell you that the Queen had chloroform exhibited to her
during her late confinement.    It acted admirably. It was

not at any time given so strongly as to render the Queen

insensible, and an ounce of chloroform was scarcely consumed

during the whole time. Her Majesty was greatly pleased with

...the effect, and she certainly never has had better recovery.
          know this information will please you, and have
little doubt will lead to more general use of chloroform
I

            it

                                           a

                                              if a

                                               I
in Midwifery practice in this quarter than has hitherto pre

vailed.
   " Pray, when you next come to town let me see you, and

consider yourself engaged to dine with me, you do dine in

your flights.
" Have the goodness to remember me to Scott when you see
him.-- Yours truly,
                                         Ja. Clark."
INCREASED USE OF CHLOROFORM.  275

   The gradual and steady increase in the production of
chloroform is the best proof of its ever extending use. In

little more than twenty years after its discovery Dr. Simpson
proudly pointed to this, as we have seen, in his letter to Dr.

Bigelow.
   While then all, yea, more than all, the blessings he had

ever anticipated from its use have been realized, it has kept
free from most of the evils prophesied by timid men. In view
of the facts stated in this chapter, the reader cannot but feel that

the words engraved on the monument at Boston, U.S., to com

memorate anaesthesia by etherization, are highly appropriate :--
" This also cometh forth from the lord of hosts, which is
wonderful in counsel and excellent in working."
                         CHAPTER IX.

  New Year's Greeting-- Psychology -- De Quincey --Sir William Hamilton
         --Children --Question as to Removal to London -- John Reid's Fatal
          Illness--Eeligious Impressions -- Opinions of Strangers -- Letter to
          Dr. Collins--The Air-Tractor -- Natural Analogies -- Letter from Dr.
          Paterson, Leith, Dr. Johnston, Berwick, and Dr. Sharpey -- Pro
         fessor Naegele --Collisions with Practitioners --Change of Physician
         by Lord Jeffrey-- False Impressions --Note from Principal Lee --

           Letter to Mrs. Simpson.

  "In 1848, 'seek ye first the Kingdom of God, and His
righteousness,' for ' What shall it profit a man if he gain the

whole world, and lose his own soul V "-- Such were the words
with which an anonymous friend greeted Dr. Simpson in the

beginning of 1848. The communication was one of many of a
like kind that reached him, when friend offers to friend " all
the compliments of the season." Though at this period many
thanked him for " his kind and Christian views " of their case,
or for " his warm Christian sympathy" with their sorrow, yet

the motive under which he worked was not love to God, it was
devotion to his profession, in order to the good of his fellow-

men ; and even this motive and work brought a high reward.
They were means of blessing to many who loved Christ, and
who had a warm place in their affection for the kind and
skilful physician. Without inquiring into the grounds of that
belief by which this class had come to differ from others, he

was quick to notice the difference, and to honour it. "And
whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little ones a

Icup of cold water only in the name of a disciple, verily say
                        DE QUINCE Y.                                                          277

unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward." That the

interest of some of his patients in his spiritual good took a
censorious tone and turn, and found expression in anonymous

communications, casts no shadow on those who approached
him personally, speaking to him of Christ, and longing to

bring the highest influences to bear on him. All this was to

bear fruit, but not yet.

   At the time when Dr. Simpson gave a good deal of attention

to Mesmerism, his mind had been turned to phenomena

touching the relations between spirit and matter, which led
him to the study of Psychology. With his usual directness
of purpose he went at once to those best fitted to direct him to
sources of information, as Sir William Hamilton, Professor

Macdougall, and others. Dr. Samuel Brown had before

directed him to the writings of De Quincey, and he now asked

his attention to the circumstances in which that gifted man
then was :--

I"Dear Dr. Simpson, --       " St. Cuthbert's G., Jan. 9, '48.
                        enclose you Archdeacon Hare's

tribute to the claims of Thomas de Quincey. Apart from the

literary and philosophical eminence of the venerable Arch

deacon, there are two circumstances which enhance the value

of this commendation --
   " 1st. It is spontaneous and incidental.
    " 2d. Hare appeared some years ago in the arena of literary

contest against De Quincey; it was in the controversy concern

ing the accusation of the crime of plagia brought against

Coleridge.
    " Savage Landor lately said, to one very capable of reporting

   that he also takes in Tait's Magazine solely for the sake of
it,

        I

                    I

                                                                                           ;

                                                                      of
De Quincey's articles.  have observed during the last ten

years that seem never to have met any one prone to literary

enjoyments who has not read the Confessions                                                   an English

Opium-eater. Dr. Chalmers indeed had never perused them

till the last year of his busy life but he was astonished at

                                                                                                          S
278 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

their eloquence and power, and eagerly sought the acquaintance

of their gifted penman.
   " De Quincey was born to the possession of moderate fortune,

but he did not inherit the art of retaining it. Money slipped

through his impotent fingers like water. On one occasion he

heard that poor Coleridge was in straits, and sent him

£500. Then he was long steeped in the vice of opium-eating,
and soon came to poverty. Yet he has been industrious in an

astonishing degree ; writing for ever, but not knowing the way

to write to the best advantage for himself. His work on

Political Economy, his essays on the same subject in Black

wood and Tait, his series of dissertations on the Essenes, his

numerous pieces of aesthetical and psychological criticism, his

Suspiria de Profundis, and his innumerable literary jeux

d'esprits, certainly constitute a most wonderful and enormously

read contribution to the body of British literature. It is at

least a grand, if a pitiful consideration, that this singular but

abnormal spirit should have done so little for himself, while he

has done so much for us ! He is now upwards of seventy, and
' exceeding poor! Wordsworth characterizes him as the most

wonderful master of elegant and far-reaching conversation he

has ever known, yet he is condemned in his old age to mumble
alone in a garret. The friend, and the equal friend, of Cole

ridge, Southey, Wordsworth, Lamb, and Wilson, is now almost

friendless. Everlasting want, and everlasting writing for Black

wood, Tait, the North British Review, are his ever-recurring lot.

Many people will doubtless trace this miserable contrast of the

Iman and his circumstances to his opium-eating ; but assure

you he has for some years abandoned it entirely, and he now
in the opposite extreme of water-drinking. Is this not an
I
    I?

               is.I
indication of heroic courage and perseverance         love
    " This note has become longer than intended, but

and honour De Quincey in particular, and  dearly honour

and love the cause of the 'poor wise man in a little city' in
                       PSYCHOLOGY.                 279

Igeneral; and these things shall be my best apology. -- am

affectionately yours,                         Samuel Brown."

   A talk with Sir William Hamilton on an old theory,

" The Divisibility of the Sensible Soul," led to the following
note :--

FROM SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON.

  I"My dear Sir,-- am disappointed in being able to find
Ithe passage in St. Augustine, of which have a distinct re

collection, but fourteen volumes in folio may easily baffle a
Ihasty research.
                  remember that he mentions, while walking

out with a friend, he met with a small animal of many feet (a

scolopendra or millepede it must have been) ; this, on being cut
into several pieces, each made off by itself. It struck the
Bishop -- How, if the sensible soul be one and indivisible, the
Iseveral parts could be thus animated, etc. The same difficulty
If Ihave seen noticed by sundry of the schoolmen.
Ithe passage will send you a note of it.           meet with

I" am glad to hear that you are now so nearly well. By
Ithe bye, Dr. Allen Thomson carried off your Unzer, which
Ihad read in great part with much interest.
                                              thought he

said he was going to   see you after he left this ; but Lady
                       must have mistaken him, and that he
IHamilton says that
Ihad come from you.       mention this that in case you may

have occasion for the book you may know where it is to be
found. --Believe me, ever truly yours,
                                              W. Hamilton.

" 16 Gt. Kino Street, Wednesday, 16th Jany."

    Both the saint and the psychologist were in error, in be- '
lieving that any small terrestrial animal with many feet has the
power of multiplying by subdivision, either forced or natural.
Certainly none of the myriapods have. The many-footed

forms likely to come under the eye of Augustine --as scolo

pendra, julus, spirotreptus, lithobius, etc. --rapidly die when cut
280 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

through. Indeed, any injury to the vessels, which in them
serve the purpose of a heart, is quickly fatal

    Since the birth of Walter, their second son and third child,

other three children had been born--Mary, who died in infancy,

James, and Jessie. In the following notes to a patient, Mrs.
Tootal, Jessie is " Sunbeam," --the child referred to as " talking

with angel sisters."
    " Still headaches ; weary, weary, heartless headaches.

   " The back of her head is bare, quite bare, as if shaved :

smooth as one's palm. And it is all the result of rub, rubbing her

little head on the sofa, pillow, or whatever she lies upon, as she

talks to her angel sisters and brothers in the roof of the room
or bed, and rollicks her head about ; as she gibbers (not in

English), and laughs, and smiles, and jokes with them. And

Imany a conversation of the kind she has. wonder sometimes

what all the talk and jokes can be about ; it must be something

very very pleasant and delightful --if we may judge at least

from her earnestness and merry smiles. And she grows apace,

and makes us all happy ; your cowpock-sister, my wee Jessie,

my -wee-est Jessie. Oh may God bless her !

  I" Dr. Collins -- saw his letter; he should have sent it to me,
Iand.not to the Journal, and would have put him right privately,

for he is grievously wrong. It is an old ' dispute ' between

him and my predecessor, Dr. Hamilton, and he wishes to
Isaddle it upon me. So be it.
                               had no time in the beginning
Iof the week to write, but last Thursday rose at 2 A.M. and
Iwrote him a letter of thirty pages in six hours (which con

sidered a good feat)."

Again :--

I" Well ! how are you ?-- healthy, happy, and merry, hope.
I" got home nicely. Mina and Sunbeam opened the door.

Sunbeam's little mouth quite opened when she returned into

the dining-room ; and she took a long pretty laugh to welcome

me. She has become very cunning, and won't lie in her own
              ASKED TO LEAVE EDINBURGH.                281

bed during these cold nights, but ever creeps back beside her

mother. She allows herself to be laid down (as if she were

asleep), but then she opens quietly her imploring eyes, after it

is done ; and, and must come back.
I" Was out most of the night
                                    returned, and had a very
Iterrible headache two days afterwards.
                                         could not raise my

head. Jessie and all the children well and merry. Jeany

much better.
I" How am to thank Mr. Tootal and you for all your great,
Igreat kindness ? It is impossible, and won't try it.
" Pray give my kindest regards to Miss Tootal, and believe
                                         J. Y. Simpson."
me, yours very truly,

   In the spring of 1848 circumstances occurred that seemed

to hold out a hope to several of the most eminent men connected
with St. Bartholomew's Hospital, that Dr. Simpson might be
persuaded to take up his abode in London.

                                                                      "March 9, 1848.

I" My dear Doctor, -- presume you are aware that Eigby

has resigned the office of Lecturer on Midwifery at St. Bartholo

mew's Hospital. Thinking it not impossible you may enter

Itain some idea of removing to London, have determined to

ascertain your wishes as to the acceptance of the Obstetric

IChair, before decided on becoming a candidate for the appoint
I Iment. Should you entertain any such desire, think may

venture to say there will be no difficulty in its accomplishment in
Ia manner agreeable to your feelings, and most readily shall
... Irelinquish my claims.
                            shall be obliged by your giving
Ime your decision as soon as possible, as, until receive your
Ireply, shall be perfectly passive in the matter.
                                                       P. S."

   In a few days he received a much more important communi
cation :--

                                                                                "March 18, 1848.

  "My dear Sir, --A vacancy is about to take place in the

Obstetric department of our school at St. Bartholomew's, and
282 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

you will readily believe that my colleagues and myself, the

medical officers and teachers of the Hospital and School, are

anxious that the Chair should be filled by one whose abilities

and skill have gained for him the highest professional character.
With these views, our thoughts were immediately turned towards
yourself, especially as it had been whispered that you may

intend to leave Edinburgh for London. Messrs. S., P., and

myself have had a strictly confidential conference on the sub

Iject, the result of which is that write, in their names as well

as my own, to open the matter to you, and to inquire whether,

as we strongly hope, you might be disposed to join our School.
We are aware that, in addition to the immediate duties of the

Chair, the efficient teaching of Midwifery requires much time

and labour in other ways, more perhaps than you would be

willing or able to devote. Should you be inclined to accede to

our proposal, we shall be able, if you wish
I                                            to procure any
                           a
                                                           is
                                                                  a it,

                                                                     if a
assistance you may require, either in the professional or other

departments, from gentleman whose talents and acquirements
render him not unworthy to be associated with yourself.

    " can only add, that to be instrumental in procuring your

powerful aid for our establishment at St. Bartholomew's would

be very gratifying to yours, my dear Sir, with much esteem and

respect,                                     Wm. L."

  A sad calamity had fallen on his old and most beloved friend
Dr. John Eeid. "In the month of November 1847 small

blister appeared on his tongue, which before long opened into

an ulcer, betraying the symptoms of cancer -- disease which, in

spite of the advancement of medicine,        almost synonymous

with protracted unappeasable torture, and painful lingering

death." In May 1848 he consulted Drs. Simpson and Duncan,
who advised him to try rest and change of scene, " and these

failed to be of service, to proceed to London, and consult the

surgeons there."

On the 31st August advantage was taken of Mr. Fergusson's
DR. JOHN REID.  283

visit to Edinburgh, and an operation was performed by him on
the tongue, in Dr. Simpson's house. Dr. Simpson, Dr. James

Duncan, Professor Goodsir, and Professor J. H. Bennet were

present. Dr. Eeid afterwards went to London and consulted
Professor Syme, Sir B. Brodie, and Mr. Fergusson :--

                           " London, 7 Panton Sq., Coventry St., Piccadilly.

  I" My dear Simpson, -- arrived here on Tuesday, and waited

upon Fergusson that evening. He is unwilling to believe that
so great an increase in the size of the glands in the neck can
arise entirely from the same disease as that of the tongue, and
that part of it may be due to irritation. As the extirpation of
the enlarged glands, from their proximity to the large blood
vessels and nerves, would be difficult, he wishes to watch the

affected parts for a few days, before he makes up his mind

what to do. In the meantime, with most grateful thanks for

all your many kindnesses, believe me, your very sincere friend,

                                                             " John Eeid."

                            " 16 George St., Hanover Square, 21st Oct. 1848.

   " My dear Simpson, --Our friend Eeid went north on Wed
nesday last, with my consent. He now declares himself to be
in as good health as he ever was all his life, and in most respects
he looks so. He has improved in condition amazingly since
he came here, and declares himself fit for almost any exertion.

  I" grieve, however, to think that there is still that about

him to cause the utmost anxiety with us all. The swelling in
the neck is still present, and one cannot but fear that it

Iis malignant. When he came here fancied that in all pro

bability it owed its sudden increase to the irritation of the
neighbouring wound, and that part of it at all events was

from inflammatory tumefaction. . . .

  I" Whatever may be the final result, shall for my own part

feel gratified that our friendly attempt has been made to save

him. If the swelling causes further anxiety he will come up

to me again.
284 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

I" have heard with regret that you have been ill-- too much

work no doubt. You must adopt the plan of getting away from

business altogether for a month or so each year; few men better

deserve such relaxations. . . .

  I" When you can spare a few minutes to write me a note
Ishall be happy to hear from you ; meantime remain, yours

very faithfully,                Wm. Fergusson."

   The last note received by Dr. Simpson from his friend is

dated St. Andrews, 22d November 1848 :--

  I"My dear Simpson, -- have had a very severe affliction
Isince saw you last in the death of my little boy. My own

late trials seemed light in comparison with this.

  I I" have cancelled the last page in the volume lately

published, for the purpose of introducing a list of errata, includ

Iing the stupid one permitted to remain in the short com

munication you had the goodness to give me.

   " My kindest regards to Mrs. Simpson and Miss Grindlay,
in which Mrs. Eeid cordially joins me.-- Believe me, my dear

Simpson, very sincerely yours,  John Eeid.

  I" send you a copy of the new page, that you may substitute

it in the place of the one to be cancelled."

   Wave after wave had broken over John Eeid. But he had
learned that the Lord sits on the floods. He had come to say,
" My only hopes of obtaining mercy rest on the atoning sacrifice
of my Saviour." His last words, " The world is behind," told

how complete his triumph was. Dr. Simpson was greatly
affected as time after time he heard of his friend's sufferings.
Yet it could not fail to be to him a source of sad satisfaction,
that his playfellow in boyhood, his fellow-student and ever dear
friend, had the agony of his last moments alleviated by means
of his great discovery. " Every function but breathing seemed
suspended," says Dr. George Wilson. " Yet, when sensitiveness
to all else appeared extinct, the consciousness of agony returned,
CELEBRITY.                   285

and before the final close, the suffering, but for chloroform,

would have been extreme."

  INot long after the death of Dr. Eeid had frequent con

versations with Dr. Simpson. Without venturing to trace the

source of the influence, one could not help noticing that his

Iinterest in religion was becoming more marked than before.

seldom saw him without being asked the meaning of some

passage of Scripture on which he had been thinking. Occasion

ally, too, a severe expression escaped from him regarding what
he called "the extravagant views" of devoted ministers.
" Why do they not preach the gospel," he once said, " and not

give out views that spring from the influence of a diseased
                             I! heard him the other
body on the mind? There is

day, but only a man gone in dyspepsia would have said what he

said." Some of the difficulties relating to the questions raised

by the author of The Vestiges, began to get his attention,

and to form topics of conversation. It was clear that house

hold trial, the death of friends, the sight of suffering, and the

reflex influence of the sermons heard on Sabbath, were stirring

the surface at least of his deep spiritual nature. And this
continued till the soil was fitted to receive that good seed of

the Word, which was to work a complete change in his heart

and life. He had little time for reflection. The great change
had come to his friend Eeid when " an exile among the lonely

hills and still lakes" of Cumberland. It was to come to

Simpson also, but not thus.

Since the introduction of chloroform, his name and fame had

attracted to Queen Street men of influence from all lands, and
they returned home to spread reports of his ways and his
work, in terms whose very exaggeration bore witness to the

deep impressions made on them by what they had seen and

heard. A medical officer of the Indian army wrote to the

Bombay Telegraph and Courier :--" Decidedly the most won

Iderful man of his age -- mean of the age in which he lives

-- is Simpson of Edinburgh. In him are realized John Bell's
286 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

four ideals of the perfect Esculapius --the brain of an Apollo,

the eye of an Eagle, the heart of a Lion, and the hand of a Lady.

Nothing baffles his intellect ; nothing escapes his penetrating
Ifglance ; he sticks at nothing, and--he bungles nothing.
                                                           his

practice be worth a rupee per annum, it is worth £10,000 !--

twice as much as Dr. Hamilton ever realized, and nearly twice

the amount of the late Abercrombie's practice. From all parts,

not of Britain only, but of Europe, do ladies rush to see, consult,

and fee the man. He has spread joy through many a rich

man's house by enabling his wife to present him with a living

child, a feat which none but Simpson ever dared to enable her

Ito do. To watch him of a morning with his poor patients (them

only of course was permitted to see) is a treat. In comes a
woman with a fibrous tumour, which fifty other practitioners

have called by fifty other names. One minute suffices for his

diagnosis ; another sees her in a state of insensibility, and in

less than a third, two long needles are thrust inches deep into

the tumour, and a galvanic battery is at work discussing it.
' Leave her alone quietly,' says Simpson, ' she '11 take care of

herself --no fear.' One up, another down, is the order of the

day. What other men would speculate as to the propriety of

for hours, Simpson does in a minute or two. He is bold, but

not reckless ; ever ready, but never rash. He is prepared for
every contingency, and meets it on the instant. Everything

seems to prosper in his hands. As to ether and chloroform,

they seem like invisible intelligences, doomed to obey his
bidding -- familiars who do his work because they must, never

venturing to produce effects one iota greater or less than he

desires. While other men measure out the liquids, fumble

about, and make a fuss, Simpson, in what an Irishman would

call the most promiscuous manner possible, does the job in a

minute or two. He is indeed a wonderful man."

  In one of the notes quoted above, reference is made to Dr.

Simpson's letter to Dr. Collins of Dublin. The letter was written

in answer to one addressed to himself, relative to professional
                        DR. COLLINS.         287

papers then appearing in the Provincial Medical Journal.

Dr. Collins questioned the use he was making of facts and

statistics contained in a work of which he was the author.

His letter seemed to Dr. Simpson to be couched in terms, and

to manifest a spirit little in harmony with the friendliness that

had existed between them, or with the discussion of a scientific

question :--

   "In the last No. of that Journal you have, on this subject,

Ipublished a letter, addressed to me. For your own sake, do

sincerely regret that you had not first sent this communication

Ito myself instead of to the Editor of the Journal, because

should have had pleasure in showing you privately the serious

errors of calculation and reasoning which you have committed
in instead of being compelled, as now, and in self-defence,
I
    I it,to speak of them openly and publicly.
   " Let me premise, however, first and once for all, that in
       I
           Iwriting the fourth section of the memoir (the one on which you
principally comment), as in writing all the other sections of
                I                     a
                       iIf                a
                          II                                 it,
have, as far as am aware, made no remark upon you or upon

your work, calculated, in any degree, to call forth communica

tion from you conceived and written in such tone and spirit

as your letter betrays. Under various chapters in your treatise,

you invite your readers to use your data for further calcula

tions.     have done so, but have done no more and should
                                      ;

                                          I

have felt sorry indeed  had allowed any word or expression

of disrespect to escape from me of which you or any one could

complain.  have quoted, to be sure, and in your own words,

some of the interesting cases which you have published, as

cases where, probably, the proposed operation would have been
more successful in saving human life. But certainly, in doing

this, no more attached, or dreamt of attaching, any blame to

you in these instances than could mean to attach blame to

you for not using anaesthesia in your practice twenty years
ago, when the practice of anaesthesia in Midwifery was un

known.
288 SLR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

  I" have often already stated, and gladly and willingly

repeat, that your work is a most admirable collection of

obstetric cases and data, and that it would be difficult in this

Irespect to overpraise its candour and worth ; but believe at

the same time that the deductions which you yourself have
drawn from your data are, in most cases, incorrect. Your data

Iare, believe, exceedingly accurate and valuable, but your own
Ideductions from these extensive data, are, believe, equally, in

most cases, extremely inaccurate and valueless."
    Dr. Simpson took a rough hold of his opponent, and wrote

with an earnestness, if not severity, difficult, at first sight, to

be understood. But the explanation becomes apparent when
we remember the construction which he put upon Dr. Collins's
letter. His mode of using statistics, on which he ever set
much value, was held to be illegitimate. But chiefly, he
believed an attempt was made to defend the theory of the
therapeutic value of conscious pain, which he had been called
to deal with in the chloroform controversy. Moreover, the
question was again raised, which he had thought settled,
namely, Is there anything in mere pain itself, when protracted,

injurious to the body ? It seemed to him he had established

the affirmative. But allegations to the contrary again met
him, and roused him to a protest more powerful than pleasant.
Perhaps, however, the warmth of the reply was greater than
the subject merited. The letters that reached him from
practitioners in different parts of the country seem to indicate,
that the profession very generally believed he had the best of

the argument.
    Toward the end of December 1848, he read a paper to the

Edinburgh Obstetric Society on the use of a new instrument,
the Air-Tractor, and in February 1849 another, on the same
subject, to the Medico-Chirurgical Society. Dr. Neil Arnott of
London had previously described an instrument of this sort in
his work on Physics. But the idea had occurred to Dr.

Simpson independently so early as 1836.
                        THE AIR-TRACTOR.                                                289

   " My dear Sir,--It affords me much pleasure to state, in

Ireply to your note of this morning, that have a most clear

and distinct recollection of the origin of your idea regarding

the Air-Tractor.

   " In passing along the street together one afternoon in the

summer of 1836, we happened to come upon a group of boys

busily occupied lifting large stones with round pieces of leather

wetted, a cord being attached to the centre, and commonly
called suckers in this place." (Eeference is then made to the
use Dr. Simpson thought might be made of a similar instru
ment in medical practice.)

  I" have often thought of the idea since, as well as mentioned

it to others, long before you published an account of your air-

I Itractor, and assure you regretted much my inability to be

present at the meeting of the Medico-Chirurgical Society when

                        it,

                                 I

                                                                      a
you read an account of otherwise should then have publicly

mentioned my early recollections of the origin, in crude way,
of your valuable instrument. --Yours ever sincerely,

                                             "Eobt. Paterson.

'· Leith, 1th April 1849."

   To patient he wrote --" have been up for three nights
working, as am, here. When get home will enclose in
this two Tractors. Send one to your father--will you The
a                           :

    I                         I
                                  II
                                              it I

                                                                     a

                                                       I?
instrument now nearly perfect.    showed last Wednesday
is

to the Medico-Chirurgical Society. There was great crowd

of doctors, etc. The experiments went off beautifully.                                  fixed

  small tractor in the palm of my right hand before them, and

lifted up with an iron weight of 28 lbs. It could lift double.
aa
             is

                    it
One of the physicians to the St. Petersburg Court (Dr. Mar-

ginlies) here. He admired the idea, but doubted                          if           would

really answer in practice. Well, took him and others down                   it
                                'I
                                          a                                          ;
  few days ago to the Hospital to see baddish case, and fixed
the tractor on. The operation was most successful. The

Eussian danced with joy, crying,  C'est superbe, superbe                                c'est
immortalité vous,' " etc etc.
a

                            T
290 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Sir James Clark, Dr. Locock, and others, expressed their

belief that the instrument would be useful, but pointed out

difficulties, and reported conversations they had had with
Dr. Arnott on the subject. But the chief interest in the matter

to the general reader is the illustration of the use Dr. Simpson

made of natural analogies. On these he communicated with
Dr. Johnston and Dr. Sharpey. The reference in Dr. John
ston's note to " the Cuttle Fish," shows that his mind had been

turned to such natural adaptations before he received any

information from them.

  I" My dear Sir, -- was in the act of reading with great interest

your paper on Suckers in the Journal when your letter was put
Iinto my hand.
                cannot but admire your anxious ingenuity,

and wonder at your energy and wide survey of matters, and am

greatly pleased with the mode and manner in which you treat

every subject that occupies your rich and fertile brain. It

seems to me that you have hit upon the best type and model
for your purpose in the cup of the Cuttles. In the different

genera these cups present certain modifications, that might

suggest useful hints. Goodsir perhaps could let you have

specimens, for the genera are foreign, or you might look at
Owen's paper in the Cyclopedia of Comparative Anatomy and

Physiology. The cups armed with crooked spines would seem

to give a firm hold, nor need they be made so long as to pene

trate the skulL Sir Everard Home's observations must be

looked upon with suspicion-- nothing trustworthy ever came
from him--and you will find a refutation of his observations in
IBlackwall's Zoological Eesearches.
                                     do not remember that in

this book there is anything to your purpose, but it had better
Ibe looked at-- there may be.
                               do not remember any other
Ibook that would seem to give you information, nor can just

now remember any very suitable animals. The fore-legs of the

Dytiscus marginalia, of which Dr. Greville can give you a

specimen, is very curiously constructed for holding on firmly ;

and the sucker of the Cockpaidle and of the Lamprey eel
                   PROFESSOR NAEGELE.                  291

may be looked at. The latter seems to be the likeliest of

the two.

  I" shall look forward with great interest to the result of your

most ingenious and useful inquiry, and do trust it may add

another to the many claims you have already on the gratitude

of humanity.                              Ion chloroform ?-- am,
    " What has become of your letters
                                             George Johnston.
my dear Sir, yours very truly,
   " Berwick-on-Twxed, February 7, '49."

Dr. Sharpey entered more fully into the matter, and supplied

him with many references to sources of information, British

and Foreign. He adds --" What is to come of our redundant

population ! The sanitary people on the one hand keeping

 folks from dying, and you with your chloroform and your other

' ' cantrips ' smoothing the road into the world : it will be like

the threatened glut of gold, and reduce the value of honest

people that have run their risk of ruder chances. Henceforth

you must be  told  to take care of yourself, because   good folk  are
scarce. The   cry                                "      copy of   the
                   will  be  for  more    room      A
                                                !

communication to the Obstetric Society was forwarded to Pro

fessor Naegelé of Heidelberg, who replied :--
  "Mon tres honore" et tres cher Collegue, --Mon ami,

Mr. le Professeur Arnold de Rugby, qui part pour TAngleterre

veut bien se charger de vous faire parvenir une lettre ; je pro-

fite done de cette occasion pour vous remercier de l'attention

que vous avez la bonté de me témoigner par 1'envoi réiteVe1

de vos écrits. Je vous prie en m6me terns d'accepter comme

un faible signe de mon estime et de ma reconnaissance le petit

ecrit ci-joint, dont l'impression a été retarded par un accident

inattendu.
   " Que le ciel comble de ses bénédictions tous vos travaux

pour le bien de rhumanite- et de la science !
   " Agreez, Monsieur, l'assurance de la haute considération et

estime avec laquelle j'ai l'honneur d'etre votre tout devout,
                                                         "Naegel&Pere.

   " Hmdelberg, le 3 Fierier 1849."
292 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

It would have been almost impossible for any man, even

with far less practice than Dr. Simpson now had, to escape

misconstruction of his acts, and charges of interference with
Ithe practice of other men.
                             have found the records of several
cases of this kind among his papers -- cases in which he was

willing to bear the blame in silence, when by a few words he

might have vindicated himself. But these he refused to speak
Irather than implicate others.
                                remember to have heard it

stated, that his dislike to a practitioner with whom he had

been called to consult, had led him to advise that another

should be employed, when, indeed, the demand for a change

had been made by the patient. The reader will perceive the

delicacy and difficulty of illustrating these remarks by the

statement of facts. In most of the cases that have come

under my notice, both the physicians and patients are alive,

and it would be little to profit to enter into explanations

which Dr. Simpson himself refused to give. One example,

however, may be given, without the risk of unpleasantness to

any one. It was alleged that the practitioner who ordinarily

attended the household of the late Lord Jeffrey, was super
seded by advice of Dr. Simpson. But that there was not the

shadow of truth in this the following notes show :--

                                                 " Edinburgh, Monday, 2d April.

" My dear Doctor, --Mrs. Jeffrey has so entirely lost con

fidence in  , and feels so uncomfortable, when obliged to
Itrust him, that have found it necessary to come to the reso

Ilution of dispensing with his future attendance ; and what

wish to consult you upon is as to who should be selected to

I I Isucceed him ? In entreating the favour of your advice upon

this subject, feel that am using a liberty to which am not

Iperhaps entitled. But trust you will make some allowance

for the anxiety which dictates the application, and you may

perfectly rely on my treating any suggestion with which you

may favour me as strictly confidential, and never to be divulged
LORD JEFFREY.                                        293

to any party whatever, but used solely for my own guidance

and consideration.                      at Craigcrook to-morrow ;

  I" expect to see you and

I Ibut you will, of course, give him no hint as to this communica

tion, as cannot make the painful intimation contemplate
Itill have secured the services of some other. --With many
                                              F. Jeffrey.
apologies, ever very faithfully yours,
I" think you will find us going on well to-morrow."

                                                    "Craigcrook, Tuesday, 3 o'clock.

  I" My dear Doctor, -- hope we shall see you to-morrow,
Iand that you have forgiven me for my note of yesterday.

wish now only to add, that the persons we have thought of

are principally Professor Miller, Dr. Eobertson (formerly near

Cramond), Dr. Duncan, and Dr. Scott. Except Eobertson, of

whom Mrs. J. has a high opinion, we know the others only by

report. The main thing, next to general competency, must be
Ifthe capacity of giving regular attendance.
                                              the nature and

urgency of your avocations did not unavoidably interfere with

I Ithis, should desire no other adviser. But fear we must also
have one in ordinary. --Ever yours,           F. Jeffrey."

                                                               "Craigcrook, Thursday.

  I" My dear Dr.,-- have made the painful communication
I told you of, and written to beg Professor Miller to come with
Iyou on Saturday morning, for which trust that you will make

the necessary arrangements.

  I" The patient, hope, is going on favourably. She sat up

for some hours yesterday, with very little sense of fatigue, and
slept well after. --Ever faithfully yours,    F. Jeffrey."

    That in these circumstances, when his advice was asked, he
recommended Professor Miller, was in no way discourteous to
the other gentlemen named. Moreover, the terms of Lord
Jeffrey's notes prevented him from even indicating to the
former medical adviser his part in the affair.
294 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   Communications reached him almost daily, in which patients,
or their relatives, thanked him for his great kindness, atten
tion, or liberality in refusing a fee :--

                          I" Old Burlingtok Stbebt, May 11.

" Dear Simpson," wrote Dr. Forbes, " when sent off yes

Iterday morning to your address, via Maclachlan, a copy of my
unprofessional book, 'The Physician's Holiday,'  was not

aware of what my niece Eppie Webster's letter informed me

in the afternoon, how your liberality to her had equalled your
kindness --it could not exceed it. In her name and my own

I sincerely thank you, and you may rest assured that your

attention to my good niece will never be forgotten by her or
hers. In all her and her sister's letters she speaks of the great

kindness shown to her by both you and Mrs. Simpson. Along

Iwith the ' Holiday ' have enclosed a little pamphlet on obstet

rical instruments, just received from Stockholm. It seems a
Ifmere chronology.
                    it contains aught needing interpretation,

Dr. Charlton of Newcastle will transcribe it for you.
    " With the exception of the Introduction, my ' Holiday ' is a

mere Tour, hardly worthy the notice of great doctors like you,

but possibly Mrs. Simpson may find a passage or two that may
Iinterest her.
                wish, for your own health's sake, it had suffi
Icient attractions to draw you to do likewise, as cannot but

fear lest your inconceivable activity may in the end work out

Ithe cerebral quarry before its time. But fear that my pro

fessional friends may find its pages rather of the anaesthetic

than the stimulant kind, and keep them from rather than draw
them to my glorified land of the Switzers. --Believe me, dear

Simpson, yours faithfully,  John Forbes."

   On another topic there is a characteristic note from the late

Principal Lee. An Irishman had addressed him as " Dear Sir,"

Iasking, " What is it necessary for me to do that may qualify

Imyself for following the profession of accoucheur ? understand
Ithe Edinburgh University is the best place could attend." --
                  LETTER TO MBS. SIMPSON.                               295

                                                              "College, July 30, 1849.

    I" My dear Sir,-- A dear friend, of whose existence was not

aware       indeed he be real entity), wishes me to tell him
        (if

                      ;

                    II
                                     a

                           I
something which he might almost as well have asked from the

child unborn and as do not dissent from the statement in

his second paragraph, think cannot do better than transfer

his letter to you. --In haste, believe me ever yours most faith

fully,                                                     John Lee."

   In the summer of 1849 Mrs. Simpson and the children
went to the Isle of Man, on visit to their relatives, Mr. and

Mrs. Petrie. Dr. Simpson kept them informed of his " doings

in bachelorship --
   " My dearest Jessie, --Enclosed the vaccine matter which

you wished for Helen's child. My respects to George and
                  :"
                                        a

                                                 is

her.

   " Mrs. Black drove out with me to Lasswade yesterday we

then ran on to Musselburgh and Portobello. It was beauti
                                                           a

                                                                     ;

ful day and the country looked charming. Dined with Dr.
        ;

             aI
                         is
                             I

                                                  it
Bennet in the evening. To-day dine with Mr. Everard at

Granton.
   " David and were at Bathgate on Thursday. Enjoyed it.

All well. Janet to be in this week.

   " Quite rejoiced by your letter of yesterday saying you were

all so well, and especially James so much better. The oint

ment was sent few days ago.             Apply at night, rubbing         a
small portion over the eruption.        The cream may be taken in

any quantity.aII

   " In your yesterday's letter you speak of coming across to
Liverpool. Now we all get on here quite smoothly and easily,
and do think you ought to stop quietly at the Eaggatt. In
truth don't think you would feel happy and easy-minded at
such distance from the children. And the journey back and

back again  is    long and tiresome one enough. Do just write
               a

what we should get done here -- anything to be done, --and
                                  if

                                                       is

it  will be easily managed.
296 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

I" hope baby behaves like herself under the weaning. A

few days will readily teach her.

  I" On Saturday Miller and were at Hamilton Palace and

Glasgow. Miller stopped to go on for a week or two's fishing

in Argyleshire, with his brothers. The Earl of Balcarras is
about to become Duke of Crawford, a very old title. He will

be Premier Peer of Scotland, which touches the Duke of H.

  I" hope you and the children are all enjoying the country

greatly, and benefiting by it. We get on all so easily here,

Ithat do think you should remain at the Eaggatt, instead of

coming here at the end of this month. It is a long and tire

some journey ; and you would be strengthened against the winter

by remaining now with the children for two or three months,
Ifprovided Eliza will keep you.
                                      there is anything to be done

to the house you could tell them here in writing. Do think

Iof it ere you move ; for really am of opinion you should
I Istay quietly in the island. Of course wish could get over ;

but if wishes were horses, etc. etc.

" Have Davie and Walter caught any fish in the Nab yes
Iterday? Tell Davie
                            expect a letter from him. Say to

Walter that yesterday Carlo jumped into the carriage after me,

and saw with me several patients. He usually mounted a

chair at the side of each bed, and looked in. But Mrs. S. gave

him too much encouragement. He leapt into bed altogether,

and tramped upon a blister ! which was very painful.
    " Dr. Bennet has just come in to open the shark with me.

I expect Marginlies to breakfast. He is here for a day with

an Egyptian doctor. He is going to settle in London. --Love to

all, and believe me ever yours most affectionately,

                                                 " J. Y. Simpson.

   "Eight o'clock, Thursday."

" My dearest Jessie, -- Got your Sunday's letter yesterday,

Iand delighted to hear from you that all were so well. Every
thing goes on nicely here.  have been looking out for a head
Iache (but keep excellently well), for have been working
                         LETTER TO MRS. SIMPSON.                   297

very busily, and scarcely with enough of sleep. Yesterday

beat (as Clarke writes          any day ever yet saw in the house.
a

    I

                             it)

                   I
                          I

                              I
                                       I
                                            I I; !

                                                                                                    a
Did not get out till half-past four; and the drawing-room

actually filled beyond the number of chairs and seats Have

had capital sleep, and got up to look at the ducks but none

laying this morning, so write instead. To-day have

fancy to run out to Bathgate, and think will.                      wrote

yesterday might be.
   " Yesterday dined with Miller, and Williamson, the Duke of

Buccleuch's huntsman, enlightened us about dogs. Miller and

go to Hamilton Palace on Saturday. On Monday have
I                                                     II
    Ipromised to dine with the Everards.                           feel

                      ."My ducks won't lay any more eggs, at which

very chagrined.
   " hope Davie and Walter still enjoy themselves as much
                         .
                             .

                            I.
as ever. They are, doubt not, two very, very, very busy

men. . .                                              gave one to
   " Two salmon came, as presents, last week.     I

Mrs. Bennet.                                                    !

   "We are beginning                                     I
                                    new batch of examinations at the
                         Ia
College. Such sleep as had yesterday morningII Ia                  came

home by the last Glasgow train, very tired. Tom came to

waken me at eight, but snored so that he did not. He called

me at half-past nine.               don't think had stirred from the
                                      II
momentI                  lay down. This morning have been reading in

bed since six.           did not rise till now (half-past seven), be

cause there was no duck laying. Love to Mr. and Mrs. Petrie,
Mina, and all. --Yours ever affectionately,
                                                  J.  Y. Simpson.

"Monday morning, 9th July 140."
CHAPTEE X.

Illness --Consults Professor Syme-- Continental Tour -- Praise of his Col
     leagues -- Lepers and Leper-Houses -- Study of Astronomy --Eecep
      tion of Strangers -- Hospitality-- Letters of Thanks --Liberality --
      Returned Fees -- Scurrilous attack --Views of Locock, Carpenter, and
      Quain -- Clairvoyance -- Homoeopathy--Controversy -- Dr. Simpson's
      part in it -- Interest in Social and Moral condition of Newhaven --
     Rev. J. Fairbairn-- Cottage Hospitals -- Late Marchioness of Bute
     --Village Churches --Professional Bickerings -- Estrangement from
      Friends -- Alienation from Professor Miller -- Professor Retzius -- Dr.
      Channing --Visit to Ireland.

  In the spring of 1850 Dr. Simpson had a serious attack of
illness. A poisoned finger led to inflammation and swelling of

the hand and arm, and in a short time to the formation of an

ugly abscess in the armpit. It soon appeared that an opera

tion would be necessary. After a good deal of hesitation he

agreed to put himself in the hands of the surgeon, and his old
antagonist, Professor Syme, was called in. At first he had in

tended to ask his friend and colleague Professor Miller to

Ioperate ; but Mrs. Simpson and others expressed a strong desire
for Mr. Syme, and he yielded.  refer to this chiefly for the

purpose of indicating the beginning of an estrangement between

these distinguished men, which both regretted, and which led,

Ias believe, to a controversy that could hardly have occurred

but for this. To ask a surgeon whom he had ever regarded as

an unflinching opponent to undertake this operation, and to

pass by one in every way most capable, and with whom he had

ever been on terms of great intimacy, did seem as if he doubted

his scientific skill and his dexterity as an operator. Yet he

did not. But if Mr. Miller took offence, as Dr. Simpson be
           CONTINENTAL TOTJK.                  299

lieved he did, it is difficult to withhold one's sympathy from

the surgeon.

   The tidings of his illness rapidly spread, and many of the
most distinguished practitioners hastened to assure him of their

deep regret. Among these communications it is very pleasant

to notice several from men with whom he had waged sharp
controversy. Notes had passed between him and Dr. Mont
gomery of Dublin, during discussions about the use of ether
and chloroform, and also in connexion with his letters to Dr.
Collins, which had led to the expression of strong feeling, in
strong words, on both sides. But the news of his illness no

sooner reached Dublin than Dr. Montgomery wrote :--

                                                    " Merrion Square, 12th Feb. '50.

   " My dear Sik, -- A lady from Edinburgh has just told me

that you had been dangerously ill, and had suffered much in
consequence of some wound in the hand.

  I I" beg you will believe that heard this with sincere regret,

and will feel much gratified by your being able to tell me that

you are convalescent. -- Yours sincerely,

                                                      " W. F. Montgomery."

After the close of the session, Dr. Simpson left work for a

few weeks for a tour on the Continent, which he greatly en

Ijoyed. " On the Continent," he wrote to Mrs. Tootal, " had a

very happy journey, and have got quite a renewed stock of
Ihealth.
           saw most of the principal Universities in France,

Germany, Holland, and Belgium, and everywhere received
Igreat --very great --kindness and attention.
                                               met at Diissel-

dorf a German who knew you and Mr. Tootal, and begged to

be remembered to you both ; but he did not tell me his name.

I am going to trouble Mr. Tootal to inquire after some Eoman

matters at your York Museum. Jessie joins me in kindest,

kindest regards. What had Miss B. to do writing 'anony

Imous letters'? Don't spare her. It is a kind of character

do hate."
300 SIK JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   In his continental tour he appears to have let others praise
him, esteeming it his duty and delight to make known the

work of his colleagues, even as, on his return, he reported to

them the doings of their fellow-workers abroad : --

" Monsieur et savant  confrere,  --"J'Satiraslabobuorgn,ne3  Mai 1850.
                                                             fortune de

vous annoncer la visite du celebre Simpson, l'inventeur du
chloroforme comme agent anesth&ique. M. Simpson retourne

en Angleterre et a voulu faire la connaissance d'un des illustres

emules des A. Cooper, des Brodie, des Graefe, etc.
   " Vous pourrez lui montrer vos remarquables r&ultats, et

M. Simpson en racontera les merveilles a ses collegues, MM.

Syme, Bennett, etc.

   " Mille complimens a Monsieur votre fils, avec priere de

ronger a l'envoi de l'appareil de sustention et de progression

pour les amputés de l'articulation coro-femorale. --Votre bien

devoué et respectueux,                           C. Sedillot.
   " Monsieur le Professeur Textor, Wurzbourg."

   On his return home two subjects got much of his attention.
One, the renewal of inquiries regarding Leprosy and Leper-
houses, had close bearings on his professional walk. The other,
Astronomy, had not. But, De omni scibili was still his motto,
and he went on questioning all nature, and trying to interpret
its sights and sounds. Most who visited 52 Queen Street,
and witnessed the crowd of patients, the number of visitors
from many parts of the world, the eager earnestness of
practitioners to get a promise of a visit for a patient, or
learned the multitude of enterprises, commercial, industrial,
philanthropic, moral or religious, that day by day were
pressed on his notice, would have thought him already too
much burdened and engrossed to have the least time for any
thing else. But now, not satisfied with the descriptions which
others gave of the starry sky, he wished to see for himself the
grandeur and the glory, and to get deeper views into the
wonderful works of God. The late Sir William Keith Murray
HOSPITALITY.  301

of Ochtertyre, an able and accomplished amateur astronomer,

gave him much valuable information as to instruments, modes

of manipulation, and the methods of observation. He visited

Dr. Simpson's country-house, Viewbank, Trinity, pointed out
the best site for an instrument-stand, and furnished a sketch-
plan for its erection. Though little came of this attempt to
add a practical acquaintance of Astronomy to his other
acquirements, it showed how wide his desires after knowledge
were. His renewed researches regarding Leprosy and Leper-
houses bore more substantial fruit. From Dr. Charlton, New
castle, Dr. Wylde, Dublin, Dr. Adams, Banchory, Dr. D. H.
Eobertson, Leith, and above all, from his learned friend the

late Joseph Eobertson, Esq., of the General Eegister House,
Edinburgh, he received much interesting and valuable informa

tion. Additional traces of leper-houses and of legislative or
municipal provision for the support of lepers, were found.
Newcastle, Ipswich, Dublin, Leith, Dundee, Perth,1 etc. etc.,
were added to his list of places where leper-houses had been.

   A short time after Dr. Simpson's election to the Professor

ship, his house became noted for its hospitality, and continued
to be so throughout his career. " He literally did the honours
of Edinburgh." When a stranger handed his card or note of
introduction, the usual invitation, after a few words of kindly
welcome, was -- " We breakfast at nine, lunch at two, dine at

half-past six ; come when it suits you, and we'll have a talk,"

or, " I'll show you something." And he meant him to come.

   1 Dr. Joseph Robertson forwarded the following extract from the " Kirk
Session Register of Perth." It shows one of the sources to which Dr.
Simpson turned for information :--

  " "4 September 1587.

       Compearit Andrew Merser, and according as he was appointit this day
to produce his lettre or tak off the Lippermans craft, obeyit the same, and
efter the tak vas red it vas found that his takis wer expyrit and outrun at
Witsonday terme last bypast. Thairfoir appointis James Davistoun and
Patrick Blair to confer with Andrew Merser to sie quhat he will augment of
his gudwill to the vtilitie off the pur for the said Lipperland, and thai to
report thairansner this day aucht dayis, and the said Andrew to be present."
302 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Some who took the words as mere words of courtesy, and were

unwilling to take up time which they saw was so precious,
were often surprised on the street by the sudden halt of a
carriage, rattling swiftly along, and the words, " You have not
come to see me. Step in a minute." After a rapid drive to

the houses of patients in various parts of the city, the new

acquaintance was landed at lunch, amidst a motley crowd of

artists and authors, patients and practitioners. Or, as one said
when asked whom he had met, " Well, there were ' Parthians,

and Medes, and Elamites, and the dwellers in Mesopotamia,

and in Judea, and Cappadocia, in Pontus, and Asia, Phrygia,

and Pamphylia, in Egypt, and in the parts of Libya about Cyrene,

and strangers of Eome, Jews and proselytes, Cretes, and

Arabians,' and Americans besides !" That his genial attention

and his open hospitality touched the hearts of multitudes, is

manifest from the numerous letters of thanks forwarded to him.

If the perusal of these letters took half as much of his time

as it has taken of mine, his very kindness brought a heavy

penalty in the gratitude it awoke. Out of hundreds of these

communications, one or two, taken almost at random, are given

below :--

                   DR. GEORGE ELLIOT, JUN., NEW YORK.

I" have often thought of writing to you, and have as often

been deterred by my recollections of the tin case full of letters

I Ion your sideboard. But can assure you that have not

forgotten you or Mrs. Simpson, and all your kindnesses, and

Ithat shall always recollect with delight a visit to Europe

Iwhich procured me the acquaintance of you and Sir Philip
Crampton.  went leisurely on to London, stopping at York,

Oxford, Leamington, etc. . . .
I" hope that you are well, and am sure that you are happy
Iin any case.
               fancy that you will read this disjointed letter

at your country place, with a full view of the island mentioned

Iin Macbeth. have it and you before my eyes at this moment.

Pray remember me very kindly to Mrs. Simpson, and tell her
HOSPITALITY.  303

 that 'my heart is in Ayrshire, my heart is not here.' . . .

IDoes your butler still continue to use the speaking-trumpet ?

 suppose that your house is still the same on Saturdays, with the
exception of Mrs. S.'s absence --lunch and patients, doctors to
 ask advice, and doctors to borrow books, artists, drawing very
little babies, and men whitened with plaster, bringing in the last
cast, with the general hum enlivened by the butler's frequent
whistle for a cab. That cab-stand should present you with a

Ipiece of plate. Well, good-bye, my dear Doctor ; wish you

every success, and always count on me as one of your truest
friends. Mother has mounted your bust in a prominent place,

Iand expect that there will be a pilgrimage to it of ladies, with

undiscovered troubles."

               PROFESSOR ED. E. PHELPS (DARTMOUTH COLLEGE).

   I"In parting with you at Edinburgh, mentioned that it

would be practicable for me to procure some statistics relative

Ito the size of the foetal head at birth in the black race. This

purpose to set about at once. Will you give me, at some

Ileisure moment, or, rather, at some convenient time (for per

ceived you had no such thing as leisure), such measurements as
you would like to have made, and also any other information
relating to the subject just mentioned. . . .

  I" In concluding, my dear sir, allow me to express (what can
Ibut feebly do) the deep and heartfelt obligations am under to
Iyou for the truly hospitable and friendly attentions which

received from yourself and family, and which, forming as it
did my introduction to Great Britain, will ever make Scot

land, and especially Edinburgh, seem its most pleasant part.
   " Dr. Hitchcock begs me not to close without saying that he

feels in an equal degree the kindness extended to himself."

                            DR. HORACE GREEN (NEW YORK).

  I" have just returned from the Continent, and shall leave

London to-morrow for Liverpool, to sail in the steamer (Atlantic)
of the 20th for America
304 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

  I I" But feel that cannot return home without expressing
Ithe obligations am under to you for your kind attentions to

me while in Edinburgh.

   " My visit to your city will remain among the happiest

recollections of my life.

  I" hope, my dear sir, you will yet visit us in America. You
Iwould receive a hearty, and, trust, a gratifying welcome from
Iour profession, to whom you have long been known.

    " In your numerous engagements, can hardly ask of you
the favour of a correspondence, but if at any time you should
have a moment of leisure, and should think of your foreign
brethren, none will be more happy to hear from you."

                                     DR. ARNETH (VIENNA).

  I" It is to-day a full year that first entered your hospitable

house. It is impossible to me to allow this day to fly without

Ihaving presented to you and to your excellent lady my best

thanks for all the kindness received from you during my last
stay in Edinburgh. Don't forget to send me your friends.

I shall always be very happy to show them something of
IVienna. But more than any other thing, should like to see

you here."

          DR. OPPERT (BERLIN).

I" have long intended to write to you, and thank you for
Ithe kindness with which you behaved towards me.
                                                  see now

how great was the advantage to study, under your kind assist

Iance, some special subjects in which was interested, and will
Inever forget the agreeable hours lived in your company.

    " Our town and University enjoys now the presence of one
clever man more, Dr. Virchow, on whom great hopes are

placed.

  I" hope your nephew is pleased with Leipzig, and will be
Iso with Berlin, if he comes here ; then, perhaps, can be useful

to him."
HOSPITALITY.                                 305

                                 DR. KEEIGER, BERLIN.

I" take the liberty of introducing to you the bearer, Dr.

Wegner, military surgeon, who thinks of making a stay of some

weeks in your delightful city in order to see your medical and

other institutions, and to have the advantage of becoming
... Iacquainted with yourself.
                                remember that high degree of
Ikindness and civility, hospitality and hearty reception,

met with during my stay in Edinburgh."

DR. FAYE, CHRISTIANIA.

  " It is an agreeable duty to me to send you a couple of lines

Inow. About a month since returned home.
  I" My dear Professor, were to express my feelings of grati

tude for your friendship during my last stay in Edinburgh, my

bad English should be a too imperfect mean of communica
I Ition. But feel sure you will believe me sincere, when re
Ipeat my last words to you : ' shall never forget your kindness,
I IIand never, hope, what learnt from you.'
                                             shall try to make
... I Iit as useful for myself and others as possible.
                                             think
Itold you possibly shall be engaged to go to Stockholm to at
Itend our Princess-Eoyal in her confinement; and may now add
Ithat, according to a formal note, shall be off in a few days."

                                    DR. PANTALEONI, ROME.

  I" have been so long kept by the courteous attentions of my
Ifriends amongst the mountains of Scotland, that truly am

Iobliged to make my way home, as soon as possible, and by the
shortest conveyance, through Germany.   shall be in Eome

towards the middle of October next, and remember that you

promised to let me know what would interest you most there,

Iand what information could afford to you to help your

Iscientifical pursuits. . . .
    " meant to pay a visit yesterday to Lord Blantyre ; but
what unfortunate day is the Sunday for a tourist ! No con

veyance of any kind to be had, and besides (I do not know

                                u
306 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Iwhy) always horrible weather on Sunday. And now must

start for Liverpool. Should you have the occasion of being

there pray make my apologies. . . .

  I" am ashamed to take so much of your valuable time ; but
I shall never forget the courteous attentions and unlimited
I Ikindness received from you, and be sure shall feel happy if

you will put me in the way of being able to pay a slight
return to you or any of your friends in Eome."

DR. CARPENTER, LONDON.

I" The large experience  have had of your hospitality, as

exercised not only towards myself, but to worthy members of

our profession from all the world over, makes me bold to in

troduce to your kind notice Dr. Jackson of Boston, N.E., Pro

fessor of Pathological Anatomy in Harvard University, and

nephew of the old Dr. Jackson, with whose interesting Memo

rials of his son you are doubtless acquainted."

   In the outset of his career he was forced to be careful in the
use of money. But no sooner had he floated into plenty, than

his disregard for money for its own sake began to appear. The
return of fees sent to him by patients increased in frequency.
Sums of £30, £25, £10, and £5 were, in 1850 and 1851, in

several cases returned without any indication of his motive in

doing it. In some instances, as when sent by clergymen, this
is intelligible, but in others it is impossible to determine what

induced him. Increase of wealth seems to have brought a
good deal of unrest with it. He was not content to allow his
money to rest and increase in the usual quiet way. Like his
own gifts, it had ever to get into activity, and go forth in search
of increase. What had become his by work was required to
work in turn. Thus the readiness with which he intrusted its

care to others, if the prospect was held out to him that thereby

a new product could be added to the industrial wealth of the

country, or, by shipping, the commerce of the country ex

tended. Speculations touching the distillation of oil from
USE OF MONEY.                         307

Irish peat, or the conveyance of guano from islands before

unknown, got his ready attention when proposed by men who

were likely to keep free of risks. Repeatedly he suffered loss,

but was never cast down. The next proposals found him as

ready as ever for enterprise. To almost every other man this

would have been fruitful of anxiety and distraction. It was

not so to him. The hour after any scheme of this kind was
adopted, and the money intrusted to others, it seemed to pass

from his mind. He was working, and the rewards of his work

were sent forth on what he esteemed useful work also. This

satisfied him, though, as steward of his growing wealth, it
should not. Yet his hospitable table, his generosity in meeting
the wants of others, his readiness to help those in need, and the
frequency with which fees were returned, all showed that the
mere love of money did not lead him into undertakings like

those now referred to.

   In September 1851 a letter bearing the pseudonym "Isaac

Irons, M.D.," appeared in the Lancet, containing a most scur

rilous attack on Dr. Simpson. "Controversy equalizes fools

and wise men --and the fools know it," says an American
author. Had Dr. Simpson remembered this he would have

passed the epistle as men do decaying carcases. They meddle

not with them, lest they should thereby spread pestilence.

His friend Dr. Locock recommended, in the outset, that the
Ievil communication should be left unheeded, adding, " make
Iit a rule not to have any warfares.
                                      have stood the hardest
Iwork formerly, as well as any one, but should have been dead
Ilong ago if had L.'s pugnacious propensities." But the views

taken by other professional friends, and the wide circulation of

the letters, led him to notice it. The letter itself is too nasty

to be produced here ;
                   " He pares the apple who would cleanly feed."

IIt was, believe, traced to a London practitioner. Dr. Simpson

was advised by many to take the matter into a court of law.

Meanwhile he wrote a calm and dignified reply to the Lancet,

S                                                                  s*
308 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

which " Irons " noticed. The second note led to other com

munications, which were welcomed by Dr. Simpson's friends
as in every way worthy of his great name and high position.

                     I "London, Sept. 26, 1851.

" My dear Simpson, -- have read and re-read Dr. Irons's

letter, and have come to the decided conviction that it would
Ibe much better for you to leave it alone.
                                            do not think it can

do you any real harm, however annoying it may be to be the

Isubject of such vicious slanders ; and much doubt if there be

anything (so cunningly has the attack been devised) that would
afford a thoroughly secure foundation for a charge of libel ; and

unless there be such, it would be far better not to go into

Icourt at alL It is quite a different case from that with which
  have been concerned, that of a charge of adulteration, which

simply involves the question of its truth or falsehood, the

Icharge itself being distinctly and unmistakeably libellous. You

know that have undergone all this ordeal myself, and am not
sorry to have done so, since it makes me more callous for

Ithe future. . . . Nevertheless have stood it all, and have no

reason to believe that my personal or scientific character has
in the least degree suffered in the estimation of any one for whose

I Igood opinion care. Now have only had the mens conscia

recti to fall back upon, whilst you have not only this, but your

Iprofessional income, of don't know how many thousands a
Iyear ; and if that be not solid consolation, do not know what

is. Any one who contrasts your letter on the preceding page
with Dr. Irons's, must be struck with the contrast. Nothing

could be in better taste than yours, nothing in worse than his.

I Iam very glad that they came into such close proximity.

will do my best about the Chronicle. --Yours most faithfully,
                                                    "W. B. Carpenter."

                                      " 23 Hanley Street, London, Oct. 6, 1851.

  I" Dear Dr. Simpson, --Many thanks for your kind note.
Ihad very real pleasure in the part took in the Lancet matter ;
                                                 MESMERISM.                               309

for satisfactory as it is at all times to oppose injustice, it was

particularly so to resent so gross an instance of it towards
yourself, to whom I, as one of many, owe very different obliga

tions. Your last letter has been most fully appreciated by all

Iwith whom have conversed since its appearance, and ' Irons '

-- 'Eed-hot Irons' --is almost everywhere recognised under

I Ihis pseudonym. Personally don't know that ever enjoyed

anything more than the point of your letter, which fixes Irons
himself with one of the five cases. A hearty roar displaced the
Idumps which a dull October day had created.
                                                             heard this

morning from one of the Wakleys that they had not seen nor

heard of Irons since. Wakley really has shown very creditable
feeling in the matter. --Dear Dr. Simpson, with great respect,

believe me, yours very sincerely,                            Eichard Quain."

The light shed by Dr. Simpson's discoveries and practice was

too bright for "Isaac Irons, M.D.," and he tried to cast the
shadow of a not noble individuality over it. " The mind of a

bigot is like the pupil of the eye ; the more light you pour on
          "Itcontracts."
it,the more                                      need only be said of these

                 it

                                            a
assaults that, very far exceeding, as they usually did, the limits

of temperate discussion, they were simply the exaction of the

historic tax leviable on pre-eminent talent when so employed

as to render its possessor conspicuous public benefactor."1

" He who ascends to mountain tops shall find

      The loftiest peaks most wrapt in clouds and snow
  He who surpasses or subdues mankind

     Must look down on the hate of those below. "
                                                             it
       have already referred to Dr. Simpson's early views of                           ;
Mesmerism, the expectations he began to form of its use,                       it
especially in surgical operations, and, later, his renouncing all
solid hope of this. He acknowledged that there were many
things connected with worthy the attention of medical men
and psychologists. There were aspects of truth about that
made the quackery current. But when assumed the ter-
I

                                              1

                               it
          Note from Dr. Turner, Keith.
310 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

minology of science, and demanded regard as a branch of so-
called Electro-Biology, he saw that something had to be done
to open the eyes of its credulous followers, and to serve as
a beacon to others. The pretended faculty of clairvoyance
was claimed for those susceptible of the trance. One or two
men of acknowledged ability (Professor Gregory, for example)
were firm believers. When " Isaac Irons, M.D. " had his com

munication smuggled into the columns of the Lancet (Wakley,
the editor, was then out of town), he not only charged Dr.
Simpson with work " profligate," " brutal," and subversive " of
established practice," but twitted him with his inconsistency,
in that while denouncing Homoeopathy he was encouraging
Mesmerism, which is as bad. " But for this inconsistent con

duct it is impossible to believe that the rampant quackery in

the University and among the population of Edinburgh could

ever have reached the present disgraceful position." All this

led Dr. Simpson to attempt something better fitted to define
his views and attitude than the longest discourse ever could.
The following document indicates the steps he took. The
challenge was never taken up, but its publication fell like a
death-blow on the clairvoyants and their friends, learned and

unlearned.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE MEDICO-CHIEURGICAL SOCIETY.

   " Sir,-- On the 2d of April last, when Dr. Wood read a

Ipaper to the Society on the subject of Electro -Biology, ex

pressed my opinion on the subject at some length ; and accord

ing to the report of the meeting, as given in the Monthly Journal

for May 487), concluded the observations which made
with the following remarks -- Dr. Simpson stated that he
(p.                                                  it

     I                                                  I

                                                  :
                                                 '

totally disbelieved in any of the so-called higher phenomena

of animal magnetism -- as lucidity, transference of the senses,
Ifclairvoyance, etc.
                      a  person could see with the tips of his

fingers or the pit of his stomach, as was averred,   would be

an enormous fact, and would require an enormous amount of
MESMERISM.                                      311

proof to substantiate it as a fact. But the evidence adduced

was generally of a very imperfect kind, and melted down be

fore accurate inquiry. He had such a conviction of this, that
he offered to place in the President's hands £100, which he

would give to Dr. Macdonald for the scheme for which he (Dr.

M.) was lecturing, if Dr. Macdonald could bring any clairvoy

ant who could read a line of Shakespeare, or two or three words

out of the dictionary, which Dr. S. would shut up in a box.

If there was any truth in clairvoyance, why should not a clair

voyant be able to gain for Dr. Macdonald this sum of money ? '

   " In September last, in consequence of circumstances which

Iit is unnecessary to allude to here, wrote to the editor of the

Lancet as follows :--' To show you the sincerity of my belief,

let me put this same proposition, viz., the one first stated to the
IMedico-Chirurgical Society, in another shape.
                                                will, if you

will allow me, place five such boxes or packets (each of them

containing a line of Shakespeare) in your hands, and in the

Ihands of a small committee of medical men, whom you and

Ishall conjointly agree upon, and who with you shall be judges,
and make all the necessary arrangements; and    now offer

through you £500 for the reading of those included five lines by
any clairvoyant. Further, as my pen is in my hand, let me

name at once, on my part, your fellow-citizens, Dr. Sharpey,

Dr. Locock, Dr. Williams, Dr. Todd, and Dr. Carpenter, or any

two or more of them, to adjudge the matter, with an equal
number named by you. Perhaps you will agree with me in
thinking that, in settling a question of this nature, such a test

and trial is better than any other five hundred arguments.'

  I" The preceding offer has not, as far as have observed, been
Iaccepted by the editor of the Lancet ; and in consequence

write to ask as a favour of you and the Society, that you and

their Council would be so good as to take charge of these
packets for the purpose named in the preceding extract, and to
make such arrangements at my expense as you think fit, for

allowing any supposed clairvoyants to have a proper oppor
312 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

tunity of testing their alleged power with the view of gaining

the sum in question.

  I" would only beg to make one suggestion, viz., that where-

ever else you may deem it right to advertise the offer, you ad
vertise it at least in the pages of the Zoist, that it may come
under the eyes of all those who are most deeply interested in
the so-called study of animal magnetism. --Yours very truly,

                                                      "J. Y.S.

   " 52 Queen Street, 19th Nov. 1851."

About this time Mr.  , a noted mesmerist, was perform

ing in Edinburgh, with his daughter as a medium, who, it was

alleged, could read anything written in a sealed paper, or shut

up in a box. Dr. Simpson and his friend the Eev. Dr. Guthrie

went to a stance, carrying with them a sealed box prepared
by them for the occasion. At a convenient opportunity Dr.

Simpson challenged the clairvoyant to state what were the

contents of the box, and to read the writing enclosed. Mr.

objected, but the audience insisted. An attempt was made.

The medium said the box contained money. It was opened,

and found to contain millet seed, with a scrap of paper on which
" humbug " was written. The failure was complete.

Dr. Simpson's influence over a nervous patient when he first

meddled with mesmerism has been referred to. His mes

merizing powers were frequently shown in the case of another
patient of the same sort. The spell was thrown over Mrs. C,
and she was promised a new bonnet if she could waltz past an

imaginary line he drew on the floor. She made an earnest

effort to win the bonnet, but fell in the attempt ! The same

lady, when passing into the trance, was commanded not to

speak till the spell was removed. She tried to speak, but in

vain, and grew very angry at the failure of her repeated

attempts. On another occasion, when suffering from severe

toothache, she sent for Dr. Simpson, and was relieved by being

thrown into the trance. Leaving her in this condition, it was

his intention to call an hour or two afterwards. In the mean
HOMOEOPATHY.  313

time, however, he was summoned to the country, and the spell

bound patient was left in her helpless condition, to the no

small horror of her household. Such are specimens of the

alleged incidents which, during the brief period of the mesmeric
fever, formed exciting subjects of conversation in the higher
Edinburgh circles. Whether the physician in such cases
laughed in his sleeve at the credulity of both sexes, or the fair

patients who lent themselves for the experiments felt how easily

philosophers can be imposed on, may, without much hurt to

science, be left unsettled.

    The adoption of the principles of Homoeopathy by one or two
Edinburgh physicians, led to one of the keenest discussions in

the records of medical controversy. In 1844, Dr. Henderson,

Professor of Pathology, became a homoeopathist, and by degrees
began to carry out his views in his practice as a physician.

This gave much offence to most of his colleagues. In 1851

they resolved to take active measures to make their views

known, and, if possible, to put a stop to the progress of this

medical heresy. As the majority of them were practitioners, it

was impossible not to notice the growth of the new views, or

not to hear of the wonderful cures wrought by Homoeopathy

where Allopathy had signally failed. It was a phase of the old

story described by Crabbe :--

      "And then in many a paper through the year,

           Must cures and cases, oaths and proofs appear ;
            Men snatch'd from graves, as they were dropping in,
           Their lungs cough'd up, their bones pierced through their skin ;
           Their liver all one scirrhus, and their frame
           Poison'd with evils which they dare not name ;
            Men who spent all upon physicians' fees,
           Who never slept, nor had a moment's ease,
           Are now as roaches sound, and all as brisk as bees."

    The matter ripened quickly. On the 15th of June the

Medical Faculty of the University of Edinburgh passed unani

mously the following resolutions :--
    " 1. That the public profession of Homoeopathy by the Pro

fessor of General Pathology is inconsistent with the efficient
314 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

discharge of the various duties which belong to that Chair, and

is calculated to injure the University as a Medical School.
   " 2. That the Senatus Academicus be requested to transmit a

copy of this resolution to the patrons of the University, to
gether with the expression of a hope, on the part of the Medi

cal Faculty, that some step may be taken to avert the danger

thus threatened to the University."

Pamphlets, letters to the newspapers, articles in public jour

nals, and speeches at professional Societies, fell thick as autumn

leaves. The combatants seemed to rejoice in the strife. One

of the pamphlets got special attention. It was on the side of

Dr. Henderson, and was entitled, " The New Test Act, or a

Eecent Conspiracy against the Medical Practitioners of Homoeo

pathy." This pamphlet was for a time generally ascribed to

the late Dr. Samuel Brown ; but he early denied having had

any hand in it :--

I" Dear Dr. Simpson, -- heard accidentally last night that
Iyou attribute the New Test Act to me.
                                        did not write it; nor
I Idid know one thing about it till received a copy from the

author, who is a lawyer. Far from being ashamed of my ad
Ihesion to Homoeopathy as a part of medicine,
                                                  wish neither
Icredit nor discredit from what have no hand in. You are
Ione of the few men with whom wish to stand, if not well, at
Ileast no worse than am, being yours, as of old,
                                        " Samuel Brown."

   Dr. Simpson threw himself with great heart into the battle.
He believed the principles of Homoeopathy to be unscientific,
irrational, and dangerous to the life of the patient. He saw,

too, the charm they were likely to have for nervous patients,

and with characteristic promptness he resolved to do his part

thoroughly in the combat. An opportunity soon occurred.
   At their first meeting for the winter session 1851-52, the

Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh unanimously passed
a resolution of a similar character to those already mentioned.
HOMOEOPATHY.                                               315

Professor Syme moved, --" That the public profession of

Homoeopathy shall be held to disqualify for being admitted

or remaining a member of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of

Edinburgh."                           An outline of his speech
   Dr. Simpson seconded the motion.

is reported in the Monthly   Journal  of Medical  Science  for

--December 1851 :

" For one, Dr. Simpson rejoiced that the Colleges had taken

up the subject, and set the matter on its right footing, by

making the question of meeting homoeopathists not a question
longer left to the responsibility and importunities of indivi

duals, but a question which the profession had fixed and
settled in their corporate capacity.

"The resolutions of the Colleges would, he believed, be

doubly useful, by not only determining for the future the pro

per line of duty of the profession towards homoeopathists ; but

...by showing also to the homoeopathists their exact position in
relation to the profession.  In passing therefore -- and it is
to be hoped, unanimously --such a motion as that proposed

by Mr. Syme, we, the members of the Medico-Chirurgical

Society, show our anxiety and desire to be rid of the profes

sional presence of homoeopathists in all our institutions, by
showing them our determination to be rid of them in those

places from which we have an undoubted right of enforcing

their exclusion. . . .
   " Dr. S. further argued for the propriety of this motion on

another ground, viz., that the presence of homoeopathists at our

Society, even if they did come to our meetings, was not at all

calculated to promote that principal and leading object of the

Medico-Chirurgical Society, --the cultivation and advancement

of medical science and knowledge. For he held that no man,
or set of men, could in any degree aid in effecting this object,

who entertained principles such as those which form the basis

of the homoeopathic belief. We were as much justified in
asking those who had taken up a belief in the follies of Hahne
316 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

maim and his Organon to withdraw from our Society, as a
Christian community would be justified in expelling those of
its members who came to believe in the follies of Joe Smith

and the Mormon Bible. These two heresies --the homoeopa
thic and the Mormonite --seemed, in fact, to have many points
in common, though the one belonged to medicine, and could

only be properly judged of by physicians ; and the other be
longed to theology, and could only properly be judged of by
clerical men. They were both equally wild. Some homceo-
pathists profess Hahnemann to have been inspired ; as the
Mormonites hold Smith to have been. Both heresies also were
extending, it was true ; but that was no evidence of the value

of either. It has been alleged that we have no confession of
faith in medicine, --no standard by which we can possibly

judge, as clerical bodies do, of the amount of error and devia
tion of those members of the profession who, from time to
time, may choose to set at nought the common principles
of that profession. But we have a confession of faith, and
a standard by which we can judge such men, namely, the

standard of common sense. . . . All men can at once, be

cause without any great intellectual effort, see through the
foolishness and impossibility of the idea of two and two
 making five, but they do not equally see through the absur
 dity and impossibility of the more complicated, but equally
 ridiculous idea, of the billionth or decillionth of a grain of
 oyster-shell, or chamomile, or belladonna, or the like, having
 any possible effect whatever upon the economy, for, resting
 contented with the mere name, they never once think or dream
 of what in reality a billionth or a decillionth amounts to.
 Medical jurists and lawyers know of no poison, however strong
 and powerful, the billionth or decillionth of which would in the
 least degree affect a man or harm a fly. They tell us that the
 mere division of their drugs invests them with ' tremendous '
 power ; but they could not injure or affect the frailest insect
 with one of their ' tremendous ' billionths or decillionths. For
             HOMCEOPATHY.                              317

what, in fact, is a billionth of a grain ? Why, if a single grain

of sulphur were divided, as the homoeopathists use it and other
drugs, into billionths, and if our common parent Adam, when

called into existence some 6000 years ago, had then begun

swallowing a billionth every second, and if he had been per

mitted to live up to the present time doing nothing but swallow

ing night and day sixty billionths every minute, he would as yet

have completed only a small part of his task. It would require

him to work and swallow at the same rate for 24,000 years yet
to come, in order to finish one single grain of a drug, which
has little effect on his present descendants in doses of twenty-

five or fifty grains. Yet the homoeopathists believe that a few

of the sulphur billionths which Adam would have swallowed

during these 30,000 years would cure, forsooth, an attack of
Ifjaundice.  we appeal to our standard --the standard
mon --sense should not men holding principles of such  of com
                                                       unmiti

gated ridiculousness be requested to withdraw from this and

other Medical Societies ? But a billionth was, after all, only

the sixth dilution of a grain. Homoeopathists have dilutions far

more refined, and doses far more infinitesimal than that. Some

amongst them allege that drugs should always be used in their
thirtieth dilution, or in decillionths, and Hahnemann averred

that even the smell of such a dose is enough. When they

speak of the decillionth of a grain, they seem little to reckon
what a decillionth amounts to. For it is a sum the mere

figures of which can scarcely give us any conception of its

infinitesimal amount, viz., --

1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000.

The world is computed to contain at the present time some
Ifnine hundred millions of human beings.
                                          all these nine

hundred millions of human beings had lived during the past

six thousand years, and each of them had swallowed, every

moment of their existence, a decillionth of a grain, such as the

homoeopathists use, they would not during these six thousand

years have finished one single grain ; nay, one grain would, in
318 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

fact, suffice them all for millions and millions of years to

come. . . .

   " One remark of Mr. Syme regarding the number of homoeo

pathic practitioners in Edinburgh reminded Dr. Simpson of a
curious feature in homoeopathic practice among us. He was
not sure of how many practitioners of Homoeopathy we had in

Edinburgh : but they were all conversant with the fact that

there were three homoeopathic drug-shops in the town. That

fact was in itself a significant and illustrative fact. He did

not know the number of drugs that homoeopathists used, but
he did not suppose that they exceeded 250 or 300 separate
articles. He was not aware what a grain of each might cost ;
but he imagined not above a penny, or two at most, on the
average. And one single grain, in even their fourth or fifth
dilutions, would, of course, be sufficient during any one drug

gist's lifetime, not only for a whole town such as Edinburgh,

but for a whole universe ; while a grain of a drug divided into

quintillionths or decillionths might in truth serve an entire
Arace during an entire geological epoch.
                                          homoeopathic

apothecary's stock in trade could not consequently well exceed

a few shillings, or a few pounds at most, and need not surely

require renewal during the longest lifetime. And yet these

same homoeopathic dilutions seem convertible, through an ade

quate amount of credulity on the part of the public, into

annual incomes sufficient for the maintenance of three thriving

drug establishments ! . . .

   "Nor did it seem necessary that the globules of sugar of
milk should go even through the form of being medicated

with their supposed quadrillionths, quintillionths, etc., of the
drug whose name they bore. At least it had been averred that
some in England who affected to manufacture these medicated
globules on the large scale, had found that the sugar of milk,
of which these globules were composed, answered just as well
with or without a dip in the pretended dilutions. And, as far

as regarded the patient and the disease, it mattered nothing
          HOJKEOPATHY.                                    319

what globule was given --whether one of charcoal or of arsenic.

They were both so diluted as, of course, to be entirely ineffica

cious : and all the drugs and globules in a homoeopathic medi

cine-box being rendered equally null and innocent by their

previous reduction, any one of them could readily and success

fully replace any other. . . .
   " There was another class of practitioners who ought, he

thought, certainly to be included in the category of those whose

names should be removed from the list of members. He

alluded to such practitioners as were not simple-minded, but

sincere homoeopathists. He alluded to those who pretended to

be homoeopathists, but acted as allopathists,--who doctored

people according as people themselves wished, either with

drachms of drugs, or billions of a grain of the same, who wished

to be considered homoeopathists, but, as had been often de

tected, drugged their globules and tinctures with active doses

of the most powerful medicines ; who spread out the snare of

homoeopathy as a golden man-trap to catch credulous and

trusting patients, and afterwards either openly or surrepti

tiously applied to them all the usual means employed in the

armentarium of rational medicine. Some men pretended they

could honestly and honourably mix up the two practices. Most

physicians naturally doubted whether any man could in hon

our and honesty combine such incompatible incongruities.

Neither any true homoeopath nor any true allopath would give

this spurious set credit for their integrity of purpose and prin
Ifciple.
          any such were members of the Society, let them

certainly and undoubtedly be requested to retire. . . ."

Dr. Simpson afterwards published a pamphlet on the same

side. When the third edition of this was called for, it ap

peared as an octavo volume of nearly three hundred pages,
dedicated to " Dr. William Stokes, Eegius Professor of Physic

in the University of Dublin." It is entitled, " Homoeopathy :

its Tenets and Tendencies." The volume contains an extraor

dinary amount of information, and bears the marks of great
320 SLR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

painstaking and immense labour. He discovers all the joints
in the homoeopath's harness, and sends his arrows home with
right good-will. The work was highly appreciated by all who
took an interest in the progress of medical science, and in
sound principles of medical practice. True, all were not con
vinced. " There are," observes Arnaud, " no absurdities too

groundless to find supporters. Whoever determines to deceive
the world, may be sure of finding people who are willing enough
to be deceived ; and the most absurd follies always find minds

to which they are adapted."

                                         FROM DR. CARPENTER.

  I" Many thanks for your homoeopathic settler, which received

a few days ago. As Carlyle said the other day about the
spirit-rapping, ' These coruscations of human fatuity are quite
appalling.' Doubtless you will agree with Faraday, in his letter
in the Times on table-turning, that there must be something

wrong in our educational methods, if people who are accounted

sensible and discriminating give themselves up to such ab

surdities."

                                       FROM DR. NELIGAN.

  I" was unable even to look at your extraordinary book on
IHomoeopathy until this day, so busy have been in getting out
Ithe May number of my Journal, which is but finished. And

have now but skimmed through yet cannot let my firstit,

spare moment pass without thanking you for such an additionit I

to the bulwarks of the profession against quackery. It truly
                                              I
well and ably done, as shall take occasion to say in my nextis
         I
Journal                                       but very shortly.
               it

                    I

                               it
               mean, however, to notice

Homoeopathy does not thrive amongst us, chiefly, think,

because we rather treat            with silent contempt. --Like other

abominations,  thrives on abuse very often."

                         FROM DR. KILGOUR, ABERDEEN.

"I'll tell you story. An old and eccentric, but much
               a
                    HOMOEOPATHY.                                                    321

respected friend of mine, the late Eev. Dr. Kidd, one of our

Hebrew Professors, once received a presentation of a book on a

very abstruse subject, which he read patiently, but without
making head or tail of as we say. And when the Dr. men

tioned the circumstance he added, -- But was match for the
                          it,        '

                           I is a       I

                                                            a

fellow sent him in return          copy of my work on the Trinity.'
   " Now the moral of this       not that your large work to me
                                 think my own one runs into the
incomprehensible, or that
         :I                                                    is
                                                                          a
mystical and unintelligible, but that as you sent me one onis
                 a
subject which scarcely think was worthy your great talents
                I
and acquirements, so send you one which, magna componere
                    I

parvis, or as compared with your accomplished and learned

treatise,         very trifling and incomplete exercise on most
                                                               Ia
important national matter.                                                          to
   " You attempt to reason fools out of their folly, and

convert statesmen.  am not sure that either of us will suc
;

              I
ceed and we might have done more good by something in the

jog-trot line of endeavouring to enlighten our brethren in
practical matters in the orthodox walk of our profession."

                             FROM DR. KREIGER, BERLIN.              read
                                                               of your
 " acknowledge your great work on Homoeopathy.

with astonishment. It wonderful that gentleman
it                        is
                                                       a
  I
                                                     I
               a
                                                                                        a
overflowing occupations could ever find the time to write

book on subject so widely different from your usual studies."

   The following note, among many others from non-professional

men, gratified Dr. Simpson greatly --
                                                         " Observatory, Armagh.

   " My dear Sir,-- hope you will excuse this intrusion for
                    I
                                                           :

the sake of its motive.                                                             a
    " Some weeks since, in Dublin, talking of Homoeopathy,

medical gentleman who was present asked me                     knew your
                                                              it I

                                                                    it iIf

                                                                                it
work on the subject, and lent to me.                          found in all my
                          I
own opinions so powerfully expressed, and, as                  seems to me,
                               X it
so irresistibly proved, that am certain would be an im
322 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

portant benefit to society if you would publish it in a form a

little more condensed, so that it might get into general
Icirculation.
               cannot conceive any person not labouring under

monomania who can read it without being convinced, but its

size will be with many an excuse for not reading it at all.
   " Within the last few days a dear and precious friend has

fallen a victim to this delusion. He was attacked apparently

with gastritis, and doctored himself with globules till relief was
             I often argued with him on the emptiness of his
impossible.
I Isystem, but in vain, and now feel that had known the facts
I Iwhich have learned from your book, might perhaps have
Iaverted an event which
                         and many more feel as a great
calamity.--Believe me, yours sincerely,
                         " T. R Eobinson, D.D."

   The variety of the topics contained in this work makes itit,
difficult to give a brief summary of its contents. Dr. Simpson
shows :--" 1. That both the profession on the one hand, and
Hahnemann himself on the other, utterly repudiate the com
patibility of the two systems --Homoeopathy and scientific
Medicine --the principles and practice of which are as much

opposed to each other as light to darkness, virtue to vice ; thus
exposing the knavery of those who profess to believe in and to

practice both. 2. That Hahnemann himself veiy rarely, if ever,

administered to his patients anything but small grains of sugar;
and he confessed he did this ' for the sake of keeping up in the
patient's mind the firm belief that each powder contains a

particular dose of some medicine.' This, indeed, has long been

known to the profession, and an account of it appeared more
than twelve months ago in the Court Journal. 3. That, except
at Vienna, Homoeopathy is now comparatively little heard of in

Germany and France ; and that, notwithstanding Leipsic is the

head- quarters of this doctrine, the Homoeopathic Hospital of
that city, a small house in the suburbs, contains only eight
beds, of which Mr. Lee, who lately visited found only two or
HOMCEOPATHY.  323

 three occupied ; and that it was never sanctioned by any indi
vidual of eminence in the profession. 4. That the theory of
 Homoeopathy is never carried out in practice, and indeed never
 can be, from the natural impossibility of doing so. 5. That,

although different effects are theoretically said to be produced
by different dilutions, yet homoeopathists themselves testify to
effects quite the same from all dilutions. 6. That the supposed
statistical evidence in favour of homoeopathic practice is founded
on false and disingenuous returns. 7. That all attempts to
obtain physical proofs either of the activity, or even of the
existence, of the drugs said to be contained in the infinitesimal

doses, have failed. Homoeopathists have not been able to show
by the highest magnifying powers of the solar microscope, by

the ' magnetoscope,' or 'new magnetic indicator,' or by any
other means, the existence of the smallest quantity of medicine
in any of their preparations. The ' magnetoscope ' has, how
ever, revealed much that one would scarcely have expected to

exist, of the effects and vagaries of human credulity. 8. That

there is no foundation whatever for the leading principle of
homoeopathy, Similia similibus curantur, except that which is
grounded on a gross perversion of medical facts. 9. That the
writings and the practice of different homoeopathists are so
full of contradictions and inconsistencies, that it is impossible

either to harmonize or reconcile them, except on an hypothesis
fatal to their pretensions."

    The scientific argument and the immense number of details
of matters of fact are illustrated, relieved, and have a piquant

flavour given them, by apt anecdotes, ironical appeals, and
flashes of wit, or words of quiet humour.

    Dr. Simpson had pleasure in turning away for a time from
the strife of tongues in the controversy on Homoeopathy, and

giving himself to work which, if it lay not more to his hand,

took at least a firmer hold of his heart than ever this contest

against what he held to be professional quackery had done.
    The proximity of View Bank to the fishing village of New-
324 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

haven brought him frequently in contact with the able and
devoted Free Church minister of the place, Mr. Fairbairn --
" oure ain Mr. Fairbairn," as Dr. Simpson was wont to say, using
the words of the villagers. With him Dr. Simpson consulted
regarding the moral and sanitary condition of the district
His usual method of beginning an investigation was put in
force. Some friends were employed to get statistics showing
the number of houses and their inhabitants, the number of

places licensed for the sale of intoxicating drink, the quantity
of liquor sold, the probable amount consumed by the inhabi
tants, or by the strangers who at that period crowded to the
village on Sabbaths and Fast Days, the rate of mortality, and
the most frequent causes of death. When the information was

spread out before the minister, he wrote to Dr. Simpson : --" In

Ifact am thankful to say that these statements have more a

reference to the past generation, or at least the passing, than to
that which is coming on the stage. Clearer views of the evil of

Iintemperance are beginning to dawn, and have reason to know

that the quantity of spirits sold is diminishing, while that of
provisions is increasing.

    " The efforts that are at present made by the people to build
the new church, and the noble sacrifices undergone to have it
substantial and handsome, afford the most agreeable as well as
convincing proofs that the tide is beginning to turn. May
the Lord further the efforts making by yourself and others to
avert this national plague I"

   In the beginning of 1852, when speaking to the late

Marchioness of Bute on the subject of Cottage Hospitals, she

said, --" they might be put up at little expense if iron were

Iused instead of stone and lime ; have been making inquiries

about the price of this material for farm out-houses." With
that happy power of leading others to take an interest in good
work by setting the work in the light of an obligation conferred
on himself, he got her Ladyship to procure him plans and
estimates of buildings of corrugated iron. He kept hold of this
COTTAGE HOSPITALS.  325

Isuggestion. Some years later, when brought before him the

necessity of having a church erected in a mining village near
Bathgate, he said, " Why not put up one of corrugated iron ?
You can have a place erected which will serve as a church and

schoolhouse, 50 feet by 20 feet inside, and 15 feet high at the

walls, for £460. Then, if in fifty years the coal and iron come

to an end, as you fear, the miners could take their church on

their backs to the next diggings !" The letters from Lady Bute,
of whom he used to say " she is one of the best of women,"
show how he had been led to think of the moveable church,

but very few men could have thus readily from memory fur
nished the details of the size and expense of such erections.

    Improved dwellings for working men, village flower-shows
as a means of interesting cottagers in garden work, and cottage
convalescent homes for the poor when recovering from illness in
hospital or in their own houses, all now got his time and atten
tion and offers of help. He even comes under an obligation

for £25, towards a guarantee fund for establishing The
Bulwark, or Reformation Journal under the auspices of the
Scottish Eeformation Society. And general science was not
neglected. He was questioning nature touching the presence
of entozoa in the foetus, and speculating on the migrations of
some of these forms. He was examining eagerly the teeth of
all the old skulls brought before him in his archaeological
studies, with the view of ascertaining, from the varieties of

wearing presented by the teeth, what food had been used by
the primeval inhabitants of various districts. And long before
Mr. Darwin had written anything on " Animals under Domes
tication," he was using the able editor of the North British
Agriculturist, Mr. Charles Stevenson, to obtain information

for him from breeders of stock on some of the points of greatest
interest, afterwards brought out by Mr. Darwin. Mr. Steven
son's notes, the communications of Mr. Douglas of Athelstane-
ford, and others, would form a not uninteresting chapter in the

history of variation of species under domestication.
a326 gm JAMES Y. SIMPSON.
                                              it,
                                                               aThe reader must have already perceived, that when Dr.
Simpson took up a well-defined position in a controversy, he
aheld it bravely against all comers. When convinced that he

was right, he was utterly immoveable. Neither argument nor
appeal could lead him to change his views. Even old ties of
friendship and the memory of kind intercourse failed to modify
his estimate of the heavy blame incurred by all who cast
reproach on the profession, by charges brought against his own

skill and methods of treatment. His very habits of archaeo

logical research were carried into " the last Edinburgh quarrel."
Gossip works much harm in every profession, because those

to whom it speaks seldom see its meanness, especially if they
have no faculty for it themselves. An untender expression,

uttered by one professional man regarding another, has its

meaning intensified when repeated. An unfair criticism, made

by one from whom we have been recently estranged, becomes
in our estimate a crime when reported by a third party.

   Familiar objects appear distorted and exaggerated when seen
in a haze ; but no mist ever worked such apparent change on
material objects as the atmosphere of suspicion and prejudice

does in morals. A hasty expression has the weight of a long

premeditated utterance assigned to and thoughtless act

becomes long, carefully weighed, and deliberate deed. Thus
old friends are separated by weak and garrulous interlopers,
and the devil gets his work done to most purpose by those
who are most sure they at least are not doing it. These
remarks are suggested by much that has come under my notice

in the records of Dr. Simpson's work. In all such cases he had
no rest till he got to the bottom of an evil report. He went

straight to his work, and with steady determination kept close

to the track, till he had run the slander down. Evidence was

sifted, witnesses were interrogated, and facts were set in lights
which no obliquity of vision could mistake. One can at once
sympathize with man, to whom the profession of his choice

was so dear, and to whom its ardent and painstaking pursuit
                  MISUNDEBSTANDINGS.  327

had brought all he held precious, being jealous over his own

honour and good repute in it. It was everything to him.

With one exception, all the great trials of his public profes
sional life sprang from charges made against his skill in the

treatment of some difficult case. Some men, conscious of right,

and knowing that the charge was unmerited, would have held

on their way without giving heed to unfounded charges. It

would have saved Dr. Simpson much anxiety and pain to

have done this. Some will hold it a defect in his character

that he did not.

   Eeference has already been made to his estrangement from

Professor Miller. All who knew and loved both ever mourned

over this. Perhaps Dr. Simpson too hastily assumed, that Mr.
Miller had taken deep offence when Mr. Syme was called in
to operate on the abscess. Be this as it may, it was held by
him to be certain. And when rumours reached him that Mr.

Miller had spoken, as he believed, unhandsomely of the way he

had treated a difficult case, he believed the report all the more

readily because of the view he took of Mr. Miller's feelings to
Iwards him.
                  have read and re-read the elaborate documents

in this case, not assuredly as a partisan. My love and admira

tion for the frank, manly, high-principled Christian surgeon

while he lived, and my loving regard now for his memory,

make partisanship impossible. But it seems to me that the

surgeon meddled with a matter with which he had no concern.
He should not have discussed the case, even in the circle of his
intimate friends -- a circle in which some moved who ought to

have been grateful to Dr. Simpson, but were not, and others,

who were notoriously at variance with him on the thorny

subject of Homoeopathy. In the introduction to the printed

--correspondence Dr. Simpson says :
  I" In consequence of Professor Miller's published statement,

feel myself most reluctantly and most painfully compelled to

place the following letters in the hands of my medical brethren.

I submit them without a word of comment.
328 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   " In deference to the feelings of the husband and friends of

Ithe patient to whom the letters refer, wish, from the bottom of
Imy heart, that could feel it possible to act otherwise with any

due regard to my professional reputation, to myself, and to my

family. All, however, medical and non-medical, who have

talked to me on the subject, have unanimously assured me of
one point, that the whole case has been already made so very
public by others, that it is impossible to make it more public

Inow ; though it may be made (as hope it is in these letters)

far more correct." . . .

    The husband of the patient, himself a medical man, wrote

Ito Dr. Simpson :--" cannot tell with what feelings of indig
Ination have just been informed of conduct imputed to two

medical men, in having dared to pry into the circumstances
connected with the last illness of my lamented wife. The

I Inames of these individuals have not heard, nor, need say,
Ihave any desire to learn them. . . .

    " Let me repeat here my grateful thanks to you for your very
kind and careful attendance on my dear wife, and beg of you
to command my testimony should you require it. But surely
your professional reputation can well afford to treat with con
tempt the insinuations of men who could lower themselves as
these two have done ; and, above all, let me earnestly entreat
of you to rescue my dear wife's name from being made a sub
ject of public discussion and controversy."

    Some of his brethren pointed to a court of law as the proper

place for vindication, but he was better advised. It is to the
report of this that Dr. Carpenter refers in the following note:--

   " So you must battle it out among yourselves, and edify us
peaceful Londoners with your amiable discussions. Are we
to have a case of Miller v. Simpson, or Simpson v. Miller,
arising out of 'the last Edinburgh quarrel'? Or have you
made it up and embraced as two good Free Churchmen ought
to do?"

    Old friends and fellow-students failed not to keep him
                                           SIR JAMES EYRE.                 329

abreast of the most recent information touching their own work

and interests, or the doings of the circle in which they moved.

These communications are not, however, always so cheery as

those from Sir James Eyre :--

                                          " 11 Lower Brook St., Feb. 21st, 1852.
   " My dear Simpson, -- You have not used an old friend and

fellow-pupil well, for you never said a word in favour of his
book, ' Practical Eemarks, 2d Edition,' in your periodical last

year. You will receive, if you have not already, a work, fresh

from the press, whose title is ' The Stomach and its Difficulties,'

by Sir James Eyre, M.D. Edin. etc. etc. etc' Being a

Isexagenarian, although was made a doctor -- hating operative
Isurgery -- on the same day that you were capped yourself,

have given up Midwifery after thirty-eight years of                '       and

jumping out of bed, half asleep, in the winter at night, so that      it,

   can devote myself now to some of the difficulties of the '
I
   IIhuman frame and shall be surprised, indeed, you do not
                                                               if
                         ?
                                        ;

                               a

                   I
pat on the back this child of my old age, you and having
                                                                   I

been boys together.

   " still have very satisfactory practice, and capital posi

tion in this village, caring for nobody, and yet caring for all.

But could live without any business at all.                    always give
                                           ;

                                                a

                                                      I
                                                           I
you the good word, and you have backbiters in London, as who
has not and you will remember that you thought my testi

monial, when you were elected Professor to my dear Alma

Mater, good enough to print so, as one good turn deserves

another, do not let the very jealous neighbours of mine say

'  that the Scotch never help the English.'                    know better than

that by the happy experience of twenty- one years. Pray

remember me to my favourite Professors, Dr. Christison and

Dr. Alison, also to your namesake Dr. James Simson, and Mr.

W. Wood, alive, and continue to believe me to be, my dear
   if
                                                       James Eyre.
            1"                             do not know your frame

                           I
Simpson, your sincere friend,

  " If you should not like my book,

of mind at all
330 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

                                        " 11 Lower Brook St., Oct. 4th, 1852.

" My dear Simpson, -- If you yourself did not write that

Iamusing, good-natured, clever critique upon my modest little

book in the Edinburgh Quarterly, your kind heart led you, am

quite sure, to direct some friendly pen to review the Stomach
Iand its Difficulties for you.
                                do not regard its being called a

gossiping, so long as it is styled a truthful work, or myself as

' elderly ' (though a fellow-pupil of yours, to me a boy) so long
Ias the censor describes me as ' amiable.'
                                            should indeed, my
Ifriend, have been greatly mortified if had not had a pat on

the back from you, since we were so long students together,

industriously imbibing our knowledge at the same fountains,

day by day, week by week, and month by month ; and, although

Iyou have immeasurably outstripped me, still have won the

victory too in my fight in London ; and through your praise,

and that of an incredible number of others, whose approbation
I Iis of great value, shall, see, have the care of the bread
Ibaskets of a large number of Her Majesty's subjects.
                                                       have

been the architect of my own fortune entirely, having had no

patrimony ; and now in the vale of life, as you will see by the

I Ibiographical sketch which send you by this day's post, hope
Ithat my dear wife -- the best in the world --and may be

permitted to enjoy some of the comforts of life undisturbed for

Ia few years longer, a zest for which being at present happily
continued to us.  have watched your splendid career with

great interest and real gratification, and, as is well known, have

Inot been slow to evince how heartily have rejoiced at your

well-earned fame ; and you are not greedy either ; that is so

uncommon a virtue among the rich. Of course a line from one

Iso employed as you are is out of the question, but should have

liked to have known if you recognised my likeness.--Believe

me to be, my dear Simpson, your sincere friend,
                                                                 " James Eyre."

During the summer two gentlemen, with whom he had long
M. RETZIUS.                                        331

corresponded by letter, and whom he held in the highest esteem,

visited Scotland, and took up their abode in 52 Queen Street
while in Edinburgh. These were Professor Magnus Eetzius

of Stockholm, and Professor Channing of Boston, U.S. Dr.
Simpson's eighth child and fifth son was born at the time of

Professor Eetzius's visit, and received his name.

                                                          "Paris, 1852, Aug. 27th.

"Dearest Friend, --My first and dearest duty after the

arrival at Paris is to present you, sir, my sincerest thanks for
the innumerable tests of true friendship and cordiality which
you, dear sir, showed me during my visit at Edinburgh ; for the

unmerited and undeserved attention and distinction which you

decerned me at so many occasions ; for the crowd of interest

ing and important doctrines, communications, and observations
you gave me in such abundant quantity ; and finally for the
liberality whereby you guested me. Would, Almighty God, that

Iany occasion might present itself to me to show how much

am thankful for your kindness to me, dearest friend ! My

feelings come in agitation, and my eye becomes tearful when

Iever think that I, perhaps, no more in this life will see the
Iman to whom am so much indebted, and to whom my heart

finds itself so strongly stirred.

  I" was surprised to be received by Baron Dubois in a most
Iamiable manner, and found him quite another man than in

1844.

  I" beg you to present my compliments to Mistress Simpson

and her sister, and moreover to Dr. Drummond, and to every
one who keeps me in remembrance. Don't forget to kiss

IAlexander Magnus on my account. -- remain, dearest Sir, for

ever, your sincerest friend and most obedient servant,
                                                                  " M. Eetzius."

" Liverpool, Sept. nth, 1852.
I" Dear Sir, -- cannot go away without troubling you with
Ia line, though know how little time you have to spare from a
Ilife full of action and full of good.
                                        cannot go without saying
332 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

from my heart of hearts fervently, and to ask of God a blessing

on you and yours, a thousand thanks for your and their bound

less hospitality. Your kindness will never be forgotten ; and
if in coming time you or yours ·will give opportunity, I will do
Iall can do to show how fresh is the memory of my visit to
Iyour house.
               bear in mind the honoured acquaintance which
Iunder your direct influence was permitted to make. Never
Ican forget Professors Christison, Syme, Sharpey, men who are

among the most distinguished men of our calling, and who so

richly deserve the honour they bear. Do remember me most

kindly to them. The sin of ingratitude stands very high in the

Ilist of delinquencies ; and most anxious am not to have that
Ilaid to my charge. How much, and how many do remember
Ifrom whom, through you, have received the most gratifying
Iattentions. How can fail to remember Ardarroch and its

most kind host and hostess, living in the midst and presence

of Nature's grandest works ; how enlarged is their hospitality,

Ihow noble a growth of such a life ! . . . went to Manchester

early yesterday morning, to return in the noon convoy. But

IMr. Eobertson took possession of me, and there stayed all day

and all night. My visit was most pleasant. His family is a

most interesting one, and everything was done to make my

visit pleasant and useful. Dr. Clay called on me at once, and
I made him a long visit. He drove me everywhere, and showed
Ime most interesting objects.
                               drank tea with him, and had

some excellent talk. Thus has your kindness followed me, yes,

accompanied me, and made the stranger the companion of
... Ifriends.
               have made all my arrangements for my voyage.
I --am writing you in the last hours of England
               " Cras iterabimus sequor."
I Iwould invoke all the halcyons of the calendar, if thought
Ithey would come at my bidding. But must take what comes,

and live in my happy past. But however it may be, you will

not be forgotten by your most obliged and sincere friend,

                                                        "W. Channing."
                   DR. CHANNING.  333

   Dr. Channing's account of his visit was written in Queen
Street, and forwarded to his relations in Boston, where it was

afterwards published in " A Physician's Vacation ; or, a Summer

in Europe." The description of Dr. Simpson's work is graphic,

and supplies a good comment on much that has been brought
under the notice of the reader :--

   " At half-past one his consultations at home begin, and last

till nearly or quite six. When he began this system of home

clinics, for such they strictly are, his house was filled at all

hours, so that it was impossible to keep any order. People

would come at seven A.M., in order to be first. They would get

breakfast at six, or earlier, and disturb their own families much.

To prevent this, he fixed the hour at half-past one to half-

past five. The patients of the two divisions are in different

but equally large rooms. They draw lots for priority, have

tickets, and come in as called, and so the most perfect order

prevails. Everybody knows what are Professor S.'s hours,

and everybody observes them. He has an assistant, who writes

prescriptions to his dictation, directions, letters, etc., and also

attends to cases.  He examines cases daily when there is

occasion to do so. From long experience, and constant obser

vation --the habit of recording cases -- and of distinguishing them

with all the accuracy in his power, he is able to arrive at con

clusions in the cases before him in a very short time, or to make
Ihis diagnosis.    see most, or many of his cases --examine them
Iafter him, and have again and again been struck, in new ones,

how true is his diagnosis. He proceeds at once to the treat
Ifment.
         an operation is to be, he does it at once. Applica

tions of remedies are made, and prescriptions given, with

directions, and the patient is desired to call in a week, fortnight,
in two days, etc., as circumstances may indicate. At times the

case is written down from the answers of patients to questions.

This is always the case if it be a new case, or it is probable

that changes may be required in treatment, or the effects of

treatment noted. Some notion may be got of this portion of
334 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Professor S.'s in-door, or home professional life. He goes

through this great labour quietly and methodically, and with as

gentle, kind, cheerful spirit as man ever manifested. The

moral character of the daily service in disease is quite as

striking as is the professional The moral presides over the

whole, and renders it one of the most interesting matters for
Iobservation that can occur.
                              have been utterly surprised at

its executive patience, its efficient activity. Here are the poor

and the rich together, with no other distinctions than such as

Iwill best accommodate both. And can say, from a long and

wide observation, that there is no difference in their treatment.

The great fact of each in Professor S.'s regard is the fact that

disease exists, which it is the physician's business to investi

gate and try to remove. He knows what is the prospect of

success or of failure, and makes his prognosis accordingly. But,

even when the worst is announced, it is not spoken of as

Iutterly hopeless, and something is done, all is done, for present
comfort, when nothing may be done for cure.       am surprised

again at the varieties of disease which congregate at No. 52, and

of the number which is presented in each kind. It is this

which gives character to the whole, and makes these clinics the
I Ivery best schools.
have been every day a pupil here.                 have

every day learned much ; yes, a great deal, which will aid me
Iin all my future professional, yes, moral life.
                                                  had designed
Ito visit Ireland, but so few days remained to me that was
Isure the visit could amount to nothing important, and con

cluded to remain at Professor Simpson's house, in the midst of

his home practice, and to visit with him abroad such patients

as he could show me. Wherever we went the Professor was

received with the same bright welcome, the same cheerful face,

Iand thought this made the beauty of his professional life.

One was glad to see him so soon again. Another had been

waiting with such patience as could be commanded for a visit.

But with all was the appearance and the consciousness that

something good was to come from the call. He had time for
DAILY LIFE.                                335

everything. He took his seat, and with his ' Come along

now,' 'How are you?' 'How have you been?' etc., was

always answered to satisfy perfectly the various objects in view.

There was directness in his questions, or directions to the

patient ; but it was so quiet, so easy, that, though time was
pressing on new engagements, it seemed that the present one

only occupied his mind. There was persuasion with command,

or demand, in such proportions, that the patient was only

anxious to do the very best for himself, or for herself, and for

the doctor. In this way, or by this manner, which seems no

manner at all, Professor S. is able to do a great deal in a short

time. His coachman understands by a hint where he is to go,

and goes rapidly through his various service. As we pass

along, some object of interest is at hand --the Botanic Garden,

a ruin, a hill, a beautiful prospect. He pulls the string, opens

the door which lets down the step, and ' Come away,' tells you
there is something for you to see -- something to please you,

Iand there is time enough to see it. ' visit here, and for ten
Iminutes will leave you ; go down there and you will find
Isomething.' Off he goes to his patient, and off go to see what

he has indicated. The Professor is well made for despatch.

He is short, stout, with small feet, and his step is short and

very quick. He is of excellent age for vigour -- about thirty-
Inine, and ' goes ahead ' of all walkers.
                                           have almost to run

somewhat, not to lose him. Let me finish his picture. You

have his length, but not his full length. His head is large,

covered with a profusion of black hair, which obeys its instincts,

and more strikingly so when he thrusts his very small hands

into and all over it. His forehead is of good height, but the

hair grows low upon it ; and to me this is the most becoming

manner of its growth, and the antique, the Apollo, the Clyte,

etc., support my taste. His face is broad, of fair length, and its

expression just such as such mind and heart always produce.

His eyes are singularly loquacious, and always begin to talk

before he utters a word. His knowledge is more various than
336 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

I have before met with. Nothing escapes him. Science and

literature are his pleasures. Archaeology is a favourite pursuit;

and his friends frequently send him books, and specimens,
I Iwhich help his studies.
                            never saw so many presents.
Iwent up last night late. ' must make some visits,' said he,
' say at eleven.' Off drove his coach. This morning, before

Ianybody else was up, went below for my spectacles. On the

sideboard was a basket of fine peaches, ' which was not so

Ibefore.' In the morning bouquets came in. could fill pages

with a list of such offerings as are daily poured in. He has
game at every meal. ' Our friends,' said one, ' keep us supplied

with game.' His family pass the summer in a very pleasant

place a few miles from the city, but his house affairs go on by

themselves very much as of themselves, and knew how, and are

all in perfect order. Said he to me when he carried me bodily

Ifrom my hotel, ' am a bachelor --no woman ; but come away,
Iyou shall have the best have.' Night before last he was
Icalled into the country. found him at table in the morning,
Iand with a heavy, but hearty yawn, said he, ' had a drive last
Inight, over a stony road, in a carriage without springs.

changed  it,  but was no better off, and feel well pounded.'
                a           it

                              II
                                     if I

                                                                                           ,

                                                                  it

                                                                              is is .
This was not complaint, but an experience, and as soon as

breakfast was over, eaten as was with all sorts of interrup

tions, he was ready for his visit to the Duchess of       and

everybody else. He eats little, and as almost unconscious of

the function. In this he constantly reminds me of

He receives great deal of money, have heard. But he seems
              a

wholly regardless of money, and, as have further heard,

only lately that he had begun to accumulate property. He

paid at the visit or consultation, which saves him from one of

the most inconvenient offices, charging and collecting fees. We

feel both the inconvenience and loss in America.     have seen
                            is is

                                      I
                                               I
fees paid him. It when the patient leaving him, and by
              if

                        is
offering the hand for farewell the fee deposited in his.

really think     he were subjected to our system, he would get
DAILY LITE.                                           337

no money at alL ' At night,' said a patient of his, whom he

sent to me when she came to America, 'his pockets are emptied.

He knows nothing of their contents before ; and so his money

Iis cared for.' said his meals are often interrupted. His butler

brings in cards, notes, letters. ' There,' says he, and lays by
Ifnote after note. Then two or three ladies come in.
                                                      he be

not in, down they sit on the sofa, and take up books or news

papers. Then gentlemen, with or without ladies, appear.

They are always asked to table by Miss  , his sister-in-law,

or somebody else. When the Professor is at table he places
them. But he is reading and eating -- or giving bread to a

spotted Danish coach-dog named Billy, of fine size, and a

Iuniversal pet : feed him always. Professor S. talks to the

comers. Then learns of strangers what they want, gets their

residence, if visits are wanted, or goes into a room hard by and

sees them alone. His house is very large, and full of rooms,

and always seems inhabited. At length he gets ready to go
Iout. ' Come away,' says he to me.
                                        run up to put on a

different coat, to get hat, etc., and always find him, hat on, at

the door, ready to run down the steps for the morning's work.

This is the way every day. He wears a narrow-brimmed hat,

and puts it on well back, and so shows his whole face and part

of his head. His dress is always black, with a remarkably

nicely- arranged white neckcloth, with a very carefully-made
Ibow in front. So you see he is always dressed.
                                                 think, M.,

you would want to give the hat a different set. You could not

improve the rest of the toilet. Now, is it not a great privilege
to be the inmate of such an establishment as this ? Is it

not a thing to prize, to be the companion of a man so wholly

devoted to others, and yet who is so cheerful, so constantly

happy himself ? You are admitted by such a man into the

society of his thought and of his act. He always talks to the

purpose, and yet he is the least of a formalist of any man with

Iwhom have been acquainted. He has large information, for

he is habitually an observer and a student ; and yet he has

Y

                                                                   S
       338 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

no pedantry, no obtrusion of learning for its (or rather his) own
sake, but that his companions may be helped by what he knows.

He is almost daily making new observations, discovering some

thing new, or using the known in a new way. And yet he is

not in the remotest degree a dogmatist. It is not to support a

       doctrine that he talks, but to afford you an opportunity to speak

               it,

                              if I
                                    I

                                                       it,

                                                                                       a
       more fully of to get knowledge from or to aid you by the

knowledge he communicates.             have been chiefly questioner

in the society of Professor S., and     always have got good
Ifanswers.
               he has no answer, he cannot explain the unex

plained, in my own mind, he turns himself round in his coach,

for in driving have the best of his society, and says,
don't know; cannot explain that.' He will add, have had
       it
          is

               I
                      I

                                         I
                                                     it I'
                                                               'I

                                                                                                                          a S.
the same difficulty you have, and cannot clear                                            up.' One

       advantage has arisen out of this intercourse with Professor

which declares itself to me every day.                 am conscious of

daily review of my own professional life, of thought, of reading,

and of study.           speak constantly of books, of cases, of results
               I

                           '
                                         S.

                                I
                                                   is

                                        I
of treatment. Professor has read all, and infinitely more

than have, and yet how small           his study. Here my
'                                                         '
       study,' said he the other night, as was passing his sleeping-room,
     'I                                                         I is
       on my way to bed, come along.' In went. The room was         !I
       small. There was his bed, and, in place of night-stand, there
                                                       a

was at the head of the bed book-stand, or case, with two or
                        a
                                    a
three shelves about foot and half wide, filled with books.
                                       a
The filling took but few. Taking hold of moveable gas-burner,
                                          I
he brought forward, so that he could easily read on his pillow.Ia
         ;' a it

                '

                  is
                          ' it

                                is
       Here,' said he,  my study. Here read at night.'                                    only

said, What privilege                to be able to read in this way

never could and then, Good-night.'                     heard his night-bell

almost every night."                                                                      S.

  "At the hardest-worked time of his busy life," says his

nephew, Mr. John Simpson, apropos of the night-bell, " Dr.

had not only the burden and heat of the day to bear, but the
burden and chill of the night as welL The servant, accustomed

to the midnight ring, had speaking-trumpet, leading from the
                        a
                      VISIT TO IRELAND.                             339

side of the front door down to his bedroom, and when the bell

was rung he shouted 'Coming directly.' One night he was
greatly annoyed on being rung up, to find, when he got to the
door, nobody outside. He returned to bed and to slumber, but

again the bell rang, and again no one appeared at the door. A

third time his sleep was broken, with a like result. Thoroughly
roused, and vowing vengeance on the disturber, he took his
stand behind the door to await the bell-ringer's next attempt.

He had not very long to wait. A footstep is on the street --

quickly, softly, on it comes, up the steps, forward to the bell.
When the bell moved the door flew open, and out rushed the
furious servant to seize in his arms --his master ! When told
what had happened, he guessed that a patient near by required

him. The patient's servant, a country girl, had been thrice
sent for the doctor, and been thrice answered, as she believed,
by the doctor himself, ' Coming directly.' "

    To gratify Dr. Eetzius, Dr. Simpson accompanied him to

Ireland in the end of August. When Dr. Churchill learned
his intention, he at once wrote :--

                                                           " 137 St. Stephen's Green.

   " My dear Simpson, -- Come, come, come, by all means, and
soon. You shall have a hearty welcome, even if the weather

be as bad as to-day. Give my compliments to Mrs. Simpson,

and beg that she will sweep you out clean and clear, so that we

may have a chance of seeing you. Let me know as soon as

Iyou arrive, and will contrive to be with you as much as

possible. Your friend the Swede (whose name you blotted --
                                  of course) will be welcome also.
                 I
                             it,
to enable me to read

" am sorry was out when Dr. Milne called, and he took
I

effectual means of preventing my calling on him by leaving no

address, or should have been delighted to have shown him
      I          have only one word to say -- Come. --Yours
           I
some attention.

affectionately,                          F. Churchill."

   His Irish friends were as much gratified with this visit as he
was. " assure you," wrote Dr. Neligan, " that your visit gave
   I

both great pleasure and gratification to us all."
                       CHAPTEE XL

Penalty of Celebrity -- Nervous Patients --Lecture at Bathgate --Pay
ment for Eesults --Oil-Anointing-- Lykion Vase -- Elected a Foreign
Associate of the Academy of Medicine, Paris --Note from Paul Du
bois -- Chivalrous Defence of Mr. Syme-- Vacancy in the Natural
History Chair -- Candidateship of Edward Forbes -- Investigations
                       of Asiatic Cholera --Queries                     --
as to the      Cause   Agassiz -- Practice of Physic  -- Amusements     --
Tableaux                                              Chair -- Letters
           Vivants --
Suretyship for Sandy -- Illness --Letters --Physicians in the ancient
Roman Army-- Gathering Knowledge --Notes from Principal Lee--
Monthyon Prize --Archaeology--Acupressure -- Medical Reform --
British Medical Association -- Letters --Professor Syme.

  If celebrity obtained by persistent and laborious devotion to

the interests of man, is sure to rally the wisest and best of his
fellow-men around the worker, it seldom fails to cast an equally
powerful spell on a very different class -- a class of whom it

would perhaps be difficult to say definitely whether its mem

bers are sane or insane. Nervous, imaginative, dreamy, im

pulsive, they seek to steady themselves by bringing their

schemes or their dreams on behalf of humanity --for they are
almost all amateur philanthropists -- to those who stand firmly

to their own work. Dr. Simpson had to bear this penalty.

Impossible plans for the amelioration of society were thrust

on his attention. "When they reached him by letter they were
easily dealt with. His difficulty lay with the gentlemanly or
lady-like enthusiasts who came asking for a few minutes' talk
on a matter " in which they knew he was greatly interested."

In four cases out of six it generally turned out that, if the visi
                  PENALTY OF CELEBRITY.          341

tors had a scheme, they had not the faculty of stating it.

Their substantial facts thinned away into shadows; their fancies

seemed to be the only realities --

If" substance may be call'd that shadow seem'd,

      For each seem'd either."

An educated man endowed with strong imagination, and much

knowledge, but little intelligence, is the most difficult of all to

deal with, when he has fairly taken to a hobby.

  IOur conversation turned on this, on an occasion when

applied to him, in the name of the Bathgate Mechanics' Insti
Itute, for a popular lecture. " But what subject could take
Ithat would suit them?"
                         suggested "Hobbies." He de

livered the lecture to a great audience, touched lightly on

hobbies, but devoted most of his time to the illustration of the

influence of the mind on the body.

   In the beginning of 1853 a communication of the sort now

referred to reached him from Falkirk :--

  I" Sir,-- beg leave to transmit the following proposals for

your perusal and serious consideration, as they are of paramount
importance to the citizens of Edinburgh and its suburbs :--

  I I" have discovered and invented a plan by which can pro

tect the lives and preserve the health of the citizens from

dangers, diseases, and premature deaths, to which, under exist

ing circumstances, they are compelled to submit ; besides, it

would realize a saving of more than three millions sterling,

...which are at present unnecessarily laid out without obtaining
the desired end.  If the plan were once fully adopted, it

...would give a stimulus to industry and commerce, quite unpre
cedented in the annals of our country.  It will very shortly

stop the different demoralizing streams and torrents of crimes,

vices, depravity, immorality, debauchery, drunkenness, prosti

..."tution, lying, profane swearing, dishonest bankruptcy, madness,

and folly.

The writer then states at length the blessings which the

adoption of the plan would bring to churches, infirmaries,
342 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

schools, and colleges. But, unfortunately for the human race,

he finishes four closely written quarto pages, without having

stated what this wonderful plan is !

   Another class of visitors and correspondents much hindered

his highest work -- a physically healthy but nervous class, whose

life-solace is to speak of their imaginary troubles--" A terrible

disease," he was wont to say. One case of this kind he de
scribed minutely in the lecture at Bathgate. The nature of

the delusion, the rank of the sufferer, the low and often tremu

lous tones of the speaker's voice as he described the case, and

the dramatic form into which the narrative was thrown, held

a crowded audience in rapt attention and awe. The con

cluding words--" My friends, let us pray to God to keep us all
from such a state as this "--fell with wondrous power on the
people. It was " awfu' grewsome," said a woman to me at
the close. A few friends supped with him in his brother's

house after the lecture, and at table a gentleman of the district

Isaid : " was thanking God all the time she was not my wife."

The quiet humour in Dr. Simpson's rejoinder-- " But how do

you know?" turned the laugh on the grateful husband.

While, however, he had large and hearty sympathy for such

cases, he had none for that far from small class who com

plain of want of appetite while they are faring sumptuously
Ievery day.
             copy verbatim a gentleman's description of his

appetite when applying for something to improve it. The italics
are the patient's : " Is there any prescription likely to be of
I Iadvantage ?
             am a very poor eater; drink a pint of ale after
dinner, and a tumbler of toddy before going to bed." " Drink

less," was the remedy prescribed. But illnesses of this kind

are seldom curable, except, perhaps, by homoeopathic treat

ment ! There are, at least, many proofs of their obduracy and

duration. It is not clear whether the case mentioned in the

following note was of this description, but the note is worth
quoting :-- " My dear Doctor, --Mrs.
                                      wishes to know

whether you have received a letter from her. We will settle
                          OIL ANOINTING.  343

Iour old and open a new account when you come. But

hope you will manage to settle accounts of this sort for ever.
If you will get Mrs.      Iall right, shall pay you for each

day she is well a certain sum. That's the way some people
do in the East. The plan is altogether a good one. -- My dear

Doctor, sincerely yours,  ."

In April 1853, Mr. Eobert Chambers inserted an interesting

paper, written by himself, in Chambers's Journal, on " Oil Anoint

ing." This was the first public announcement of a subject

to which Dr. Simpson had been for several months giving a

good deal of time, and to which he had called Mr. Chambers's

attention ; viz., the prevention and treatment of consumption

by the external use of oil. He afterwards contributed a

paper to the Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science,
in which he made his discovery more fully known, and asked
attention to its merits :--" In Great Britain above 70,000

individuals die every year of pulmonary consumption and

scrofula. In other words, tubercular or strumous diseases

destroy in our island nearly 200 lives every day, or eight in

dividuals every hour. Of the 70,000 deaths, about 60,000 are

the result of pulmonary consumption alone ; this fatal malady

carrying off on an average nearly 170 of our population daily ;

or extinguishing among us a human life every ten minutes.

To arrest this frightful mortality, and to prevent, retard, or

cure this --the most destructive variety of human disease --

medical science has proposed an almost infinite variety of

means. All are ready to lament how comparatively unsuccess
Iful our attempts still are.
                              trust, therefore, that any new

practical suggestion on the matter, tending, in however slight

a degree, to abate the violence and mortality of such a fatal

form of malady, will be received by my medical brethren with

Iindulgence at least, whether the data which have to adduce

convince them or not of its probable importance and success in

this and in some other morbid states.

  "A few months ago (December 1852), when on a profes
344 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

sional visit to Galashiels in Eoxburghshire, my friend Dr. Mac-

dougall incidentally directed my attention to the healthy state
and robust appearance of the operatives at the large woollen

manufactories in that town. In the course of conversation he

further informed me that these operatives were specially and

strikingly exempt from consumption and scrofulous diseases ;

and that they themselves attributed the immunity which they

enjoyed from these affections to the free external application
of oil to their bodies, which occurred in various parts of the

manufacture of woollen fabrics. This latter observation ap

Ipeared to me particularly interesting, for, as remarked to Dr.

Macdougall at the time, if oil applied incidentally to the skin

during working hours, in the common course of factory labour,

was capable of preventing or arresting struma and phthisis, the

same means ought to be followed by the same effects, with still

greater certainty, if the oil were applied methodically to the

same surface with the regularity of an artificial medicinal

agent. The casual observation of Dr. Macdougall appeared

to me so interesting in itself, and possibly so important in the

consequences to which it might lead, that it seemed a matter
Ifof moment to ascertain --first,
                                   the same relative immunity

from phthisical and strumous disease had been observed among

Ifthe workers at other woollen factories in Scotland; secondly,

this immunity were attributable to the external inunction, when

resorted to as a prophylactic or therapeutic means, were capable

of acting beneficially upon the body, and could be applied

practically in the prevention and treatment of consumption,

scrofula, and other affections."

   A full outline of the results of his investigations is given

under eight heads :-- 1. Evidence of the comparative immunity

of wool-workers from phthisis and scrofula 2. The cause of

this. 3. The quantity of oil used in the mills in the course of

the woollen manufacture. 4. By what mode or channels may

the oil enter the system of the operatives ? 5. Would systematic

oil-inunction, as a medicinal measure, prevent or cure tubercular
LYKION VASES.                                           345

disease ? 6. Diseases and circumstances in which oil-rubbing

is indicated. 7. Principal rules for external inunction. 8.

Answer to objections to oil-inunction on the score of cleanliness,

etc. --oil-anointing of the ancients for luxury, etc. Under

each of these heads a great variety of statistical and medical

information is given in a popular way. He was anxious to set

this subject clearly before the people. He saw very many

cases in which they might apply this remedy without incurring

expense by calling in a doctor. The affirmative answer to the
Iquestion under the fifth head is of great importance.
                                                        am not

aware if oil is prescribed by the profession in the way and for

the purposes indicated in this paper. But it is known to be

used beneficially by many on their own responsibility.

When looking at the Greek antiquities in the British

Museum, in 1852, Dr. Simpson's eye lighted on a small sub-

ovoid-shaped, inch-high, and inch-wide leaden vase, marked by

a rude Greek inscription -- Lukionparamousaiou -- The Lycium of

Musceus. Was this the lycium collyrium, or eye-salve of the

ancients ? With characteristic promptness he set himself to

find an answer to the question. By the kindness of M. Sichel

of Paris he was favoured with a drawing of another vase of the

same shape and dimensions, made of earthenware instead of
lead, and bearing the inscription -- " The Lycium of Heracleus."

In a work of M. Millin of Paris, published in 1814, he found

the description of a third vase of the same size and shape, made
of clay, and bearing the inscription --" The Lycium of Jason."
His investigations left no doubt that the vases had been used

for holding the Lykion which the ancients regarded with great

favour as a cure for different kinds of ophthalmic inflammation.

He was then able to identify it with the Rusot or Ruswut, at pre

sent used extensively by the native medical practitioners of

India. Specimens of this were obtained, and successfully

employed by Dr. Walker, at the Edinburgh Eye Dispensary.

Dr. Simpson wrote an account of these vases for the Monthly

Journal of Medical Science, and afterwards published the paper,
346 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

" Notes on some Ancient Greek Vases," with figures. The paper

was inscribed to M. SicheL In the introduction he says :--
    " The physicians and surgeons who, in ancient time, pursued

their medical profession at Eome, and in different parts of the
Eoman empire, have left us various palpable relics of their
craft. Thus, in the ruins of Pompeii and Herculaneum,
numerous surgical instruments, pharmacy, and drug-bottles,
etc., have been found ; and elaborate drawings and accounts of
these have lately been published by Savenko, Vulpes, Eenzi,
and others. On the sites of the old Eoman cities and colonies

throughout Western Europe, various surgical and medical relics
of the same kind have been at different times discovered : as

lancets, probes, cupping-glasses, scalpels, oculist-stamps, phials,
etc. But of medicine, as it was still earlier exercised in Greece
and in the Grecian colonies, few such tangible vestiges remain.
We have, it is true, had carefully transmitted down to us the
imperishable professional writings of Hippocrates and others of
the purely Greek school ; but time has spared few, or indeed
almost no, material remnants of the professional instruments or
vessels used by the ancient Greek surgeons and physicians.

    " Perhaps the great rarity of such archaeological remains may
serve as some apology for the present notice of some specimens
of ancient Greek medical vessels or vases. Besides, the vases

Iwhich wish to describe are interesting in other points of view.

They are all of them intended to contain one and the same
drug, as shown by the inscriptions on their exterior ; this drug
was derived by the ancient Greeks chiefly from Hindustan, --
one of the many points of evidence of the former freedom and
frequency of the traffic between the south of Europe and India ;
and at the present day the same drug is still employed exten
sively and successfully, by the native practitioners of the East,
for the very purposes for which it was, in former times, used by
the medical practitioners of Greece.

  " The drug to which I allude is the Indian Lycium or Lykion,

the aykion inaikon of Dioscorides. In modern collections and
HONOURS.                                                    347

Iwritings, know of four ancient vases or drug-bottles intended
Ifto contain this valued eye-medicine.
                                        our museums, how

ever, were properly searched, perhaps various other Greek vases,

for the same or for similar medicines, would be detected."

    On the 1st of March Dr. Simpson was elected a Foreign

Associate of the Academy of Medicine, Paris --an honour

Iaccorded to few, and not, believe, held at the time by any

other member of the profession in Great Britain.  The intima
tion was forwarded by Paul Dubois : --

                                                                " Paris, le 4 Mara 1853.

" A Monsieur le Docteur Simpson, a Edimbourg.
   " Monsieur et tres Honors Confrere, -- Je m'empresse de

vous informer que l'Académie Impériale de MMecine, dans sa
Seance du 1TM Mars courant, vous a conf^ré le titre cCAssocid

£tranger.

   " Je suis heureux d'avoir a vous annoncer, monsieur, une

distinction aussi honorable de la part de l'Académie ; les titres
que vous pouviez faire valoir avaient naturellement appele sur

vous l'attention de la compagnie, c'est done une justice quelle

a rendu a votre mérite et a vos talents. --Veuillez agréer,

monsieur, l'hommage de ma considération tres-distinguée.
                                                                        "Dubois."

   A writer in the Atlas newspaper thus describes the circum
stances connected with the election to this high honour :--

   " The circumstances of the election of Dr. Simpson of Edin
burgh as Foreign Associate of the Academy of Medicine has
created an emotion in the scientific world almost unparalleled
in its annals. The custom from time immemorial has been to

appoint, without examination, the members proposed by the
commission, and to accept the list thus presented by them with
the most perfect indifference. The list offered by the commis
sion on the present occasion consisted of seven names of

eminence --Baffalini of Florence, Eetzius of Stockholm, Eibero

of Turin, Warren of Boston, Valentine Mott of New York,
348 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

"WIeninch of Brussels, and Graudet of Lisbon --and a supple

mentary list, consisting of Professors Owen, Faraday, and

Bright of London, and Bischoff of Giessen. The absence of a

name so eminent as that of Dr. Simpson created the greatest

murmur of astonishment and discontent amongst the more en

lightened members of the Académie, and several of them, at

the head of whom was Dr. Velpeau, rose to exclaim against the

awkward bivue of which the commission had been guilty. A

secret compact was immediately formed, and a formal protest

agreed upon, which, duly signed and sealed, was laid upon the

President's bureau. But the rules of the Academie being

against such demonstration of independence on the part of its

members, the protestation, after having been silently perused

by M. Bérard, was thrown aside with scorn, and the list pro

posed by the commission submitted to the inspection of the

assembly, as though the appeal had not existed. With the

utmost courtesy the majority accepted, without a dissentient

voice, the first six nominations ; but at the proclamation of the

seventh, a tumult arose, and the name of Simpson was shouted

forth with unmistakeable energy. The embarrassment of the

authorities was great, such rebellion against the decrees of the

commission was without a precedent, and for a while there was

a show of resistance and a call to order, but this was speedily

overcome, and the name of Simpson carried with an enthusiasm

which has long been a stranger to the meetings of the Academic

The event has caused an immense sensation amongst the medical

profession, as being totally without example ; and already are

pamphlets of all colours, articles, and appeals, flying about in

all directions.  One of the presiding members has, indeed,

considered it necessary to defend the omission of which himself

and colleagues have been guilty, so great is his dread of public

opinion on the matter ; and the defence has given birth to the

most angry controversy on either side. The speeches made on

the occasion gave rise to a display of wit which reflects honour

on both parties, while the President himself declared that
LITERARY ATTAINMENTS.  349

'although it had hitherto been considered that the greatest

honour which the Académie could confer upon a foreign col

league was that of electing him amongst its members, yet it had

remained for Dr. Simpson to prove that a greater honour yet

existed -- that of being chosen in spite of the will of the Académie

itself.' The incident has had a cheerful influence, inasmuch as
it proves that science is at length freeing herself with noble
effort from the bonds of prejudice and servitude in which she
has so long been held. The election of Dr. Simpson to the
French Academy of Medicine has cast a glory around both

electors and elected."

    Scores of congratulatory notes followed, many of the writers
using the occasion to convey to him their own thanks for
good received at his hands, or for kind acts. " Amongst the
many congratulations," wrote a lady from Paris, " which reach
you from all sides upon your nomination to the French

IAcademy of Medicine, hope you will not despise those of

the widow whose heart you have made to sing for joy, by the
kindly notice you have taken of her son."

    Though apparently engrossed with professional work, he
found time for reading in departments with which few would

Ihave believed him familiar. " well remember," says Dr.

Turner, " accompanying him, when in Edinburgh on my holi
 day, some sixteen years ago, to the bedside of an invalid
English lady in his house, whose malady did not preclude such
resources to beguile the tedium of the sick-chamber as reading
 and conversation. The staple of her intellectual diet, derived
 chiefly from the productions of modern authors, was of rather a
 light description, but it supplied material for a long talk at our
 visit to her. Burns, Scott, Wordsworth, Longfellow, Gerald
 Massey, and others of the tuneful throng, were passed in review

Iby doctor and patient --for was more a listener than an in

 terlocutor -- and the lady, although certainly ' well up ' at most
 points, met her match in her host and medical adviser. She
 spoke a little boastfully of her familiarity with the Doric of our
350 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

great national bard, whose acquaintance she had been culti

Ivating under the doctor's auspices. ' Come then, will try
you,' said he ; ' turn this verse into English :--

                   " Baudrons sits by the ingle-ncuk,
                           An' wi' her loof her face she 's washin' ;

                        Willie's wife is nae sae trig,
                              She dielitu her grunzle wi' a hoschen." '

    "The fair examinee acquitted herself rather creditably in a
part of the prescribed exercise, but the unmitigated vernacular
of the concluding line proved too much for her. She was,
however, made happy in the possession of the autograph of a
popular living poet, with which Sir James presented her when
we were leaving, and which he cut from a note received that
day --an expression of gratitude, as he afterwards informed me,
for professional services rendered to a member of the writer's
family, for which a fee had been declined."

  I have more than once had occasion to notice the want of

friendly relations between Dr. Simpson and his colleague Mr.

Syme. That Dr. Simpson availed himself of his aid when in ill

ness, might have been thought by some to be no more than selfish
regard for his own health. Was it not natural to choose the
man believed to be the best operator? But a circumstance
soon occurred to show how willing he was to welcome every
opportunity of reconciliation, and how ready he was to battle
for the right, even when by this he was vindicating an adver

sary. It showed, moreover, in a most decided and emphatic

way, the chivalrous motives which swayed him in his public

acts. In 1852 Mr. Syme had performed a new and most

difficult operation, the value of which was not seen by some of

his professional brethren. At a meeting of the Provincial

Medical Association, at Oxford, the annual orator of the
Association animadverted in severe terms on the Edinburgh
Professor. Dr. Simpson, far from applauding when an adver
sary was put to the wall, came to the rescue, and compelled the
DEFENCE OF Mtt. SYME.                                351

Association to disown the attack. His letters must have taxed

his powers very highly, and taken up much of his time. They
would form of themselves a small volume. But he spared
neither pains nor time. He saw science insulted in the person
of one of its professors, by an official of an Association of
which he was the oldest member in Edinburgh, and he regarded

it as a duty to take up the case.

DR. SIMPSON TO SIR CHARLES HASTINGS, M.D.

                                                                      " Edinburgh, May 1853.

  I"Dear Sir,-- beg to address you as President of the
ICouncil of the Provincial Medical Association ; and do so as
Ibeing, believe, the oldest member of the Association in this

district.
    " Your attention has been already directed to one or two

paragraphs published in the last volume of the Transactions of
the Association. In these paragraphs your Official Orator for

the year, Mr. Hester, has animadverted on the profession in

Edinburgh ; and in particular, and by name, upon a gentleman

who was at the time a member of the Association, viz., Mr.

Syme. (See Association Journal for April 22.)

  " If you will make due inquiry here, you will find that these

animadversions of your Annual Orator on Mr. Syme, are in all

Itheir leading points quite untrue in fact. need not, of course,

add, that Mr. H.'s animadversions are also personally and most

reprehensibly offensive in style and spirit.

" Mr. Hester, as your Annual Orator, offered these animad
Iversions to the Oxford meeting of the Association.
                                                     do sin

Icerely believe he offered them in entire ignorance of the actual

facts, as far as Mr. Syme was concerned, because cannot

believe that he or any gentleman would, publicly and gratui

tously, utter so much groundless vituperation against another

member of the Medical Association, or of the medical profes

Ision. Further, cannot but believe that this Official Oration

was allowed by some mere oversight to appear with the repre
352 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

hensible and undignified remarks in question, in your published

I ITransactions. But, at the same time, do confess, cannot,

with others here, see how, by any possibility, the Council of

the Association could, with regard to justice aDd the dignity of

the Association, defend (as they certainly appear to do in the

last number of their Journal), the professional abuse uttered by
Mr. Hester, and so far ' homologate ' it as deliberately to refuse

Mr. Syme any expression of regret, that such a very offensive

and untrue statement should have been allowed to be published

by their Official Orator in the official organ of the Associa

tion.
    " Before compelling the members of the Association here and

elsewhere to carry the matter further, let me, if possible, impress

upon the Council that, in its present stage, the whole subject,
Ias yet, could be easily enough rectified and amended.
                                                        know
I express not my own feelings only, but those of many others,
Iwhen state my sincere conviction that Mr. Hester's offensive
abuse of Mr. Syme is most unfounded and untrue ;--that the

publication of it in your Transactions was, to say the very
least, most unfortunate ;--and that its defence and homologa

tion by the Council will prove most untenable. Therefore,

before any ulterior steps are openly taken, let me beg through

you to appeal earnestly once more to the gentlemanly feelings

of the members of your Council for the quiet and proper

settlement of this matter, an object in which it will give me

Isincere pleasure to assist you in any way within my power. --
                              J. Y. Simpson.
have the honour to be, etc.,

  I I" P.S. -- will send you a printed statement ' of what believe

to be the true position of Mr. Syme in this question, viz., one
of persecution -- for having done what ? For having introduced

one of the greatest improvements in modern surgery."

    Six other letters from Dr. Simpson followed ; some of them

  1 Viz., the article entitled " Urethrotomy; a Page in the History of Sur
gery," in Monthly Journal for November 1852.
           NATURAL HISTORY CHAIR.                               353

long, elaborate, and closely reasoned. Five of these were

addressed to Sir Charles Hastings ; the other was written to

Dr. Cormack, editor of the Association Medical Journal, on the

26th August, giving an outline of the case, calling him to

account for what he thought a garbled representation of it at

the Swansea meeting of the Association, and claiming a place

for the whole correspondence in their Journal. The vindication

of Syme, or rather, perhaps, of surgical science represented by

him, was complete. The whole transaction is highly sugges

tive:      " And therefore let the example serve, though weak,

              For those whom grace has better proof in store."

Professor Jameson, in the autumn of 1853, intimated to

Government his intention of retiring from the Chair of Natural

History in the University of Edinburgh. Several notes from

eminent naturalists were forwarded to Dr. Simpson, intimating
their wish to become candidates, " provided Edward Forbes did

not wish the Chair," and asking his advice and influence.

Forbes, whose paramount claims the ablest of his fellow-

workers at once acknowledged was himself as anxious about

the matter :--

                                           " 28 Jermtn Street, London, Oct. 5.

I" My dear Simpson, -- Since found on inquiry at the Home

Office that Professor Jameson's proposed retirement is likely to
Iprove a bona fide proceeding,
                                am taking prompt measures

towards endeavouring to become his successor. After much

Iconsideration am determined to renounce London for Edin
Iburgh, provided can obtain Professor Jameson's post in its

entirety.
" An office of such importance will doubtless attract many
Icandidates, and be much intrigued for--hence,
                                                require all
Ipossible support. You are, believe, intimate with the Duke
Iof Argyll, to whom have written upon the matter, and who
Ifwill doubtless be consulted.
                                you would in any way back

my cause with him, and more especially give him to understand

           z
354 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

that my presence in the University would be acceptable to the

IProfessors, you would do me much service. Of course write

under the impression that you would prefer seeing me in the

post rather than our excellent old friend Dr. Trail, who, from

Iall that hear, is making vigorous efforts to obtain it. --Believe

me, ever very sincerely yours,  Edward Forbes."

    Forbes was appointed without opposition.

    The last contribution to the literature of the Syme vindica

tion was no sooner out of his hands than he turned to a very
different theme -- the probable cause of Asiatic Cholera. He

had been much struck by the apparent random character of
its choice of localities. For example, it decimated the popula
tion of a village near Falkirk, and passed eastward, falling with
terrible severity on another village near Kirkliston, where all

the conditions necessary to health seemed to have a place.

It passed by Linlithgow, where the low marshy ground that

borders the loch, the presence of tan- works, and the crowded

condition of many of the houses, might have been expected to

favour its attack. The same thing was, no doubt, true of other

parts of the country, but the facts now referred to came under

my own eye. The tenor of the letters written in answer to his

queries indicates that this view was before him. He asks if it
Ifbe known how cholera was introduced ?
                                         not, is there any

thing in the sanitary condition of the place calculated to invite

the pest ? And, chiefly, what is the state of the water-supply ?

In cases where cholera fell heavily on the inhabitants of one

street, or of one part of a village, while a neighbouring part

wholly escaped, he asked, Do the people drink the same water?

A good deal of useful information reached him from localities

Ithat had suffered, but not, so far as can discover, anything

decisive as to the theory of its connexion with the water-

supply.

   It is expected of public men that they be given to hospitality.
                 TABLEAUX VIVANTS.                                  355

The reader has seen that Dr. Simpson's entertainment of

strangers was cordial, and even lavish. But there was a large

social circle of friends, among whom his household moved, to

whom he wished to show how warmly he reciprocated the

hearty welcome ever accorded to them. All could not be asked

to dinner. Then the children were growing up, and, like

children, were beginning to show their love for spectacle. Strong

men, and those who are busily interested in the welfare of their

fellows, do not require to have amusements and the means of

relaxation provided for them by others. They will seek them
in music, in the study of Nature, in the practice of amateur
art, in the change of the subjects of study, in the summer

excursion, or the winter's walk. But the weak need to be

cared for, whether they be young or old. It had become

fashionable, moreover, to ask that influential city class " who

have more dinners than appetites," to seek relaxation in

rational pleasures. Coffee and an evening lecture were to be

substituted for late dinners and the unhealthy inanity of the

ball-room. Dr. Simpson caught the infection, and helped to
spread it. But his method of showing how an evening might

be rationally spent took a higher flight. Poetry, costume, im

personation of great names in history and fiction, and represen

tation of historic scenes, were all called upon to teach and
                                         " to amuse in order
a
         is

                             if

                                                        it,
                                                                is
to amuse, or, as he would then have put

to instruct." But instruction got in this way never of much

value. It as true of enjoyment in getting knowledge as of

the rewards of labour, " that any would not work, neither
should he eat." However, the " Tableaux Vivants " at 52

Queen Street, April 10, 1854, to which many, young and old,

learned and unlearned, grave and gay, were invited, were held

to be great success. Poets, sculptors, and painters were daily

at Dr. Simpson's table, and were all called upon to contribute

to the work. Youthful beauty eagerly lent its charms. Failure

was impossible.
356 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   The Prologue was by Mr. Alexander Smith, author of " The

Drama of Life," etc. :--

                " The curtain rises on our mimic scenes.

                       Pale Flora, watching o'er the Prince, forlorn ;
                    Ruth, standing like a poppy 'mong the corn ;
                    And Mary, saddest, fairest of the queens,

                       Bending in tumbled and dishevelled grief
                       Above melodious Rizzio, stabbed and torn :
                     Frail Lucy, shrinking 'neath her lover's scorn,
                    With faith as worthless as a withered leaf
                    That o'er the waste by ev'ry wind is whirled.

                  --Another curtain, o'er a stage of gloom,
                    Is slowly rising : calm and pale with hate,

                       Two foes are closing in the tug of doom.
                       Upon this stage shall rise our mimic state,
                    But on that other stands or falls the world."

Then followed the Tableaux :--

  " I. The Wizard's Grave in Melrose Abbey. II. Ruth in the Harvest-field.
III. The Eve of St. Bartholomew. IV. Flora Macdonald watching Prince

Charles. V. The Babes in the Wood. VI. Rebecca and Eleazar at the
Well. VII. Hubert and Prince Arthur. VIIL Bride of Lammermoor
IXsigning the Marriage Contract.
                                  Eobbers melting Plate. X. Jeanie
Deans presented by the Duke of Argyll to Queen Caroline. XI. Interview
of Richard m. with his Nephews. XII. Murder of the two Princes in the
Tower. XIII. King Malcolm Canmore and his Saxon Queen. XIV.

Gulnare and Conrad. XV. Murder of David Rizzio in Holyrood."

    The Epilogue was written by Sydney Yendys (Mr. Dobell),
author of " The Eoman," " Balder," etc. :--

                " Our shows are ended. All the pictures rare
                    That filled the bright eyes of this brilliant crowd,

                       Dissolved, like those strange landscapes of the air
                    Which sunset paints upon a coloured cloud.

              IYet, gentle friends, would not have you deem

                    You saw but fabrics of a faithless dream.
                  In changing form, but in unchanging youth,
                    Truth is eternal. And we showed you Truth !

But not alone our pictures have displayed

The stuff whereof each changing Age is made ;

We point the moral of the Moment ! Ay !
We paint the portrait of the year and day !

Fancy transports you to another clime,
And thinks she sees a mirror of the time ;
           DEATH OF EDWARD FORBES.              357

From sky to sky our rising curtain furled,
Our Actors Nations, and our Stage the World."1

To the regret of all his colleagues, and of scientific workers

everywhere, Edward Forbes died in 1854, after a very brief occu

pancy of the Chair he had so eagerly desired, and around which

his geniality, varied literary accomplishments, and unrivalled

gifts as a naturalist, seemed destined to shed great lustre. Who

was to take his place? On the retirement of Professor Jameson,

Dr. Simpson, and indeed all men interested in Scottish natural

science, looked first to Forbes. Failing whom, Dr. Carpenter
seemed the most likely, while others thought it would be a

graceful act to offer it to the New College Professor of Natural

Science, Dr. John Fleming, a veteran who had done great and

good work both in the departments of Zoology and Geology.
But his age led his friends to think it inexpedient to move in

his favour. Dr. Carpenter had chosen London as the sphere of

his life's -work. Communications from scientific men requesting

the promise of his influence on their behalf, again led Dr.

Simpson to take an interest in filling up this Chair. He and

other men of influence, having now turned to Agassiz, he

communicated their views to the Duke of Argyll. The Duke
replied :--
                                   " Downing Street, Nov. 26, 1854.
I" My dear Sir, --
                    heard of Edward Forbes's death with

dismay. It is an irreparable loss to science.

  I" think there can be no doubt that if we could secure adequate

emolument for both branches of a divided Chair, the division

would insure the best and most adequate teaching. Agassiz is a

Igreat name. But doubt whether, with all his fame, he was equal
Ito Forbes: nor do think he is a great Palaeontologist, except in

   1 The fifth of the tableaux was greeted with roars of laughter and rounds
of applause. Dr. Simpson and his colleague, Dr. L. P., were "The Babes."
They entered sucking oranges, and dressed as children -- short dresses, pina
fores, frilled drawers, white socks, and children's house shoes. After wan

dering about a while, they began to weep, then lay down and died, to the

great delight of the juveniles!
358 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

the Fish department.  IBut of this am not sure. . . . Yours
truly,
                                                          Argyll."

   It soon appeared that the appointment of Agassiz would not

be popular, and that the Government was not likely, in such
circumstances, to act in his favour. None could doubt his pre
eminent claims as a naturalist, but he had committed himself
to certain, so-called, advanced views on the natural history of

Man, which many believed would influence the whole teaching
from the Chair. The weight of his great name had been freely
given to Messrs. Gliddon and Nott in their work on "Indigenous
Eaces of Mankind "-- a work in which views as little in har

mony with true science as with religion were freely and openly
advocated. As in the churches of America theologians were
found arguing against the negro right to a place in the great
Christian brotherhood, and pleading for the lawfulness and
continuance of slavery on the score of Scripture warrant, so

among scientific workers not a few were making earnest efforts
to convince the people that the African type of mankind is speci

fically different from that of the Saxon or the Celt. They were,
in a word, pleading for the recognition of a plurality of human
species, as the original progenitors of the various families of

mankind. It should be remembered, however, that Agassiz

 never took up this extreme ground. He held that the species is
 one, but that a plurality of human pairs were created at the
 beginning in various geographical centres. But Dr. Simpson
 believed that Agassiz was not the least likely to allow theoretical
 views, even on this vital subject, to give tone and character to

 his public teaching.

    In 1855, a Professor had to be appointed to the Practice of

 Physic Chair, and Dr. Simpson again found himself in the
 heart and heat of controversy. When we remember how bitterly

  he felt and how earnestly he resented the interference of some of
  his colleagues in his own election, we may wonder that he ever
  ventured to take any step in these matters, fitted to create
PRACTICE OF PHYSIC CHAIR.  359

even the slightest suspicion of interference on his part. But if
we are to form a fair judgment of his actions in this case, and
in other cases, as, for example, in filling up the Chemistry
Chair in 1858, we must first look at the position he held in the
estimate of the foremost men of the day. Not only did candi

dates themselves urge their claims on his notice, but their most
distinguished friends did the same in their behalf. Patrons
and men high in place sought his advice, in a way which showed
clearly that they at least believed him incapable of being
influenced by any motives, except for the good of the University.
He might, indeed, have refused to speak a word in favour of

any man, or to give an advice to any applicant, but this would

have been both unkind and uncourteous. Even, however, had

he gone beyond his province and his duty on such occasions,
the nature of the charges brought against him, the mode
in which they were stated, and the spirit that animated those
who made them, were altogether unjustifiable. Of course,
he could defend himself, and he did it. But the defence itself

is apt, in such cases, to take a direction unfavourable, if not to

science, at least to that high estimate of scientific men, which
for the sake of science and humanity both, it is important to

maintain and cherish among the people. Sure of his ground,

he appealed from the opinions and prejudices of partisans to

the judgment of the public, being persuaded they would look
at the merits. His patients took as lively interest in these

election proceedings as if he had been the candidate.

                                              TO MRS. TOOTAL.

  I I" The more see of Mr. Pender, the more do like him. . . .
  I I" am lamenting this week that did not take a pure holi
Iday for a week or two at Paris or elsewhere, as have again

had a bad headache, and two days' fever this week. But it

Ican't be helped now. At all events, had enough of travelling
Iduring the autumn, as was railwaying hither or thither five

days out of most ' sevens.'
360 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

" In your letter the other day you allude to Dr. Laycock's
Ielection, and to what was said of it.
                                              have been often very

amused (and in one instance very vexed) by the reports cir
culated by my professional brethren and others, in regard to

it,
    and have been obliged to disclaim alike the merit or demerit

of it; as my influence, or the influence of any one man, could
         !
determine the choice of our thirty-three worthy Town Coun
           ifIf my advertising Dr. Laycock of the vacancy was
cillors

the cause of his success, then fear the want of success of Dr.
                         it,

                            I
Bennett, Dr. Jenner, etc., was owing to the same cause, as
                                                            (a

                                                                I
advertised them also of not knowing who would stand. The

first hint got of the certainty of Dr. Alison retiring      note
         I

from one of the    Town  Council)I    forwarded to  Dr. Christison in
the country, as    some  thought   that he wished
                                                       -- others said
no. If you will ask Dr. Noble of Manchester, you will find,(I it,
                                                            I

believe, that was he and another physician
               it                                           forget who)

that were living at the time with Dr. Laycock at the York

Association meeting, who advised and urged him to become
                                                            I
                                                                         a
candidate. When he did come down, the first thing told

him was, that, with some of the other Professors, wished parI
ticularly Dr. Bennett to get the vacant Chair, in order that we
might get Dr. Sharpey down by this arrangement to our Uni

versity. Mr. Syme and in speaking of found ourselves,a
                   I'
                           I a if I,               I it,
                                                        II
                                          ;'
before this, of the same mind but of course would not, and

could not, have interfered Dr. Christison (whose sentiments

we did not know) became candidate, as neither of us would

have opposed his wishes.         am sure of one thing, that when,

towards the end, did begin to interest myself in the matter

at all, worked harder for Dr. Bennett than would do againI
for any living man and the day before the election, in order
                    ;

to gain one Councillor's second vote for him, submitted

to be abused by that Councillor in way that would not

have borne     iIf  had been asking the favour for myself. By

midnight that Councillor sent me word that he would give his

second vote for Dr. Wood. One of the Bailies came to town
                       PRACTICE OF PHYSIC CHAIR.           361

to propose Dr. W., which Bailie, it was thought, would stop

away ; and it was then as certain as that there are twenty-four
hours in the day, that Dr. Bennett's chances, feeble as they
were two hours before, were utterly and entirely gone. Dr.

Wood had eighteen against Dr. Bennett's fifteen votes. At

Ithe same time knew, and every common-sense man who was

attending to the matter knew, that Dr. Laycock had a majority

of either two or three against Dr. Wood, if these two were

' pitted.' Dr. Wood knew this long before, and his great fear

was Dr. Bennett withdrawing."

    This matter was again revived in 1858, and Dr. Simpson in
self-defence gave a full statement of the case in the Scotsman,

November 13.

                                TO THE SAME.

" Mrs. S. and all the others well. My youngest little boy,

Eetzius,      :I is,Ithink, exactly what was when young, in face
                 is             it
and person, and passion too.
    " Drs. Priestley and Storer, my two assistants at present,is I

are bringing out an edition of all the sense and nonsense have

ever written on Midwifery. It their own idea and Messrs.
                                                  ;

                                                        I

Black are to pay all expense, and give them £100 for every

1000 copies sold.        aI     sometimes am allowed to see proofa
                                work, appears, of 1200 or 1400 octavo
sheet. It to be

pages. They have printed last month 500 pages."

  Again --           aa                     " Crewe, Saturday morning, six o'clock.a

   " Here am           prisoner at Crewe for an hour or two, on my
way onward for
                        professional visit to Stafford. It has been

dreary, cold night's travel up but hope to enjoy the rush
                                a
back to Edinburgh in the afternoon.
                                    ;

                                      I
" hope you and Mr. Tootal are enjoying yourselves in the
II
Isle of Man. It        it is,I  think, very nice place. Mrs. S., Jessie,
                            a
and had indeed very, very happy week in Ireland. We
were well over -- from the Giant's Causeway to Cork, and
362 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

from Athlone to Dublin. Of course we admired from our

hearts the Lakes of Killarney, the Gap of Dunloe, etc. ; but
my antiquarian propensities made me revel also in our visits

to the round towers and old churches of Glendalough, Cashel,
I IKildare, Killaloe, etc.
                     fear must write a paper on the

remains of Irish ecclesiastical architecture in Scotland. There

is much of it unknown to almost any one, and most intensely
interesting. We visited the old towns and cities of Limerick,
Cork, Mallow, Athlone, etc., and were overwhelmed with kind

ness in Dublin. Our only accident was dropping Mrs. S. and
Jessie out of an Irish car in the Phoenix Park, -- fortunately

Inot much hurt. Jessie and did become such tremendous

cronies on the road. She was all activity, was one day up

at half-past five, and not in bed till after eleven --pretty well

for a young lady of eight years. She rode her horse for six

miles at the head of the Killarney lakes, and was rejoiced at
' beating ' both her mother and me. There was only one draw
back. My friends Dr. Stokes, and Dr. Petrie, the great Irish
antiquary, were away from Dublin ; but they came to me in

Edinburgh on Wednesday last, and we spent a most delightful

day together."

   The reader has had many illustrations of the peculiarly
strong and tender tie between Dr. Simpson and his brother

Alexander. The watchful care and timely help which the

elder brother had so often shown when they were specially

needed, were not forgotten when Dr. Simpson attained the ex
alted position he now held. " There is that scattereth, and yet

increaseth." Both brothers experienced the force of the maxim.
Alexander's prosperity grew with his brother's. He was about
to become the manager of a branch bank in Bathgate, and

surety being required, he applied to James.

I"My dear Sandy, --                                " Ui February /56.
                     have only one moment left to say
Ihow happy am at the receipt of your letter.
SCANDINAVIAN RESEARCHES.                           363

  I" Believe me, shall be only too proud to be caution for you

Ito any extent that am worth. --Yours always,

                                                 " J. Y. Simpson."

   Dr Simpson had entered on the professorial work of session
1855-56 in feebler health than usual. The demands on his
time were still increasing, and his love for work kept pace
with them. But he was more easily fatigued than formerly.

The attacks of rheumatism, headache, and pain in the side,
recurred with a frequency that made his friends uneasy.

                        " Stockholm, the 12th June 1856.
I"Dearest Friend, --Yesterday
                               had the pleasure to

receive your amiable letter of the 20th May, but not from the
Ihands of Dr. Handyside, whose personal acquaintance should
Ibe very happy to maka
                        beg you to be persuaded that if he
Icomes to Stockholm, shall do my possible to serve him in

everything. But as your letter and the book-parcel was sent
Ime directly by Dr. Hannover of Copenhagen,
                                             suspect that

Dr. Handyside went immediately from Copenhagen to St.

Petersburgh by a steam packet. Perhaps he will pay a visit

at Stockholm when returning from St. Petersburgh.
"I Iam much obliged for your kind message.
                                                   shall dis

tribute the books according to your wishes. How is it possible

for a man with such a quantity of professional business to spare

so much time at the desk ? You are in every point an extra

ordinary man !
   " Your demand in account of the tumuli and tombs of Upsala

I Iwill try to fulfil. But may previously observe that a

complete and official account of the enterprise is still at this

moment not published, although twelve years are passed since

the digging was undertaken. We have merely a short report

thereon printed in the Upsalin Adviser from the hand of the
Iantiquarian who conducted the search.
                                        will make a trans

lation and send it by the post, so that you may have it before

the middle of July.
364 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

  I" am most sorry to hear that your health has been troubled

during the last winter. Take care of yourself, dearest friend,
for the sake of science and mankind.

   " With ardent wishes for your health, happiness, and pro

Ilonged life, am, dearest friend, ever yours most sincerely,
                                                             " M. C. Eetzius."

   At the close of the session he paid a short and pleasant visit

to Paris.
    Dr. Simpson's ninth child, Evelyn Blantyre (Eve), was born

in June 1856.

                                    TO A FORMER PATIENT.

                                                         " Friday, 16th June 1856.

   " A report has been current here for the last thirty hours

Ithat there is a new baby upstairs. Walter thinks must have

brought it from France, and is terrified it will only speak

French. Jessie says it is a ' good boy,' and she will nurse it

Mrs. S. is quite well, and was, of course, sound asleep when

this little stranger arrived at Wardie. --Yours very faithfully,

                                                 " J. Y. Simpson."

              TO THE SAME.

  I I" wish had any chance of accepting your very, very kind
I Iinvitation, but, alas ! have none. At present am fearfully
Ibusy, and will be so for some time to come, unless break down.
IYesterday worked in the house from one to half-past seven
Iwith patients ; and to-day when left at four for the College
examination here, all the ' corners ' were fulL
I" To-morrow
              am determined, if possible, on a half-holi
Iday to Inchcolme, as have an invitation from Eossend

Castle for the purpose, and the offer of a little yacht for any

party I will take over.
" Dr. Christison is busy examining a few yards off, and is
Ilooking much better within the last few days.
                                                 had two or

three happy days at Abbotsford, where little ' Walter Michael

Scott' was born a fortnight ago. He is Sir Walter's first
HARD WORK.                                       365

great-grandson. He is called Michael, after the wizard ' Michael

Scott,' being himself as yet a very, very wee wizard.

  "Mr. Syme goes up to Manchester on Tuesday for some

days.

  I" Do you know am sitting to Sir John Watson Gordon for

my portrait, a present to my wife from one of my patients ?

I have only got one day this week, and will have a ' scold ' from

him on Monday.

   " My kindest regards to Mr. T.--Yours very truly,

                                                  " J. Y. Simpson.

I" P.S. -- have got a fee of 300 guineas from one patient this

week. Good, as there was not much to do.         J. Y. S."

TO HIS BROTHER.

" My dear Sandy,-- I am sure you will be delighted to hear

that yesterday, on the Professors reporting on the written

exercises of the candidates for graduation, out of 43 there were

four selected as specially good, and Alex, was one of the four.

His exercises were among the best,      if not,  on the whole, the
very best, of the lot. --Yours always,
                                                  J. Y. Simpson.
   " Thursday."

TO MRS. TOOTAL.

" Mrs. Simpson, Walter, and Jessie have been spending the
Ilast three weeks at Torriesdale Castle in Argyleshire, but
Iexpect them home soon.
                         write this at Viewbank, which is
Ivery pretty this afternoon, but where have not been for a
Iweek or more. This year have not yet had one single holiday,
Iand scarcely expect one now. But have had many long runs
Iduring the last few months.
                              have been often up in England

professionally during the summer; once as far as Brighton,

seeing a consumption case ; once at Scarborough, where my wife
went with me, and we saw the ' Laycock baby ' as we passed

Ihome ; once or twice in London, where saw the Queen ; once

at Ambleside, accompanied by Jessie and by Aggie Petrie, etc.
366 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

I long and weary, however, for a real jaunt, without a sick
Ipatient lying at the end of it; and had a great fancy on

Thursday to run from Manchester to Douglas, and send all the
Ipatients far enough.
                          have been too hard worked to write,
I Ibut must write one or two papers now, which will duly

dedicate to you.

" Queen Street has been a little hotel during the summer
-- always some sick lady or another sleeping in
                                              J.       and some

times several, at night.   wish had one free day at CastleI it,
                          II
Mona, with so many things to talk of.:        When       specially
    " Give my kindest regards to Mr. Tootal.I

'              he were in town, the maid answered by declaring
           '

        is if
asked

she gone to Castle Mona. --Yours always,
                                              " Y. SIMPSON."
" Edinburgh, Sunday.

   When he began to think of relaxation, he was called to

pledge himself to more work --

                                " 12 Old Burlington Street, August 11th.
   "Dear Dr. Simpson, -- have returned to England, and

recommence editing the Medical Times on the 1st of October

next, and am most anxious to have an attractive course of
       if

          I
lectures for the new volume commencing with the new year.

Now, you would allow me to employ shorthand writer to
                                        a

                                                     I
take down your course of lectures as you deliver them in the

University next session, and would correct the proofs, am

quite sure we should completely throw Tyler Smith and the

Lancet into the shade.  I  have seen Priestley, and he seemed

to think you might be disposed to accede to our wishes. We

would get as many woodcuts engraved from your diagrams,

photographs, or drawings as would be necessary to illustrate

the lectures indeed, we should be glad to be rather profuse in
the way of illustration. --Yours most truly,
               ;
                                        "T. Spencer Wells."
                    a
    After graduating, Dr. Alexander Simpson went to study at
Halle. There communication from his uncle reached him,
DR. ALEXANDER SIMPSON.                                    367

conveying the information that he had engaged him to accom

pany a young gentleman to Egypt, with the view of spending

the winter. The letter is dated October 1856. It supplies a

good illustration of the rapid way in which he was wont to

grasp a subject, and to take in all its bearings. He was most

anxious that his nephew should at once begin to seek distinc

tion ; but circumstances occurred that made it inconvenient to

carry out the proposed arrangement.
   " You can study German, etc., on your route at leisure, and

above all you can gather materials on the voyage for a proper

description of Egypt as a station for invalids -- a description

which is at present a sad blank in medical literature. In fact,

if you will write a good paper on the Nile as an invalid station,

it is as sure a step to literary and medical fame as at this

Imoment you could possibly take ; and know and feel you will

Ido it well, and no one will be prouder of your achievement

than wilL For this purpose you must turn your attention
Ito meteorology and meteorological instruments a little.
                                                          will

send you out one or two good English books of instruction.

You will need to have barometers, registrar and common

Ithermometers (Fahrenheit's will be got at Malta, believe ; all

Ithe French are Edaumur scale), and one or two hygrometers,

believe meteorologists trust to a simple plan of wet cloths on

the bulb of the thermometer for hygrometric observations.

You will require to collect, among other points, (1) the average

daily temperature, and its extreme limits daily ; (2) the hygro
metric and barometric states daily ; (3) occasionally the tempera
ture of the Nile ; (4) the temperature of the earth at a foot or two
deep now and then ; (5) the heat of any cold or hot springs
near ; (6) the general character of the geology ; (7) the general

character of the botany, etc. etc. Besides, you will have to

study the effects of the climate on phthisis, etc., in their different

stages. It perhaps, the best climate for invalids in the first
is,

               it

                                                ?

                   I

                                                 J.
stage of phthisis. Is  of equal or any service when the

tubercles begin to disintegrate  will send you Sir Clark's
368 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

book on Climate, and two excellent late papers by Dr. Mitchell

on the climate of Algiers, as models. Ask after any German

or French medical works on Climate, and take them with you.

Get Louis or some other good book on Consumption, and

Virchow's Practice of Medicine in German, or Valleix in
IFrench.
          will try and get some good general work on Egypt
Iand Egyptian hieroglyphics for your amusement.
                                                 will pack

up also Dr. Cumming's book on Egypt. (He was one of the

first invalids sent to the Nile.) Would such a diary as his
book is now take well as a book ? Try your hand in keeping

a diary ; but what we doctors want is a full and perfect medical

account of the climate. Pliny long ago (seventeen centuries back)
recommended it as the best climate for phthisical patients.

All late observations go to prove that it is even yet the best."

Dr. Simpson's archaeological investigations were taking a

wider range than heretofore. His tastes had hitherto found

gratification in using the literature of days long gone by, to

illustrate modern departments of professional study, and to shed

light on new methods of treatment, or on remedies first proposed

by himself. When ancient monuments occupied his pen, his

professional pursuits were still the leading theme, as appears
from the papers on " Ancient Eoman Medical stamps," and on
the " Greek Jars for Lykion." But he was now working at

observations on Picts' Houses, Eound Towers, Sculptured

Stones, Burial Urns, Lake Dwellings, Primeval Pottery, and

Palaeolithic Weapons. In his visits to various parts of the

country he took great pains to discover traces of ancient

edifices, and to ascertain the spots where monumental stones

had stood or were still standing. Visitors from the Hebrides,

from Orkney, or from Shetland, were questioned regarding pre

historic monuments, as thoroughly as if he had done nothing

all his life but search into what was known, or propose queries

on what was as yet unknown. Wherever he wandered he
gleaned " Traditions of the Scottish Saints," with an eagerness

and diligence that suggested to some of his friends he was
MEDICAL OFFICERS IN THE ROMAN ARMY.           369

gathering materials for a work on the subject. In the course

of his inquiries, he comes again on points touching ancient
physic and physicians among the traces of the Eoman army in

Britain, which fall so readily into the track of old investigations

that he turns aside at once to pursue it once more. His
next paper --"Was the Eoman Army provided with Medical
Officers?" --was published in July 1856, and inscribed to

Professor Pillans, "as a small tribute of sincere esteem from

an old and attached pupil." This mark of respect was highly

appreciated by the aged Professor : --

I" My dear Dr. Simpson, -- send herewith a copy of an

omnium gatherum of my petty performances lately published,
begging your acceptance of it in acknowledgment of the very high

and highly prized honour you have done me, by inscribing to me

your learned, ingenious, and most interesting Memoir. To

have my name so coupled with one of such world-wide celebrity

Ias yours, is not, assure you, the least gratifying result of my
Ihumble labours. -- ever am, my dear Sir, faithfully and

gratefully yours,                             James Pillans.
" 43 Inverleith Row, Edinburgh, 3 Aug. 1856.

   " P.S.--You were kind enough to promise me a few copies

Iof your Memoir, which should be glad to receive by the bearer,
Ias have an opportunity of sending one or two to friends in

Paris in the course of this week."

  In a prefatory note he says :--" A few years ago, my late

colleague, Sir George Ballingall, asked me, ' Was the Eoman
Army provided with Medical Officers V He was interested in

the subject as Professor of Military Surgery, and told me that

he had made, quite unsuccessfully, inquiries on the matter in
Ivarious quarters and at various persons.
                                              drew up for him a

few remarks, which were privately printed and circulated

among his class at the time. The present Essay consists of an

extension of these remarks."1

  1 See Archaeological Essays. By Sir J. Y. Simpson. Edited by John

Stuart, LL.D. Edinburgh : Edmonston and Douglas. 1372.

                               2A
370 BIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   It is curious and highly suggestive to notice how willing men
were to work and observe for his sake. It shows, too, how

wide-spread and genial his influence was. The man of letters

hastened to tell him of discoveries made in volumes bearing

the dust of ages. The farmer prized the discovery of a stone
cist or a sculptured stone on his lands, because he believed " it

would gratify the Professor." The country doctor not unfre-

quently appeared at Queen Street with a stone celt, or a bronze
spear, or a coin that nobody could make out, or a paper " rub
bing " of an old inscription, or an ancient " brass," all showing
how carefully he had looked to what was literally " turning
up " in his district, in the hope that he too might " give plea

sure to Simpson." And he had something to say on all the

objects, with the exception, perhaps, of the coin, which was
generally put aside with the remark : " Mr. Sime (the antiquary)
will read that for us."

                                                            "College, Augt. 29, 1856.

  " My dear Sir,--Among my old medical tracts I have re

Icently observed two or three which herewith send as being

on subjects not of every-day occurrence, though they may have

fallen within the range of your large professional experience.
I Iam not sure that have any more of the same peculiar
Icharacter, but such as they are transfer them to you to pre
Iserve or to destroy as you think fit.
                                        do not name their

names, for they are not attractive. They are of the dates

I1733, 1742, and 1770. -- am, my dear Doctor, yours faith

fully,                                  John Lee."

                I I"College, Sept. 2, 1856.

" My dear Sir,-- find that the stuff which sent you last

Iweek from my son David (as dark as Milton's ' pitchy cloud of
locusts ') is petroleum.  do not know why he should intrude

on your notice that fulsome stuff any more than he should

send coals to Newcastle ; but he has probably explained the

matter to you. Equally absurd is it for me to send you any

loathsome monstrosities ; but for once admit the effigies of a

hideous foetus which ventured to exhibit its offensive presence
           MONTHYON PRIZE.                           371

to the physicians and naturalists of Salzburg ninety-nine
years ago. -- Yours in haste,
                                    John Lee."

    In the midst of his literary, scientific, and professional work,

he finds time to look into proposals for more thorough Sabbath-

school instruction in the poorer districts of the city ; to make

inquiries touching certain customs practised by the heathen

on the west coast of Africa ; to master the views of Dr.

Chalmers and Dr. Alison relative to the support of the poor ;

and even to make himself acquainted with the merits of Mr.

H. Dempster's Trawling Apparatus ! Nor was the scheme in

which Professor Wyville Thomson had joined him --" Simpson
and Thomson's Patent Oil "--forgotten. It got a little of his

time and a good deal of his money.

   The award by the French Academy of Sciences of the Mon-
thyon Prize of 2000 fr., for " most important benefits done to

humanity," crowned the work and honours of this year. The

prize, consisting of a handsome gold medal and a sum of money,

was forwarded to him by Sir Joseph Oliffe, physician to the Eng

lish embassy, accompanied by a letter of hearty congratula

tion.

    The cordiality with which men co-operated with Dr. Simp

son in his archaeological inquiries has just been noticed. The

most accomplished of his brother antiquaries were equally

zealous and active. Generally their communications indicate

the work he had on hand at the time. Indeed, they were for

the most part drawn out by his own inquiries, or by the in

formation which he ever willingly shared with fellow-workers.
Here are some specimens :--

                                                             " Signet Library, Friday.

  I" Dear Doctor,-- send you the old medical ms. A part

of  iIt,                                             Health,

                                      is

                                                                  :

                                                                            of

                                                                                                                                                                 '-
       see, professes to be taken from The Regiment

probably the work of Thomas Phaer or Phaire, frequently

printed in England about the middle of the sixteenth century.

The MS. contains some curious prescriptions. One that may

"...not escape your notice     'To gar ane man sleip till he be

schorne.'  Yours truly,             D. Laing."
372 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

"My dear Professor               "Friday evening, 9th Oct. 1857.
                    Simpson.^I find that my memory

has betrayed me as to the whereabouts of the churchyard with
Iholy earth brought from Eome. It was not, see, at Lecropt,
Ibut in the adjoining parish of Kincardine.
                                                      had been misled

by a mis-recollection of the service of John Earl of Mar in

1635, as heir of his father in ' terras ecclesiasticas de Lecrope
--terras ecclesiasticas de Kincardyne, cum crofta Sancti Lolani.'
I(Inquisit. Spec, vicecom., Stirling, No. 156).
                                                      had forgotten

somehow the mention of Kincardine, and so fixed the croft of

St. Lolan at Lecropt.
   " The Breviary of Aberdeen, which preserves the legend of

St. Lolan, does not name his church. It tells that he was the

nephew of St Serf, and like him (and Mr. Disraeli) of

Canaanitish extraction ; that for seven years he was door

keeper of St Peter's at Eome ; that longing to see his uncle he

fled one morning leaving the key in the church-door; that
there it remained immoveable, an angel declaring that it could
be turned only by the same hand which had put it there ;

that thereupon a deacon and sub-deacon, devout men, were

sent in search of St. Lolan; that they found that fugitive

porter at Plane in Scotland ; that, hearing the angelic revela

tion with which they were charged, he chopped off his right

hand, which being carried to Eome at once opened the long-

locked gates of St. Peter's ; that, in return for his lost hand, St.

Lolan asked four sacks of earth from the cemetery of St. Peter's ;

that his request was complied with, and four colts were laden

with the holy burden and despatched to Scotland, where St.
Lolan besought of the Lord that whoever should be buried in

the cemetery to be consecrated by this holy earth and his own

burial, should enjoy the same indulgences which he would have

enjoyed if he had been laid to rest in the cemetery of St. Peter's

at Eome    (Brev. Aberd. Prop. SS. pro temp, estiv.,  foil,  cxiii. cxiv.)
   " That   the churchyard which was sanctified         by   St. Lolan's

bones, and the earth from St. Peter's, was Kincardine in Mon-

teith is shown by the notice of St. Lolan's croft above cited,
                          ANTIQUITIES.  373

and by the express intimation of the Martyrology of Aberdeen

(in your University Library), that he was venerated at Kin-

cardyne prope Stirling. Plane obviously is Plean, on the oppo

site bank of Forth.
   " Like many more of our Scotch, Irish, and Northumbrian

saints, St. Lolan had a holy bell. The sacra campana Sancti

Lolani figures among the feudal investitures of the Earls of

Perth so late as the graceless reign of King Charles II. (In-
quisit. Spec, vicecom. Perth, nn. 708, 880, 1094). May not this
relic still slumber among the lumber at Drummond Castle ?

IA few years ago found a bell of the same primitive class

lying unheeded at Cawdor Castle. You may remember it at

our Archaeological Institute meeting here the summer before
last. These square iron bells are turning up every day. Mr.

Albert Way bought one lately for the Duke of Northum

berland. It came from Inismurry in Sligo, along with an

ancient crosier or bachnil. Both bore the name of St. Molaissi,

and Way, who went straight from Lamlash to Alnwick, was

Iin hopes he had found the relics of his Arran friend. find,

however, that the St. Molaissi of Inismurry is a different man

from St. Molaissi of Lamlash.

"The Earls of Perth had another holy bell-- that of St.

Kessog of Luss on Loch Lomond. Like St. Lolan's bell. it was
included among their feudal possessions, being like that a

source of profit from the dues paid by those who resorted to its

miraculous powers, whether for the recovery of stolen goods or

the cure of sick cattle.
I" Another crannoge emerges in Bute.
                                        have now nearly a

dozen, which will be enough to tame the conceit of our Irish

neighbours, that they and the Swiss have a monopoly of that

kind of antiquity. Alba go bragh !--Ever faithfully yours,
                                                       " Joseph Eobertson."

                                                       " Friday evening, 9th Oct. 1857.

   " My dear Professor Simpson,-- My memory is naught. It

not only confounded Lecropt with Kincardine, but forgot that
Lecropt had a saint of its own. . . .
374 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

- " His feast was on the 9th of November. Try if there be no

trace of him yet recoverable -- a well or a fair.-- Yours very

truly,                              Joseph Robertson."

                      " Edinburgh,  28 Albany St., 28th August 1857.
                                    you my 'Trojan Notes,' but
              Doctor, -- send
I"My
        dear

must warn you that they are not written either for publication

or for communication to a learned Society. They were meant

originally to preserve my own recollections of the Troad, and to

satisfy the inquiries of frieuds.              If you

  I" hope you may have patience to read them.

would take the trouble to mark objections or queries against

Ipassages which require explanation, shall be much obliged,

and ready to supply what is wanting. And if you believe

that there is anything worth communicating to the antiquaries

(I think the whole style of narrative is unsuited for the Eoyal

ISociety) will gladly revise, abridge, or expand the notes. . . .
--Yours very truly,
                                    William Eobertson."

                                                           " Moreland, Grange Loan.

  " My dear Sir, -- Accept my thanks for the perusal of Dr.

IEobertson's MS., which have read with much interest. Hav
Iing had the maps of Pratt and Forschammer before me, found

the paper perspicuous and instructive, for he visited many

I Ilocalities which did not see when travelled hastily over the

Troad in 1847. His conclusions as to the essential points of

Ithe Homeric topography agree with mine ; and am gratified by

the favourable opinion he has expressed of my book, in terms

indeed too flattering. It was written, as he truly observes,

under the disadvantage of having no good map in my hands.
I" have long been preparing for a second edition, and hope
Ito begin it by and bye.
                          presume he means to publish his MS.
IIt will be considered, imagine, too long for a magazine, and as

a separate work it would probably have but a limited sale. It
should have a more attractive title -- one setting forth that it

Iis a book of travels, not of mere speculation or discussion.
would suggest, ' Excursion on the Troad, with Observations on

its Topography and Antiquities.' A reduced copy of Spratt's
                               ANTIQUITIES.                     375

map would add much to its value. The sketch at page 20 is
much too meagre.

   " The unsteadiness of my hand since my rheumatic fever in

1856 compels me to write with a pencil instead of a pen, which

I Ihope you will excuse. -- am, my dear Sir, very truly yours,
                                                           " Cha. Maclaren."

  " My dear Doctor, --There is not a single shred in existence

in the neighbourhood of Deny of the old chapel of St.

Columb. . . .
   " There is a place near Deny called St. Columbs, and in

the grounds there are the ruins of an old chapel, noted in Cap
tain Neville's map of the Siege of Deny as ' St. Columb -

kill's Chapel in ruins.' This is clearly a mistake. The ruins

consist of two very modern-shaped gables, covered with ivy,
Inothing about their masonry to indicate an old date.
                                                                only

found out yesterday what this chapel really was. . . .

  I" went over the whole place quite carefully, and there is

certainly not a single trace of a ruin about it. There is how

ever a well still venerated a3 St. Columb's well, and a stone

with two round pits in which were worn by the knees of the
saint. . . --Yours ever,       it,
a                                                               Wy. Thomson."
          a                                    :

           is                                                a
                 aa .Dr. John Alexander Smith, when on          professional visit at
Armadale Castle, Skye, writes --
                        a
" My dear Sir, --. . . Lord Macdonald has in his drawing-a

room case containing several antiquities found in Skye these
                                                                ;
consist of bronze leaf-shaped sword, and two bronze spear             .
                                                                          .
heads, not of very large size, which were found contained in

thick box of oak, just about the length of the sword.                          .

There  also very curious spur of bronze, terminating

behind in sharpened point. It of small size, not going
                               is
                                        a
                                                 is
over the heel of an ordinary boot or shoe, rudely engraved

over the surface, and at various distances along its upper

surface there are sockets cut out in containing what appears
                               it

to be pieces of precious stones of rounded shapes.              .--
                                                                .
                                                                    .

                                                                     I

remain yours very truly,                     John Alexr. Smith."
376 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

                             "Temple Place, Strood, Kent, Nov. 12th, 1857.

I" My dear Sir, -- have had much pleasure in naming you

Dr. Wilson (for the Toronto University) and the Society of

Antiquaries of Scotland, to my friend M. Bouche de Perthes of

Abbeville for copies of his 'Antiquity Celtiques,' etc., now

about to be sent to Somerset House, London, to the care of
IMr. Akerman.
               presume the Society Ant. Scot. is still alive,
Ithough have not seen any notice of it for years. . . .--Yours

very truly,                      C. Eoach Smith."

                                          " 20 Interletth Row, 3d April 1858.

I" My dear Dr. Simpson, -- have been waiting with much

anxiety and interest to hear your lecture on Eoman Britain,

Ifrom which expected to derive much instruction ; but most
Iunfortunately managed to take up the idea that it was to be

delivered on the first Friday of April. . . . The object of my

note just now, is to ask you whether you could kindly give me

a reading of it if it was written, or if not, your notes for
                               I
                                                                          it, it,
however rough and unconnected, would give me an idea of

and would, in whatever shape they are, be most interesting to

me.                              did not hear it.--Believe
    " am very much disappointed     William F. Skene."

me, yours very truly,
I
            FROM THE REV. A. STEWART, FREE CHURCH, KILLIN.I
        ' of                           I
   " Notes Tradition relative to St. Fillan. -- fear shall not
be able to give you any satisfactory account of Saint Fillan,
who was of old reverenced in the valleys of Breadalbane.'
Those who held fast in their memories the traditions of the

past, and who at times delighted to rehearse them in the ears
of eager and attentive audiences, have nearly all passed away.
St. Fillan, the son of Kentigerna, intent on good, entered Bread
albane by the wild Pass of Glenogle and Lairgilly. And the
spot where he rested after ascending the rugged glen still
called after him -- Beannach Fhaolain, or Fillan's Blessing.
He had then in his hand stout staff, surmounted by the

celebrated coigreach, on which the venerable man rested,
               a
                                                            is
AMERICAN HONOURS.                            377

and pronounced his blessing on the lovely landscape which

opened to his view. A spring of excellent water, from which
he refreshed himself, is still called after him --lobar Fhaolain,
or Fillan's Well. It is the very spot where a traveller of

Itaste, as the Saint doubtless was, would naturally rest, and

do not wonder that, refreshed by the spring, and delighted by
the magnificent scenery, he should open his mouth with

blessings. . . .

   " Killin has many memorials of him. The greatest of the

annual markets is called after him. . . . There was long at the
mill a stone called Fillan's Chair, and several smooth stones
with holes in them which were in some way connected with

the Saint. At one time the application of them was supposed
to be efficacious in curing certain diseases, and each stone was

believed to have a specific virtue. Their work, however, is
ended, and now they lie unheeded in a niche of the mill. . . ."

   No note of inquiry or of information that promised to help

him in his antiquarian researches was overlooked. A remark

which to another man was an end of the matter, often came to
him as a hint of the existence of substantial materials in

quarters not hitherto surveyed, or as the first step to discoveries
of interest and importance. But he never forgot to name the
author of the hint. He never kicked away the ladder by which

he had begun to climb.    hours of idleness  are noticed in
    Schemes for work and

letters to a friend :--

                                             " 30th June.
I" Yesterday was sending off some books to America, and
Iset a copy of Addresses aside for you.
                                         have been elected

lately an honorary member of two of the chief American

Medical Societies, and was returning thanks for it.
    " The gentleman who carries out the parcel is a physician

who has been living in Queen Street for some weeks. He has,

I fear, a fatal tumour in his side; and there was this true romance

in his case. A lady here of fortune (some £30,000) wished to
378 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

many him ; but her friends protested no, till fate proved

whether the tumour were mortal or not.

   " We are all greatly interested in a Medical Bill which comes

on for discussion in the House of Commons to-night. The

IProfessors here and the College of Physicians are very anxious
for it -- the College of Surgeons very anxious against it.  hope

it will pass, and end all the disputations on medical reforms.
Two Edinburgh doctors are up in London canvassing --one
' for,' and another 'against' --both Drs. Wood, Alexander and
IAndrew.
          do think some M.P.s will get confused between

the two Woods, and the two Colleges they represent.
    " Dr. Alexander W. was one of the candidates for the

IPractice of Physic Chair, and all but got it. He will, think,

very probably be made President of the College of Physicians

next November.

" There is some talk of making an Academy of Medicine
Ihere, limited to twenty members.
                                   proposed it two years ago,
and now I think it will likely go on. The difficulty will consist

in the election of the first twenty men. Mr. Syme seems rather

Iagainst; but it would, believe, be sure to succeed and do good.

We must, however, first wait and see the result of medical

reform, or whether there is any medical reform or not.

  I" Last week put on a ' wishing-cap,' and desired a visit to

York, to look over again some surgical instruments in the
IEoman collection there. Accordingly
                                      got, two days after

wards, a summons to see a patient at York ; but was unable to
Istart on account of various midwifery cases.
                                               have only been

one night at home for nearly a week now, have consequently

got most of them over, and am living in the hope of a white

day in the York Museum, on Saturday or Monday.
   " Some thirty or forty of us doctors (in England, Scotland,

and Ireland) are to be invited immediately to visit the Medical
Association of the United States, which this year meets in

Albany. All our expenses to America and back, and there,

are to be paid. Is not that something 'cute, and smart, and
GOSSIP.                                                 379

handsome too in the M.D.8 of America ?      I wonder how many
will accept and go."

I" Some weeks ago wrote you a long note or letter, when
                                 If it still exists in Queen Street
Itied up at a weary, long case.

  will forward it with this.
" We have had all an exciting and agreeable week with the

meeting at Edinburgh of the Archaeological Institute of London.

INothing but dinners and evening parties. One night was so

foolish as give a lecture, and showed them, among other Eoman

Irelics, a Eoman nursing-bottle, which lately found in the York

Museum, when up on a professional visit See all the doings
recorded in this week's Athenceum.

"There have been lots of foreign doctors among us this

summer. Four were down here at dinner one day lately. . . .

  I I" have worked very hard all summer ; one day last week

saw patients in one continuous stream from one to past seven

o'clock at home, and seldom have got out of the house till near

Isix. So am determined to have ten or twelve days' fun.
I IMrs. S. and will start on Wednesday (so propose to-night),

and go perhaps to Ireland, perhaps to the Ehine. The house
                                            ISo be it.
(I am told) must be cleaned and repainted.              have

Inot had a holiday for two or three years. Don't deserve one?

Don't vote against it.
    " Professor Miller gave a capital address to the graduates

on Friday last--a sermon --and recommended them to marry,

because Mr. Syme had recommended the reverse two years ago.

At least so Mr. S. whispered to me, and so indeed did Miller

himself state to Dr. Laycock.

"One of my nieces, who went away in 1840 to Australia,

a very little girl of three or four, came here two weeks ago, a

very nice and very good-looking married wife. Her husband

has fought his own way up, and, though only thirty, commands
one of the largest ships in the London and Australian trade.

INext year he wishes to sail a ship of his own, and intend to
380 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Igo halves with him. This summer get a return of £2700

from my three Liverpool vessels, which is a better return than

I ever yet got from railways.

  I I" Did tell you when last wrote that Professor Thomson
Iand have taken out a joint-patent ? The specifications are to

be now lodged very soon. . . .

   " Eiddell, in his Dictionary, spells--the stupid fellow --

camelopard with an ' leo.'

  I I" Wherever Jessie and may go, doubt if we will see any

place so pretty as the Forth and its shores. One day last week

I crossed from Burntisland with one of the Eastern heroes, and

he declared the scenery of the Bosphorus to be a joke to the

scenery of the Forth opposite Granton.
I" Dreadfully hot.                         IYesterday was
                    write without a coat.

out at Mr. Monteith of Carstairs, and we dined in the open air,

on the banks of the Clyde. It was beautifuL
  I" But must not weary you out. --Yours very sincerely,
                                                 " J. Y. Simpson."

    Dr. Simpson's attention was much occupied during the
early part of the summer of 1858 with a new discovery, which
he announces for the first time to Dr. Alexander Simpson, in

the following note :--

               " 52 Queen Street, Edinburgh, 1st June 1858.

      Alick, -- have enclosed two circular notes,
I" My
dear

perhaps the easiest mode for you drawing money.

  I"At present, and for some time past, have been busy

studying and experimenting upon metallic ligatures as substi

tutes for silk and thread in stitching wounds and tying arteries.

IThey do not irritate and ulcerate like organic ligatures, and

do believe their introduction will in a great degree revolutionize
I Ithe treatment of wounds.
                    fancy that am the first who has

ever applied them as ligatures to vessels laid open by the

course of the knife in the human subject. As ligatures they

excite only adhesive inflammation ; not ulcerative, suppurative,
                        MEDICAL REFORM.                      381

Iand gangrenous inflammation, as organic ligatures do.       find
Iiron and silver wire the simplest, platinum excellent. Now

want you to get a view of a work of Purmannus on Surgery.

He practised at Breslau, about 1700, and wrote various books.

Heister, in his large work on Surgery (Book I. chap. xiii. § 13),

says Purmannus united wounds of the tongue with silver
Isutures.
                cannot get Purmannus's book here. Find    it,and

make full extract for me of the passage. Heister's reference            ?
is,

   '

         a
See Purman's Surgery, P. cap. vL'
                        is I.
"Again, Dieffenbach in his 'Operative Chirurgie' (1845),

voL 577, refers to Sosset using gold threads in stitching
i.
     p.

vesico- vaginal fistulas. Who Sosset, and where are his papers

Do find them.   I  am publishing three papers on the subject in

the Medical Times.
   " See any German author or surgeon alludes to metallic
            if

sutures or metallic ligatures.

   " Kindest respects to Kolliker, Eeniker, etc. --Yours always,

                                                          " James Y. Simpson.

" P.S. --There          great contest for the Chemistry.   think
if                                                        I

               is
                     a
that Dr. Lyon Playfair will easily win the race. Enclosed are

two bits of the iron wire used in my experiments. Write me

very soon. You will find out from some of the surgeons, as old

Textor, metallic sutures have been long used in Germany,
                                         J. Y. S."
and by whom.

    For several years the subject of Medical Eeform, referred toa
in one of the notes given above, had much occupied the

Faculty. All qualified practitioners saw its importance, and

felt that steps would have to be taken for the permanent

adjustment of the relations between the Universities and the

medical corporations and schools. It was necessary, too, that

the value of academical honours should be defined, that qualified

practitioners should be protected against quacks, and that
something should be done to secure fair amount of literary
attainments in candidates before they were allowed to enter
332 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

on purely  professional studies, it being notorious that some
doctors
                        " Admitted to that honoured name,

           Had, without learning, found a way to fame."

In the absence of a national measure to secure such ends,

attempts had been made to attain some of them by the

University and the corporations coming to a mutual understand
ing. But such compacts, as, for example, one entered into in

1842 between the University of Edinburgh on the one hand,

and the College of Physicians and College of Surgeons on the
other, with the approval of the Home Secretary, did not do much

to smooth the way when action came to be taken for a national

measure.   They tended rather to complicate matters and retard
progress.
           --There was at least, there was believed to be -- a

disposition on the part of the corporations to steal a march on
the University. This led to "minutes" of accusation, and
" minutes " of defence. Clouds gathered. The medical atmo

sphere got into a highly electric condition. So much so,

indeed, that, even at this date, one cannot peruse these

strongly-worded documents, and the account of the state

of matters as brought out in Dr. Simpson's correspondence,

without some excitement, and an unaccountable amount of

interest. Neither can one help becoming a partisan at once.

But to take rank on one side is easier than to keep it. A

species of dualism, not Platonic, came in to add to the

interest and the intricacy. It became apparent that members

of one body who happened also to be members of another,

whose interests for the time were diverse and conflicting,

found themselves able to act heartily, and it is to be sup
posed honestly, with both. A reliable theory of specific

identity is still a desideratum in circumstances like these.
   At last the appointment of a Committee of the House of

Commons to examine into the subject of Medical Eeform, with
the view of a Bill being passed that would deal with it in all
its aspects, held out the promise of a speedy settlement. In
                MEDICAL REFORM.  383.

the spring of 1852, Dr. Simpson began to take a more earnest

and active interest in the subject than he seems to have done

before. This he continued to do till the Bill became law. To

write the history of the movements, to describe the checks to

its progress in the want of a right understanding among the

various public bodies concerned, to chronicle the stages of the

investigation by the Committee and to record the astonishment

of its members at the conflicting statements of witnesses, to

narrate the sharp passages at arms between committee-men

and promoters, to indicate the nature of the Bill ultimately

passed into law, and to note the good fruits it has already
borne, would demand a volume at least equal to the present in

size. Such a work might be one of permanent value to the

profession. It would even be one of interest to outsiders, were

it for no other reason than the illustration it would afford of the

immense trouble, unwearied devotion, and unselfish endeavour

most freely and heartily bestowed upon it by statesmen and

professional men. Dr. Simpson was kept informed of every

step taken, of the obstacles thrown in the way of progress, and

of the quarters where a word from him would be helpful in

removing these. And he was ever ready to act. A message

sent by a patient, a telegram, or a run to London, was never

grudged. In going over his correspondence during these
Inegotiations,
                have been much impressed by the evidence of

the large views and untiring effort brought to bear on the

matter by Lord Elcho and Mr. Cowper. The persistent appli

cation, great ability, and untiring zeal of Dr. Alexander Wood,

Edinburgh, and Dr. Storrar, London, are equally conspicuous.

It is clear that both of these gentlemen, while representing

corporate bodies, had ever in view in all their efforts the best

interests of the whole profession. The letters of Mr. Black,

then one of the members for Edinburgh, also show how much

work he undertook in order to make good the completeness
Iand value of the Bill.
                         have referred to this subject in this

very general way, more as an introduction to Dr. Christison's
384 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

estimate of the value of Dr. Simpson's efforts in its behalf than

as a statement of the circumstances connected with the passing

of the Bill. He had in the outset given the movement a good
direction. At the Manchester Exhibition, in a conversation
with two influential members of Parliament, he " put his foot, "

as he said, "through Headlam's objectionable clauses, and

raised all this hubbub among the medicals." Almost to the
last hour of its progress in the House of Commons he dreaded

some mishap, and took pains to urge watchfulness over Scottish

interests.                    " St. James's Place, July 4, 1858.

I" Dear Dr. Simpson, -- hope and believe your fears to

be groundless as regards Mr. Cowper and the Medical Bill.
" He must stand by his Bill, and will lose it if he does not.
I have no fear of Mr. Headlam being able to introduce his
clauses. --Yours very truly,
                                            Elcho."

             I " July 5.

" Dear Sir,-- am glad to inform you that my Bill went

through Committee without any material alteration. Head

lam's amendments did not meet with any favour from Walpole,

I Ias feared when wrote to you, and a majority of 87 declared

the opinion of the House.                   can bewitch the
    " We are now safe, unless the Colleges             W. C."

Lords,--Yours ever,

    The British Medical Association held its twenty-sixth annual

meeting in Edinburgh, in the last week of July 1858. Dr.

Christison presided at the annual dinner of the Association,
in the Hopetoun Rooms, Queen Street. When proposing
" Prosperity to the approaching birth of the Medical Council
of the British Nation," Dr. Christison, after having referred to
the action of the Universities and Medical Corporations in

behalf of the Medical Eeform Bill just become law, said, --"He
suspected that very few in the meeting had been aware that an

attempt had been made at the eleventh hour to alter the new

Bill most materially from the principles which not only were
enunciated by Mr. Walpole as the principles which were to
MEDICAL REFORM.                          385

characterize the measure, but which were likewise fully tested
Ifby two votes of the House of Commons.
                                         the Bill had

passed finally in the shape in which it passed through the

Committee of the House of Lords, the result would have been

that this Medical Council would have had the power of actually
telling Sir Charles Hastings, and many other eminent practi
tioners, what rank they were to hold in their profession, whether

they were simple doctors of medicine, or physicians, or what ;

and if they had that power, knowing the feeling of many mem
bers of the Council, he had little hesitation in saying that Sir

Charles Hastings, the principal founder and originator of that
great Association, would not be allowed to rank as physician.
Now to whom were they indebted for this great evil being pre
vented ? They were indebted to the University of Edinburgh,

--and to none else nay, they were indebted for it principally to

one member of that University, his colleague, Professor Simp
son. They had now an idea how narrow an escape they had
had from that total overturning of the principles which, up to the
present moment, had characterized every step in the progress
of medical reform. On the afternoon of Saturday last, he (Dr.

Christison) got by the merest chance a copy of the Bill as it had

passed through the Lords' Committee, and he at once saw that a
clause had been introduced materially altering the Bill. That

evening Dr. Simpson received a telegram from London, and

next morning he got a letter showing the alteration which had

Itaken place. He immediately said, ' will start this evening

for London, and try what can be done.' He (Dr. Christison)
would not trouble the meeting with all the details; he would say

nothing of the parties who attempted to introduce the alteration.
(Cries of 'Name, name.') No, he would not give names; he would
only mention facts, to which he could pledge himself ; he could
not pledge himself as to the authors. He could, however, pledge

himself further to this, that it was in consequence of the

exertions of Dr. Simpson, with the assistance which he got
from powerful medical and other friends in London, that in the

2B
386 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

course of one short day --in the course of a very few hours --

the alterations were expunged, and the Bill restored to its

original condition."
   Eeferring to the success of this annual meeting, the con

ductor of the Journal says, in an editorial article :--" The

Edinburgh meeting will form, without doubt, an important

epoch in the annals of the Association. It was held at a

moment when the fate of the Eeform Bill, on which the eyes

of the whole profession were fixed, was finally determined.
The fruit of a quarter of a century's growth was expected to be
plucked in the midst of our rejoicing. And so indeed it was ;
for, at the brilliant conversazione at the Eoyal College of Physi
cians, the telegraphic despatch just received by Dr. Simpson
was read aloud by Sir Charles Hastings ; and the noble hall

rang again with cheers at the announcement that the Bill had

passed. It seemed, indeed, as though the struggle with respect

to this measure, which grew the fiercest towards its close, and
which was not altogether unmarked by foul play on the part of
our opponents, had been prolonged purposely in order that the
final triumph should be announced by those who had borne the
burden and the heat of the day."

    At the sitting of the Association, on the 31st July, Dr.
Simpson delivered an address characterized, it was said, by

" persuasive eloquence " as well as by high scientific qualities.

At its close, "Mr. J. B. Brown (London) moved, 'That the

cordial thanks of this meeting be given to Professor Simpson
for his very able and interesting address.' They all had known
Professor Simpson's high reputation in Midwifery for many
years past ; they all had known his great skill, his indomitable
industry, his wonderful memory, and his great genius for
applying discoveries in science to purposes of practical utility,
but he had no hesitation in saying that none of them had any
idea, with his many other eminent acquirements, he possessed
 in so remarkable a degree the power, of which they that day
had a proof, of delivering an address on a most difficult subject,
           COLLEGE SQUABBLES.              387

in the most pleasing and interesting way which one could

imagine.

    " Mr. Stedman (Guildford) seconded the resolution, which
was carried amidst loud applause."

   During the meeting of the Association he had as his guests
Sir Charles Hastings, Dr. Forbes Winslow, and other men of

eminence.

    Writing at the opening of the Session to a friend already
referred to, he says :--

    " Great perturbation seems to be going on about the election

of President to the College of Physicians on the 4th of next
month. They say there are six candidates. It is so delightful
If I Ito be out of the scrape altogether.
                       go, shall vote for Dr.
IAlex. Wood, because feel sure he would do most good at
Ipresent to the College. . . . Yesterday signed the patent for

making oil out of asphalte. Mr. Syme has had an angry paper

quarrel with Mr. Ferguson of London ; squabbles ever. He

Iand had a long talk to-day on a subject which, if effected,

will work a change on some of the University Chairs, and with

Iwhich some of my colleagues would be at first displeased.

never began the winter Session so unwillingly, as the summer

Iwas one of the brightest and happiest in all my past life.
Ifeel sometimes as if must give up working, as it is often

overwhelming. My brother at Bathgate gives up his shop next

week, and confines himself henceforth to his duties as banker.

I have got the present of a Staffordshire dinner service from
Imy friends at Trentham. What a beautiful place it is ! dis

covered two months ago a beautiful Irish church (perhaps a

thousand years old) on Inchcolm, opposite Granton, and am very
proud of it. Mr. Thackeray is here, lionizing it strongly, and

roaring very loudly."

   Perhaps the unwillingness to enter on the work of the
Session sprung from dislike of " College squabbles." For some
time Professor Syme and he had lived on terms apparently not
unfriendly. But that old feelings of dislike still kept their

ground is sufficiently plain from the following notes :--
338 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

                                                     " College, Nov. 9, 1858.

I I" My dear Sir, -- enclose a letter have received from

Mr. Syme, in which he regrets having applied to a statement

made by you the expression ' false and calumnious,' and begs

Ileave to withdraw that expression. -- am, my dear Sir, yours

faithfully,                             John Lee.
   " Professor Simpson, Quern Street."

                                      "2 Rutland Street, Edin., Nov. 9th, 1858.

  I"Very Eeverend Sir, -- regret that at the meeting of
ISenatus on Saturday last applied the expression ' false and

calumnious ' to a statement by Dr. Simpson, and beg that you

Iwill permit me to withdraw it.-- remain very respectfully,
                                        " James Syme.
" The Very Reverend Principal Lee."

   Matters of another kind are referred to in Mrs. Norton's
note. The contrast is very pleasant :--

                    I" Macgregor's Hotel, 53 Princes Street.

"Dear Dr. Simpson, -- hope you will remember your

promise that you would help me to make acquaintance with
Mr. Ballantyne, author of the ' Eobber Kitten ' and other
I Iworks.
am in Edinburgh only for a few days, but am so
Ioften in Scotland, that
                               should be sorry to miss any
I Iopportunity of claiming acquaintance whenever do come.

was much interested in learning, through you, who the writer

Iwas whose amusing children's stories had been distributing to

the rising generation.
    " What a blessed thing to find an author religiously faithful

to the memory of days when impossibilities were considered a

more agreeable foundation for a story than scientific facts !
Who would not rather climb the beanstalk with Jack, visit

the wolf with Ked Eiding-Hood, or take an airing in Cinderella's

rat- carriage, than know all about the kings of England, or the

habits of beavers or otters ?

"The wild oats sown by that Eobber Kitten pleases my
Ifancy. Tell Mr. Ballantyne
                               sent it (amongst others) to the
                           DR. MOFFAT.               389

prettiest, most daring little child of three years living in

Macbeth's old stronghold, Glamis Castle.       mean  naughty)

  I" hope it will fire him to ' doughty (I

deeds.'--Believe me, yours truly and obliged,
                                        " Caroline Norton.
"Dec nth, 1858."

Equally pleasant is a letter from an old friend, in the open

ing of 1859 :--
                                  " Hotel Castiglione, 12 Rue de Castiglione.

   " My dear Doctor, --You are so much occupied that we

never know whether you read our letters or not ; but be that

Ias it may, venture, notwithstanding, to drop a line to let you

know that an old friend of more than ' a quarter of a century's '
Istanding is still alive.
                           can tell you a curious, nay, in human

nature, even an extraordinary fact. During all that time there

was never one disagreeable, or even approximating to disagree

able, word betwixt us. Singular enough, when we think of the

various vicissitudes we both have come through, and how much,
and in how many various ways, we have come in contact !

  I" For more than five years have not been one day out of

Paris, and am therefore become so much of a Parisian that
Ireally, without any affectation, scarcely know what is inter
Iesting and what not to people out of it.
                                           might be telling
Iyou things you care nothing for, and might be omitting things

of the greatest interest to you in Edinburgh.

  I I" can only say this : shall tell you at any time whatever

you may ask.
   " Nobody here believes, or ever did believe, in war. Your

free press and your debates in Parliament do keep England in
a constant flurry about politics. How France is prospering,

now that she has neither !
    " The Established Church of Scotland have a regular service

here, and at a meeting of the Colonial Committee in Edinburgh

in October last, they passed a resolution requesting me to

Imanage for them in Paris, which have done as yet. Mr.
300 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Eobertson of the Greyfriars is officiating at present. He tells
me he is intimate with you, and often meets Mrs. Simpson in

some of his missions.

  I I" Although never hear from you, hear plenty of you, and

have plenty inquiring about you, and when you are coming

over.

  I" When meet with any Edinburgh body, 1 (now-a-days)
Inever ask if they know you -- that is quite superfluous -- so

always ask when did they see you last. --Yours ever sincerely,
                                                        "James Moffat."

The labours of the Session, on which he had entered with

less heart for professional work than usual, seemed to influence

his health more than such duties had done before. He was

obliged to take to bed in spring, and for several weeks to with

draw from practice. But Acupressure, as we shall see, got

much attention. He also recurred to a subject that had been

before him in the previous year-- materials used in the ancient
cupping- vessels. Dr. George Wilson thus refers to this :--

                                                                           "May 21, 1859.

  "My dear Arcileo-Medicus, --Is there any knowledge as
to the material of the Greek and Eoman cupping- vessels ? In

Ithe extract from Facciolati find them referred to ' duo genera

sunt, ceneum et corneum.' This indicates the possibility of their

having once been horns, and seeing that the ancient Egyptians

used horns as cupping instruments, we may reasonably sup

pose that the device was transferred to Greece and Eome.
   " On the other hand, Facciolati refers to ' Cucurbita, et fre-

quentius cucurbitula ' as ' etiam instrumentum medicorum, etc.,

quod forma cucurbitam referat.' Here solely the shape of the
gourd, and not its function, is alluded to as the source of its

secondary application to the doctor's instrument. Perhaps the

Inotion took into my head before seeing Facciolati is not

worth holding. Still a gourd does appear to be used at the

present day for cupping by the Africans of certain tribes,
Ifwhilst the same or other tribes use the horn.
                                                 the Greek
                  ANCIENT CUPPING VESSELS.                                     391

and Eoman physicians were familiar only with the horn, why

give their brass                vessel the shape of gourd, and not of
?                                                       a
                           (?)
horn May we not suppose that they had the tradition both             it

of cupping-horns and cupping-gourds, and, retaining for the                                  a

cheaper sort the material and perhaps the shape of the former,

gave to the metallic ones the shape as well as the name of the

latter
    " The calabash, the hollow horn, and the sea-shell are the
I
        ?
                                    ;
                             it
                                         is
three ready-formed vessels of moderate capacity that come

handiest to man and                          curious to see all of them imitated

in clay, or glass, and metal, as the arts go on.                              would be
   " did not intend this technological blast, but

curious to know what the materials and shape of the ancient
cupping-glasses were. -- Yours ever faithfully,

                                                           " George Wilson."

He had before thought that in remote parts of the land

traces of rude vessels of this sort were likely to be met with,

and when visited by the Eev. John Ingram, Free Church
                                                                I
minister in Shetland, an opportunity occurred to get the inI II
formation sought for: --                                            it a

                                 "Hillside, Unst, Shetland, 23d Nov. 1858.
   " My dear Sir, -- send you specimen of the cupping-horn

you spoke of when had the pleasure of last seeing you. It
                                             it a
truly very simple affair but                            just what used, and
is                              I I;           is I it  I I is            is
              a

indeed one that has been in use.                        might have got one more

neatly done up, but thought you would like best in the

rude unpolished state in which                        found in the hands of the

operators here. What shall say of all your kindness to me

and other members of this family When think of your
                                             ?

attention on many occasions to my late dear wife, to myself

personally, and now again to my sister, cannot find words

to express my gratitude, and shall not attempt it.
" Excuse me for troubling you.
                                             I        know you have not much

time for reading such communications. -- remain, my dear Sir,

yours most sincerely,                                           John Ingram."
392 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

On his return from a fortnight's visit to England he wrote to

Mrs. Tootal :--                          "May 22, 1859.

I" Jessie has shown me your letter, and  am deeply grieved

to learn that you are suffering under so much sorrow and
Iaffliction.
              fear that you would have little or no peace if resid

ing in my house just now, and not such rest and quietude as you

require. Besides my own immediate family, we have at present

living with us (1.) Mr. Stewart of Killin, who is attending the

sittings of the General Assembly ; (2.) Mrs. Simpson of Bath
gate, who came to town two days ago, suffering severely from

a heart complaint ; (3.) Miss Elizabeth Petrie, who has been

here several months, but goes home soon to Man ; and (4.) Miss
Wilhelmina Grindlay, who has been several months in London

with my son James, and is now taking care of him here

according to the directions of Mr. Startin, under whose pro

fessional charge he was in England. We are partly divided

between Queen Street and Viewbank.
   " The shores of the Firth are just now most beautiful, and

soothing too ; and if you will allow us to look out for quiet

Iquarters for you at Trinity or Granton think you would find

I Iyourself ' the better ' of the very change and the locality.

   " will not try to say how sorry feel for you in your grief ;

Ibut trust it will speedily pass, and only end in greater hap
I Ipiness for you. Believe me that when say shall feel re
Ijoiced if can be in any way instrumental in bringing about
Iso good an end, do not speak in the common complimen
Itary language of the world; for remain your very sincere

friend,                                  J. Y. Simpson."

   The reader will perceive the feebleness of this attempt to
speak a word in season to one who at the time was weary.
He had not yet learned that art in the school of Him " who
comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to
comfort them which are in any trouble, by the comfort where

with we ourselves are comforted of God."
            CHAPTEE XII.

To Mrs. Pender -- The Cat-stane -- Address on Archaeology--Questions
for the Spiritualists -- Literary Work --Correspondence on Acu
pressure--Aberdeen Medical School and Acupressure -- An Incom
plete Life--Groping after God --" Born Again "--Reason and Faith
-- Zeal of First Love -- Christian Work --Theology --Death of Jamie
-- Letters  --PoAedmd,re"ssJeasm--ieP."rayer  -- Carrubber's  Close Mission -- Mrs.
Barbour's

Dr. Simpson had for some time been on most friendly terms

with Mr. and Mrs. Pender of Crumpsall House, Manchester.

In both he found qualities which quickly won his esteem and

regard. The committee of the Manchester Athenaeum, aware

of this friendship, and being desirous that he should deliver

one of their yearly course of lectures, approached him in 1860
through Mrs. Pender :--
                                                              " 11 March, '60.
I" My dear Mrs. Pender,-- would say ' No,' and that right
Iperemptorily, to any other friend have if asked to go to Eng
Iland to give a lecture ; but cannot feel it in my heart to do

Iso to Mr. Pender. There are, however, two great, very great,

obstacles, viz., first, What could lecture on to the Manches

ter Athenaeum that could possibly interest them ? and second,

IWould be sure to get off from Edinburgh for a day to give
I
   I

                      a

                                        it
                                                                                                          '
                                               I
                                                                                       (a
                                                                                                                    '

                                                                                           ; it,
provided found subject? On this second point can venture

at this moment to say nothing. On the first point fit sub

ject), fancy that anything connected with obstetrics would

scarcely answer, however novel might be in the Athenaeuin
394 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

and aught medical or physiological would savour too much of

the shop. Manchester was originally an old Eoman colony.
Would ' Britain as a Eoman Colony,' or ' The Eoman Coloniza

tion of Britain,' be a subject likely to interest ? Of course such
a subject would ' let in ' the old Eoman colonial life at Man

chester, etc., the cities, walls, etc. etc., they have left us in the

island, their colonial commerce, and so forth.
" Please let Mr. Pender and you think of this, or any other
Isubject ; but do not fix anything till can see my way more

clearly. When would the lecture be required ?--Yours always

truly,                                          J. Y. Simpson."

                                    TO A FORMER PATIENT.
                                                           " Edinburgh, April 4, 1860.

  I" am very sorry to hear that you have been so wretchedly

ill, and very happy that you are so far better. Additional

Istrength will soon, hope, come.

   " Your letter puts me in mind of Dr. Madden and Dr.

Oppenheim being asked to prescribe for the ladies of the Grand

Sultan at Constantinople. They were only allowed to see and

feel one hand and a bit of the wrist of their patient, and from

the pulse and skin of this one wrist and hand it was averred

any doctor should be able to tell, and tell at once too, if the

lady who owned the hand or wrist was deaf, or blind, or dyspep

tic, or 'colicky,' or aught else, and all without seeing the

patient's body or face, or asking her one single question. They

may be able to tell diseases in England in this way, and cure

them, but we cannot do so in Scotland yet.
" Please tell me when you move Southport- wards. On Fri
I Iday am going up to Cumberland to see a case.
                                                 wish it
I Iwere further south, and might ' pop in.' But am under a
half promise to be in Manchester at the end of this month -- to

do what ? Guess. It requires a new sheet to telL To lec
Iture at the Athenaeum ! On what ?
                                    really do not know.
I" enclose a paper -- a medical one-- for you. The ' rage '
LETTERS.                            395

in 52 at present is Acupressure, and various other topics of an

allied kind.
   " Yesterday we had twenty-eight at dinner in the hall here

meeting Sir David and Lady Brewster, our new Principal.
They are living in my cottage at Trinity for a month or two, as
they could not get a house in town. -- Yours very sincerely,

                                                 " J. Y. Simpson."

   In 1861 Dr. Simpson communicated an elaborate and learned
paper to the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, on an " In
scribed Stone " in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh. This he
afterwards published separately with a dedication to Mrs.

Pender. It is entitled -- " The Cat-Stane, Edinburghshire : Is

it not the Tombstone of the Grandfather of Hengist and

Horsa ? " This monograph supplies good illustrations of his

descriptive power, the extent and variety of his recondite in

formation, and his skill in the use of the best methods of his

torical criticism.1

TO MRS. PENDER.

I" My dear Mrs. Pender, --    " 52 Queen Street, Edinburgh.
                            have sent by this post a copy

of a paper on the Cat-stane. It should have been sent weeks
Iago ; but the binding delayed it.
                                    have taken the liberty of
Idedicating it to you, and only wish that had any better means

of testifying my heart-felt esteem for, and gratitude to, you

and Mr. Pender for all your kindness to Wattie and myself.

I IIf had had leisure to re-write the paper quietly, could, and

should, have brought out the argument better, but as it stands
it seems to have convinced some of our best antiquaries in

England and here.
   " Enclosed also is a little poem privately printed by Mrs.

Barbour. Her daughter Margot was here with us and told

her the incidents.

  " I hope Annie is keeping stronger, and is better even than

1 Archaeological Essays, vol. L
39 6 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

before her attack. Give her my kindest love. My wife and

children are at Viewbank. We have an American cousin,

Captain Jervie (some hundred times, or at least some hundred
years, removed), paying us a visit --he is a strong Carolinian ;

and next week expect a large addition to our household, as

my mother-in-law and some of her daughters are coming down.

  I" met Mr. Drummond last night hastening across the

Mound to his ' school ' at Mr. Eitchie's.

  I I" was sorry to hear that Mr. Pender was not quite well.

trust he is better, and taking due care of himself. Pray tell him
I Idid not of course draw his cheque, as owe him a hundredfold
more than he owes me.-- Yours ever,       J. Y. Simpson."

In the same year it fell to him, as one of the Vice-Presidents

of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, to deliver the annual

address. His subject was "Archaeology: Its Past and its
Future Work."1 The annual address is generally given in the

small room at the south end of the Museum, where the usual

meetings are held. But on this occasion a change was made.

The spacious room of the Eoyal Society was obtained,    and

special invitations were issued. The room was crowded.  All
marvelled at the immense store of curious, recondite,
                                                        and

varied knowledge embodied in the discourse. Look, and voice,

and action, showed how much the lecturer himself enjoyed the

occasion, and how heartily he kept to his task for about two

hours.

   Within a few months of each other, Dr. Simpson had written
and published "The Cat-Stane," "Archaeology," and a treatise

on purely Medical Antiquities, contributed to the Transac
tions of the Epidemiological Society --three quartos, any one

of which might have been fairly held a good year's work by an
ordinary man. But these did not constitute the largest part
of the literary and scientific work of the same period. His

correspondence with regard to Acupressure was increasing in

        1 Archaeological Essays, vol. i.
                 ACUPRESSURE.                             307

bulk and importance. Every successful application added to

the demands on his time. A simple report from an operator

did not satisfy him. He wished to know all about the case.
Acupressure was, as he says in a note given above, " the rage "

in 52 Queen Street ! Every post brought him tidings of its
successful application in most important and dangerous ampu

tations. These he was classifying and preparing for a per

manent place in the literature of Operative Surgery. They

now form a large illustrated octavo volume, of nearly 600

pages. In the Preface to this work he says : " Acupressure, as

a new haemostatic (blood-stopping) process, founded on the tem

porary metallic compression of arteries, was first described to the

Eoyal Society of Edinburgh at their meeting on 1 9th Decem

ber 1859." A paper promised by a Fellow of the Society had

not been forthcoming after the billet was issued. But Dr.

Simpson intimated to Professor Balfour, the secretary, his

willingness to take the place of the defaulter. Before the time

of meeting, when the members learned that he was to read a

paper, there was a good deal of curiosity, and many guesses as

to its nature. Mr. Milne Home was in the chair ; but there

were few leading medical men present. Abstracts of the com

munication were forwarded on the same evening to England,

the Continent, and America. He refers to the preparation of
this paper in a note to Dr. Turner Keith :--" Nbw-a-days I
Iseldom or never have time to write, except when am myself
I ... I' confined,' as am this moment.
                                        got the Acupressure
Ipaper written at a house in the country, where had to sleep

for two or three nights watching a case of diphtheria." Almost

all the points, which were afterwards much amplified and

fully illustrated, were touched on in his first communica

tion, showing how carefully he had considered the bearings

of the process.  The abstract in the Proceedings is       as
                                                          as
follows :--

" Professor Simpson made a communication on Acupressure,

a new mode of arresting surgical haemorrhage. After describ
   398 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   ing the various methods of stanching haemorrhage in surgical
   wounds and operations which the Greek, Soman, Arabic, and
   Mediaeval surgeons employed, he gave a short history of the

   introduction of the ligature of arteries, and spoke of it as --

   with the occasional exception of torsion for the smallest arteries

   --the haemostatic means almost universally employed in

   chirurgical practice at the present day. But he thought that
   surgery must advance forward a step further than the ligature

   of arteries, particularly if surgeons expected -- as seemed to be
   their unanimous desire --to close their operative wounds by

   the immediate union or primary adhesion of their sides or
   walls.

      "All the march of modern surgery has been in the direction

   of attempting to increase the chances of the union of surgical
   wounds by the first intention, by diminishing more and more
   the irritation derived from the presence and action of the
   ligatures supposed to be inevitably required for the arrestment
   of the haemorrhage. By the new haemostatic process of acu
   pressure, Dr. Simpson hopes to overcome in a great degree all
   those difficulties, as by it he expected to arrest the haemorrhage
   attendant upon surgical wounds without leaving permanently

   any foreign body whatever in the wound itself. It was ail

   attempt to bring bleeding wounds, in common surgery, to
   the condition of wounds in plastic surgery, where no arterial
   ligatures were used, and where union by the first intention
   was in consequence the rule, and not the exception, to
   it.

       " Dr. Simpson stated that he had tested, with perfect success,
   the effects of acupressure as a means of effectually closing
   arteries and stanching haemorrhage, first upon the lower animals,
   and lately in two or three operations on the human subject.
   The instruments which he proposed should be used for the
   purpose were very sharp-pointed slender needles or pins of
   passive or non-oxidkable iron, headed with wax or glass,
   and in other respects also like the hare-lip needles commonly

>
ACUPRESSURE.                                                399

used by surgeons at the present day, but longer when cir
cumstances required. They might be coated with silver or

zinc on the surface, if such protection were deemed requi

site.
    " That needles used for the purpose of acupressure, and

passed freely through the walls and flaps of wounds, will not
be attended by any great degree of disturbance or irritation, is
rendered in the highest degree probable by all that we know
of the tolerance of living animal tissues to the contact of
metallic bodies. Long ago John Hunter pointed out that

small-shot, needles, pins, etc., when passed into and imbedded
in the living body, seldom or never produced any inflammatory

action, or none at least beyond the stage of adhesive inflam
mation, even when lodged for years. Some time ago, when
the subject of acupuncture specially attracted the attention of
medical men, Cloquet, Pelletan, Pouillet, and others, showed

 that the passage and retention of long acupuncture needles was
 attended with little or no irritation in the implicated living

 tissues. . . ."

    The special excellences of the new method are forcibly put
by Dr. Simpson in the following contrast :--

CONTRAST BETWEEN THE LIGATURE AND ACUPRESSURE.

                   The Ligature.              Acupressure.
                                          Requires cone,
    1. Requires isolation of the end of   Produces none,
the vessel.                               Produces none,
                                          Produces none,
    2. Produces laceration of the two
internal coats of the artery.             Produces none.

    3. Produces strangulation of the      Produces none,
external coat.

    4. Leads on to ulceration or mole-
cular destruction of the external coat
at the constricted part.

    5. Causes mortification of the ar-
tery at the tied point, and usually also
below it.

    6. Produces consequently a dead,
decomposing slough of each part liga
tured.
400 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

         The Ligature.                    Acupressure.

  7. If organic, it imbibes animal           Requires only metallic needles or
                                          threads, which are incapable of im
fluids, which speedily decompose and
                                          bibing animal fluids.
irritate.                                    Requires to produce inflammation
    8. Requires to produce the highest
                                          up to the stage of adhesion only.
stages of inflammation at each liga
tured end, viz., ulceration, suppura

tion, and mortification.                     Is removable in an hour, a day,
   9. Is not removable except by the      etc, at the will of the operator.

slow ulceration and sloughing of the         Requires only one person.
ligatured vessel, which requires a
period of from four or five to twenty        Is very seldom followed by secon
days and more.                            dary haemorrhage, as there is no
                                          ulceration.
    10. Generally requires two persons
                                              Has succeeded under such circum
for its application.                      stances where the ligature has failed.
    1 1. Is frequently followed by secon

dary haemorrhage, an effect of ulcera

tion.
    12. Sometimes fails altogether in

cases of recurring secondary haemor

rhage.                                       Does not necessarily require the
    13. Sometimes cannot be applied       exposure of the vessel, and therefore
                                          has sometimes prevented the neces
till the surgeon first exposes the        sity of using the knife.

bleeding vessel by the knife.                Is early withdrawn, and is hence
                                          far less opposed to primary union.
    14. Prevents, as a foreign body,
adhesion by first intention along its         Stops generally both artery and
tract as long as it remains.              vein.

    15. Stops only the artery tied.

16. Stops only one artery.                May close two or more smaller

                                          arteries by means of a single

   17. Is not unfrequently followed       needle.
by surgical fever from leading to the
formation and allowing absorption of         Is much less likely to be followed
septic matters.                           by surgical fever, because it does
                                          not lead to the formation of septic
   18. For these various reasons,  pri    matter, and closes the veins as well
mary union rare, healing slow,     and
septic or surgical fever not       un     as arteries.
                                              Primary union more frequent,

                                          healing quicker, and septic or sur
                                          gical fever less common.

common.

   As was sure to be the case, controversy followed. In the

work referred to, two chapters are devoted to answering the
             ACUPRESSURE.                               401

objections against Acupressure by Professors Miller, Erichsen,

Neudover, Spence, Ferguson, and Syme. Many able surgeons

took to the practice at once. It still continues to be carried

out with great success in Aberdeen and elsewhere. Dr. Simp

son was greatly gratified by the attitude of the Aberdeen

Medical School, whose experience he afterwards laid before

the profession, first in a communication to the Lancet, and
then in a pamphlet, entitled " Notes on the Progress of Acu

pressure."

After introducing the subject, he quotes the following letter
by Dr. William Keith, Aberdeen :--
"            ' Acupressure,' writes Dr. Keith, ' here is triumphant --
    .  .  .

Inothing else being dreamt of-- and, may say, in daily use.
IWithin the last fourteen days have employed it in the follow
ing operations :--In an amputation of the forearm acupressure

by first mode at the elbow commanded the humeral before
Ibifurcation, and the wound healed by first intention.
                                                        re

moved a large recurrent fibroid tumour for the third time in

ten years. Deep dissection brought me in contact with the

external carotid artery. And what of that ? It was looped by

the sixth mode in three seconds ; and the case has gone on to
a wish, the wound filling up with healthy granulations, as all

the integument, being adherent and discoloured, was intention

Ially removed ; the mass was like one's fist. On Wednesday

last amputated a thigh. Three vessels by your fourth mode,
and three by the sixth mode, were secured. On Monday of

Ithis week amputated two thighs. In one, four vessels re

quired acupressure ; in the other, six. The fourth and sixth
modes l were used in about equal proportions. The speed with
which the vessels were closed in each case hindered the loss of

   1 " These numerical references apply to excellent descriptions and plates of
the different methods of performing acupressure given in the treatise of Drs.

IPirrie and Keith. In their practice they do not notice one method which
Ihave often employed to close minor vessels, and which have seen my friend

Dr. Heron Watson, Surgeon to the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary and to
Chalmers's Hospital, use."

                                                            20
402 SLR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

blood so entirely, that the sand-box only showed a spot of

blood in its centre. --Yours very faithfully,
                                                        ' William Keith.'

    " Dr. Keith's letter attests the small quantity of blood that is

lost when acupressure is properly used. . . . ' The confidence
of the Aberdeen surgeons,' adds Dr. Keith, ' is now so firmly

established in acupressure, that its use is the rule by the

hospital staff.'

   " In the way of illustrating these results, let me adduce an
individual case --a kind of evidence which, to some minds, is

more impressive than any mode or amount of reasoning. For

I Ithis purpose might cite several, but shall content myself

with an abridgment of the last of the thirty- two cases which

Dr. Pirrie details. This thirty-second case was, like his first

case, one of amputation of the thigh, on account of extensive
disease of the knee-joint, in a ' delicate-looking ' boy six years

of age. The femoral and two other arteries were acupressed.

The pins were withdrawn in forty-four hours, without, as the
patient said, 'causing any pain.' ' After operation ' (says Dr.

IPirrie) ' thought it necessary to caution the little fellow not

to touch the acupressure-pins, which he called the pins with

Ithe beautiful [glass] heads, and promised to give them to him

after their removal. He took great care not to touch them, or

allow any person except myself to do so ; and, to his great
delight, sent them home by his father for preservation until

his return.' The stump healed perfectly, and throughout
every part, by the first intention ; and, as Dr. Pirrie expresses

it,

     '

                             is

                            it

                                                              a

                                                                                                                                                 ;

                                                               I
either by immediate union or by primary adhesion and

am inclined to think must have been by the former, as no

medium of union discernible at the edges of the wound.'
No dressings were employed except few metallic sutures, and

three strips of isinglass-plaster, which were applied before the

patient was removed from the operation-table.  The sutures

were all removed on the fourth day. After the operation the
ACUPRESSURE.                                               403

little patient slept well, was anxious for his food, had no uneasy

sensation of any kind, local or general, and was in the highest

spirits. A few days after the amputation, when, observes Dr.

IPirrie, ' entered the ward with the surgical pupils of the

hospital, he was whistling most beautifully the " Braes o' Mar,"
and amusing himself by passing a little model carriage over an
inclined plane he had got constructed in his bed. He con

tinued to whistle the above and other airs till it was his turn

to be visited !'"

  I am not competent to give an opinion on the merits, but it

seems to me that, applying the ordinary rules of evidence in
this controversy, a case is made out in favour of the new
method as contrasted with the old. Perhaps, however, senti
ment goes a good way in leading one to wish to see Chloroform
and Acupressure walking hand in hand, as means of blessing to

suffering humanity --

" Brethren by one master led."

" When," says Dr. Turner, " giving the Professor my limited

but favourable experience of acupressure shortly after it was

Iintroduced, had made jocular allusion to the fierce opposition

this innovation was exciting, and the outrage he had committed
on those sacred mysteries, the ' surgical principles,' to the un

speakable discomposure of the surgical mind. ' The surgical
                                                           I shall
mind,' he said, ' is a very curious piece of metaphysics.

be quite content if acupressure begins to be thought of about

a quarter of a century hence.' "

    Dr. Simpson's successful career had hitherto developed
only one side of his moral and intellectual nature. His
faculties had found expression in one direction only, and that,

while it stood alone, not the most permanently influential.
    He had worked heartily, bravely, and persistently for bread

and name, and fame, with an expenditure of strength, and a
404 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

devotion to duty seldom, if ever, equalled in his profession. He

had worked, moreover, in the face of opposition that would have

paralysed the energies of most men. His zeal and love for his

profession continued strong and pure throughout. The rare

bloom of vigour, freshness, and fondness of first love, so long as

it continues the only love, characterized his views and feelings

as to the work of a physician during all the changeful years

of an absorbing practice. The youthful ideal was never lost.

And in this spirit work was done whose fruits will last through

the ages. He had enriched the healing art by great discoveries.
He had introduced methods of treatment whose benefits will
be always owned. Not in vain had multitudes of the suffering
and sorrowful " waited for him as for the rain." And " he had

chosen out their way, and been to them as one that comforteth

mourners." Yet all the while his life was not complete.

Genius, talents, and great attainments were, without stint or

grudging, given to humanity. But he had not calmly and of

purpose given any true thought to the adjustment of a relation
higher than that between him and his fellow-men -- the relation

of his soul to God. There had, no doubt, been spasmodic

endeavours after a religious life. When dark shadows fell

athwart the bright joy of domestic life, when death took from

him some on whom he had lavished his love, when the bitter

ness of self-reproach fell on him, because in controversy he had

yielded to feelings and been influenced by motives unworthy

of the truth for which he contended, or when some, on whose

lasting gratitude he was warranted to count, gave him instead

the hate which almost ever takes the place of thankfulness

felt to be due but not rendered, in such circumstances he was
disposed to cry " vanity, " and set about trying to be good.
IfBut with the occasion " the religious fit " passed away.
                                                            good

seed had fallen for a season, the surface of the moral nature

was scarcely scratched. There was no deep ploughing --no

stirring of the inmost being. Time soon hardened the soil.
             SPIRITUAL LIFE.  405

Temptation came, and he fell away. Yet such experiences

draw towards them the interest and sympathy of all good men.

They shed light on a word whose significance in God's dealings

Iwith individual men is often not seen,-- " will hedge up thy

way with thorns." While yet a child, Dr. Simpson had been

impressed by the manifest goodness of his mother, and had ever

remembered that, somehow, she differed from other members of

the household. During his College life, all his thoughts were

given to study or amusement. In the first years of his pro
fessional duties his path was rugged and thorny. A hard fight

with straitened means and worldly difficulties kept him at work

which engrossed his whole time and attention. In later years

his very success brought its characteristic snares. He had

fought his way into fame and worldly comfort. Was not this
the end of his exertions --the highest and best reward ? But

his mother's prayers still followed him ; and, increasingly, the

prayers of those to whom he had brought health gathered round
him. To have touched on such topics, even in 1860, in his

presence, would have provoked a remark about fanatics or

fanaticism.  He had come to be regarded by many as a
Christian.   The title " Christian physician " was freely given

to him. Schemes of Christian philanthropy were submitted

for his approval. He was pressed to undertake duties which

could only be done to profit by men consciously united to

Christ. He had even reached to an intellectual perception of
the true character of works not done as unto God. Yet he

afterwards spoke of this period, as a time when he was living
Iwithout God in the world.
                            know that to give expression to

such truths is at the risk either, on the one hand, of underrating

or depreciating the beneficial influence of the reflex light of

Christianity on the lives of men, on the domestic circle, and on

society ; or, on the other hand, of alienating many from the
views on whose reception so much depends. But a fair exhibi

tion of Dr. Simpson's state of mind at this time demands this

reference.

             S                                                      S
406 SOi JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

" What is meant," he once said to me, " by that text, ' Re

pentance from dead works'? What are dead works ?" "The

good works of natural men," was the reply. " But all are
                "  " No ; there is a birth not of nature -- ' born
natural  men
              ?

not of the will of the flesh, but of God.'" " Is that not a mere

figure?" "In part, but a great truth underlies. Those who

have not experienced the change of heart referred to are spoken

of in the text--' the natural man receiveth not the things of

the Spirit of God.'" "What's the Greek?" "-fi/^o? Be

avdpcoTros." " But the ' dead works'?" " The good works of a
man who has not believed in Christ --whose soul is still cut off

from God. A living man in the Bible sense, can alone do

Iliving (good) works. ' live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me,
I Iand the life that now live in the flesh, live by the faith of

the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.'" There

Iwas no reply. But years after, heard him give expression

to the same views, when addressing the people in the quiet

village Free Church at Torphichen.

His repeated inquiries about the meaning of portions of

Scripture, and the mode in which he looked at them, his interest

in the Christian efforts of others, and his own satisfaction when

asked to take part in them, were, no doubt, shedding around

him most healthy influences. But he was, in the midst of

them, trying to find a footing in the Kingdom of God, by his

thoughts about religion and his occasional efforts in religious

work. He was, however, on the threshold of an experience of

a very different kind. He was about to become not another

man only, but a new one, and to enter on a condition in which

works and labours were to have their truest place, their most

earnest and highest expression. To this he was now led. He
heard the words, " Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou
Ishalt be saved, and thy house." " Lord,
                                          believe," was the

response. The promise of salvation now realized in him, would,

he felt convinced, be blessed also to those nearest and dearest
             SPIRITUAL LIFE.                              407

to him. " And thy house," he often trustfully repeated.   The
tidings of his change led many to say, "What hath
wrought !" To himself it was as the gift of a new sense.  God

                                                           All

familiar things were the same, and yet how different ! To one

class of men he felt called to repeat his experience, in the hope

that they might become what he now was. To another, it was
his delight to be " helpers of their joy." And now we have in

Christ's dealings with men another "notable example of a

sensitive, tender, self-analysing soul, living in sustained com

munion with God, while externally devoted to a large round of

exacting public duties." Even his professional work was done

more heartily and earnestly than before. His good works were

no longer separated from spiritual life. They were its fruits,

and were not now dead. His mental qualities, scientific attain

ments, and varied accomplishments, were laid at the feet of

Him to whom in the olden time the star-guided students from
the East brought their " gifts, gold, frankincense, and myrrh."

He heard, for himself, the words-- " Ye are bought with a price :

therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which

are God's." And he now said to others, as one who had joy in
             " We ourselves were sometime foolish, disobedient,
saying  it,

deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice

and envy, hateful, and hating one another. But after that the

kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared,

not by works of righteousness which we have done, but accord

ing to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration,

and renewing of the Holy Ghost, which he shed on us abun

dantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour." Another had joined

that illustrious company of foremost men who, bringing all

their great gifts and varied attainments with them, have entered

the Kingdom of God as little children. To the list that holds

the names of Newton, Boyle, Boerhaave, Cuvier, Abercrombie,
Chalmers, Brewster, Lyndhurst, and other " chiefs of the

mighties," we now add James Young Simpson's. With them

             -
408 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

he had made that discovery of God's purpose in His creation
which Augustine states so tenderly on the threshold of his
Confessions :--" Fecisti nos ad Te, Domine, et inquietum est
cor nostrum donee requiescat in Te." " What a curious psycho

logical phenomenon this step of Simpson's is!" said a scientific

Ifriend ; " can't make it out. It looks downright fanaticism."

Many heard with surprise of his change, and its fruits. But it

was neither fanatical nor irrational. Neither term can be ap

propriately applied to a man when led to believe, with all his
heart, in his own immortality, in the greatness of eternity, in
the personal holiness of God, in his own sinfulness in God's

sight, when he takes the testimony thereto even of his own
heart and life, in the remission of sins by the blood of Christ1 --
very God, very Man, the substitute and surety for sinners --
and in the fact of the soul's vital union by faith with Him who

is the true God and eternal life.

    We have seen that Dr. John Eeid, the playmate, schoolfellow,
companion, and fellow-worker in science of Dr. Simpson, had

 been led to see all this, when, like a stricken deer, he had gone
 with his fatal disease into solitude. And now Dr. Simpson

 himself attains to the same discovery. God works by means.

 In Eeid's case the consciousness that he carried about with

 him a malady that was daily sapping the foundations of
 bodily life, was used by the Spirit of God to lead him to Christ.
 And now Eeid's early associate was brought too, but by a

 different way. In a letter to a friend, written early in 1862,

I Ifthese words occur, -- " have a patient, a dear, dear friend.
Iyou ever come north again, have promised her you would
 Imeet. In a day or two will send you a little beautiful book2

 she is just now publishing. She has, indeed, been a kind of
 ' well of living water ' to me and mine." On the 9th of June

II1 " often wondered what good men meant when they spoke so much
about the Blood.  see it all now. It is just substitution." -- Lord Lynd-

hurst.                            By M. F. B.
  * " The Child of the Kingdom."
                     SPIRITUAL LIFE.  409

1861, this patient, after referring to an account he had given

her of spiritual work then being done in Paris, added --" When

I read with so much pleasure your antiquarian address sent

Ilast night, thought, What if his next paper be on the work

God is doing in the world, deciphering and analysing, as only

he could do, the mysterious traces of the Divine Spirit in the

living stones of the Temple He is raising in these days of ours
Ito Jesus' praise ?
                     often feel that while unflagging kindness

carries you ever hither and thither on errands of mercy, it is

the bounden privilege of grateful patients, who can themselves

do so little, to follow your steps with earnest prayer. So you

will maybe like to think that one at least -- and how many ?--is

every morning asking the Lord Jesus to bless you and all your

house with the full spiritual blessing He has to give." During

the summer and autumn professional duty brought both Dr.

Simpson and his nephew, Dr. Alexander Simpson, his assistant,

frequently in contact with the earnest and devoted members of

this patient's household. A warm friendship followed. Hus

band and wife and daughter were alike interested in the

spiritual good of their medical attendants. Quiet words for

Christ were spoken in quiet moments on a sick-bed. Prayer

Iwas continued. In another letter the same patient says :-- "

am glad of an occasion to ask pardon if my last letter may have

seemed like forming a judgment about the state of mind of

another, with no data but intuition, on which one should not act.

Let me not thus become one of those unfavourable specimens

of Christianity, who are always coming in like stumbling-blocks

to keep open-hearted, upright natures from seeking Christ.

Many are hindered from seeking after the Master's fellowship

by the distorted, dwarfed likenesses His people present. Why

will all the narrow-mindedness not fly before the broad-flowing

Ilove that comes from Him 1 Why do the ' ' and ' My ' start

up still in those who do say truly, ' To me to live is Christ '?

When one honestly sets out to try and be a Christian, he meets

in the fore-front some Christians he would not change places
410 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

with. Once we have seen Jesus, this difficulty, like every other,

vanishes. The Eaphael touches live, shine, glow, and the sign
boards pass unnoticed. . . . What is to fill this heart to all

eternity ? When benevolence shall have run its course, when

Ithere shall be no sick to heal, no disease to cure ; when all

have been engaged about comes to a dead stop, what is to fill

this heart, and thought, and these powers of mine ? Only the
IfGod-man !
             then, why not now ?"

    One has an almost oppressive sense of the difficulty of rightly

tracing the path of Dr. Simpson's experience at this time. In

many parts of Scotland much power accompanied the faithful,
earnest preaching of " Jesus Christ and Him crucified." The

members of the circle where he was now a frequent visitor

took a very lively interest in the religious movements of the

time. For a season Dr. Simpson seemed to continue like

Gideon's fleece, when the dew fell all around, but not on it.

But the startling character of God's dealings at the time with

some of Dr. Simpson's patients ; the words spoken by friends

years before ; the memory of bereavements ; and, now, the

earnest pleading, not only of comparative strangers, but of one,

at least, among his own near relatives, were all, in another hand

than man's, becoming

"As grappling bonds that knit the soul to God."

Light had gone before, and love was coming after. He had

become dissatisfied with himself, and was longing to know why.

He was beginning to see sin, and to grope after the Saviour.
I I I" felt must go somewhere to- night.
                                          thought of Duns and
I IHanna, but have come to you." Then he added sadly, "
Iwish to come to Christ, but don't see Him." Had no other

word escaped from him, this spoken from the heart was enough :

I" Him that cometh unto Me will in no wise cast out." But

there was much communing and taking counsel. Before 1861

passed away, he entered a sick-room saying--" My first happy
Christmas. My only happy one."
           CHRISTIAN EXPERIENCE.  411

   Now, to say the least, it would not have been wise either on
the part of Dr. Simpson or his friends, so to act and talk as if

all true, living, personal religion can only be reached in this
fashion. " There are diversities of operations, but it is the

same God which worketh all in all." God's method of dealing

with one man should never be made the rule of His dealing

with alL Some are sanctified from the womb. Some grow

gradually up into the image of Christ, scarce realizing the

mighty change being wrought in them. At such you might

ask in vain for a record of the time when they first began to

love God, or for a statement of the means used by God's Holy
Spirit in their change. In others, conversion is abrupt, rapid,

and at once conspicuous.  Like Peter's wife's mother, the

fever is no sooner cured than they rise and minister to Christ.

There is no time of convalescence. Others, again, like Dr.

Simpson, seem to stand out as witnesses to the reality of what

is called "sudden conversions," when, in fact, the change is

related by many subtle links to much past experience in the

work, word, and ways of God. Of course, the advent of the

higher life must ever, in one sense, be sudden ; but this is

quite consistent with its gradual manifestation to the believer's

own soul.

The truth was, that the view he had now got of Christ sud

denly vivified knowledge long held about God, and made it

potential. He now knew Him in the highest sense as a Per

son who had loved him from the beginning. He who had

before been only a name on the lips of others had become to

him, and for him, a living Person, and the very life of his own

heart. The fruit was in reality as wonderful as he felt it to be.

Yet something analogous to this is constantly occurring in

daily life. Who has not felt some look or word, or the dis

covery by some unexpected incident of a man's secret but per
sistent and influential interest in our behalf, change in a

moment all our views regarding him ? Before, he was nothing

to us, or, it may be, was regarded with suspicion by us. Now,
412 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

he has become dear --one for whom we are willing to work, or

suffer, if need be. True, it may be the truest friend among

friends. In such circumstances the feeling uppermost is one
of wonder that we did not know him and love him sooner. It

Iwas thus with Simpson. " How strange did not see all this

before !" And the wonder was increased when he saw that

God now approached him at so many points. Every one of

the gifts of his many-sided individuality was accepted, and

shown to be fitted to reflect God's image, as each compartment

in the facetted mirror reflected his own likeness.

    Even before he had a clear view of the glory of Christ and

of his own interest in Him, he said, " My speculative doubts

have passed away." He had stood in the heart of what is
called " phases of independent thought," an expression more
Ifimposing in sound than in sense.
                                    it be meant by this that

the authority of the Word of God is to be put in abeyance till

a man has argued himself into belief, there is ground to fear he
will not likely fall back on the Word again, and good reason to

believe that, were he to do so, he would put his own notions
in opposition to the " Thus saith the Lord." To claim the pri

vilege of independent thought is too often the apology for want
of faith. But the Scripture says " Believe," and then asks :
" Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth

that Jesus is the Son of God ?" Dr. Simpson heard both words.

Yielding to the one, he became the possessor of a new life ; and
resting on the other, the intelligent agent in a new course of
living. In cases where speculative doubts still work damage,

neither aspect of truth has been humbly and sincerely received.

To some it may seem mysticism to allege there can be no

Christian life and no Christian work without faith. But has

not this also its analogy even in the case of every scientific

worker ? The faith, indeed, is exercised in another sphere, and

on a different object, and the work of faith leads to different

results, but the mere mental quality is in both cases the same.is,

It no doubt, the fashion in some quarters to ignore this, and
REASON AND FAITH.  413

to work as if there were neither wisdom nor order in creation,

until man impresses the stamp of his own individuality on it.

It will, however, be generally acknowledged that, but for the

introduction of the belief in creative adaptation into the study

of systematic zoology, natural history would to-day have been
only what it was in the days of Bacon, a crude collection of
" fables, antiquities, quotations, frivolous disputes, philology,

ornaments, and table-talk." Suppose, for example, that we
look at the corresponding parts in the details of structure in a
bird and in a fish. How are we to account for correspondences,

down to the most minute peculiarities, between animals so
widely unlike in form, habit, and in the medium in which they
live? The belief in creative modifications of Divine plan

comes to be to the student both the position of rest and the
point of view of study. But what would be thought of a

worker who, while forced to recognise the adaptation, refused

to believe in the Creator, merely because this brought him to

entertain what confessedly is above reason, though not contrary

to it ? And if a man comes to see and to feel the adaptation of

the gospel of Jesus Christ to his spiritual wants, and to have
the witness to this in himself, is it not extreme folly to speak
of his belief in Christ Himself as irrational or fanatical ? There

is a point at which both the anxious inquirer after spiritual

peace and good hope, and the scientific worker, is brought to a

stand. Philosophy, reason, understanding, can take him no

further, and yet further he must go if rest is to come to the

one, and successful work to be done by the other. " Canst thou

by searching find out God ? Canst thou find out the Almighty

unto perfection ? It is high as heaven ; what canst thou do ?

Deeper than hell ; what canst thou know ? The measure thereof
is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea." Faith

answers these questions, and our nature attains to its highest

gratification -- " Whom having not seen ye love. In whom,
though ye see Him not, yet believing ye rejoice."

     No sooner had Dr. Simpson's views of life been thus
414 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

changed than he was led into public work in Christ's service.I
Perhaps too soon. He himself felt unprepared for and oneit,

of the first expressions he used when work was presented toisI       is is
him was, " Paul got three years in Arabia before he gave him
                           '               is
self to apostolic work." While the Church can ill afford tois

lose the warmth, freshness, and, shall say, unreasoning zeala
of her converts' first love, these might oftener be directed into

channels less dangerous to young Christians themselves, and

less hazardous to the truth, than addresses at crowded public

meetings so often are. In many cases the Scriptural way
reversed. It not " Come and hear, all ye that fear God," but
" All ye that do not fear God, and will declare what He hath

done for my souL'" When the true way followed, the babe
in grace has the advantage of that warm temperature, and of all

those household surroundings so much needed when we start

on our Christian life. When the other path chosen, there

ever temptation to speak beyond experience, to yield, unwit

tingly, to the growth of feelings that are not those of meekness
and humility, or, while being satisfied above all telling, to for
get that we will continue so only by hungering and thirsting.

                   " Let him be rich and weary, that at least,
                    If goodness lead him not, yet weariness
                                          May toss him to my breast."

Besides,     far too often forgotten that in conversion there
is                            is
    it                                           is
         is
no miraculous gift of knowledge of the Word of God imparted.          is

This attained only by painful and persistent application to

the study of the Scriptures, comparing one passage with an

other, and letting the Bible become its own interpreter. For-

getfulness or neglect of this almost always leads to expressions

of contempt for theology. And this quite natural, because

the ability to formulate scattered truths, and to deduce doctrine

from variety of texts, implies meditation, study, gifted in
a
                  a
telligence, and wide knowledge of Scripture. Yet God's

words never assume their highest aspects of influence till they

are thus dealt with. But the humblest Christian every day
          STUDY OF THE BIBLE.                   415

rendering them into this form by his study of the Word. Such

views, moreover, lead men very naturally to hold the symbolic

books of a Church of small value, or even, perhaps, as hindrances

in the way of a soul's approach to God. They will not con

descend to look at them. And when circumstances arise which

compel them to do so, they approach them in the wrong way.

Having become theologians without labour, they form a

Christian system according to their own ideal, always a most de

fective one. And should confession or creed be found contrary to

this, it is apt to be denounced as unscriptural, and a yoke not

to be borne. Whereas, had they approached these in the only

legitimate way, they might have discovered that the difficulties

are not in the creed or confession, but in the Word of God

itself. In almost every other department we follow a different

method. We seek out and study the special facts, in order to

see whether or no they warrant the generalizations. But to

condemn the inference because we do not like before we haveit,

carefully studied the facts, always puts one in mind of an
                                   asked. " He that answereth
answer given before question   is
          a

matter before he heareth  it,it      folly and shame unto him."
is a                             is
      it
Dr. Simpson's habits of thought were not likely to expose him

to this temptation. But when we remember how little atten

tion he had given to the study of the Scriptures, before he

experienced that change to which we have referred, we will see

that was almost impossible, when he began at once to do public

Christian work, to escape some of these tendencies. Indeed,  it

marvellous that he did not yield to more. His growth in

spiritual attainments was very rapid. This might have been

expected from what we know of his powers of memory and

mental application. The private reading of the Bible, and its

daily use in household worship, joined to the increased

regularity of his attendance at Church, brought to him in    a

few months more accurate knowledge of the Word of God than

they could have done, in the course of several years, to one of

smaller attainments and feebler capacity.

                               s
416 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

           TO A PATIENT.

"My        -- I" 52 Queen Street, Edinburgh, Ath Feb. 1862.
     dear  Madam, How can thank Mr.                        and

you for the magnificent present ? The story connected with

one of the texts to be engraved on the watch, is too deeply

impressed on my heart to be ever for one moment forgotten.

I Ishall engrave it also on the watch have been lately wear
Iing, as hand it over to my son for his use. The other text,

' God is Love,' has kept me thinking for the last twenty-four
Ihours, and the more think of
                              it         the more wondrous and
                                    it,
marvellous and comprehensive   grows. In some of our clear

northern nights, the heavens above sparkle with countless

numbers of bright and beautiful stars. The pages of the Bible

sparkle with countless numbers of bright and beautiful texts.

But fancy that for the future shall deem the text God
I          a                             J.

                   I                          I
Love' as the greatest and grandest in the great and grand             '
firmament of texts-- kind of pole-star around which, as             is

around the pole-star in our heavens, the other starry messengers

and sayings of the Bible revolve. And whenever stand by

the bedside of weak and dying patient, and count her pulse,
your selected text will, trust, enable me to speak words of
           a

                  I

strength to her in her weakness, and words of life to her in the
hour of her bodily death. --Ever yours,
                                         Y. Simpson."

    Soon after his change an event occurred which gave bold
relief to his new views of himself and of his life. His fifth

child and third son, James, died on the 16th February 1862.
James had from childhood been afflicted with an aggravated
form of skin disease. As the invalid of the household for

nearly fifteen years, much loving care and tender anxiety were
lavished on him. As he seldom appeared in the presence of
strangers, comparatively few were aware of his existence. But
those who looked in on Dr. Simpson about four o'clock, or who
were guests at the quiet family dinner, soon learned to love
" Jamie " tenderly and heartily. His ever questioning intelli
gence, his vivacity, and the intense pleasure with which he
                      "JAMIE."                       417

entered into any amusement, even when the sore disease seemed
consuming his flesh, constrained one to thank God that he had
planted so much natural capacity of joy in a heart where this
gift of gladness was greatly needed.

TO HIS BROTHER.

--It" My dear Sandy,            "Sunday afternoon, 16th February.

                      pleased God to take Jamie to Him

self this morning. He died most calmly and peacefully, just
Ibefore the church-bells began to ring.
                                         gave him over into

the arms of Christ, in the full faith that he was utterly safe in

His keeping, and that after all, though here we all loved him

dearly, God loved and loves him still more, infinitely more."

IThen he turns to another matter : " hope you did not think

me ridiculously silly and nervous on Friday. But please
Iremember, as some excuse, that was still very weak in body,
...and very, very heartsore.
                              In all cases how much must

we trust to the love and arm of Jesus Christ . . . My kind

est love to Mennie and David, not forgetting Arthur and Mary.
IMy dear wife keeps wonderfully welL
                                         am greatly obliged
to Janet for coming in.--Yours ever affectionately,

                                                     "J. Y. S."

                         TO AN INTIMATE FRIEND IN LONDON.

                                                              " Edinburgh, 19th Feby. 1862.

   " My dear Sister, and Jamie's kind Friend, -- Many kind
est thanks for your kind note to Jessie. Alick tells me also
you have written him. But as Jessie is very busy this fore

Inoon, and Alick is out visiting, and am a kind of invalid at

home, having had a bad sore throat, which has laid me off

Iwork for two or three weeks, write in answer to your affec

tionate inquiries about my dear Jamie. . . .
    " He had a most kind French ' bonne ' taking care of him,

and trying to teach him to speak French ; and my assistant,
Dr. Berryman, and he were great companions. He taught him
latterly turning and carpentering, for though half blind he

                                          2D
418 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

worked away wonderfully and greatly by touch, making boxes,

desks, cages, etc., for his little brothers and sisters. He had

the garret room over my bedroom fitted up as a workshop ; and

Ias was laid up lately with this sore throat, the knock of his

busy little hammer, and the birr of his turning-lathe were

somehow pleasant sounds. They are all silent and still there

Inow, and listen for them in vain. . . .
   " He died most calmly and peacefully on Sunday morning ;

and just as he breathed his last breath the church-bells began

to ring. Excuse us, my dear, dear sister, if in all our hearts

here we fancied and felt that they were ringing Jamie into that

eternal Sabbath of joy which is in heaven.

  I"And have --we all here have -- every reason to believe

and trust that it is even so, that the kind and gracious arm of

Christ did indeed, truly and lovingly, shield and protect him,

as he walked through the dark, dark vale of death ; and that

Jamie is now with Him in that happy land, where there are no

more tears, and no more sufferings and sorrows.

  I I" Perhaps would stop here, if to-day were writing to any

one else ; but at the risk of even my sister thinking me stupid,
Iand garrulous,
                 feel somehow impelled to tell her (who has
Ialways taken such an interest in me and mine) why think so,

why rather we all think so.

"Jamie became a changed boy for many months before he

died, and perhaps he was one of the great means (let me

whisper this in your ear) --for God has raised up others --why
my whole household has seemed to change too. He was led

I(how, will tell you, if we ever meet again) to see that time

was a transitory moment indeed as compared with the eternity

of eternity, and at last placed such faith (faith so simple, and
full, and pure) in the certainty of salvation through the atoning

blood of Christ, that for a length of time he was able to look
Iforward to death utterly without fear.
                                         have got here the

favourite hymn which he used to hum in the workshop, play

room, etc. Will your dear husband and you bear with me if
                                                                                                                                                           419

I paste it on ; and perhaps you will kindly read and sing it for

Jamie's sake.1
I I" almost, as
'

 I

                       '
                                        '

                                           it,

                                                                        '
                                                                                                      '
                                               read  fancy that even your husband's

grand big heart will not despise my weak one for believing --
as most sincerely do--that my dear boy has found truly his

 palm,' his harp,' his crown,' his mansion,' his friends in
the promised land of his Saviour and Father.' "

   Then he relates the incidents of Jamie's death, and con

tinues --
it
   is

                :

          I

                    it

                                        is
                                                a

                                              if

                                         Ia
                                                                                                                                                        ;
" My house at present                                so-called house of mourning but

also, in the truest sense of that word, house of joy. My

sister would perhaps have thought so, at this night's prayers

(for though began the letter this morning was interrupted,

and only finish now--half-past ten) she had heard my whole

household and servants earnestly singing Jamie's hymn, to

which Davie added the verse --

                have brother in the promised land.' .
I

      I'

                            a

                     I
                                    J. I

                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                              .
" But am tired out, and                              fear greatly tire you. But

believe me always your loving brother,                                                                         Y. Simpson.

"P.S. --To-morrow we lay in the grave the body of our dear

Jamie, ashes to ashes, and dust to dust. The tombstone at the

head of his grave was many years ago inscribed with this text
                live.' "                             :
Nevertheless                                                                                    :
'

          a

            I

                                    a
  In postscript to note written to Miss Barbour --" Mar-
got" --two days after Jamie's death, he says -- " It seems to

me and, think, to all of us here, that we have somehow

   greater interest in Christ's kingdom, seeing that my dear
Jamie already there as one of His joyous children."
a

      is I

                           1

                II

                                           aa
" have Father in the promised land,
     have Father in the promised land,
         When my Lord calls then must go

  To meet Him in the promised land.

         Away and away to the promised land
                                                     I                                                         "  .

                                                                                !
                                                                                       .
                                                                                           .
420 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

                            TO DR. DUNS.

  I" My dear Duns, -- allowed you to go away last night
Iwithout saying what intended to say, that my dear little

Jamie is to be interred on Thursday at two o'clock. There are

none to be present but relations, and five or six who were

Jamie's friends in this life. It would give Mrs. Simpson very

                       if,

                                                          if
great satisfaction as one of these last, you would accompany

his remains to the grave. But, of course, you have any

other engagements that afternoon, never think of this request.

We know and feel that you loved him, and you must not allow

our wishes to stand in the way of other duty.

   " It was very kind of you indeed to call last night. Mine

         house of grief just now but, thanks to God,          also
I is                        ;             I
      a
                                                 a J.

                                                           it
                                                                  is

                                                                                 a
house of joy. can say from my heart of hearts, all of us here,
                  I
                            was indeed well for us to be afflicted.
                        it
       hope, can say,

God's love to me and mine has been truly something tran

scendent.  .      . Yours always,                             Y. Simpson.
               .

" 18th Feby. 1862."

   On the visit referred to in this note, found Dr. and Mrs.
Simpson alone in the drawing-room. In short time his
valued friend Mr. Brodie, the sculptor, joined us. The conver
sation turned on the uses of affliction, and on the way in which
the Spirit of God shows them to men. The modes of approach
to the afflicted by " God who comforteth " were noticed. Then
the talk drifted into remarks about preaching.

      was greatly struck with his clear views of truth, and the
child-like simplicity of his trust in Christ.
I
               I

                                                                a

                                                                                      it
             TO MRS. STEWART, FREE CHURCH MANSE, KILLIN.

                                               "52 Queen Street, 24th Feby. 1862.
    " My dear Mrs. Stewart, -- God has been pleased to afflict
us, but we can all, hope, say from our heart of hearts that

was well we were afflicted. In one of the last debates which

the children had in the nursery, just fortnight before Jamie
LETTER TO MRS. STEWART.     421

left us, there was a difference of opinion as to whether little,

wee folks like they-- now that God had shown them His infinite
love --should speak of Christ to their companions. Jamie de

cided it all at last to them by the declaration, ' We must speak

for Jesus,' ' for it is (he summed up) a glorious thing to do so.'

Ten days afterwards God suddenly summoned him away from
earth to heaven. One of the last prayers --the last which
Jamie prayed --was a prayer, that Christ would touch Davie's

heart and take him to Himself It was marvellously answered
Ithe day after Jamie died.
                            have sometimes thought of writ

ing you, to tell you how of late the love of God to me and

mine has been perfectly transcendent. Christ seems to have

taken one and all of my family to Himself for the children of

His kingdom. You gave me such good, kind advice last year

about family prayers. Alick, who has been one great instru

ment in God's hands in bringing us all into the fold of Christ,

IAlick, say, and I, sometimes wish you were here to see how

heartily now we join in these prayers. The world seems quite,

quite changed. ' All old things now are passed away.'

  I I" have written this hurried note, because know that the

good news will rejoice the hearts of two kind friends in the

Imanse of Killin. And know, too, that Mr. Stewart and you

will earnestly pray to Christ to keep the feet of all of us firmly

fixed on the Eock of Ages.

  I" have been sick and ill for three weeks, but have been
Ilecturing again on Friday and to-day. As yet am not quite

strong, and would be much the better of two days of good air

at Killin or elsewhere, but it is impossible to get away.

  I I" Now, pray do not think write excitedly. No, no. ' am
Inot mad, most noble Festus.' But find it difficult or impos

sible to write even to you at all adequately of the unspeakable

Igoodness and love of God to all in 52 Queen Street.
    " was asked on Saturday to address the next religious

Imonthly meeting of the medical students. At first thought

that was impossible ; but then the commission of Jamie, ' We
422 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

must speak for Jesus,' came rapping at the door of my heart,
Iand with God's gracious help am to do it. Kindest love to
Mr. Stewart. --Yours for ever,       J. Y. Simpson."

   Dr. Simpson was now bringing his gift to the altar. But he

remembered the exhortation--" Go first be reconciled to thy

brother, and then come and offer thy gift." Among the earliest
acts of his new life was a complete reconciliation with his
former friend, Professor Miller, in circumstances and in a

manner worthy of both.

The grass had not begun to grow on Jamie's grave before his
father began to " speak for Jesus."
                                     Being called on the 6th

March to preside at the last meeting of a series that had been
held in Queen Street Hall, Edinburgh, for " Special Eeligious

Services," he delivered an address, characterized by great

earnestness and simplicity :--

  I I" am requested to mention now, what believe most of

you are already aware of, that this is the last of the present

Iseries of meetings for special religious services. . . . What have

heard leads me to feel and believe that three classes of people

have profited from these meetings. First, that those who
already had believed in Christ have had their hearts refreshed,

and their spirits stirred up to speak more for Jesus, and have

been quickened to greater ardour in seeking the good of others.
Then also many who were already seeking the way of life -- good,

earnest, anxious souls, but who had gathered round themselves

certain mists and clouds which kept them in darkness, have had

these mists cleared away and these doubts dispelled, and are

now seeing clearly and nearly Christ as their Saviour. Again,

we believe that these meetings have had the good fortune, by

the accompanying blessing from on high, to arrest and arouse

some who came here out of curiosity, but who now have either

found rest to their souls or are seeking that rest in salvation
through Christ. And in reference to such careless souls as are

still living regardless of the future, may we not ask, Is it not one
RELIGIOUS ADDRESSES.                                      423

of the astounding things to be seen around us, that men, actively
engaged in the pursuits of this life, and neglecting nothing which
can secure success in these pursuits, should yet be found so

entirely to forget to make their peace with God ! . . ."

On the 20th of the same month he addressed the medical

students, convened by request of the Committee of the Medical

IMissionary Society. " feel," he said, " as if it were scarcely
Ifitting that should stand up to speak upon the subject on
Iwhich am expected to address you, --I, who am one of the

oldest sinners and one of the youngest believers in the room.
I IWhen got a note requesting me to do so, was in a sick-bed,
I Iill of fever, and at once said ' cannot do this.'
                                                     But when
I I I ... Icame to reflect further, felt must do it.
                                                          cannot
Ispeak earnestly, or as ought for Jesus, but let me try to speak
a little of Him -- His matchless love, His great redemption

which He offers to you and me.
    " Some of you perhaps have read many novels and dramas,

and been interested and amused by them. But here, in the

Word of God, is a more terrible, a more touching story than the

mind of man ever created, --a story as far above all these as

the heavens are above the earth, and differing from all these in

this --it is every word true. In those the characters are limited,

but this takes in all mankind. Those stories have reference to

the few days or years when they happened, but the interest
of this is limited to no time, it stretches on to all eternity.

Let me speak to you of one or two points in this great drama

of the destiny of man.                               Which of
   " 1st. Man was created holy, but man has fallen.

God's commandments have we not broken ? and the breaking

of one of them is sin. Think of the two great commandments,
' Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and

soul, and strength, and mind, and thy neighbour as thyself.'
Has any one of us kept these two commandments ? Which of
them are we not all daily, hourly breaking ? When we think

that God requires the spiritual keeping of them, as well as
424 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

keeping them in our deeds, have we not broken them every
one? An unnecessary angry thought is sin --an unchaste

thought is sin -- a covetous thought is sin --every idle word is

a sin. How many then are our sins ! God not only knows
every action, but he reads every thought of our hearts.

    " 2d. Then think, as it were, of a second act in this drama,
if we acknowledge the fact of our sins, let us remember that in

the sight of God, our sins deserve death. Cursed is every one
continuing not in all things written in the Book of the Law
to do them. Some men raise questions as to whether this is
right, that sin should be punished with death. What right
have we to question God ? We know, as medical men, the
perfect adaptation of the physical frame to perform its various

functions. What right have we to judge God, if the inter

ference with these, as we see, causes death, and we see that God
has ordered that sin unforgiven ends in the death of the soul ?
And in this we have no more right to judge God than a fly
upon that wall would have to judge the architect by whom this
 house was framed. The wages of sin is death. Not the death of
 the body only but the death of the soul. Whatever brought
 that curse upon ourselves, how is it to be avoided ? By God
 sending His own beloved Son into the world to die for us.

    " 3d. There is another act in this drama of human destiny.
 Christ, the second person in the Godhead, who was with the

 Father before the foundation of the world, becoming a poor
 child, exposed to poverty and danger, going hungering over this
 earth, tempted, and having nowhere to lay his head. Think how
 He showed His humanity, showed how mortal He was as well as

 how divine --by the mortal terror --the horror which came over

 him in His agony. Look at the terrible submissiveness, the
 appalling passiveness, with which He allows Himself to be

 scourged, beaten, nailed to the cross --think of His dying in

 darkness for your sake and mine, when He cried, ' My God, my

 God ! why hast thou forsaken me V He died that you and I

  might live.
RELIGIOUS ADDRESSES.                     425

" ith. A fourth act remains --not finished, like the rest, but

one which is still going on. This story differs from all others

Iin this, that you and are not merely spectators : we are actors

ourselves. Your fate for ever is involved in the part you take
in this scene. You are permitted to dwell upon earth that you

may avail yourselves of this great redemption, that you may

turn and believe to the saving of your souls. . . . Physiologists

have reckoned how often the heart beats in a lifetime, from the

first moment in birth till the last in death. Every beat is bringing

that eternity nearer. Since we came into this room, our hearts

have beat some four or five thousand times, so many times less

than they shall ever beat again. . . . You know in your pro

Iffession, how a dying man will cling to the hope of life.

cancer has seized him, what will he not do to be freed from

that disease ? He would submit to any operation, he would

take any medicine, what would he not give if his life could be

spared and his health restored ? And all for what ? To allow

that body to enjoy the pleasures of this world at most a few

years longer. Sin is the cancer of the soul, yet how few there

are who try even to obtain a cure ! How few seek to have

their souls delivered from sin ! There is one remedy, a remedy

all potent, salvation to the uttermost --in the death, in the

blood of Jesus. . . . Let us seek the Holy Spirit to help and

enable us, but the remedy is the blood of Christ, believing the
record that God hath given us of His Son. . . .

   "Many kind friends are trying to awaken you to the

momentous importance of these things, and calling upon you to
Ifbelieve in Christ.
                      any of these, or anything you have heard
Ihere, has stirred you up, do not, beseech you, put aside your
Ifanxiety. Follow it up. Follow it out.
                                         in your own

lodgings, in the dark watches of the night, you are troubled

with a thought about your soul, if you hear some one knocking
at your heart, listen. It is He who said, 1800 years ago, upon
the sea of Galilee, ' It is I, be not afraid.' Open the door of

your heart. Say to Him, come in. In Christ you will find a
426 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Saviour, a companion, a counsellor, a friend, a brother, who loves

you with a love greater than human heart can conceive."
    The reader will perceive the frequency with which Dr.

--Simpson refers to prayer, and to the attitude which implies
prayer.  He had early said, " My speculative doubts have

all passed away." These doubts had specially influenced him
Ion the subject of prayer.
                                had frequent occasion to notice

his familiarity with that most unscientific view of natural law,

which represents the Almighty as dethroned by the forces He

has Himself brought into action : and excluded from that right

of control over the fruits of His own will and power, which we

never deny to man over his. This view strikes at the very heart

         is
                                          it,

                                                        is
of Christianity. According to interference with the orderly

action of natural laws for spiritual ends not to be thought of.

A miracle held to be impossible. Yet very few who assume

this attitude will be found ready to advocate the doctrine of

Ifthe eternity of matter. But to be consistent they should.

they are forced to acknowledge creation by miracle, why should

they deny the action of the same power at different stages of the

earth's upbuilding? In spite of development, uniformitarianism,

and other physical theories, there are hundreds of facts in geology

which must continue hopeless puzzles, so long as we refuse to

recognise creative interferences at different periods in the earth's

history, --in word, miracles. But more those who have most
         a                         it :
                             a                  it
                                                           it

                                                                      is
faith in the persistent and independent action of natural law

never scruple to assign higher place to the law than to the

matter through which and on which  acts. The latter

subordinated to the former. Why then should be held in

credible that the Creator of matter should have used once

and again, in way that seems to us opposed to the law
         a
                    it,
originally stamped on when He has in view the interests of

His own Kingdom in the spiritual nature of man              ?   refer to

                                                             I

this to indicate the chief sphere in which Dr. Simpson's specu

lative doubts moved. Looking at the subject intellectually, he

could not see how the practice of prayer could alter the settled
SPECULATIVE DOUBTS.                                      427

purpose of an unchanging God. But while this state of mind

continues, prayer can have no meaning. Had he held such a
view now, it is not the least likely he would have ever prayed

himself, or urged prayer upon others as a duty and a privilege.

A complete change had taken place. Speculative doubts are

influential so long as we hold reason to be our only guide, and

refuse to allow anything to wield moral power over us which

we do not understand, or which we cannot sharply define. But

with the Christian it is different. He is a believer. A higher

faculty, faith, comes into play. He is called to trust where

reason cannot help him. It is his privilege to believe where

he cannot fully understand. Any attempts to test the ex

periences of the life of faith by the methods of science must
end in failure. Dr. Simpson at once saw that, as a child of

God, he was called on to hold towards God a bearing having

some analogy to that which his own children held towards

himself. Daily he might demand their aid, or the exercise of
Iftheir highest powers in what they did not understand.
                                                         they

loved him, his word would be enough. They required no other

motive. As children, they had no right to ask for any other

explanation than what came to them in the statement of their

father's wilL Now God's will is-- " In everything, by prayer

and supplication, with thanksgiving, make your requests

known." This is enough. It is made on the ground of love

and trust. But if we leave this ground, and demand a clear

intellectual discernment of the harmony between eternal divine

purpose and prevailing prayer, we virtually leave the Father's
household. We no longer trust as children. We seek a know

ledge necessarily beyond our reach, and we lose the blessing
which He has put to our hand. Thoughtful men exercised by

these difficulties have, no doubt, strong claims on the tenderness

and forbearance of the Church, but it should not be forgotten

that the only point of rest is the position in which Dr. Simpson
found it -- faith.

Dr. Simpson sometimes presided at the meeting of the
428 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Carrubber's Close Mission,1 in the Free Church Assembly Hall,

where, on the Sabbath night, for many years, an audience,

numbering about two thousand, has regularly met to listen to

the Word of God. On one of these occasions he delivered a
stirring address on the words " Dead in trespasses and sins,"

which was afterwards published as a tract by the London Tract

Society. While his conversation on religious topics was marked

by a like earnest tone and thoughtful seriousness, he was more

frank and genial than before, even when dissenting from the

opinions of others. At lunch a lady had spoken rather warmly
in favour of certain ritualistic practices in vogue under a clergy

man whose name happened to be mentioned when Dr. Simpson

was earnestly engaged talking to a gentleman, and did not seem

Ito hear her. But when a pause occurred, he remarked --"

don't see how lighting candles in sunlight can help souls to

heaven. Besides, Christ is the Light of the world and the

Light of Life. We don't want candles in our Scotch churches.
IWe have, hope, the Sun of Eighteousness.
                                           Church tinsel and

glitter won't do for people who are hungry. They ask for

bread." "And can't even get a stone," said a stranger who

had hitherto been silent. A hearty laugh put an end to the

controversy.

              TO MRS. BARBOUR.

                                                                     " 12th Sept. 1862.

I" My dear Mrs. Barbour, -- am sure that Jessie will agree

with me in rejoicing that more use for Christ's cause should be

made of your beautiful poem about Jamie. The abridgement
Iis capitally done. To-day saw Mr. Brodie's medallion of
IJamie in marble, and it seems very good indeed.
                                                  have a

patient who, with her husband, drove a long distance two

Sundays ago and heard Mrs. Thistlethwaite. She says the

address was very good, but so very long (two hours) as to tire

   1 Begun by Mr. Gall in Whitfield ChapeL Carrubber's Close, High Street,
1858. Worked under the care of Messrs. Gall and Jenkinson till 1869, at

which date Mr. Jenkinson became general superintendent.
                TO MRS. BARBOUR.  429

... Iout many.  hope that you are all thriving and getting
Istronger and stronger at Bonskeid. On Saturday night am

Igoing down (D. V.) to Erskine to spend the Sunday with
Lord and Lady Blantyre there.  wish greatly to do so,
I Ias Lady B. and
                will, trust, have a long, long talk.

There came here to lunch    to-day an old Irish patient whom

I have not seen for years.  IShe told me so nicely and quietly

that she was so changed     since saw her, and was now a

Plymouth ' brother.' Genders are forgotten apparently in their

creed !

  I" am living here, in 52 Queen Street, at present just like
IEobinson Crusoe, ' monarch of all survey ' ; and as the house
Iwas not large enough, went down and slept at Viewbank last

night --perhaps to escape the bell. Little Jessie's dog seemed

pleased to see me, and slept all night on my stockings spread

out as a bed for it on my bed-room floor. Kindest regards to

Mr. Barbour, Lady Margot, and all the little ones. J. Y. S."

                         " 52 Queen Street, Christmas Day 1862.

                Barbour, -- Jessie and beg your kind
I"My dear Mrs.

acceptance of the accompanying inkstand as a slight memento

of our deep love and gratitude to you and yours. That the

ink which it will contain may write a tale as touching as that

of our dear, dear Jamie, and many an appeal for the extension
of the kingdom of Jesus Christ as thrilling as ' The Soul

Gatherer,' is the sincere prayer of yours ever,

                                                         "J.Y.Simpson."
                   CHAPTER XIIL

  Influence of Religions Convictions on public work-- Lecture at Falkirk on
        "Ancient Camelon" --"Small Squabbles" --Work among Patients --
         Earnest work--Aiming to be first --Correspondence with archaeologists

   --- Archaeological Rambles -- Fife Caves -- Professor Syme and Acupres

         sure--Death of his brother David --Illness --Baronetcy --Armorial
         Bearings--Sorrow --Death of Dr. David Simpson -- Death of Jessie
         Degree of D.C.L. -- Oxon -- Letter from Rev. Dr. Blaikie --Antiquity
         of Man --Illness --Switzerland --Hymn-- Visits to Ireland -- Social
         Science Address --Archaeology -- Archaic Sculpturings -- Archajology
          and Geology -- Prehistoric Fauna -- Methods of Research.

   What influence had the change described in the previous
chapter on Dr. Simpson's work ? A notion is current, that earnest

religious convictions and deep religious feeling indispose men
for what are called secular pursuits. The folly of this impres
sion has seldom been better illustrated than in his case. Not
only did he give himself with all his former enthusiasm to the
duties of his profession, but science also, and chiefly archaeo
logical studies, had as great a charm for him as ever. What
ever enlarged the boundaries of human knowledge, or increased
the comfort and happiness of man, had his sympathy, and, as
occasion offered, was sure of his help. The cause of man was
ever to him the cause of God. Thus, while to the departments
in which he had formerly worked there was now added that of
religious effort, he wrote more carefully in the literature of
Archaeology, and investigated more deeply than he had done

previously. In the autumn of 1862, while yet under all the

warmth and zeal of " first love," he delivered the opening
PUBLIC WORK.                                431

address at the Falkirk School of Arts. His subject was
"Ancient Camelon, the Wall of Pius Antoninus, and the
effects of the Eoman Eesidence in Britain on its Civilisation."

The meeting was crowded. Many were attracted by the report

Iof the great change that had been wrought on him. " wished

to see," one said, " how he looked as a Christian," and expressed

something between satisfaction and disappointment on discover
ing that " he was Simpson still." The opening sentence of the
address showed that the deep and searching spiritual work of
the year had made no break in his relation to his past studies

Ias an antiquary. " Many years ago, when lived here as
Iassistant-surgeon to Dr. Girdwood, had a love of archaeology,

and made some acquaintance with the vestiges and remains of
the Eoman invasion in the neighbourhood."

   In the beginning of 1863 he prepared for publication his

" Notes on some Scottish Magical Charm-Stones." This paper

was originally read at a meeting of the Society of Antiquaries

in April 1861. It contains much curious information on

magical charms and curing stones.1

  I have found very few traces among Dr. Simpson's papers,

bearing dates from November 1861 to May 1864, of what he
had come to call " small squabbles." When they did turn up
Ihe dismissed them with the remark, " have no time for this,"
Ior, " forgive him," or, as to Dr. B., " Do not let such reports
Ifannoy you too much.
                       we medical men listened to all the

calumnies and slanders of our enemies our lives would be

miserable. Do let us do our duty to the best of our abilities,

and the public will ultimately defend us."

There are records in abundance of his professional work,

and many evidences of the influence of new and higher views

in dealing with patients. The following communication from

the Eev. W. Blair, Leighton Manse, Dunblane, well illustrates

this :--

  I" On the 19th Oct. 1863 called at the house of Professor

1 See Archaeological Essays, vol. i.
432 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Simpson in Queen Street, in order to consult him respecting the

I Ihealth of my eldest child, a boy of four years old. As the Pro

fessor was at lunch, was shown into the library, where re

mained about two hours, -- so many persons like myself being

occupied with the good physician. At length Professor S. came
Iin, and took me aside to a recess in the window.
                                                   described

the symptoms of my child's illness, when he looked sym-
                                        IV had heard
pathizingly at me and said, 'Is it not

the name of the disease before, but was unaware of its real

nature. Professor S. went to a shelf and took down a volume

and said, ' Eead that over, and see if it is at all like the case

of your boy.' He then left me to attend to some one else, and

was absent for a long time. . . .
I" In the afternoon
                     received a telegram from Dr. S., stat

ing that he had left Edinburgh at four o'clock, and asking me

to meet him at the station. On coming into the room where
our dear boy was, he sat down on the sofa beside him, got out
his medical watch, which struck the hours like a clock, and
showed it to him, and in the most winning way conversed with
the child, telling him amusing stories and endeavouring to
lighten the load of anxiety that lay on all our hearts. Among

other curiosities shown to the child was a silver medicine-case

like a snuff-box, a present from a son of the Eev. Dr. Wardlaw.
He took a carte as a remembrance of our boy ; and after tea,
and giving us all instructions as to treatment, he bade us good
bye, and left by a cab to return with the mail to Edin

burgh. . . .                                       Our child

   " It was on Tuesday Professor S. visited us.

sank rapidly as the week hastened on. On Sabbath morn

Iing, the day our boy died, had a medical volume sent by

Professor S., along with this note :--

  I" ' My dear Sir,-- am sorry, very sorry, to learn that my

little friend is so much weaker. After looking at various

statements about the use of water, and talking it over with

Imedical friends, have come round to the conclusion that such
                 ABUNDANT LABOURS.                  433

a strong instinct should not be withstood. For after all water

Ican have no chemical influence in the formation of sugar.

would therefore be inclined to advise a far freer use of water
                 I have sent you the best recent work on the
...in any form.
                                                          J. Y. S.'
disease.

I" About a month after this sent a letter of thanks to Pro

fessor S., enclosing a bank cheque for a few pounds as a small

Iexpression of gratitude. To this received the following

reply :--        Sir,"--' 52MaQnueyen

"'  My     dear                         Street,  Edinburgh, 3d December /63.
                                       kindest    thanks for the fee which

you have sent me. But you must be so good as allow me to

    it,

             it
return as (with many others of my professional brethren)
                                       !
do not think                                                 ;

                                                      if

                                                                  I
                 right to take any professional remuneration

from clergymen or their families. Give me your prayers, and

will value them far more.
" Give my kindest respects to Mrs. Blair, and say to her
I

          '
           a

            I
how deeply did sympathize with her and you in the loss of
such very dear child. " Loss " to you but happily gain and
glory to him. --Yours always,                    J. Y. Simpson.' "

   Dr. Simpson's activity of heart, hand, and mind during thisa
period could not well have been surpassed, equalled, by any
other worker. When asked to preside at religious meetings in
Edinburgh, to speak to the people of his native town on the
blessings of Christ's salvation, to address the Newhaven fisher
men on the same apparently absorbing theme, or to tell the
story of the Cross in the drawing-rooms of the rich, he was
ever willing and ready. Then he wrote letters innumerable on
Archaeological matters, and on Acupressure bulky treatise
which he was preparing for publication. His step seemed
quicker, his eye brighter, his laugh more joyous, his heart
lighter than ever before. His very sicknesses and trials had
the sting taken out of them, by Him to whom he had learned
to look as the bearer both of guilt and of grief. But he was

                                           2e
434 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

still aiming in all things to be first. Even in religious work
this was apparent, and there was no abatement of the desire in
other pursuits. " Not slothful in business, fervent in spirit,
serving the Lord." Earnest himself, he wished to see earnest

ness in all others. " We had a minister yesterday --a good
--man no doubt but oh, cauld, cauld. Why will not men

speak as if they believed what they said, and wished others to
believe it? Just look at Guthrie -- what zeal and fire!" Then
as to another -- " Yes, a good man, but his sermon was wersh,
wersh."1 No one could complain of him in this respect, either
in purely professional matters or in studies lying outside of
these. His short brief epistolary notes carried with them a
kind of inoculative force, which brought others into his own
track and rate of progress. Here is one out of many such :--
" My dear Jessie, --Please send out clean shirt, etc., and my

letters. Send out Davie and Dr. Black by the carriage at ten.
Charlie has had a hard fight for life all night, and is very ill.
Have never been in bed, and am very tired. Send the enclosed

telegram to Glasgow. --Yours lovingly, J. Y. S. 7 o'clock

A.M." " Got your brief note," writes an antiquary, " and will

at once search as you suggest." Such notes brought speedy
answers from foremost antiquaries full of information, and, let
me add, in some cases full of questions also, many of them in
teresting and important. Dr. Joseph Eobertson, Dr. John

Stuart, Dr. Eeeves, Di. J. Collingwood Bruce, Sir W. Wilde,

and other eminent archaeologists, were all equally ready to
answer queries, which they of all men were best fitted to do,

by advantages of position, work, and special studies. It is im

possible to understand how he found time for the amount of
study implied in putting his queries, and, when they were
answered, in verifying references himself. This he was ever
in the habit of doing, a labour which often bore rich fruit, by
making known to him facts which his fellow-workers had not

noticed.

    His skill in eliciting information from all who had anything

                                                               1 Tasteless.
FIFE CAVES.                           435

to tell has already been noticed. This faculty was of great use

in his archaeological pursuits. Called to visit many different

and often distant localities professionally, he never failed to

make inquiries about their antiquities. The country squire,

the farmer, the tradesman, the railway station-master, were all

put under examination on the very topics they were best able

to speak to. And often when his work with a patient was done,

there was still an hour or more before he could set out on his

homeward journey. This he pressed into the service of science,

by driving to the ancient remains, of whose existence he had

become aware during the visit. He occasionally snatched

a day from a busy week, when fatigued by professional and

literary work, and made it an archaeological holiday. In these

rambles he always persuaded two or three intimate friends to
join him. As he took his seat in the train, the look of boy-like
frolic, and the hearty " Now for a day of it," showed that he, at

all events, was determined to enjoy the trip. Occasionally the
day's doings led to a discovery, as in the case of " a run to Fife,"
in the summer of 1865, which led to a Paper entitled " Notices

of some Ancient Sculptures on the Walls of Caves in Fife."

This was read at a meeting of the Eoyal Society of Edinburgh,

on the 2d January 1866. Having pointed out that the county
of Fife abounds in caves, or " weerus," the ancient Gaelic name
for caves--that their existence gives a title to the Earldom of

Wemyss, he stated that he had visited some of these with Dr.

Dewar when on a professional visit to Fife, and continued :--

" This induced him to return, accompanied by his friends, Drs.

Joseph Eobertson, Duns, and Paterson, when they visited two

or three new caves, and found their walls sculptured with re

presentations of various animals and emblems. These cave

sculpturings were of great interest to the Scotch archaeologist,

for this reason, that they exactly resembled, in type and character,

the carvings on the so-called sculptured stones of Scotland. In

his magnificent first volume on the sculptured stones of Scot

land, Dr. Stuart had collected 150 examples, and since then

perhaps 50 more had been discovered.  These sculptured
436 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

stones extended along the whole east coast of Scotland, from the
Forth northwards. Only two have been found south of the

Forth. In general ornamentation they resemble the sculptured

stones of the west of Scotland, Ireland, Wales, and England ;
but the peculiarity of the Scotch stones is that they have addi
tional figures and symbols upon them that have been seen
nowhere else in the world. These peculiar and characteristic
symbols consist of the so-called crescent ornament, sometimes
intersected with the Z sceptre ; of the so-called spectacle orna
ment, with or without the same sceptre; of figures of elephants,
fish, serpents, mirrors, combs, and arches or tores. . . . There
are eight or nine of these caves near Easter Wemyss, in which
sculpturings abound, sometimes isolated, but often in groups."
Throughout the day Dr. Simpson was in great glee. The dis
covery seemed to him the probable key to many archaeological
difficulties, but his chief delight was in imagining Dr. Stuart's
astonishment, when he should read next morning in the Edin
burgh newspapers a paragraph on the subject. " The cave men
are going to speak at last. But what will Stuart say ? Won't
he open his eyes ? Won't he regret he was not with us ?"

    Causes of controversy arise, offences come, which cannot be
passed without playing false to what we conscientiously hold

Ito be truth. Even an apostle had to say, " withstood him to

the face, because he was to be blamed." The incident to which

I am now to refer was, no doubt, the natural outcome of

a previous state of feeling on the part of one of the actors.
About the middle of February 1865, the following notice

appeared in an Edinburgh newspaper :-- " It is often stated

that when the notorious surgical teacher Paracelsus wished to
show his aversion to any particular author, he immolated the
writing he dissented from in the presence of his pupils. We
are not aware that this mediaeval practice has ever been adopted

in any of our Scottish Universities till last week, when it was
followed out in one of the class-rooms of the University of

Edinburgh." The circumstances are then narrated. Dr. Simp -
ACUPRESSURE CONTROVERSY.                            437

son's pamphlet on Acupressure, styled "Answers to Objections,"

is referred to, and the writer adds --"Last week Mr. Syme

took this pamphlet into his class- room, and without attempting

to answer the rather unanswerable arguments which it contains

in favour of acupressure, he scolded at the author, and declared

the pamphlet to be a piece of ' vulgar insolence.' We quote
                                 --eye-witness
from the letter of an  accurate                 ' Then came the

denouement; with firm hand, teeth compressed, pale lines around

his orbits, and altogether a most determined and savage expres

sion, he tore the pamphlet in two, gave the fragments to his

assistant to be consigned to the sawdust box with other surgical
remains.' " Mr. Syme replied to this paragraph in the Lancet

on the 4th March, complained of Dr. Simpson's use of the term
" foolish," applied to one of his objections, and justified the act,
alleging that in tearing the pamphlet he gave to it " the only

reply it deserved." Dr. Simpson's answer dealt chiefly

with the merits of his discovery. But before concluding, he

Icharacterized the apology for the act and the act itself. "

applied the term (' foolish') to one of his so-called objections,

because, logically and rationally, it was not an objection, in any

sense of the word, to acupressure, and had no kind of relation
whatever to acupressure. Virtually it was no more an ' objec

tion against acupressure,' than it was an objection against the

litigation of the Breadalbane Peerage, or the fortification of

I IInchkeith. But regret that used any phrase that by any
Ipossibility could be misinterpreted, and freely withdraw
is,
   a

                            a
                                                                                            '
                                                                                      it,
and empower Mr. Syme and my readers to substitute any milder
"Iadjective for it." As to the "tearing scene," --
                                                    appeal on

this point from the opinion of Mr. Syme to the opinion of every

gentleman belonging to our common profession, whether or not

this was proper piece of ethical instruction on the part of any

teacher of youth, and particularly on the part of one, as Mr.

Syme of the twenty-four venerable members of the Council

of Medical Education in the United Kingdom.'" The corre

spondence was, after   break, resumed by Mr. Syme in
438 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

November, and continued till January 1866. It was necessaryit,
                    is
to allude to because an impression prevailed in some quarters,
and still prevails, that Dr. Simpson was the aggressor on thisa
occasion. But this not the case. In fact the terms in which

he refers to Mr. Ferguson's objections --"fancies" -- will appear

to most as severe as those used in speaking of Mr. Syme. Yet
Ferguson wrote most hearty note to him after the scene in

the surgical class-room.
    During the break in the controversy Dr. Simpson's thoughts

were very differently exercised --
it
"My      dear               "52 Queen St., Edinburgh, 11th July 1865.
  I
             itSandy,-- suppose you will have letter an
                I                                                                   a
                      is I
                                        is
                           I
                                                                                 :
nouncing -- like the enclosed --the sudden death of Davie at

Hamilton. The letter very nicely written, and the state

ment in  regarding dear Davie's 'change of late,' and his

long and earnest prayers, the most interesting and consoling

part of the whole. You and are now the only two remnants

of the older generation, and our summons wears rapidly on.

By God's blessing hope that both of us will be ready when

arrives, and be found looking with full assurance to the

Lamb of God as our sacrifice.
    " have kept the documents of the certificate of death, etc.,

till you have time to come in. --Yours always,

                                              "J. Y. Simpson."

In August he had another attack of illness. When con

valescent he sought strength in visit to the Isle of Man,
leaving his son, Dr. David Simpson, in charge of his patients.
I
                    I

                                                             a

                                    I

                                                                      is a
--" My dear Father,     " 52 Queen St., Edinburgh, August 22, 1865.
                             suppose you got on to the Island yes

terday. We heard of your having left for the boat, and not having

returned, and therefore concluded you had got passage.
    " send some letters to you, one envelope being archaeological

and the other commonplace. One letter see from Mrs. W.,

to which she wants an answer, but fortunately she has omitted
                      THE BARONETCY.                       439

to put down her address, so an answer is luckily out of the

question.
    " There is also an illustrated paper from Copenhagen with

a cut of a sculptured stone in it.
    " Mrs. M. invited me along to the British Hotel about half-

Ipast two o'clock this morning. That was bad enough ; but

was suddenly wakened again about seven by a joyous band of
painters, who were whistling, singing, and shouting whilst

engaged in the unromantic employment of washing and paint

ing the stair-case. All the patients are very well.

  I" hope you 're getting a little rest, and enjoying yourself.

Be sure you don't come back till the middle of next month at

the soonest. You 're not needed here. Give my love to Eve

and Mag. My mother seems to be enjoying turning the house

upside down and cleaning it. It uncommonly uncom
fortable. All well.-- Believe me, your affectionate son,

                                                                  " D. Simpson."
:

                                           (?)
                                                       's
He returned to his abundant labours much invigorated, and

entered on the busy work of the winter with good heart.

The new year opened brightly, and full of promise. On its

first week he received the following communication from Earl
Russell --

                                                          " Osborne, 3d January 1866.

   "Dear Dr. Simpson, --Your professional merits, especially

your introduction of chloroform, by which difficult operations

in surgery have been rendered painless, and which has in many

cases made that possible which would otherwise have been too

hazardous to attempt, deserve some special recognition from

the Crown.
    " The Queen has been pleased to command me to offer you

on these grounds the rank of Baronet.

   " trust will be agreeable to you to accept the honour. --
I
                                                           Eussell.
     I

                  it
remain, yours very truly,
" Be so good as to direct your answer to Pembroke Lodge,

Richmond, Surrey."
440 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   In an early number of the London Gazette the official notifi
cation appeared in due form :--" The Queen has been pleased

to direct letters-patent to be passed under the Great Seal,
granting the dignity of a Baronet of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Ireland unto James Young Simpson, of
Strathavon, in the county of Linlithgow, and of the city of
Edinburgh, M.D., one of Her Majesty's Physicians in Scotland,
and the heirs-male of his body lawfully begotten."

                           TO HIS BROTHER.              " 6th Jany. /66.
                                            whether you ought to
            Sandy, -- do not know
I" My
      dear

condole with me or congratulate me. But most unexpectedly
Ithis morning
                  received from the Queen the offer of a
Baronetcy, -- Lord John Eussell accompanying the offer with
I Ivery complimentary observations.
                                   fear that must accept.
IBut it appears to me so absurd to take a title.
                                                   have not

spoken of it here yet. Do not mention it.--Yours always,
                                            " J. Y. Simpson."

                  TO MRS. PENDER.
                                                      " 6th Jany. /66.
                                   unexpectedly have got
I" My
      dear  Mrs.  Pender, -- Most                                       a

communication from Lord John Russell offering me, by ' com

mand of the Queen,' a Baronetcy; and all in very compli

Imentary terms. Twice before have avoided being Sir'd ; but
I feel shut up almost to accepting this offer. Yet it looks to
I Ime so absurd and ridiculous, that dream again of how can

      it it,
                                    it

                               I
                                              I

                                                                                                                       ;

                                                         II
avoid and wish heartily had not been proffered to me.

would that you had been near me to give me some of your
wise counsel. --Yours very truly,           J. Y. Simpson."

                  TO HIS SON WALTER.

" My own    dear Wattie, --Last      " Edinburgh,  9th Jany. /66.
                                   mail, when      sent you out

the first part of a draft for £100, had no time to write but

hope  arrived safe, and when you want more you must be
                              THE BARONETCY.                                                                  441

        Isure and write me.   know well how easily money flies off in
        Isuch a place as Alexandria, and know that you will not

        throw it away unnecessarily. . . .
           " Poor Davie has been very ill for some days, but is very

        decidedly better during the last fifty hours, and looks quite like

        himself to-night, though weak.
            " Dear, dear Jessie becomes weaker and weaker, but is as

        gentle and good as ever -- more gentle, and better.

          I" do not know whether you have heard or not that, as a
        INew Year's gift, had a present sent me,--which, since it has

        become known, has set all Edinburgh apparently mad with joy
                              I have shaken hands daily for two or
        and congratulations.

three days, till my arm is weary and sore. And the proudest

of all about the gift is your uncle at Bathgate. At all events,

Ihe is a thousand times prouder of it than am. In fact, when
Ithe gift was first offered me was rather ashamed to speak of

        and doubted about accepting it. But was decided at last
is it,                                        it

   it, I                                          I
                                                            a

                                                               it
        otherwise. Now the gift itself was right royal, and the donor

        the Queen herself. It was, in short, the offer of Baronetcy
                                                                                                              it ;
        and suppose ought to esteem greatly, as am, seems,Iit
        the first Scottish Professor, as well as the first doctor in Scot

        land, who ever received that rank from the Crown. Besides,a
           the rank of Baronet of the United Kingdom -- not of section
          it
        of and ought, am told, to be valued correspondingly. At
             I
        all events the offer was made in such very kind and gracious

        terms that was difficult to refuse. It will take two or three

weeks yet to go through the Patent and Heraldry offices, yet

everybody pokes at me their Sir,' which would be glad to

avoid. It seems to have caused much joy, not only in Edinburgh,
                              '

                                         I

but everywhere around. But my paper, and time, and subject
are done.-- Believe me, your loving father,
                                                              Y. Simpson."
                              I

                                                       J.

                                                                                                          6,
                                      FROM JOHN PENDER, ESQ.    "Jany. /66.
                                                              at the distinc
        "My dear Friend, -- most heartily rejoice

tion conferred upon you by the Queen. No living man better
442 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

deserves it. May you long be spared to pursue the useful life

and use the powerful mind which God has given you for the
Ibenefit of your fellow-creatures.
                                    also sincerely hope that the

honour now conferred upon the family will stimulate those

that are to follow you, and that they will carry forward that

which you have so well and nobly founded. Again let me
Iassure you of the pleasure that feel in the appreciation which
Ithe Queen has shown of your invaluable services.
                                                   shall
Iwrite you again upon other matters. -- am sincerely yours,
                                    " John Pender."

    Mr. Pender's letter is a good specimen of the communica
tions that reached him in great numbers, on the announce

ment of Her Majesty's gracious act. In a few days he received
more than three hundred letters of congratulation, chiefly

from members of the aristocracy, men of literature and science,

Iand professional brethren. " think all Edinburgh has been

here," said Lady Simpson, "and they seem prouder of the

honour than he is." The newspapers and the medical journals
were equally alert in expressing their cordial satisfaction with
the Queen's gift. " The conferring of this distinction," says the
Lancet, " must give, we think, universal satisfaction. Sir James
has long been foremost in his department of practice, and his

name is associated with the discovery of that invaluable boon

to suffering humanity --chloroform. This alone would entitle
him to the honour he has received. Sir James Y. Simpson is

distinguished as an obstetric practitioner, as a physiologist, as
an operator, and as a pathologist of great research and origin
ality. His reputation is European, and the honour is fully
deserved." Medical journals in America, in France, and Ger

many soon followed in the same hearty strain. In some of
these journals, both British and Foreign, he had often been
bitterly attacked. It must have given him high satisfaction

to witness how readily they now forgot the past, and spon
taneously said " worthy."
                         THE BARONETCY.                                      443

    Before the patent of nobility could be completed, much had

to be done in determining the armorial bearings. A "coat" had

to be drafted showing the Simpson, "differenced" with the
Jarvey arms; as the Simpson arms proper were borne by the
head of the family, all others could only bear them with
" a difference." To settle this grave matter was quite in the
line of his own tastes and studies. But, to guard against
mistakes, he got the help of his friend Dr. Joseph Eobertson,
of the General Eegister House. The matter was an agreeable

amusement to both.

I" My dear Sir James, --The little that have had to do

in the matter of your arms and pedigree has only been an

agreeable amusement. It would have been a pleasure in any
case --it has been a gratification of the highest kind to be

allowed to show my interest in the well-merited honours of one

Iwhom have so much reason to love and admire. You really

conferred an obligation upon me by permitting me to get my

hand into the business.

" For the further obligation under which you have laid me,
Iby your kind and beautiful gift, do not know how to thank
Iyou.
       can only assure you that it will be treasured by me

and mine as the memorial of a friendship which is the delight

and the pride of, your ever faithful and obliged,
                                                       " Joseph Eobertson."

   George Herbert puts the contrast between the rejoicing and

sorrowing of the Christian life very quaintly thus, --

               "At first Thou gavest me milk and sweetness ;
                       I had my wish and way :

                    My days were strewed with flowers and happiness,
                                  There was no month but May.

                    But with my years sorrow did twist and grow,
                    And made a party unawares for woe."

It was thus in Sir James Simpson's experience in the beginning

of 1866. Sorrow trod on the heels of joy. When the light in
444 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

his dwelling was brightest, a deep dark shadow fell athwart the

sunshine. In his letter to Walter, then in Egypt, Sir James

referred to the illness of his eldest son, Dr. David James Simp

son, and added, " he looks quite like himself to-night." But

hope was soon blighted.

    Steps were being taken by his friends to testify their grati
fication with the honour conferred on him by his Sovereign.

It was their desire to signalize Professor Simpson's elevation to

a Baronetcy by entertaining him at a public dinner on an early
day, and arrangements, of which Sir James Gardiner Baird,
Bart., Sir David Brewster Principal of the University, Dr.

John Smith President of the Eoyal College of Physicians, and
Dr. James Dunsmure President of the Eoyal College of

Surgeons, had taken charge, were far advanced with that view,
the Earl of Dalhousie having cordially agreed to act as chair
man. But these arrangements were set aside by the death of
his son, which took place at 52 Queen Street, on the 14th
of January, in the twenty-fourth year of his age. David had
taken his degree in the University of Edinburgh in 1863, and
in the same year had obtained the license of the Eoyal Colleges
of Physicians and Surgeons. He then held the office of a Resi
dent Physician in the Edinburgh Eoyal Infirmary, and after
spending some time in studying in Vienna, he was called to suc
ceed his cousin, Dr. Alexander Simpson, in assisting his father in

his private practice, conjointly with Dr. Black. He had held the
office of Senior President of the Eoyal Medical Society, and was
a member of the Obstetric Society of Edinburgh. He had also
distinguished himself by an able paper in the literature of his

profession. In many respects, David bore a great likeness to his
father, who had seen with joy his admirable gifts and growing
attainments. But the rich promise was early blighted. During

that time of spiritual quickening which brought so much bless
ing to other members of the household, Dr. David Simpson had
given evidence of a change like that experienced by his father.
Like him too, he began to take much interest in God's work,
              DR. DAVID SIMPSON.                    445

and to speak to others on religious matters with great point
and earnestness.

" Dear  Mrs.                                     "52 Queen Street, 16/10/62.

              Barbour, -- I'm quite ashamed of never having

acknowledged your kind letter yet, but you know my lazy

Inature, and will, am sure, pardon my neglect. We had such

... Ia delightful night at the Assembly Hall on Sunday night. No
one could doubt the presence of the Spirit.         never listened

to such a stirring appeal as Alick was enabled to give, such

encouragement for Christ's people, and awful warning to His

enemies. About £45 was collected for the distressed operatives.

A young medical missionary going to Calcutta also gave us a
...very, very faithful address.
                                 A. B.'s father has been thrown
Ifrom his horse, and had his skull fractured.
                                                    wonder if this

be the means God is employing to mould his heart to His

wilL John Berryman has left us. It makes a great gap in
the family. --With kindest love to all, believe me, yours,

                                                                "D.J.Simpson.

              I' And will give him my new name.' "

    After a time, however, the effects of this work on David

seemed to die away. A period of carelessness and indifference

succeeded; the thorns began to hinder the growth of the
seed; and, as often happens in like instances, some hastily

concluded that the period of religious earnestness was no more

than the fruit of the reflex influence of Christian truth, on a

man of deep natural feeling and strong sentiment. But it was
afterwards found, that throughout this season of apparent in

difference his recent spiritual experiences had again and again

been influential. It was, moreover, to be made manifest that

the seed had been truly received into the heart, and was ready,
when God's day again came in power, to spring up and bear
the rich fruits of repentance towards God, child-like confidence
in Christ, and joy in the Holy Ghost. Its appearance was to
bring comfort to his father when he needed it most, and to save
446 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

him from that bitterest of all trials -- the apostasy from the
faith of Jesus Christ of one he loved.

                                     "Edinburgh, 52 Queen St., 16th Jan. 1866.

  I" My own dear Wattie, -- have to write to you grievous, most

grievous and heart-rending news. The dark shadow of death
is over my house ; and God in His inscrutable providence has
been pleased to call dear, dear Davie home to Himself. He
left us here on Sunday afternoon about three -- now nearly
forty-eight hours ago, and yet it is difficult to realize the fact

that he is dead. It is needless to say to you how utterly over

Iwhelmed and crushed we all feel ; and have got out of bed

chiefly to write you these dreadful and melancholy news.

  I" never knew how very, very, very dear he was to my heart
Itill now he is gone from us for ever ; and cannot tell you in

words the kind and unceasing care with which he has latterly
watched over me, to save me all possible trouble and anxiety,
and in all possible ways.

  I" When wrote you last week he had been already eight or

ten days ill, but was better, though not able to leave his bed.
At the beginning of his attack he had severe vomiting,
jaundice, and threatening of ileus -- all of which passed off;
but he did not completely rally, and on Thursday an eruption
appeared and spread rapidly. On Saturday it took the form of
purpura (which Dr. Ogilvie will explain to you), and he became

insensible and sank.

  I" Between Friday and Saturday lay beside him, and told him
Ihow afraid was of the result. He thought it was death him
Iself. And then he told me, in words which can never forget,

that though a wayward Christian, he felt sure that Jesus was
his Saviour and Friend, and would take him to Himself. ' Jesus

is mine, Jesus is mine.' Oh my dear, dear Wattie, you and I, and
all of us, have no friend whom we can always trust and always
rely on but Jesus ; and in the infinitude of His love He is now
stretching out to us His pierced hands, asking us to fly into His
DR. DAVID SIMPSON.                         447

brotherly arms for protection and safety for both time and

eternity.

  I" saw no friend yesterday except Mr. Pender, who came to

my bedside and sat long beside me, the kindest of the kind. He

Iis to send for you home immediately --by the same post,

...believe, which carries this letter.  And we all sadly long for

you here, my own dear boy.
I" When God sent this terrible affliction upon me, thought

of not taking out the Baronetcy patent. But Mr. Pender, and

Iall else, hear, think that idea wrong, and almost, if not now

quite, impossible. So reports to me, and advises me, my medical
friend Dr. Wood, and he speaks for others. But all this brings,

my dearest Wattie, new responsibilities upon you, and calls for
Imultiplied exertions on your part.
                                        shall require to re-write
Imy will, and give you the greater part of the fortune can leave

you in order to support your future rank as a Baronet. . . . But

I feel sure that in your generosity of heart you will ever be just

and kind to all that call you by the name of brother. Dear,

I Idear Davie insisted should accept the honour, and know he

did so without a selfish feeling in his heart; it was, as he

earnestly told me, for my sake, not his. . . . But of all this we

Ishall talk more when we meet And pray God, in His love

and mercy, to send you to me safely and speedily. Telegraph

here when you can set off. We all long so to hear.

   " My darling little Jessie is greatly broken down by this

catastrophe. She is very helpless in bed, and would allow no

one to dress her sores but Davie, ' Gentle Davie,' as she declared
Ino hand to be so soft and kindly as his.
                                           greatly fear you

may miss her also when you come home, unless you come

very soon.
    " And when you do come, let me, as your loving father, say

Ione thing more. At our family morning prayer hope you will

always be present, both to show your love to the King of Kings,
and to be a fitting example to your two little loving brothers.

IOh my own dear, dear Wattie, let you and do all in our
448 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

power to acknowledge Jesus as our King and Saviour, and strive
to lead others to His feet and throne.

   " Mamma, Jessie, Willie, Magnus, and Eve all join in over

flowing love. --Cordially, your ever affectionate father,
                                               "J. Y. Simpson.

  " P.S. --Two or three Sundays ago Dr. Hanna preached on

the Judgment, and Jessie tells me Davie was greatly struck
with the discourse, and repeated it to her nearly entirely after he

came home. Dr. Black has been kind as a son to me. J. Y. S."

                        TO THE REV. A. STEWART, KILLIN.
                                                                             " 21it January 1866.

  I" My dear Mr. Stewart, --This is one of the first letters
Ihave tried to write, and you will kindly, know, excuse it.
IBut cannot send the enclosed without thanking you deeply,

Ivery deeply, for your kind note. . . .  told him so, and he
   "When he became dangerously ill,
spoke to me pleasantly-- so pleasantly, that it breaks now the

terribleness of the grief of losing him. He said all his trust
was in Jesus, and repeated ' Jesus is mine' -- ' Jesus is mine.'

Mrs. Barbour tells me that on visiting her professionally before

he became ill, he remained praying with her for nearly an hour.

During the last three or four months he has watched me like a

nurse, trying to save me from all possible work and toiL
    " My dear daughter, Jessie, was greatly shaken by his death.

Davie was her doctor, for she held that no one touched and

dressed her many sores so kindly, and lightly, and skilfully as

' Gentle Davie.'                                      I pray
   " Mr. Pender has sent for Wattie home from Egypt.

God, our God, the God of love, to watch over him, and bring

him home in safety. Pray for him and all of us.

  I" can most truly say that it is well for us to be afflicted, as

it draws us nearer and nearer to our loving Elder Brother.

  " Kindest regards to Mrs. Stewart. --Yours always,
                                                 " J. Y. Simpson."
LETTER FROM MBS. GRINDLAY.                           449

The letters of condolence were now as numerous as those of

congratulation had been a few days before. They differed
however, in this : while the latter had come chiefly from the

upper classes of society, the former were sent by friends be

longing to almost every class. In looking over them, one from

a poor tradesman, mindful of Sir James's kindness to those

dear to him, was found lying next that of a Duchess with its

few but hearty words :--" My dear friend, we grieve for you

much. God bless you and comfort you, as He only can, and
your poor wife." An Earl's coronet surmounts one ; another is

dated from the Victoria Lodging- House. Working men and

millionnaires are equally cordial in telling their deep sympathy.

Ministers of all denominations were forward to show their

gratitude for the blessings of health he had brought to them

and theirs, by speaking to him loving and tender words when

he was weary. And as time glided past, and the tidings of

bereavement reached distant lands, the communications in

creased. Men in Iceland and Australia, in Japan and in the

remote Western States of America, in central India and in the

Islands of the Pacific, hastened to tell him of their sympathy

with him and his in their sore trouble. In some cases the

writer is a mere youth, or a girl in her teens ; in others, a man
or woman in the prime of life, or some aged one of more than
fourscore years. These letters illustrate most forcibly Sir James

Simpson's great popularity, and the firm hold he had of the

esteem and love of his fellow-men.

Only one of the notes of condolence is given here. The

writer is Mrs. Grindlay, Lady Simpson's mother, who at the

time of "Davie's" death had reached the advanced age of

eighty-nine years. Sir James and Lady Simpson are ad
dressed :--
                                                     I pray
   " My dear Children, --My heart is with you both.

the Lord, by His Holy Spirit, may strengthen and support you
both, and enable you to say under this sore bereavement, ' The

Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away. Blessed be the
                                           2F
450 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

name of the Lord.' God bless you, and spare you both to your
dear family. --With love and sympathy, your affectionate

mother,  Margaret Grindlay."

    They had, indeed, a warm place in many human hearts.

Human eyes rested tenderly on them, and loving human hands
were ready to help. Yet all this would have fallen on them
like dew on withered grass, giving no true and substantial and
lasting comfort, had they not seen Christ's heart in this

sympathy, and Christ's hand in all this sorrow. He afflicteth--
but not willingly. He would rather not afflict Sir James
soon had still further experience of this. In about a month

after David's death, his eldest daughter, Jessie -- Sunbeam --

died at the early age of seventeen. This new stroke was
keenly felt. Jessie had been to him a great delight Though
her health had for several years been delicate, he had the strong
hope that, under his care, strength would return. The strength

of the previous hope only gave depth and poignancy to the
disappointment. Yet again he had ground of comfort, for
Jessie, too, had given clearest proofs of deep and earnest, and
childlike love to Christ. And standing by her coffin he was
able, as when he knelt by those of Jamie and of Davie, to say,
" Even so, Father ;" " Not my will, but Thine be done," and to

Ihear Christ's very voice : " What do thou knowest not now,

but thou shalt know hereafter."
   Sir James returned to his work chastened in spirit but not

depressed. The conviction that " all things are of God, who
hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ," had led him to
feel in the heart of his sorrow very differently from those who
see in providences only the hand of inexorable fate. He saw
in them the loving tender hand and warm yearning heart of

his heavenly Father. A man thus healthily exercised is not

likely to fall into that mental gloom, whose humility is often
only one of the subtlest forms of pride, whose contempt for
mercies, and whose indisposition for the common employments
OXFORD DEGREE.             451

and daily duties of life, are frequently no more than the fruits

of wounded egotism. It was not thus with him. " He said,

I IWhile the child was yet alive, fasted and wept : for said,

Who can tell whether God will be gracious to me, that the child
Imay live ? But now he is dead, wherefore should fast ? Can
I Ibring him back again ?
                           shall go to him, but he shall not

return to me." The world with its common wants, its secular

pursuits, its homely work, and even its routine of little duties

and trivial acts, had his regards as earnestly after these great
sorrows as before. What his hands found to do he did with

his might, without vexing himself with the question, which

some onlookers were sure to raise, whether he might not have

had higher objects before him. The work came to his hand,

and this was enough. Shortly after Jessie's death he agreed to

be enrolled an honorary member of the Torphichen or 3d corps

of Linlithgowshire Volunteers. In the beginning of the sum

mer he originated and carried through a movement to provide

within the walls of the University a restaurant for the students.

In May the impending struggle between Italy and Austria for

the possession of Venice got much of his attention, inquiries

having been sent to him about supplies of chloroform, acupres

sure pins, etc., for the camp ambulance service. These, and

many other similar matters, shared his efforts, along with re

ligious meetings, special services for the upper classes, Chris
tian work in destitute districts of Edinburgh, or in the mining

villages of Linlithgowshire, schemes for the extension of medical

missions, for preaching the gospel in Egypt, for the education

of the theological students of the Waldensian Church, etc.

The bitter experiences of the past winter --" No chastening for
the present seemed to be joyous, but grievous "-- and his more

than abundant labours, were followed by severe indisposition.

When recovering from this attack he received a communica

tion from the Vice- Chancellor of the University of Oxford,

dated June 4, 1866, informing him that "it will be proposed

to confer on him the degree of Doctor of Civil Law at a con
452 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

vocation to be holden on Wednesday the 13th inst.," and ex
pressing the hope " that it would be convenient for him to be

present." The candidates for the honour on this occasion

were presented in the following order :--" Sir Frederick Currie,
Bart., late Chief Secretary to the Supreme Government in

India, and now member of the Indian Council ; Sir James Y.

Simpson, Bart., M.D., F.E.S.E., of the University of Edinburgh ;
Gathorne Hardy, M.A., Oriel College, one of the burgesses for

the University of Oxford ; Alphonse de Candolle, correspond

ing member of the Academy of Sciences of the Institute of
France ; Joseph Dalton Hooker, M.D., F.E.S., Director of the

Eoyal Gardens at Kew ; the Eev. Charles Merivale, B.D., St

John's College, Cambridge, chaplain to the House of Commons ;

William Thomson, M.A., F.RS., Professor of Natural Philo

sophy, Glasgow; James Prescott Jule, F.E.S. ; and John
Philips, F.E.S., M.A"

There are many proofs that his Christian work in 1866 bore

good fruit. Sometimes the tidings of its influence reached

him from unexpected quarters. Years before he had assisted

a servant, who had fallen into dissipated habits, to emigrate to

Australia. The tidings of his old master's change reached him
at Ballarat, and was to him the means of blessing. " One of my
fellow-servants," he wrote from Ballarat, " brought a pamphlet

into the stable and showed me an article written by you, in

which you say ' that if the photograph of the sinful soul could

be taken, few would like the world to see  it,  far less their

friends,' etc. After reading the article, and your name to  I I iIt,

went up and down the stable crying aloud. My fellow-ser

vants thought me mad." Then he tells, in very touching
                                           a

way, that this brought to his mind letter he had received
                     II
from  former       fellow-servant shortly after James's death.a
      Ia
" When got           ..."did not think much about
               a                           a    ;  but, when

             it iIt                          it
again turned       up this week, cried like child."

have been teetotaller for three years, and, God helping me,

will be for life. Dear friends, thank my God and Saviour
                ANTIQUITY OF MAN.                453

IJesus Christ, that through the influence of His Holy Spirit
Iwas brought to think of God as never thought before."

   Sir James was working willingly at articles on professional
and archaeological literature. But he did not see his way to
agree to applications from conductors of religious publications,
for papers on theological subjects.

                FROM THE REV. DR. BLAIKIE.

                                                                  " 13th August 1866.

" My dear Sir James, --The Sunday Magazine commences

its third volume next month with increased prospects of success

and continued circulation of many thousand copies.
   " Mr. Strahan the publisher, and Dr. Guthrie the editor, have

desired me to apply to you, in the hope that you will give a

paper on ' Our Lord's Miracles of Healing,' which at one time

you promised to endeavour to prepare. Allow me to say that

I would regard it as a great matter if you could accomplish

this. It would be a great gratification to Dr. Guthrie to have
your co-operation. It would be a great service to the cause

of truth to have you bearing your witness to our Lord, in these

days especially, when so many efforts are made by men of

learning and science to diminish the glory of His life and of
IHis work.
             know well the difficulty you have in writing,

but permit me to say that if you should once resolve to do
                                     if

                                                 I
                                                                             it,
you would probably be able to accomplish it.     leave the

matter in the hands of Him who, He designs that by this

means His cause to be advanced, will be sure to provide the
                it is
means by which      is  to be done.

" The MS. would need to be ready by the 10th of next month

at latest. (Copies go to Australia on the 7th.)
   " Hoping and trusting you may find practicable and plea
                                     it
                                              1

sant to overtake this, remain, yours most sincerely and re
                I

spectfully,                                      W. G. Blaikie."

The publication of Sir Charles Lyell's work in 1863, on the
454 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

" Antiquity of Man," led to a great crop of volumes, essays,
articles, and papers to learned Societies on the same subject
For a considerable time Sir James kept clear of the discussions ;
but in a few years he went into the heart of them in search of
definite and indisputable data. He soon discovered the utter
hopelessness of this. No two writers were found at one in
their views of the same phenomena ; and even when it ap
peared that they had reached the same conclusion, the value of
their testimony was shaken, by finding that the valid facts of
one party were held not to be facts at all by another. In the
summer of 1866, when compelled to leave active professional
work for a season, he entered with great earnestness into these
discussions. We shall see that they influenced him in the
direction of the theory of the immense antiquity of man ; but
he was never sure of his ground here, because the discussion
demanded an acquaintance with at least one branch of science
to which he made no pretensions. Shortly after his return
from Oxford he was again compelled to seek rest. Prom Liver

pool he wrote to Dr. Black, his assistant :--

                                                            " Wednesday, six o'clock.

IMy own dear Dr.,--" write a line, after the marriage and

the feast, both of which have gone off well and happily.
   " We had a very quiet passage --no sickness.
    " Be so good as send over the last number of the Cambrian

Archaeological Journal (the blue Journal). It contains two

papers on Man. We looked for but missed it. Possibly
                                   I
                                               it,
                                               I
                                                      I
                                                               I
                                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                      it
may be in bag in the lowest right drawer in my bedroom.
I
             a'
                                '
The bag brought up books from Viewbank.              hut
    " have felt better from the hour left Edinburgh

the journey to Liverpool was very tiresome. Last night my

leg chose to keep me pained and awake, but have walked

with this afternoon several times in pure despite, and think
it

    is
       it
yielding as rapidly as could hope. Dr. Petrie had some

grand liniment to rub my leg with.
               DR. JOSEPH ROBERTSON.                          455

  I" write upon a book on my knee, as there is much noise

and disturbance around, and no tables.

   " Eve begs to send her love to you. --Yours always,

                                                  " J. Y. Simpson.

  I I" P.S.-- must be greatly stronger before can work again.
If you find an Athenceum five or six weeks old, with a speech

of Lubbock's in send it."
a
                          it,

                                                          it
As the Session drew near, he found necessary to obtain

leave of absence, and the sanction of the Senatus to employ

substitute to conduct his class, in the event of continued

indisposition. Dr. Keiller carried on the class work for two

months.

In December he addressed the following letter to his dear

friend Dr. Joseph Eobertson, whose death occurred shortly
afterwards --
      I                                   " 52 Queen- Street, Edinburgh.
"My     I:dear Dr.
                III Robertson, -- Believe me, am extremely

                                   is

                         I
                                 I

                                          I
distressed at the idea that cannot go over and see you, but   I

have not yet been able to get further than the next room.
   " This morning was rejoiced to hear from Mr. Stuart that

you were somewhat relieved, and that the oysters, etc., were

not rejected.
   " Dr. Ziegler and talked yesterday of various things for you

to try.             friend Mr. Irvine tells me you wish       to
    " But our good   think of your condition and prospects,   as

know exactly what

far as your dysphagia concerned.
   " Now, know you will bear with me kindly and bravely

when     say that, from the first,  had the gravest sus

picions of the character of your ailment, and that these

suspicions have changed more and more to certainty as the

malady has progressed.    have to sign                        new will, for this
   " To-day or to-morrowI

                                                  a
                                                       a
Baronetcy of mine (which looks such bauble in sickness, even
466 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

more than in health) necessitates a variety of new arrange

Iments, and have tried to make all things straight and right

I Iin a worldly point of view. After what have said, know
Ithat need not add to you that it will only be proper for you

to place your affairs, papers, etc., in such order as you deem best.

  I" And now, my dear Mr. Eobertson, pardon me if add one
Iparagraph more. You and are too good antiquaries not to know

that He-- the second Person in the Trinity --by whose hands

all this grand and beautiful physical world of ours was made

i.                      was foreordained before the creation of             Peter
                   3),
(John i.                                                         it

                                                                        (1

20) to have those very hands nailed upon the cross to purify

the foul moral world and save the human race, whom the earth

bare, from the punishment of their own dire sins and guilt.

That sacrifice in our stead, and to cleanse away all our sins,'
                                           '
is                                fact that occurred some eighteen centuries'
              is

                               a
archteologically

ago, and past and done as certainly as the battle of Marathon
or Hastings or Bannockburn are past and done. And the
wondrous fact remains, that whosoever believeth in Him should

not perish, but have everlasting life.' We can do nothing to

wash away our guilt before God, but Christ has done all that

   required to wash away your guilt and my guilt in God's own
eyes, and according to God's own declared will and law,
simply you and believe in the work of His Son and accept
is

              I

                                                                                                                         '

                                                                          if
the blood of Jesus as our Substitute and our Saviour. Believe

in the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved.' No

secondary conditions are attached, Jesus has suffered all for us,
and done all, we only trust Him in alL
                        if
                                 Bear not single care thyself,is
                              '      One too much for theea

                                 The work Mine, and Mine alone,is
                                    Thy work is-- Best in Me.'
                                                              ;
"I know that you and
                                                                   J.

                                                                      I
                                  I        place all hopes and certainties

indeed upon the same immutable foundation, and know you

will kindly bear with me in these remarks, and allow me to

sign myself your ever sincere friend,                            Y. Simpson.
              RETURN TO WORK.      457

I" P.S. -- write in bed, and hence very illegibly. Sir Wm.

Gibson-Craig has been here at my bedside for half-an-hour

this morning grieving and lamenting, like a father, over your
                                   J. Y. S."
illness.

              TO MRS. PENDER.

                                       " 52 Queen Street, Edinburgh, 21th Dec /66.

  I" My dear Mrs. Pender,-- should have written you some

Idays ago, to say how hopeless was of having the great pleasure

of spending two or three days at Crumpsall. Within the last

I Ifew days am much better, and my leg is improved, though
Ifear would only have been an incumbrance upon you all at
ICrumpsall if had gone to you. But my wife has been so
Iunwell, and still is so, that cannot leave here.

   " We have here at present Professor Stephens of Copenhagen,
who has written a long dissertation on the Cat-Stane,--taking

my view, and going far beyond it.
" Believe me, with the deepest esteem and gratitude, always

truly yours,                       J. Y. Simpson."

    When the classes re-assembled after the Christmas holidays,
Sir James was able to resume his professorial work Though
still lame and weak, he felt very happy in meeting his students
again. The following notice appeared in the Courant news
paper next day :--" Since the beginning of the session he
has been confined to the house, and for the most part to bed,
with a severe attack of rheumatism and sciatica in the left leg,

and his class, previous to the holidays, has been conducted by
Dr. Keiller. Professor Simpson, in reappearing among his

students yesterday, was enthusiastically received by a crowded
class, which assembled in Dr. Christison's class-room, Sir James

being unable to mount the stairs to his own. The learned
Professor expressed great pleasure in meeting his students once
more, and made some jocular observations as to his recent
458 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

illness. He had, he said, been told the other day by his ser
vant that there was a rumour abroad that he was in Saughton
or Morningside. He asked his servant what reply he had
made, when the latter stated that, so far from being wrong in his
mind, he was writing a book in bed. While he did not say
that his servant's answer was strictly true, he was happy to
assure his pupils that he was quite right in his mind, although
a friend had hinted that morning that he was rather weak in
his understanding ! Professor Simpson went on to express his
thanks to Dr. Keiller for having so ably conducted his class in
his absence, and to Professor Christison for the accommodation
of his class-room. He then delivered the first of a course of

lectures on Anaesthesia."

   At the close of the Session he had with Mr. Pender
" a scamper " to Switzerland. Walter accompanied them.
When in Paris he says :--

    " Once or twice my father got me up about seven a.m. to go
with him ' on a prowl ' as interpreter. One of these mornings was
spent in a surgical instrument- maker's, where my father gave

Iand received a good deal of information. Another morning

remember particularly we visited one of the hospitals. After
going the round of the wards along with the students, we went

into the operating theatre. A leg long dislocated, and there

fore difficult to set, was successfully manipulated by the
surgeon, the patient being under chloroform. The surgeon
then addressed the students (my father understood French,
though not a fluent speaker), pointing out how it would have
been much more difficult to set the leg had the patient's
muscles not been relaxed by sleep, and at the same time

eulogizing chloroform generally. My father stepped forward

and handed in his card. It is easy to imagine the empresse

politeness of the Professor and the enthusiasm and astonish
ment of the students at this little coincidence."
CONTINENTAL TOUR.                                459

Sir James's letters show how much he enjoyed this trip :--

TO LADY SIMPSON.

                                               " Berne, Tuesday, 15th April /67.

" My dear Jessie, --Walter wrote you from Geneva. . . .

I" have had no word from home, as Sir Emerson Tennent,

who was to join us at Brussels for Copenhagen, could not
come there, his son being ill, and we consequently ran off here.

I expect there will be letters at Brussels. It is doubtful if

we go there. We expect to be in London on Monday or

Tuesday.

  I I I" have been immensely better since left. In Paris did
Iwonders by myself in the way of walking. At Geneva felt

knocked up by a fifteen hours' ride from Paris. Dr. Lombard

was very kind there, and they offered to summon the Medical
ISociety together if would wait and meet them. We all
Iliked Neuchatel better than Geneva. Last night went to
Ibed at eight, and had a long refreshing sleep.
Iwe wait to go down to the table-d'hote.         write this as

                                          have seen a great
Imany antiquarian objects. Tell Dr. Black saw, among other

things in Paris, the mammoth figured in my book. MM. Lartet,

Bertrand, and Matillet, three of their principal antiquaries,

accompanied us out to St. Germains, where an imperial museum

of antiquities is collecting. It kept us a day longer in Paris,

Ibut on the same morning had an opportunity of showing the

chief operator at the Hotel Dieu, M. Kichet, the mode of

applying acupressure in a case of mammary tumour which he
Iremoved. He seemed greatly pleased.
                                         have run out of all

my needles long ago.
   " We saw a great collection of antiquities to-day at Bienne,

Iamong them a cupped stone. Yesterday saw at Neuchatel

portions of charred bread, apples, wheat, thread and cloth from
lacustrine houses of the stone age, and hence very, very old

indeed. . . .                             J. Y. Simpson.

   " Love to all at home. --Yours ever,
460 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   " P.8.--Tell Eve I'll write her to-morrow or next day, if

able, with some news."

                                      TO MISS GRINDLAY.

                                                             " Berne, 16th April 1867.

  I" My dear Isabella, -- have had often your song ' Oft in

the stilly night ' running in my head of late, and at Geneva

got a cup of green tea from Mrs. Lombard which kept me

Iawake. To spend the time tried to make some doggrels to
I Iyour old favourite tune, but fear have made the first and

third lines all too long. Burn them if they do not please you.

Their only merit is they were written on the banks of the

Lake of Geneva, which is so full of fond recollections to every

leal Scotsman.
I I" have improved greatly in health since left, though you
Imay be sure Mr. Pender and
                             work ' as hard ' at travelling

abroad as we do at our own trades at home. Kindest love

to mamma and Mina. --Yours ever truly,  "J. Y. Simpson.

                Oft 'mid this world's ceaseless strife,

                   When flesh and spirit fail me,

                I stop and think of another life

                   Where ills can ne'er assail me ;

                Where my wearied arm shall cease its fight,
                   My heart shall cease its sorrow ;

                And this dark night changed for the light

                   Of an everlasting morrow.

                On earth below there's naught but woe,
                    E'en mirth is gilded sadness ;

                But in heaven above there 's nought but love

                  IWith all its raptured gladness ;

                There, till come, waits me a home,
                   All human dreams excelling,

                In which at last, when life is past,

                   1 11 find a regal dwelling.

                                  Oft 'mid this world's, etc.

                Then shall be mine, through grace divine,

                   A rest that knows no ending,
                Which my soul's eye would fain descry,

                   Though still with clay 'tis blending.
       CONTINENTAL TOUR.                                                   461

                   IAnd, Saviour dear, while tarry here,                   house/ etc.,

                                  Where a Father's love hath found me,     J. Y. S."
                               Oh I let me feel, through woe and weal,

                              Thy guardian arms twined round me.

                                            Oft 'mid this world's, etc.

  ("GeMneyvad, eAarprJiel s1s4i,e1's867la.)st words : -- ' In my father's

ring oft in my ears.

" My                           TO LADY SIMPSON.
                           " Paris, Hotel de Liverpool, 21a* April,

                              (Opposite Hotel CastigUone) Rue de la Paix.
       dearest Jessie, --We have scampered over a great

part of Switzerland in six days, and left Zurich yesterday

at one P.M. for Paris. . . .

  I I" am much better and stronger than when left, and have

Iwalked, etc., more than ever expected to do in life again.

   " We started from Geneva to Neuchatel and Berne. Thence

we run for Thun, Interlaken, and Lucerne. . . .
   " Dr, Keller, the archaeologist at Zurich, was kind beyond

measure, showing us flax-thread, cloth, looms, etc., used in

Switzerland in the stone age. He took Mr. P. and me (the
young gentleman was asleep with fatigue) to see the church

I Iin which Zuingle preached, which loved to visit, as have

so great an admiration for his memory. We are going to see

"Isome of the churches here to-day. . . .
          became medical for ten minutes yesterday, and asked
Dr. Keller to take us to a cutlery shop. They had five sets of

obstetric forceps, and showed me mine, telling us it was

I' Sampson's.' Dr. K. was greatly amused at finding was a

doctor as well as a pseudo-archaeologist. He had been reading

a paper on chloroform last week, and then it suddenly struck
him that my name was connected with it. Love to all. --Yours

ever,                     J. Y. Simpson."

    On the 20th of June a large and influential meeting of the

inhabitants of Edinburgh, called by the Lord Provost, was held

in Queen Street Hall for the purpose of adopting measures
to secure for Scotland a just share of representation in the
462 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

House of Commons. Sir James moved one of the resolutions,
and delivered a short, happy speech in its support, which was

frequently interrupted by the applause of the audience.

   In August Sir James attended a meeting of the profession

in Dublin, and used the occasion of his visit to Ireland to

spend a few days at Dromore Castle, Kerry.

                                        TO LADY SIMPSON.
                                                                             " Saturday Morning.

   " My dear Jessie,--Just starting for Killamey, where Wattie

went yesterday. Have had a very busy week. Everybody
kinder to me than every other. For really they have idolized

Iand cheered me more than any one else, believe.
    " Too many demands for consultation.
    " Hope you are all welL Eejoiced to hear that your voyage

had been as prosperous as ours. Love to alL --Yours ever,

                                                 " J. Y. Simpson."

I"My dearest Jessie, -- arrived here on Friday, coming

home by Dublin from Kerry, and hence by Llandudno to see

Mrs. Aveling of Sheffield. It was in consequence of nightly

Imessages and telegraphs about Lady E. that ran homewards.
I scarcely got two days' rest when away, and feel weak and
Ishabby enough since returned.

    " Walter was averse to go to Dromore, and averse to leave it.

He has written you all this. It is a most beautiful and charm
Iing place, and the people quite delightful.
                                              have seldom

spent in my life three brighter days. But the quantity of poor

Ipatients that was obliged to see was rather troublesome.

The moonlight boating scenes on Kenmare bay (for both

nights we sailed till twelve midnight) were something never to

be forgotten.
    " One day we went down ' free and easy ' to the Bishop of

Limerick's ;--free and easy, as we took our salmon, lamb, etc.,
with us, and cooked them in the Bishop's kitchen. He and all

his family accompanied us in the dark to the beach as we left,
                     ANCIENT SCULPTURES.                  463

and on the top of his episcopal hat he carried the candle to

light us on our way, putting one in mind of the old saints
with their ' bell, book, and candle.' As we rowed off, the shore

party sung a most beautiful and wild parting song, to which our

boat party duly replied. During the afternoon the bulk of our

party--including Mr. and Mrs. Balfour --visited that fairy

spot, Lord Dufferin's Isle. But the Bishop, who is at the head

of the Irish antiquaries, carried me off to the mountain-moors,

and showed me there some stones and rocks marked with the

Icups and circles that have described in my work on ' Archaic

Sculpturings.' It was truly ' eerie and awesome ' to see them

in that distant locality -- ancient sculptures so very like those

I had seen in Northumberland and Scotland, that truly they

looked as if they had been all cut by the same hand. To dis

cover some of them the Bishop had removed four feet of turf

accumulated on the bare face of the sculptured rocks.

   " In Dublin every person was kinder than another. In all

Imeetings and places had the seat of honour thrust upon me,
Iwhich involved a great deal of speaking. But was in the

spirit of it ; and when the struggle came--as it did twice or
thrice --between English, Irish, and Scotch speaking, Scotland

I(so they averred) was not last. We had a great dinner of
nearly 300 doctors.  was placed at the side of the President

I(Dr. Stokes), and had to drink his health.
" Things are quiet at home ; but             had a good levee on

Friday and yesterday. Last night Dr. Black handed me the
Ienclosed note, and he and had a good cry over it. But it is
Iquite right.
               dream of asking Dr. Malins of Liverpool, or Dr.
ILachlan Aitken of Falkirk, to take his place.
                                                most heartily

approve of his choice of a wife.
    " The Bagots continue to be delighted with Viewbank.

   "Dr. Hanna gave us to-day a discourse on Jonah and

IMiracles. It was the best sermon have heard for many a

day.

   " Puck was delighted to see me, and has scarcely left my
   464 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   Iside. The first night went up to bed he ran up before me,
   Iand when got there he was already stretched out on one of

   the pillows at full length--not curled up-- and wagging his
   tail violently.

   "Acupressure made a great stride forward at the Dublin

   meeting. Professor Smith tried to show that an old author,

   Iabout 1500, had described it. But know the author well, and

   have last night written a communication to the London journals

   to show that Mr. Smith has mistranslated the passage, of which

   there is not a fragment of a doubt.        My kindest love to
       " Do write me soon, and all the news.
                                                 J. Y. Simpson."
   Willie, Magnus, and Eve. --Yours always,

       The following is the note over which he and Dr. Black had
   " a good cry." Sir James had a high opinion of Dr. Black's

   professional accomplishments, and loved him very warmly. He

   had acted as assistant for several years.
                                                                                    " Saturday.

     I" My dear Sir James, -- have got engaged to be married,
   Iand must therefore begin to make arrangements for leaving

   my present situation and settling down in life.
   I" It is indeed with real sorrow that think of going away
   Ifrom 52 Queen Street, and the kind friends
                                                    have found
   Ihere. To you am and ever shall be profoundly grateful for
   Iall your exceeding kindness towards me.
                                                    thank you from
   Imy heart also for the matchless professional advantages have
   Ienjoyed here during the last five years. Moreover, came here

   dead in trespasses and sins, and God has been pleased in His

   Imercy to meet and quicken me ; and bless you for having

   brought me to this my spiritual birthplace.

      I" have as yet no definite plans for the future, except the

   long cherished, and, to my mind, indispensable one of spending

   a while on the Continent. --Believe me, ever yours affec

   tionately,                                       J. W. Black."

   Another visit was paid to Ireland in September, to attend a

r
           CORRESPONDENCE.  465

meeting of the Social Science Association, held in Belfast. In

the department of public health he delivered an address, for

which he received not only the thanks of the Association, but

the thanks of the public press also, and the congratulations of

many private correspondents. The address is characterized

by vigorous thought, clear views of the situation as regarded

the sanitary movement, and much prudent counsel to those

who were actively engaged carrying it out.

   The years 1866-1867 were among the busiest of Sir James's
life, notwithstanding repeated attacks of illness. His archaeo

logical investigations and correspondence were extensive and

important. Perhaps at no previous time had he gone so deep
into his favourite pursuit as in the course of these years. He
had become a kind of archaeologist-in-chief for the British

Isles. Few discoveries were made which were not communi

cated at once to him. The Roman denarius which the Border

ploughman found in his furrow ; the piece of Boman pottery
met with in improving the drainage of some provincial town ;
the stone cist exposed in carting sand for building purposes ;

the ancient cinerary urn of pre-Eoman epochs ; the flint arrow

or spear-head ; the stone celt, or the bronze spear, gathered in

some ancient field of deadly strife ; the whorls of prehistoric

distaffs,  or the comb used by the prehistoric weaver for the
purpose
articles,  of keeping his threads clean and apart ;--all these

           and many others, were with due haste reported to

52 Queen Street.

   Dr. Cowie writes to him on the medical superstitions of

Shetland; Mr. J. Warre Tyndale responds to Sir James's

inquiries regarding the Baal fires of Corsica and Sardinia ; the

Eev. John James Muir, now of Jersey, describes the limestone

caves of Lismore ; Colonel Macdonald of St. Martins obtains
for him information about a circle at Blairgowrie ; Mr. A. W.

Franks, of the British Museum, refers to the age of articles

found in interments near standing stones ; Dr. Arthur Mitchell
calls his attention to " cups on a stone at Stoney Kirk ;" Mr.

                                    20
466 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

A- Gibb describes the stone at Migvie, Aberdeenshire ; Mr.
Conwell communicates with him touching " cupped stones "
at Trim, co. Meath ; Mr. W. H. Henderson, Linlithgow, records
a visit to Arran, and the discovery of a stone cist in Glen
Sannox; Mr. Hutchison of Carlowrie gives an account of
cists, etc., found at South Queensferry ; Mr. Thomson of
Banchory corresponds with him with reference to the " Newton
Stone ;" Mr. Birch, of the British Museum, treats of the relative
age of cromlechs and Greek primitive mounds ; Mr. E. L.
Barnwell sends him a notice of standing stones near Bath ;
Lord Blantyre shows that " an iron nail taken from a mummy
case is modern ;" Lord Dunraven gives an account of his
discovery of circles on stones at Kerry -- " Our great find was
a large rock covered with circles." Mr. John Evans sends
notes of a visit to the Plain of Clava, Inverness, and a sketch
of two stones with cup markings; Mr. James Drummond,
E.S.A., writes from Mr. Pender's place, Minard Castle, concern
ing " a worship cup with a double circle " in the old burial-
ground at Inverary ; Mr. John Kenrick, author of a history of
Phoenicia, supplies information regarding the composition of
ancient brass ; Dr. Graves and Dr. Stokes make inquiries about
Irish antiquities. Yet these are only a comparatively few
examples of the communications which, during 1866 and 1867,
reached him almost daily.

    Sir James Simpson's own most important contribution to
archaeology at this time is entitled " Archaic Sculpturings of
Cups, Circles, etc., upon Stones and Eocks in Scotland, Eng
land, and other Countries." The work is inscribed " with
feelings of very deep respect " to Sir David Brewster. This
work is in Sir James's best style, notwithstanding that a
great part of it was written to dictation during the illness
already referred to, and when he was so racked with rheu
matism as to be unable to bear being turned in bed, except

when partially under the influence of chloroform. It is the

book, the writing of which his butler adduced as proof of
ARCHAIC SCULPTURINGS.  467

his sanity. It bears evidence of great care in its pre

paration, and is a good example of the application of
scientific methods of investigation to subjects of this kind.

It illustrates, perhaps better than any of his other archaeo

logical papers, his extraordinary knowledge of facts, and
his skill in using them to shed light on prehistoric times.
The field surveyed is so wide, and the sources of information
are so many and varied, that it is impossible to give such a

summary of the contents of the work as will convey an

adequate idea of its true scope and interest to the reader, and
especially of the thoroughness with which its author has done
his work. " Among the earliest," he says, " and yet the most
enduring traces of archaic man in this country, are probably
to be reckoned his cuttings or sculpturings on rocks and stones.
Some of his rudest, and hence, perhaps, his most primitive
lapidary carvings, consist of rounded shallow excavations, pits,
or cups, and of incised rings or concentric circles. . . . Amidst
the numerous varieties of them which have already been dis
covered, six or seven general types can be easily traced ; and
the enumeration of these types in the first instance will simplify
the study of the whole subject." The locality of the stones
on which cup markings occur is specified, and much informa
tion regarding the general antiquities of the districts in which
they are met with is given. The text is illustrated by a number
of highly-finished plates.

    Under the head " General Inferences," he examines such
questions as the import of the sculpturings, their alleged
Phoenician origin, their probable ornamental character, their
possibly religious character, their age or date, etc. As to the
last, the question of age, he says, " As yet we want a sufficient
body or collection of data to determine with any accuracy the
exact age or ages and periods at which the lapidary cup and
ring cuttings we have described were sculptured. But the facts

Iwe possess are quite sufficient, think, to prove that the date

or dates at which they were for the most part formed must be
468 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

very remote. In evidence of their remote or archaic character,

I shall appeal in the following chapters to their precedence of

letters and traditions ; to various data regarding the connexion
of these rude sculptures with the dwellings and sculptures of
archaic man ; to the archaic character of the antiquarian relics
with which they have been found in combination ; and to their
geographical distribution as bearing upon their antiquity."

    About thirty years ago the Scandinavian antiquaries, looking
chiefly at the implements usSd by the prehistoric tribes of the
north of Europe, proposed the generalizations -- " Stone Age,
Bronze Age, and Iron Age," to indicate periods in which, seve
rally, implements of stone, of bronze, or of iron were in common

use. In a short time these terms came to embrace all traces

of men during the respective periods, and they are now held to

express characteristic stages of civilisation. It is not my in

tention to discuss here the grounds for these wide inductions,

or to dwell on their defects. In some respects they fail to

make clear the existence of the definite character assigned to
each. They have, however, been most useful to archaeologists

as general working plans. On the whole, then, they convey a
pretty fair impression of certain stages of prehistoric time,

Ithough think it might be shown, that many who have taken

them as absolutely accurate expressions of scientific truth, have,
not unseldom, been led into error. This will not cause sur
prise, when it is remembered that the materials for the induc
tions are of a kind with which historic criticism has not been

long familiar.
     More recently the first great epoch has been divided into

Palaeolithic, or First Stone Age, and Neolithic, or Second Stone
 Age. Geology has taken archaeology by the hand, and pro
 mised to be her guide in a quarter entirely new, strange, and
by many believed to be full of fresh and independent informa
 tion as to the length of time man has been on the earth, as to
 his original condition, and, generally, as to his intellectual and
moral attainments in primeval days. But many most difficult
EARLIEST STONE AGE.  469

 physical problems demand solution before the archaeologist can
safely venture to generalize on these subjects, and especially

Ion the first. Even if he hold, as think he must, the contem

 poraneity of man with the great extinct mammals, it can be
 shown that he is not pledged thereby to the theory of the
immense antiquity of the human race. Then there are literally
hundreds of questions like the following, which he cannot leave
unanswered and yet be sure of his ground :--

    Was the glacial epoch one and general ? Or have there
been several glacial epochs in different geographical areas?
Are students of surface geology agreed as to the age of the
gravels from which traces of man have been obtained ? Instead
of taking the time of man's appearance into an indefinitely
remote antiquity, are we not warranted to bring the epochs of
physical changes nearer the hitherto recognised period of man's

appearance, etc. ?
     Sir James did not attempt the solution of the problems now

referred to, nor did he always bear in mind how much and how
widely archaeologists differ among themselves on many of the
points indicated in this sketch of the great field of investi
gation. He stepped over the geological difficulties, and dealt
at once with the archaeological facts. The question of age
was at once merged in, what to him was of higher interest,
the manners of primeval times. He wished to know what
prehistoric men said and did; what they believed, and how

they lived.

   It was, however, a sight full of interest to trace his work of

building up laboriously, " unhasting yet unresting," his body of
facts, and then pouring a fresh and vigorous life into the whole,
by that highest labour of philosophy, generalization. His facts
seemed to get heart, and arteries, and veins. He made men of
them, and constrained them to speak, not of themselves, but of

the men and women, the social habits, and even the physical
condition of remote prehistoric times. Cuvier's law of corre
lation did almost as good service in Sir James's hands, though

                                                                   .
470 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

in a different department, as it has done in those of Professor
Owen, in that in which the great Frenchman specially worked.
A fragment of pottery thus became to him a key to a state of
civilisation. A bodkin, rudely formed from a red deer's tyne,

suggested not only the industrial condition and household
habits of a prehistoric people, but also, by a process in which
both genius and trained powers of thought and observation had
a place, the flora and fauna of a country and an age. Then,
as we have seen, there was a goodly taint of superstition in his

nature-- a quality that is to the true antiquary what credulity

is to the child -- that, namely, which keeps the gates of know
ledge ever open to what is weird, strange, and unexpected.
But with him understanding conscientiously and carefully sifts
what is received, and grains of wheat not a few reward his
labour. Legend, and folk-lore, and exaggerated traditions are
the worthless matrix in which he finds golden nuggets em

 bedded.

    One aspect of Sir James's antiquarian tastes has already been
 once or twice referred to, namely, their influence on his habits
 of literary work in professional branches of study. He always
 began at the beginning. Had he been a marine engineer, and

 asked to write an article on naval architecture, we would have
 had a disquisition on Noah's Ark, or a description of the swift
 ships of Homer, stating, perhaps, for the wonderment of fellow-

 workers, that the latter most likely were steamboats ! At
 least he would have mastered every reference to his theme in

 all literature, and have used the records of the past to throw

 light on the waters ahead, not, as a lantern on the stern, on the

 waves behind.

     He took his readers into his confidence, and told them all
 that had been written, or said, or done touching the subject in
 hand. This was the foundation on which he generally rested
 his argument Often, indeed, the underlying mass was neither
 comely nor of much value. But occasionally it was true,
 seemly, substantial, and valuable. In the essays on Leprosy
HIS METHODS OF STUDY.  471

and Syphilis this is well seen. But it has its highest expres
sion in such professional memoirs as those on Hermaphro
ditism, Diseases of the Placenta, and Anccsthesia. In these

papers there are countless references to sources of informa

tion, ancient, curious, and out of the way of most workers.

When, as was frequently the case, moot points led to con
troversy, his opponents were put to a great disadvantage. We
know of one who, when endeavouring to follow Sir James
into this track, inquired at a public library for some little-
known work, and was told by the librarian that " the Doctor

had it out," adding, for his gratification, " Nobody knows any

thing of these books but himself!"
   Nor was his caution less marked than the soundness and

thoroughness of his methods of study. At a meeting of the

Society of Antiquaries, he said :--
  " The collection of home-made pottery on the table --glazed

with milk--is the latest contribution to our Museum. It was

recently brought up by Captain Thomas and Dr. Mitchell from
the parish of Barras, in the Lewis. These ' craggans,' jars, or

bowls, and other culinary dishes, are certainly specimens of the
ceramic art in its most primitive state ;-- they are as rude as

the rudest of our old cinerary urns ; and yet they constitute,
in the places in which they were made and used, the principal
cooking, dyeing, and household vessels possessed by some of

our fellow-countrymen in this the nineteenth century. In the

adjoining parish of Uig, Captain Thomas found and described
to us two years ago, in one of his instructive and practical
papers, the small beehive stone houses in which some of the
nomadic inhabitants of the district still live in summer.

Numerous antiquarian remains and ruins of similar houses
and collections of houses exist in Ireland, Wales, Cornwall,

Switzerland, and perhaps in other kingdoms ; but apparently

they have everywhere been long ago deserted as human habi
tations, except in isolated and outlying spots among the west

ern islands of Scotland."
472 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Caution is then added :--" Among the people of the district

of Barras, most of them small farmers or crofters, a metal vessel

or pot was a thing almost unknown twelve or fourteen years

ago. Their houses have neither windows nor chimneys, neither

tables nor chairs ; and the cattle and poultry live under the
Ifsame roof with their human possessors.
                                          a Chinaman or

Japanese landed at Barras, and went no further, what a picture

might he paint, on his return home, of the state of civilisation

in the British Islands !"
CHAPTEE XIV.

Elected to the Office of the Eldership --Theological Difficulties -- Note
      on Carbolic Acid-- Lecture on Education -- The Study of the Clas
      sics -- Money Investments -- Pyramid Controversy -- Stamping out
      Smallpox -- Death of Sir David Brewster --Surgeons' Hall Lecture
      on Anaesthesia -Letter from Professor Nilsson of Lund -- Chancel
     lorship of the University --Principalship --Opposition to Sir James
     -- Unscrupulous conduct of some Opponents--Memorial in favour
     of Sir James -- Committee of Inquiry --Generosity after Defeat.

I have said that Sir James stepped over the geological dif

ficulties in order to get at once among the traces of man in the
earliest so-called " stone period." But the difficulties in

fluenced him in another sphere. The Free Church congrega

tion of which he was a member elected him to the office of the

eldership. At ordination all office-bearers are required to sub

scribe a formula which binds them to the belief of all the doc

trines stated in the Westminster Confession of Faith.

According to Sir James's reading of the section on Crea

tion, it assumes that the age of the world is not more than six

thousand years, an assumption which he held to be flatly con

tradicted by geology. But this was only his inference. The

framers of the Westminster Confession nowhere assert this.

I" While," he said, " most heartily and most sincerely believe

in the general theological tenets laid down in the Westminster

Confession of Faith, there are special and secondary doctrines

I Iin that Confession from which, so far as understand them,
Ifeel obliged to differ.
                          cannot, for example, subscribe to the
474 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

belief of the chapter on the Creation, that nothing of this
Iworld existed some six or seven thousand years ago."
                                                       have

been able to trace the rise and decline of these views in his

case. Like most men under the fresh flush and glow of warm

spiritual life, he was nervously impatient and jealous of every

thing that seemed in the least to come between his soul and

the direct statements of the Word of God. Men under this

experience generally regard with suspicion every attempt to

determine and regulate their belief by the views of others.

Christ has spoken to them in the Bible. This is enough, they

say ; they do not want to see the truth diluted and presented

to them as man's thoughts about the things of God. They will

be Bible Christians.

While such a state of mind exists, it is of no use to point out

that no man can be a Christian without a creed ; that no two

men could meet together for Christian converse without form

ing a creed, expressed or understood ; that the Church could

not become visible on the earth without one ; or that the

Churches could not fulfil the highest obligations laid on them

by their living and exalted Head, if their members were not

bound together by a common confession. Sir James was

emerging from a state of mind bearing some resemblance to

that now referred to, when his election to the eldership was

thrust on his notice. The field of theological, as contrasted

with Christian thought was new to him. It presented an

arena for exciting debate ; it brought with it an arousing power

to battle with everything that seemed to come between men and

their Bibles. This opportunity for theological discussion was

the more eagerly seized, as he had at the time a sure and vivid
consciousness of his own personal interest in Him who is " the
true God and eternal life." When he saw the difficulty it

would have been well had he been left to fight his own way

out of it with the Bible in his hands. This he would have done

honestly and bravely, whatever might be the consequence.

IHe early communicated his views to me, but waived discus
               THEOLOGICAL DIFFICULTIES.                                        475

sion, knowing that he had taken up ground from which con

troversy was not likely to move him. As was his wont, how

ever, when his mind was set on a matter, he now dwelt on

what he held to be the divergence of the Confession from the
Bible and Science, in the presence of the friends and the stran

gers that crowded his table at breakfast or at luncheon. And

soon ministers and elders of Presbyterian churches found them

selves in an argument far from pleasant, though he seemed to

enjoy it. The discussion widened, and came to embrace

matters far asunder from the doctrine of Creation. The

whole question is suggestive, as showing the influence which

reiterated statements may have in influencing, if not fashion

ing, the belief even of educated men, who have not had the

opportunity of thinking them out for themselves, or of study

ing their varied and often complicated relations. Had Sir

James given less heed to crude schemes of reconciliation

between Science and Scripture, thrust on his attention by

writers on physico-theology, and more heed to the words of

               and Exodus xx. 11, he would not have per
Genesis i. 1,  ii.

                    1,
                                                                       a

                                                                           is
                                                                          a it
mitted the matter to influence him as for short time                            did.
                                                                                better
   It was pointed out to him, later, that there

way, and his views began to undergo considerable modifica

tions. According to this, the days of Genesis are regarded

as natural days, and not epochs. The word "beginning"
               is
                                is
                                         is

                                                                              a

                                                                  it
                                                                                          is
employed, according to Scripture usage, as preface to the

narrative which follows, and held to have no reference to

geologic time. Geology kept outside of the first chapter of
Genesis, and left in that wide sphere in which has already

worked with so much profit to man, and with such glorious

testimony to the manifold wisdom of God. That the view now
given of the word " beginning "
               it                           in strict accordance with
                         is
                                        is
Scripture might be very fully illustrated. But this would be
out of place here. Nor this the place to defend the " Con

fession;" though might be shown that, in signing the for

mula, an office-bearer does not commit himself to any unscrip
 476 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

tural doctrine of creation. These matters are referred to, because
for a few months they bulked largely in Sir James's view, and

Ibecause am, above all things, anxious that this Memoir should

be a full, fair, and faithful record of his opinions and prin

ciples.

    Sir James continued to watch, with great and earnest in
terest, the attitude of leading surgeons to Acupressure. Be
lieving that by its use the operator was likely to get complete
primary union of the cut vessels more frequently than by the
ligature, and that suppuration and sloughing would not super
vene, he looked closely into every expedient to obtain such

results with the use of the ligature. In a communication to

the Lancet (September 21, 1867), Professor Lister had shown,
that accepting as true the theory of the decomposition of the
injured parts in amputations by the germination in the
wounds of infusorial or fungoid particles, held to float every
where, in vast numbers, in the atmosphere, this may be pre
vented, without excluding the air, " by applying as a dressing
some material capable of destroying the life of" these organisms.

I" The material which have employed," he says, " is carbolic

or phenic acid, a volatile organic compound which appears to
exercise a peculiarly destructive influence on low forms of life."

In the Lancet of November 2, 1867, Sir James reviewed this
communication in the form of a " Note on the History of Car
bolic Acid and its Compounds in Surgery prior to 1867."

    This " Note " shows Sir James's jealousy of everything that
seemed fitted to set aside what he held to be useful, or calcu

lated to bring blessing to man. Nothing, he thought, should
be tolerated whose tendency was to continue the use of the
ligature in amputations, after the superiority of acupressure

had, as he believed, been established. It should be remem

bered, however, that comparatively few operating surgeons

agreed with Sir James on this point. Nor did it detract
from Professor Lister's merit, in using carbolic acid suc
cessfully in compound fractures, suppurations, and abscesses ,
LECTURE ON EDUCATION.  477

or in dressing wounds, to show that he had been anticipated
in such cases by foreign operators.

   On the 2d of November the Eight Hon. Robert Lowe, M.P.,
opened the Winter Session of the Edinburgh Philosophical
Institution, when he delivered a lecture on primary and classical
education in its relation to the State. The lecture was one of
great power and wide sweep. Its burden was, that instruction
in the classics and in ancient history is valueless for the intel
lectual and practical requirements of the present day. He pre
ferred modern languages and natural science. This question
had long engaged Sir James's attention. Months previously to
Mr. Lowe's visit, he had agreed to lecture at Granton, near
Edinburgh. In the programme of the Winter Course the title

of the lecture was thus intimated -- "Modern and Ancient

Languages." His time was so fully occupied that he could
not prepare it till the day on which it was due. Yet this
lecture appeared to the large audience to have been prepared
with great deliberation and care. The newspaper report con
veys a similar impression :--

   " Sir James Simpson apologized for his many absences as
President, and added he would certainly not have been there

had he known, before the'programme of the lectures was printed,
that Mr. Lowe was to speak in Edinburgh on much the same

subject ; but he wished to say that he had no intention of
comparing himself in the least with that honourable gentleman
on such a theme any more than he would compare a cockle-
boat with a majestic man-of-war. He might, however, say
that the opinions he was about to offer were those he had
publicly offered and defended in Edinburgh more than once

before. . . . They had no evidence that there was any special
aptitude in particular nations of Europe for acquiring languages
more easily than others, but many of them taught their children

languages far better than others. Ten, or twelve, or more years
of the lives of our children were devoted to education ; and
the education hitherto had principally consisted in acquiring
478 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

a full knowledge of languages. Now, the problem which was
stirring up men's minds at present was what was the best way
of spending these golden years of life devoted to education ?

All were agreed that they must go through such elementary

subjects as the three R's ; and all were agreed among physicians
that the young should be taught in such a way as was good
for their health. He thought it was grievously wrong to see
children enslaved with long lessons at night, as well as long
lessons at school during the day. For real proficiency, the
quality and accuracy of the lessons were infinitely more
important than their quantity. Many were spending more
time in mental work than the Government allowed factory
children to spend in muscular work. This mental work was
much harder than the other, and often produced diseases
which were permanent from that time forward. They should
aim at bringing up their children highly developed repre
sentatives of humanity, both as regarded body and mind.
Seeing that most of the ten, twelve, or more years were spent
in acquiring a knowledge of our own and other languages,
they had to consider what languages should be taught in addi
tion to English. Should we teach our children the languages

of our neighbours--languages throbbing with life and activity
--modern tongues -- or should we teach them old languages,

the languages of Greece and Eome spoken by extinct nations
twenty centuries ago --dead languages which no human being

now spoke ? At present in many of the schools -- of England
particularly -- these dead languages were alone taught, and no

modern languages except our own, and that often most imper
fectly. . . . With regard to Greek, it was true that its import
ance would always be recognised, particularly by those who fol
lowed the clerical profession ; for it was the original language of

the greatest book that had ever been gifted to man -- the New
Testament. It was the language, also, of many of the early

Fathers and of the earliest Church Councils. The Latin, again,
after the Eoman Empire ceased, remained still the language of
LECTURE ON EDUCATION.  479

the Eomish Church. Down to mediaeval times, and compara              r

tively lately, it was the language also of science ; but he did not
think they were likely to have a book of science written again

in Latin. It was long, also, the chief colloquial language of

learned men throughout Europe ; but that was ending or ended,
because each nation had begun to pronounce it in their own

way, and they were not understood by each other. . . . There

were illustrious instances among our fellow-countrymen, past

and present, who had been able to speak English well without
Latin and Greek. Perhaps the most accomplished orator of
the day -- the greatest speaker of English in the House of

--Commons was a gentleman who had, he believed, very little
Latin, and no Greek --he meant Mr. Bright. Then, Mr. Cobden

got no Latin and no Greek, and still there were few better

speakers of English than he was. Mr. Cobden, when a young
apprentice, used to get up at five o'clock in the morning for
linguistic studies, but the language he learned was French ; and
it was through his power in that language that he was enabled

afterwards to make treaties with France, go to Eussia and else

where, and diffuse free-trade opinions. He believed, if Mr.

Cobden had spoken in Latin instead of French to his Eussian

audiences, he would not have got more than half a dozen persons

to listen to him. Two of the greatest orators of the United

States --Mr. Clay, and Mr. Andrew Douglas -- were without
classical education. It had been said that the advantages of a

knowledge of the classics applied more to writing than speak
ing. But that would exclude all ladies from authorship ;
although he had been told by a gentleman well acquainted with
the magazine literature of the day, that one half of it was written
by those of the female sex who never learned Latin and Greek.
Among eminent authoresses, who did not acknowledge the neces
sity of Greek and Latin in order to write English, he mentioned
Mrs. Oliphant, Mrs. Gaskell, Mrs. H. Wood, Mrs. Beecher
Stowe, Miss Strickland, Miss Martineau, Mrs. Somerville, etc. :

and he noticed one example of a lady getting £7000 for one
480 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

novel, which was far more than Sir Walter Scott got for any of

his. Then there were Hugh Miller, Burns, Hogg, Dickens,

Douglas Jerrold, Mark Lemon, Alexander Smith a gentleman

who used to astonish them by the purity of his English, and

many others-- all without classical education. It was said

that the use of Latin and Greek was to impart the highest

kind of taste and imagination ; but had they not the highest
type of taste and imagination developed in the works of Bunyan

and Shakespeare ? Yet Bunyan was not a classical scholar ;

... Ifand it was doubtful whether Shakespeare had any such know
ledge.         they were to study Greek and Latin because

they were the origin and foundation of some words, far more

were they bound to study Anglo-Saxon, because it was the

foundation of an immensely greater number of English words.

There were other tongues they would also require to study.

Let them look, for example, at the names of the rivers and

places and islands lying around them. . . . But the question
was --Was it a profitable history ? He was afraid it was not

He thought it was the worst study that could be put into the
hands of boys. Virtue in these times did not mean, as it did

now, moral virtue in the highest sense of the word, but brute
courage and nothing more. In a book recently published by

Professor Dbllinger of Munich, they would find such a dread

ful description of the seething sea of demoralization which pre

vailed in ancient Greece and Eome as to make one turn away

in disgust. And yet we put the very books from which such

facts are drawn into the hands of our children -- Horace, Ovid,

Martial, Juvenal, etc. He once asked a gentleman, who was

at the head of the Law here, what he would do with them if

they had been originally published in England. He replied

that he would have been obliged, he feared, to stop their sale
Ifas obscene.
               mothers knew the improprieties in some of the

works that were put into their children's hands as text-books

and prizes they would rise in rebellion. Then, as to the study

of Greek and Latin Grammar, he said that while it was of
LECTURE ON EDUCATION. ,,  481

great use to those who went to the very depths of linguistic
acquirements, there were Latin and even English grammars
put into the hands of the young that were utterly repulsive. . . .

It was said that Latin and Greek were the best means of train

ing the mind ; but he thought, on the contrary, that they tended
to make the mind stunted and deformed, instead of developing

it. They cultivated memory chiefly, and left uncultivated the
higher powers of observation, so necessary for science and after
life. They expended their powers on words and names in
vented by man, instead of the works and wonders of God, as
seen in physiology, botany, geology, chemistry, etc. He read
Mr. Faraday's strong evidence that such studies give the grow
ing mind an incapacity to appreciate and follow the higher
studies of nature's laws and the knowledge of things. Was the
system at present followed not owing to a kind of mediaeval
nightmare that was brooding over us, or a great national in
sanity ? He thought that all would allow there were great
and grave reasons why our children should be educated in

some of the modern languages, such as French and German.

The men who were to be devoted to commerce, would find it of

much more advantage to be acquainted with these languages
as spoken to-day, than with those spoken two thousand years

ago."

    This lecture was much criticised at the time. Later, it was
used for political purposes, and adduced by opponents in proof
of bold assertions, that Sir James's bitter opposition to classical
instruction unfitted him to hold high official position in a
University in whose Arts curriculum the study of the classics
has ever held an important place. But this was a misrepre
sentation of his views. What he found fault with, was not the

study of the classics, but the prevailing practice of making
every boy spend ten or twelve years in the study of Greek and
Latin, to the neglect of branches better fitted to prepare a youth
for, say, mercantile and engineering pursuits. He wished to see

our great public schools remodelled and conducted, so that--

                                                            2H
482 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

1. Classics should not be imperative on all, but taught to the

highest point to all whose tastes or pursuits render it desirable

or necessary. 2. Modern languages should be imperative on

all, and be taught both as the classics now are and con

versationally. 3. Natural Science should have pre-eminence

assigned to  is it,                               knowledge of one branch at

                                                 a

                                             is
               by demanding

least from every pupil, before he sent into work where such

information    peculiarly valuabla Since Mr. Lowe's visit,

and since Sir James's views were made public, much atten

tion has been devoted to these matters, and some improve

ments introduced in the arrangements of classes and studies in

our great educational institutions.

Sir James's eldest surviving son, Walter, was now student at
                              it, I
Cambridge. The following letter shows how keenly he had begunI
to feel the responsibilities that the Baronetcy had brought with
                                     it I
it. The matters referred to were not so bad as, at the time,
                                        I
they seemed to be --                      I II I I a
                                                  II
                                                                    " December Sth, 1867.
                                                                                                        .
   " My own dear Wattie, --Most likely shall run to Crump-
             I                                                                          a
sail to-morrow night, or next night. Will this be too soon forI:

                     I                              am in great distress, for
you to leave for Manchester?

and Co. hold that am legally co-purchaser of the

Works, though  repudiated the purchase weeks ago.   They

threaten, and will, believe, take law-steps in the matter. . .

If they have power to compel the sale, which doubt, must

just try and make the best of or sell the whole again at

further loss. You cannot easily imagine the pain have felt

for weeks past, and this has aggravated all, as the idea comes
burning back on me by night and by day--that have used

you so ill, by squandering thus the money which should have

collected for you, as my heir. Often wish could unbaronet

myself. But you must make your own fortune.         know you

will forgive me, but cannot easily forgive myself.  hope
               I

you are quite well again. Magnus does enjoy exquisitely the

companionship of his deer-hound pup. He, Eve, and Mrs.
                        DIFFICULTIES.               483

Blyth are down at Trinity.  Mamma is not very welL --Ever
                                             J. Y. Simpson."
affectionately yours,

   Immediately after receiving this letter, Walter wrote as

follows :--

                                                                              " Tuesday.

I" My very dear Father, -- am beyond measure sorry to hear

that you are having and giving yourself so much anxiety and

trouble. All this is very harassing to you, of course, from the

trouble it gives ; but surely, my dear father, you exaggerate the
Ifimportance of the loss.
                            you did not take it so to heart, it

would not cost me two minutes' thought.

  I" cannot see that this Baronetcy makes such a difference,

and, leaving it out of the question, you would, a few years ago,

Ihave thought as little of it as do now. Besides, under the
Iworst phase, it will not make you poor, and if it did, and if
Idon't make money ever myself (as hope to do), the fact of a

Baronetcy in the distant future won't make my position more

or less endurable. You used, far from desiring to get money,

to say that you did not wish to leave your children a competency,
but only enough to give them a start. This will not be a loss

sufficient to deprive me of a competency, and if it were, what

matter 1

  If I" were offered a Baronetcy and £5000, or no Baronetcy

and £50,000, 1 should prefer the former.

"You can't help making some money in your profession,

but there is no real reason for thinking more of it than you
Iused.
        don't undervalue wealth, but (don't think me forward)

you are surely over-valuing it. Are you not running to the

other extreme?  Your real sphere is to do good and get

kvSo? !                                             could

  I I" suppose you got my letter on Monday, saying
Ifnot leave this week.
                        you have not yet gone to Manchester,

perhaps we may arrange, if necessary, to meet in Manchester.

I am free on or after Saturday.
484 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

" Write or telegraph before that if you wish me to meet you.
-- With much love, yours affectionately,
                                               W. G. Simpson.

I" shall be ready to argue the subject of your letter in a

pig-headed way when we meet !                  W. G. S."

In his work on " Archaic Sculpturings," Sir James, after
describing the sculptures at New Grange, Ireland, says :--

" Several of the stones in this pyramid-like' tomb have round
cuttings upon them " (p. 75). Kegarded in the light of the

context, this expression led to a sharp controversy.  At a

meeting of the Eoyal Society of Edinburgh, in the middle of

December 1867, Professor C. Piazzi Smyth read a paper on
" The Antiquity of Intellectual Man, from a Practical and

Astronomical point of View," in which he reviewed and sharply
criticised the opinion of Sir James. The paper in reply

supplies a good illustration of the earnest and thorough way
in which Sir James grappled with a subject comparatively

new to him. His first task was to read all that Professor

Smyth had written on the subject, and then to become

acquainted with every other work onis,       so far as time and

opportunity would allow. In the outset he justifies his use ofif

the word pyramid by quotations from CoL Pownall, Dr. Danielis it,
Wilson, Mr. Burton, Sir John Lubbock, Sir W. Wilde, and

others. The rest of the paper for the most part, commenta
on the strong points in Professor Smyth's works. As he pro
                                                  I
ceeded, the subject grew in interest. " It almost fascinating,"

he said. " There are some most curious points. When first

ran over Smyth's works, had an impression he was wrong.
               it
                   is

                       I
Now am convinced he is." Even we regard Sir James's
I

communication from the lowest point of view --the fruit of
"reading up" --
                 impossible not to admire the wealth of

information brought to the defence of his positions, and the

keen edge put on the weapons used.  I     heard the papers read,

and the reply in each case. And, though inclined to give more

weight to Professor Smyth's views than Sir James was, and
DEATH OP SIR DAVID BREWSTER.  485

dissenting from Sir James's estimate of the age of the buildings

Ihe associated with the pyramids, felt, as many more did, that

he had the advantage in the discussion.1

    The paper on the Pyramid of Ghizeh got his earnest atten
tion during the very brief period he gave to its composition.
But he had other work on hand. Having noticed the virulence

-- apparently increasing periodically --of recent cases of small

pox, he was devoting much consideration to the subject. Might
not Dr. Jenner's discovery be helped by treating this loathsome
disease as rinderpest had been? Might not smallpox be
stamped out ? In a communication to the Medical Times, Sir

James proposed that measures should at once be taken to

stamp out both smallpox and other contagious diseases, as, for
instance, scarlatina, measles, etc. By the wide circulation of
this paper, in a pamphlet form, public attention was called to

the subject It proved seasonable. Four years later, when

the disease broke out in Edinburgh and elsewhere with great

and deadly power, earnest efforts were made to good purpose
for carrying out his suggestions.

   Sir David Brewster died in February 1868, and Sir James

was asked, by the Council of the Boyal Society, to move a resolu
tion of admiration for his genius and regret for his loss. This
he did at a meeting of the Society on the evening of February

1 7th, in terms very graphic and touching. " It happens," he said,

I" that was the last Fellow of the Eoyal Society who con
Iversed with Sir David Brewster before his death. Specially,
Ibelieve, on this account have been requested by the Council
Ito move a minute with reference to him. Most willingly do

comply with that request. . . . Perhaps the Society will kindly

Ibear with me while venture to add to these resolutions a

very few remarks. . . . His self-imposed task only ended with

Ihis life. And on the subject it seems to me that carry al

most a mission from him to us --from the dead to the living ;

Ifor when last visited him at Allerly, when he was within a

                 1 See Sir James's Archaeological Essays, vol. i. p. 219.
486 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

few hours of death, when he was already pulseless, his mind

was perfectly entire, and perfectly composed ; and on asking

him, among other matters, if he wished any particular scien

Itific friend to take charge of his remaining scientific papers

and notes, he answered me, ' No ; have done what every
scientific man should do--viz., published almost all my obser
vations of any value, just as they have occurred.' He then
explained that he had left one paper on ' Films ' for the
Society, and went on to express an earnest regret that he had
not had time to write to the Society another description of the
optical phenomena, which he had latterly observed in his own
field of vision, where there was a partial degree of increasing
amaurosis, which, he thought, might be yet found a common
form of failure in the eyes of the aged. . . . Then let me say
further in relation to him as a philosopher, that his death has

Ibroken several curious links with the past. For example, as

was told when down in that part of the country, he was the
last of the stars that forty years ago dwelt on the banks of the
Tweed, and formed the constellation of friends that clustered
there round the Great Wizard of the North at Abbotsford.

In the first years of this century-- 1802-1803 --he was much

with Cavendish, connecting us thus with the grand band of
philosophers who lived in the metropolis of England. Mar
ried to a daughter of Macpherson, he connected us with the
time, more than a hundred years ago, when Johnson, Blair,
Home, and others, disputed so acrimoniously as to whether
Ossian's poems were true or not. . . . Sir David Brewster must
have been originally endowed with a robust and iron constitu
tion. Few men ever reached the age of eighty-seven with an

intellect so unimpaired and an ear so acute. In later years,
however, he had repeated attacks of serious illness. But since
 he attended the meeting of the British Association at Dundee in

 autumn last, where he was carried out from one of its crowded

 meetings in a state of syncope, his health has rapidly declined.
 He died, ultimately, of an attack of pneumonia and bronchitis.
SIR DAVID BREWSTER.                                 487

A rigor, ushering in the fatal illness, occurred eight days pre

vious to death. From the date of its occurrence he felt and

stated that the grasp of the hand of death was now fixed upon

him. Yet, though feeble and weak, he insisted on being al

lowed to rise and work for a few hours daily. Three days be

fore he died, he insisted on dressing and going into his study,

where he dictated several farewell letters, and amongst others,
one to our secretary, Dr. Balfour. ' Permit me,' he pleaded

Iwith those around him, ' permit me to rise once more, for
I Ihave work to do.' ' know,' he added, ' it is the last time

shall ever be in my study.' Towards the end of that day's

work his friend and pastor, Mr. Cousin, visited him. ' My
Irace,' said he to Mr. Cousin, ' is now quite run.
                                                    am now no
Ilonger of use either to myself or to others, and have no wish
to linger longer here.' ' Yet,' he added after a while, -- ' yet it is

not without a wrench that one parts from all those he has loved

so dearly.' To Mr. Phin, and other clerical friends, he freely

expressed in these his last days the unbounded and undoubt-

ing faith of a very humble and very happy Christian. No

shadow of dubiety ever once seemed to cloud his mind. Like

my former dear friend and old school companion, Professor

John Eeid, he seemed to be impressed with the idea, that one

of the great joys and glories of heaven would consist in the

revelation of all the marvels and mysteries of creation and

science, by Him by whom ' all things were made,' and who, as

Professor George Wilson held, was not only the Head of the

IChurch, but the Head and origin and source of all science. '
Ihave,' he remarked to me, ' been infinitely happy here ; but

....soon shall be infinitely happier with my Saviour and Creator.'
          His deathbed was indeed a sermon of unapproachable

eloquence and pathos. For there lay this grand and gifted

old philosopher, this hoary, loving votary, and arch-priest of

science passing fearlessly through the valley of death, sustained

and gladdened with the all-simple and all-sufficient faith of a

very child, and looking forward with unclouded intellect and

                                                                        /*
488 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

...bright and happy prospects to the mighty change that was
about to carry him from time to eternity.     In his life he

has shown us what a gifted and gigantic intellect can effect,

when conjoined with industry and energy, in the way of un

veiling and unfolding the secret laws and phenomena of nature.

In his death he has shown us that one possessing an intellect

so gifted and so gigantic could possess and lean upon the faith

of a pure and simple-hearted Christian. That faith made to

him the dreaded darkness of the valley of death a serene scene

of beauty and brightness. May God grant that it do so to
every one of us ! His spirit even now seems to me to be

beckoning on the votaries of literature and science, here and

elsewhere, along that path which he has so gloriously trode,

upwards and heavenwards and Christwards."

On the evening of March 27 a conversazione was held in

Surgeons' Hall, on the invitation of Professor Spence, the

President, and the Fellows of the Eoyal College of Surgeons,

when Sir James delivered a lecture on Anaesthetics. The hall

was crowded. The lecture was chiefly a re-statement of the

strong points in the history of the discovery of anaesthetic

agents. At the close Lord Deas proposed a vote of thanks to

the lecturer in a very happy and hearty way.  "      .  .  It  is

                                                  .

very interesting and curious to hear how the secrets of nature

have been to some extent known and used from time to time,

but still kept to a great extent as secrets by practitioners for
their own selfish purposes, till they came into the hands of the

--gentleman who has just addressed us one who, unlike most

magicians, has not only discovered these secrets, but has done

what is a true test of genius --brought these appliances, which

had formerly been misused, to bear on his fellow-creatures, and

done his utmost to spread the knowledge of them not only

throughout the length and breadth of this country of Great

Britain, but over the whole of Europe and of the civilized
Iworld.
         cannot conceive of a greater gratification to any man

than the reflection which Sir James Simpson must have in his
PROFESSOR NILSSON.  489

own mind, that at this very date the remedies which he had
alluded to are used to the extent and with the effect to which
he has referred -- from the rising to the setting of the sun. And

I cannot conceive of any greater debt of gratitude that could

be owed to any man than that which we owe to Sir James

Simpson. . . ."

    The following note indicates the high estimate in which Sir
James's last important contribution to Archaeology was held by
one of the most accomplished of the Scandinavian antiquaries,
Professor Sven Nilsson of Lund :--

                                                          "Lund, Suède, 1 Avril 1868.

   " Monsieur le Baronnet,--Après que je me suis longtemps
occupé d'autres recherches, j'ai nouvellement repris, pour objet

de mes études, l'âge du bronze dans le nord et l'ouest de
l'Europe, et par conséquent j'ai relu votre admirable ouvrage
sur 'Archaic Sculpturings ' dont vous avez eu la bonté de
m'envoyer une magnifique copie, qui actuellement fait un des

plus grands ornements dans ma belle bibliothèque.

   " Je l'ai relu, comme j'ai déjà dit, et avec la plus grande

reconnaissance, tant pour les renseignements dont vous avez
enrichi cette matière si difficile à résoudre, que pour la bonté
et l'humanité avec laquelle vous avez jugé de mes essais, et
aussi pour le don si précieux dont vous avez bien voulu

mTionorer.

   " Dans votre livre que j'ai relu avec un plaisir tout parti
culier, je trouve une riche source de preuves de l'existence du
fer dans les temps les plus reculés, et j'avoue franchement que
de toutes les oppositions, que j'ai reçues à mes vues que le
Bronze du Nord est d'origine phoenicienne, sont celles que
vous avez alléguées dans plusieurs passages de votre charmant
ouvrage --et c'est pour moi une preuve encore que l'âge du
Bronze est plus ancien dans le Nord que l'on souvent s'est

imaginé.

   " Dans un traité que j'ai sous la main j'ai essayé de frayer
490 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

une nouvelle voie de recherche sur le meme sujet, et sans le
moindre effort j'ai arrivé au meme but.

   " Peut-etre que je publie ce petit traits dans le congres a Nor
wich, ou j'ai l'intention de me rendre. Ce serait pour moi une
grande jouissance de vous y voir. Peut-etre puis-je l'esperer ?

   En tout cas je vous prie d'orner, a l'occasion, mon album de

votre photographie, en echange de la mienne, que j'aurai
l'honneur de vous envoyer.

    " Soyez persuadé de la haute estime et la sincere considéra
tion avec la quelle je suis votre tout devout,

                                                                   " S. NlLSSON."

   To his late assistant, Dr. J. Watt Black, then on a visit to

the Medical School of Vienna, he wrote :--

           --" 52 Queen Street,  Edinburgh, 6th April 1868.
                                 tell you how happy was
I I" My
dear  Dr.  Black,  cannot
Ito get your Vienna letter--for fancied you were ill --or that

some misfortune had befallen you. Mr. Druitt has written you

Iabout your letter. It was so very interesting that gave it to
I Ihim --for happened to be in London the day after received

it here.
   " Perhaps it may interest Professor Billroth to know that

Dr. Pirrie was in Edinburgh last week, and that he told me his

cases of excision of the mammae now amounted to sixteen,

eleven of which healed without a single drop of pus. He is
Ibringing out a new edition of his book.
                                          hope you have

shown Billroth the ' over-stitch' method.

  I" have been working very hard in practice, and keeping

wonderfully well, but much require a rest. Where are you
Igoing next ? Can you talk German at all easily ? Could
I --join you anywhere ?
           am in bed to-day quite used up.
" Mr. Syme has republished an old pamphlet of Warren's,

and is going in, it is said, for sulphuric ether ; but he has not
tried it yet. An American, Dr. Hewson, has written a capital

paper on the mode of closure of arteries in acupressure.
LETTER TO DR. BLACK.                                           491

   "Last week Wattie passed his Little-go at Cambridge
with honours. Willie is happy at farming ; Magnus and Eve

very good students. Last night Eve went with me and a

party to see the low lodging-houses, police-office, etc.
" The public --not myself --have set me forward as a candi
Idate for the Principalship ; but have not yet applied. Pro
                                                          But I
fessor Christison, Syme, Playfair, etc., all started.

believe it lies at present between me and Sir A. Grant of
Bombay, who will not take it unless he gets the vacant Moral

Philosophy Chair also. The time of election is not fixed, and
I ifwill not be greatly disappointed
                                      it does not fall on me.
I I" Piazzi Smyth and had a tussle about the Pyramids.

will send you my paper. In a fortnight he is to be ready at
the Eoyal Society for another fight. --Do write soon, very soon,

and believe me, ever affectionately yours,  " J. Y. Simpson."

   By the death of Lord Brougham, May 7, 1868, a vacancy

occurred in the Chancellorship of the University of Edinburgh.

The Chancellor is elected for life by the General Council.1

Shortly after Lord Brougham's death several gentlemen, Pro

fessors and others interested in the prosperity of the University,
held a consultation, when it was agreed to form a provisional

committee to take some action in electing a successor. The

      1 The University is a Corporation, consisting of a Chancellor, Rector,
Principal, Professors, Registered Graduates, and Alumni, and Matriculated
Students ; and including in the government the University Court, the
Senatus Academicus, and the General Council.

     The General Council consists of the Chancellor, the Rector, the Principal
and other members of the University Court, the Professors, all Masters of
Arts of the University, all Doctors of Medicine of the University, who have,
as Matriculated Students of the University, regularly attended classes in any
of the Faculties in the University during four complete Sessions, and of all
who, within three years of the passing of the Universities (Scotland) Act
(Aug. 2, 1858), established that, as Matriculated Students, they had attended
the University for four complete Sessions, or for three complete Sessions and
a fourth in some other Scottish University -- the attendance for at least two
of such Sessions having been on classes in the Curriculum of the Faculty of
Arts.
 492 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

names mentioned privately were those of the Duke of Edin
burgh, the Duke of Argyll, Earl Eussell, and others. At a
subsequent meeting this Committee resolved itself into one in
favour of the nomination of Mr. Gladstone. Ultimately a large
General Committee was formed, composed of members of
Council residing in different parts of the country. Sir James
was present at a meeting of this Committee, convened in 5 St.
Andrew Square, June 1, 1868, and was called by acclamation
to the chair. " In opening the proceedings he begged to state
to those members of Council who had not been present at their
first meeting, that on that occasion they had quietly and con
siderately discussed the claims of various noblemen and gentle

men to the office of Chancellor. All present, and, he believed,

all absent members of Council would have joyfully acquiesced
in the nomination of the Duke of Argyll, if his Grace, who had
been long Chancellor of the ancient University of St. Andrews,
would have allowed himself to be nominated as Chancellor of

the University of Edinburgh. . . . The object of the present
meeting was to promote the election of Mr. Gladstone for the
Chancellorship of the University of Edinburgh, as successor to

Lord Brougham. In the right honourable gentleman they had

that combination of name, fame, power, and talent which they
required in a Chancellor. He was a distinguished author, one
of the greatest scholars, greatest orators, greatest legislators,

and greatest statesmen living--a man whom they all knew

would one day, and that perhaps at a very early day, be
Premier of England." 1 Another committee of members of the
General Council was formed, with the view of securing the
election of Mr. Inglis, the Lord Justice-General. The contest
was keen, and gave rise to a good deal of hot discussion. Mr.
Inglis was elected.

   In the letter to Dr. Black, given above, Sir James alludes to
the vacant Principalship of the University. The Principal

is the resident head of the College, and President of the Senatus

                                     1 Scotsman, June 2, 1868.
THE PRINCIPALSHIP.  493

Academicus. His appointment is vested in the Court of Cura

tors -- a body consisting of seven members, three of whom are

nominated by the University, and four by the Edinburgh Town
Council. When the tidings of Sir David Brewster's death
reached Edinburgh, the choice of a successor was eagerly
canvassed. Had the choice lain with the people of Scotland,
Sir James would, no doubt, have been elected by an immense
majority. Eemarkable unanimity in his favour prevailed

throughout the country.

  Diverse circumstances had concurred to produce this. It has

ever been regarded as a distinctive feature of the Scottish
Universities, that they receive on equal terms within their

walls and admit to their fostering care the youth of all classes.

Their highest prizes and best positions are open to rich and

poor alike. In filling up their Chairs, the only legitimate
question regarding a candidate has been held to be--" What
has he done?" High social position or wealth give no advan
tages to students as such. Sir James had entered the Uni
versity poor and unfriended. By the force of talent, cultivated
with persistent painstaking, and disciplined and enriched by
earnest, continuous toil, he had made his way, in spite of in

numerable obstacles, to a Professorship. The Bathgate baker's
son had taken his place in the lists with many favoured by
fortune, or by circumstances that left them free to pursue
learning and science without distraction, yet he had beaten
them in the race. Men who by sheer intellectual strength

compel even adverse circumstances to become to them upward
steps in life's ladder, ever win the hearty esteem of their fellows.

If worthy, they are not soon forgotten. All this was strikingly

apparent in the present case. Public opinion rallied in Sir
James's favour. Non-academical men did not look very closely
at the steps by which he had reached distinction. They may
even have felt themselves unqualified to form an opinion on
the merits. But they believed in the impartiality of learned

men, and regarded success as the testimony to deserving talent.
494 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

It was also, they thought, to be expected, that a man would

regard with special favour the University system under which

he had won some of the highest prizes of life. Its features

would be sure to be stamped on his own mind ; its interests

would be to him sacred ; and its highest advancement the aim

and ambition of his life. Indeed, Sir James never forgot that

he was a University man, and he was ever willing to acknow

ledge his indebtedness to it. Its interests, its fame, its useful

ness, were ever more to him than his own standing as one of

its Professors. The spirit of devotion and self-sacrifice goes

with men into the management and affairs of public institutions,

as well as into those of domestic life. This was so in his case.

He gave himself heartily to praise his colleagues, when visiting

continental Universities. He had much to tell about his own

work, but he was silent on this point, and spoke instead of the

work done by others. He wished to exalt his University in

the eyes of foreign scientific workers. As a Professor he was

himself not only one of many ; he stood out in the eyes of

men, as one of whom all were sure to speak whenever and

wherever the University of Edinburgh was mentioned. And

Edinburgh itself, as his University city, got his devotion like

wise. Had he, when asked to go to London, and begin the

work of teacher and practitioner there, consented, an income

unequalled in the history of medical practice awaited him. To

Edinburgh the rank and the intelligence of many lands looked
specially as the place of his residence. " You come from Scot

land," said the King of Denmark lately to a friend introduced
                                         " Yes, Sire, from
to his Majesty by Professor Steenstrup.

Edinburgh." "From Edinburgh!" replied the King, "Sir

Simpson was of Edinburgh." His name was famous over the

civilized world. The learned Societies of every land bore

hearty tribute to his greatness. The list of his honours would
fill pages. Some of them are given in a note below.1

   1 D.C.L. Oxon. ; Honorary M.D. of Dublin ; formerly President of the Royal
College of Physicians, of the Royal Medical, the Royal Physical, the Medico-
Chirurgical, and Obstetric Societies of Edinburgh ; Honorary Fellow of the
THE PRINCIPALSHIP.  495

    On his appointment to the Professorship, he soon fulfilled the
highest expectations of the patrons. His class at once became

popular. Students crowded its benches. Many even who had

long passed away from college life took tickets for his class,

that with him they might survey those new and fresh fields of
study into which he led his pupils. By bringing weight of
character, scientific attainments, professional breadth of view,

and richly varied literary accomplishments, to the illustration
of the studies of his special department, he lifted it into a

higher position as an important branch of medical science than
it had ever held before. He showed, moreover, that the practice

of the obstetrician could well harmonize with that of the general

physician. It was in the latter capacity indeed that a large

number of patients of both sexes waited on him. We have

seen that many of his most important contributions to the
literature of medical science were in departments outside of

the special work of his Chair. By the introduction of chloro

form as an anaesthetic, he made his mark on every branch of

the medical profession, and laid mankind under a lasting debt
of gratitude. The part he took in the movement for medical

reform, and the boon he conferred on the Universities by

securing to them, at the last moment, and at great personal

trouble, some of the best clauses of the Medical Bill under which
they now act, have already been narrated. As regards literary
and scientific accomplishments, it may be said, without fear of

contradiction, that there was no other Scotchman who at the
time took hold of and influenced more men of mark, in every
rank and profession, than he did. Some anonymous writers

indeed caught at his outspoken words on modern education, and

King and Queen's Colleges of Physicians in Ireland ; Laureate of the Imperial
Institute of France ; Knight of the Order of St. Olaf of Norway ; Foreign
Member of the Academies of Medicine of France, Belgium, and New York ;
of the Academy of Science of Sweden; of the American Philosophical Society;
of the Medical Institute of Egypt ; of the Medical Societies of Constantinople,
Athens, Bohemia, Norway, Stockholm, Copenhagen, Ghent, Massachusetts,
Lima, Bombay, etc. ; of the Societies of Surgery and Biology of Paris ;
Honorary or Corresponding Fellow of the Obstetric Societies of London,
Dublin, Leipsic, Berlin, etc. etc. etc.
496 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

insinuated that he was opposed to the classics, on the sour-

--grapes principle --denouncing what he could not appreciate,

but they signally failed to make out a case. Impartial men,
who had no electioneering motive to serve, nor selfish end to
gain, appreciated the position he had taken up, and began
earnestly to carry out his views. Not, however, by throwing
classical education overboard, but by assigning to it a place as
well defined as that given to modern languages or to natural
science. That this was Sir James's point of view is evident from
the much-decried Granton lecture itself. Add to all this the

fact, that for years he had literally done the hospitalities of
Edinburgh to strangers distinguished in Art, in Literature, or
in Science. Surely, then, there was no academic honour to
which he might aspire that could gracefully be denied him.
But circumstances now occurred little in harmony with this
view, and little fitted to perpetuate belief in the moral eleva
tion of learning and the impartiality of science.

    The Principalship was filled up. Sir James was not elected.
The Court of Curators thought it not meet to advance one
of the University's worthiest sons to a position for which he

was pre-eminently qualified. It seemed to many, that by this

act the University lost more than he did, whom the electors

thus refused to honour. " It is painful to think that he who

was deemed worthy of a tomb in Westminster Abbey was in
his lifetime deprived of a well-merited honour, and the Uni
versity of the glory of his name as Principal." The means by
which this result was brought about were, to say the least, of

a very extraordinary, if not scandalous, kind. The opposition

of some of his colleagues, after hanging for some time in loose
particles, got compacted, and ultimately assumed the form of a
Memorial, in which they deemed it their duty to inform the
Curators, that Sir James's appointment would not be for the
advantage of the University. By one method and another the
Curators were led to regard this as a threat on the part of the
memorialists, that they were prepared to withdraw from the
              THE PRINCIPALSHTP.            497

Senatus in the event of this appointment. Up till this time
Sir James had had a majority in the Court of Electors, but in

consequence of the attitude assumed by the reclaiming Pro
fessors, especially when looked at in the light of other influences

that had been working for some time, one of the Curators becameI it,
alarmed, and withdrew his support from Sir James. His letter
intimating this reached Sir James just before morning prayers.it
He read put away, and conducted family worship calmly,
and with an earnestness that greatly impressed some strangers
who were present. When they had returned from the library,
and had taken their seats at the breakfast-table, he said very
quietly, " have lost the Principalship."

    The incident narrated in the following letter sheds still more
light on his attitude and state of feeling, in the very heart of
one of the most painful occasions of his life --
                                            a
" My dear Sir,--                 " Free Church Manse,
                       " Newhaven, Edinburgh, 13tA Feb. 1873.:
                  am acquainted with many facts and cir     .
I
cumstances illustrative of the singularly generous kindness byaa.
which Sir James Simpson was distinguished. .
            aI I                                         I
   " You will recollect the contest for the office of PrincipalitI
in the University of Edinburgh, and how deeply the feelings of
Sir James were interested in the event. The election took

place on Monday, and                 was on the Sabbath preceding,

between sermons, that one of my people, fisherman, called on

me, stating that his wife was apparently dying, but that she

and all her friends were longing most intensely for consultation

with Sir James. did not know well what to do, for knew

that his mind was likely to be very much harassed, and
shrank from adding to his troubles. But in the urgency of the
case wrote him note, simply stating that one of the best
women in the town was at the point of death, and longed for
his help, leaving the matter without another word to himself.
The result was that he came down immediately, spent three

hours beside his patient, performed, am told, miracles of skill,
                                         I

                                     21
498 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Iand did not leave her till the crisis was over. She would, am

assured, have died that evening, but she was one of the sincerest

mourners at his funeral, and she still lives to bless his memory.

After all was over, he went into a friend's house, and threw

himself down on a sofa in a state of utter exhaustion. This

was the way in which, without hope of fee or reward, and while

others were waiting for him able to give him both, that Sir
James spent the evening preceding the election. Some will

say it was no great matter after alL Why, for that part of           it,

neither was the cup of cold water which the dying Sir Philip

Sydney passed from his own lips to those of wounded soldier
                                                     a
                                                                 is
in greater agony than himself. But the incident                      recalled

whenever his name mentioned, as adding to the glory of the
         a

                             is
knight sans peur et sans reproche, and the incident have men
                                                         I

tioned in the Newhaven fisherman's house surely gives to Sir

James place beside him in the glorious order of chivalrous
generosity. --Believe me, yours most truly,

                                                         " James Fairbairn."

There are more than thirty Professors in the Edinburgh

University. The Memorial referred to above was signed by

twelve.  aI  have conclusive proof before me that two of this

number would have acted cordially under Sir James. Two

were old antagonists, who had openly and earnestly opposed

his election to the Professorship itself. Another of the num

ber erroneously believed that by Sir James's interference he

had lost University Chair while sixth had blows still fresh
in his memory, most difficult for some to bear -- blows that had
             a

                                       ;

                                                a
fallen heavily on pet theory. Many onlookers thought that

this opposition might, with all safety, have been disregarded by

the Court of Electors and most likely would have been,
                                 ;                   it

                                          it
                                                 it
had not other influences come into active play and lent weight

to the memorialists. Whenever became known that the

twelve Professors had deemed their dutyto inform the Curators
that Sir James's appointment " would not be for the advantage
THE PRINCIPALSHIP.                              499

of the University," a counter Memorial was presented, signed,
in the course of two or three days, by nearly a thousand mem

bers of the University Council, praying for the appointment of
Sir James in the highest interests of the University. This con

clusively showed how strong and decided the convictions of
educated men were in his favour. While Sir James was

grieved by the attitude assumed by a small band of his col

leagues, he freely admitted that they were quite entitled to use

legitimate means to secure the triumph of their views. But

alongside of these movements there were others that cannot be

too severely characterized. One of his colleagues wrote a letter

to a member of the Court of Electors assailing Sir James's

character. This was handed to the Court, read by its clerk,

and returned to the elector, by whom it was destroyed. A

gentleman, not connected with the University, went out of his

way to meddle with the matter, and sent a letter to another

elector, in which grave suspicion of Sir James's moral charac

ter, and doubt of the sincerity even of his Christian profession,

were expressed. This he felt more keenly than all else, because
Idone by one to whom he was almost a stranger.
                                                shall never

forget the expression of unspeakable sadness on his countenance

Iwhen called at Sir James's request. " What can he mean ?

Leaving myself out of view, is it not a sin against the Saviour ?

IHe has forgotten all 1 John i. ii." When indicated that perhaps

he was taking the matter too seriously, he said, " But you don't

know alL" He then went over the circumstances. The letter

had been most unprovoked. It had been left incidentally at

the house of one of the Professors, himself a memorialist, by

a youth who had occasion to call there on his way with the

letter to the elector to whom it was addressed. Copied,
unknown to its author, it was intrusted to another of the

memorialists, by whom copies were forwarded for electioneer

ing purposes to other two of the electors. Party zeal, and the

determination to win, must have blinded the actors to the true

nature of these proceedings. Sir James heard of these com
500 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

munications on the very eve of the election, and at once wrote

to the Court of Curators, demanding the postponement of the

election that he might have an opportunity of vindicating his

character. But in vain. After the election Sir James's friends
Ipersuaded him to seek his vindication in another way.
                                                         saw

him frequently at the time, and can bear testimony to his re

luctance to take steps towards this. Ultimately he agreed to

leave the matter in the hands of Mr. Pender of Minard, Dr.
Alexander Wood, and Mr. Thomas M'Kie, advocate. " But

try," said Sir James, " and avoid legal proceedings." It is un

necessary to go into further details. A most searching inquiry

was instituted. Those primarily concerned in the fabrication

and propagation of the calumnies made a most complete retrac

Itation, and individually expressed deep regret. " beg there

fore," says the writer of the letter, " to retract and apologize

Ifor using such words, and to express my regret that ever wrote
Ithem. At the same time, believe that a meaning has been

attached to my words by certain persons which they were

never intended by me to convey, and that they have been made
I Ithe ground of insinuations of which never dreamt
                                                     cannot

too strongly disclaim such interpretations, or too deeply regret
I Ithat wrote anything which could have led to them.
                                                         may

be allowed to add, that this matter has caused me no ordinary

Isuffering ; that lament and condemn the use that has been
I Imade of my letter, and that am more distressed than can

tell at the pain which has been given to Sir J. Simpson, and

at my having been the occasion, most unintentionally, of un

just imputations on his character."
I" When," says the Professor who copied the letter, " hastily
Icopied and transmitted
                's letter, had no idea that it was
I ... Ifitted to convey the imputations to which refer.
                                                         now
Iregret extremely that was in any way connected with the
                I's letter, that have in this way occasioned
circulation of
Ipain and annoyance to you, and that have acted in this

matter in a manner which may seem at variance with our
                             THE PRINCIPALSHIP.                         501

Ifriendly relations as colleagues.  have to ask your for

giveness, and to express a hope that the transaction may be

forgotten."

  I" beg to repeat," wrote the third party to whom reference
Ihas been made, " in this form, the explanation which offered

to you in the course of the evidence formerly given before you
in this matter --viz., that the statements complained of did

not at the time appear to me libellous ; and that, therefore, on
account of the strong testimony borne in the letter to the
qualifications of Sir Alexander Grant for the Principalship of

Ithe University, considered myself warranted in transmitting

to two Curators a letter intended for a third, and presenting

no indication of being intended for a confidential letter. That
had it occurred to me at the time that the letter contained

passages which might be construed as of a libellous nature,a    it ;
             it,
I should certainly not have been accessory to the communica         it
Ition of it to any one. That now see that the letter ofit,
Imay be read as libellous. That in these circumstances readily
Iexpress my regret that took any part in communicating the

letter to any of the Curators." 1

    Such are the leading features of this unworthy work. The

Ihigh regard have for some of the parties who inconsiderately

lent themselves to led me to seek earnestly for grounds that

would have justified the omission of any allusion to here. It

was the only great shadow attempted to be cast on the lustre of
  bright public career, and had to be noticed. Sir James was

satisfied with the retractation and apology of those who had
caused and heartily forgave them. His attitude throughout the
whole of these transactions won the admiration of all who shared

his confidence. It impressed me much at the time, but my

admiration of his bearing has been deepened while carefully

A full statement of the case was printed at the time bnt Sir James,
1
                             would be to these parties, refused to sanction its
                         it
seeing how injurious

publication. Should, however, an attempt be made at any time to dissociate

his loss of the Principalship from these misrepresentations would be neces

sary to publish this document.
502 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

tracing again the history of the affair. Proofs are abundant of

his generosity, his willingness to forgive imputation of crooked
motives, and chiefly of his dread lest Christianity should be

Iheld responsible for the unchristian acts of any of its disciples.

But cannot pass away from the subject without another re

mark. It seems to me that some of Sir James's friends let

their zeal outrun discretion, and imported questions into the
candidateship which, to say the least, were not legitimate.
The English Universities, " farthest Ind," professional and even
commercial circles, were applied to for information foreign to
the affair. Sir James Simpson was not one

                  " who hopes (his neighbour's worth deprest)

                          Pre-eminence himself ; and covets hence,
                       For his own greatness, ' that another fall.' "

But, indeed, there was on both sides not a little of that busy-
bodyism which, on such occasions, often works much mischief
among friends.
                        CHAPTER XV.

   Graduation Address, 1st August 1868 --Freedom of the City-- Speech of
         Lord Provost Chambers-- Sir James's Reply --Public Religious

        --WoVriksi--t tMo rR.oSmpeur--ge"onP--ucHko"s--pitDaol gRseafonrdmC--hiSldtraetnist--icsHoof mAemApfufetacttiioonnss
         -- Idea of a Holiday--Hospitalism --Letter to Walter-- Note on
         Chloral -- Anaesthesia -- Dr. H. Storer --Medical and Archaeological
         Works --Witness in a Divorce Case --Visit to Dr. Williams at York
         --Letter to Magnus --Illness -- Notes of Sick-room Experiences by
         Mr. R. R. Simpson--Death.

   When the new Principal entered on office, Sir James re
cognised the situation with cheerful grace, and prepared to act

under him for the interests of the University. It fell to him

to deliver the Medical Graduation Address on the 1st of
August 1868. Though fresh from the circumstances narrated
above, no trace of bitterness or of disappointment marred the
address, and no word fell from his lips that could possibly have
been held to point to the keen and painful contest out of
which he had so recently come. He spoke with great freedom
and earnestness, and in that hopeful spirit which ever fixes the
attention of the young. He sketched the young physician's
work and temptations, indicated what motives should guide
him, referred to facts in the history of the profession illustra
tive of his remarks, and closed with a weighty and most ear

--nest appeal :

   " But it is more than time that these rambling remarks should

Ibe drawing to a close, for dare detain you no longer. Your

chains of pupillage are already severed and falling off for ever.

IPardon me, however, if venture to add one or two remarks
504 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

more ere we part, and part never all to meet together again, on

Iearth at least. have incidentally spoken to you of an American

physician, the celebrated Dr. Eush, who graduated in this

University" exactly one hundred years ago, when Professors
Munro the second and Joseph Black, William Cullen and John

Gregory and Francis Home were members of the Medical
Faculty. Where -- where are they and their armies of enthusi
astic pupils 1 No one who was present at that graduation is

alive now. Fifty years hence very few of you assembled here
this day will be still living ; a hundred years hence, and all
these bodies of ours will be dead and decomposed. For we are
all labelled and ticketed 'for the grave' --some, perhaps, to
reach it very soon, and others, later, and later, till all are gone,

and gathered to our mother earth, and dust to dust, ashes to ashes.
Amid our greatest pleasures, and in days even of just joy and

rational rejoicing like this, we are constantly reminded of the
shortness of our sojourn here. ' Life is short, and the art

long' --6 y3t'o5 fipaxm, r\ Be reyyrj fiaKprj -- so wrote the Father

 of Medicine upwards of 2000 years ago. . . .

    " At that solemn hour, as we cross the river of death, may
 He by whom ' all things were made,' lead and protect and
 sustain you by the might of His hand; --that hand which hung
 up the sun in the firmament -- which spun the planets and stars
 on their courses --which created this bright and beautiful phy
 sical world --and which, in human form, was nailed up to the

 cross of Calvary to ransom back the dark and desolate moral

 world, and atone for man's transgressions. May the infinitude
 of that Saviour's love guard and claim you then --and now--

  and always."

   Towards the close of the same month he received the following

communication from the Lord Provost of Edinburgh :--

I--" City Chambers, Edinburgh, 26th August 1868.
"My dear Sir James,  have the honour to inform you

that on the 4th inst. the Lord Provost, Magistrates, and Council
                   FREEDOM OF THE CITY.                     505

unanimously adopted the following resolution, which has since

been duly confirmed :--' That the Freedom of the City be con

ferred on Sir James Young Simpson of Strathavon, Bart., M.D. ,

D.C.L., Professor of Midwifery in the University of Edinburgh,

whose numerous and varied contributions to Medical Science and

to Literature, and particularly whose distinguished discoveries

and appliances for the alleviation of human suffering, have

served to maintain and extend the reputation of the City and

its Medical School, and entitle him to the respect and gratitude

of his fellow -citizens.'

   " It will be a gratification to the Corporation if you can make

Iit convenient to receive the Burgess-ticket in person, and shall

be glad to arrange for this at such time as may suit your con

Ivenience. -- have the honour to be, my dear Sir James, yours

faithfully,                    W. Chambers, Lord Provost."

Later, the Lord Provost wrote :--

                        "City  Chambers, Edinburgh, Sept. 7th, 1868.
                   James, --    find that Lord Napier of Magdala
I" My
dear          Sir

is likely to receive the freedom of the city some day next week.
I hope it will be convenient for you to receive the freedom at
Ithe same time ; and if so, that you will be at hand.
                                                       hope to

be able to fix the day and hour by Wednesday afternoon.

Yours truly,                   W. Chambers, Lord Provost."

To this note Sir James replied :--

                    --Provost,   " 52 Queen Street, Edinburgh.
                                Several days ago wrote and
I" My
dear          Lord

spoke to your Lordship as to the question of my receiving the

citizenship of Edinburgh on the same day and on the same
                                         IThe more have
occasion with Lord Napier of Magdala.
Ithought on the matter, the more have felt convinced in my

original idea that it would be wrong in me to presume to appear

alongside of Lord Napier. All the inhabitants of Edinburgh

Iare, believe, anxious that the fullest honour should be paid to
506 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

ILord Napier that they possibly can pay ; and in this feeling
                                      J. Y. S."
most heartily concur.

The presentation of the freedom of the City took place about

a year after. The ceremony was witnessed by a large assem

blage of ladies and gentlemen.

   In the course of an able and laudatory address, the Lord

Provost said :-- " We are proud indeed to know that we possess

in the city of Edinburgh a gentleman like yourself, whose

reputation is not confined to Scotland, but who is known over
the whole civilized world -- known as well on the banks of the

Thames and the Seine as on the shores of the Firth of Forth.

It is no small matter of pride to us to think that we have been

able to retain you in our ancient city. Alas ! almost all our

men of genius are drawn away by the greater metropolis of the

South ; and we feel gratified to think that you have found here

a suitable and proper sphere for your great and valuable ser
Ivices.
         will not dwell on what you have accomplished in
Imedical science.
                       will only allude to your discovery -- the

greatest of all discoveries in modern times -- of the application

of Chloroform in the assuagement of human suffering. That

was a great gift to mankind at large, and it well befits us, the

Corporation of Edinburgh, to mark our sense of the great act

Iof beneficence on your part by this small compliment.

could also allude, did time permit, to your distinguished service

in the discovery of Acupressure, by which haemorrhage is rapidly

and safely stopped, and, of course, many lives are saved. This

is a subject on which medical men are very much more quali

fied to speak than myself, but we do possess at least the

general appreciation of its great value, which enables us to say

that we are proud to have a man amongst us capable of
Irendering such service to humanity.
                                      might allude also to

your remarkable success in the pursuit of archaeological and

antiquarian researches, to your wonderful investigations into the

medical practices of ancient times, and into the antiquities of
FREEDOM OF THE CITY.       507

our own country. In that field alone you might have achieved
a most distinguished reputation. However, it is more as a

medical man that we address you to-day. You have raised the

reputation of the University of Edinburgh and of its Pro

fessors, who may well be proud to think they have among them

a man so distinguished and so eminent. You have ever been

the friend of sanitary improvement. . . ."

  In his reply Sir James referred to his first arrival in Edin

burgh, forty years before. He spoke of his student life, of his

first attempts to get into a position in which he might turn his

medical knowledge to practical account, of his failure as a

candidate for the office of a village surgeon, and of his elder

Ibrother's generous and self-sacrificing help. " came to settle

down a citizen of Edinburgh, and fight among you a hard and

up-hill battle of life, for bread, and name, and fame, and the
Ifact that stand here before you this day so far testifies that
Iin this arduous struggle  have --won. Some seven or eight

years after my graduation, and in this very room, all the for

tune and destiny of my future life were one forenoon swayed

and settled by a vote of the Town Council of Edinburgh, when

they elected me Professor of Midwifery in the University. . . .

On the day of election one of the patrons eagerly argued in

Ithis hall that if were chosen as Dr. Hamilton's successor the

hotel-keepers, merchants, and others in the city would have

Igood reason to complain, as could never be expected like him

to induce patients to come occasionally from a distance to our

Icity. But think this prophetical objection has been even
I Imore fully gainsaid than the other ; for believe have had

the good fortune to draw towards our beloved and romantic

town more strangers than ever sought it before for mere health's

--sake ; and that, too, from most parts of the globe from

America and Australia, from Asia and Africa, and from the

various kingdoms of Europe. Your Lordship has alluded, in

too flattering terms, to some of the professional and other work

Iwhich have been permitted to do in the course of my pro
508 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Ifessional life.  only wish my deserts were more worthy of
Iyour kind eulogy. For sometimes when look back and
Ireflect, feel regret and dismay that my avocations and my

idleness have prevented me from doing more for the promotion

of a science and art which, like medicine, calls aloud for so

much devotion and study from its followers and votaries."

  After referring to chloroform and acupressure, he adds :--
" It has been often, however, adduced as a sage and sound

remark, that a man may sometimes see, as in a mirror, a fore

cast of the relative esteem in which his works and writings

will be eventually held by future generations, by looking at the
relative estimation in which he and they are held in his own

day by foreigners, and by foreign nations and foreign schools,

who, unbiassed by personality, reduce all objects at once to
If Itheir just proportions and true value.
                                            dared to risk such
I Ia test, should have some reason to hope that what little

have done in my profession may yet perhaps enable me to

Ileave some slight 'footprints on the sands of time' --for
Ihave had, believe, more foreign academic honours and dis

tinctions accorded to me than have fallen to the lot of most

Iof my medical contemporaries. For my own part, however,

regard it as a far higher and greater gratification that to-day,
and at home -- not from the stranger and foreigner, but from

you, my own townsmen, who live in the same community with

me, and know me personally, and all my outgoings and doings
I-- have received the honour which you have conferred upon
Ime ;
and     receive it in the  spirit of your  Lordship's interpreta
tionof its                 testimony of    esteem offered by you
        object --not as a

to me as a Professor and physician merely, but also as a man.

IIt is specially in this last light that rejoice in thus standing

here before you this day, and accepting from you this casket,

Iwhich shall have sincere pride and pleasure in transmitting

down to the keeping of my sons."

   In the autumn of 1868 Sir James's health was better than it
had been for seven years. Abundant in labours --professional,
                            VIEWS OF RELIGIOUS WORK.                                     509

philanthropic, and archaeological -- his life was full of heart

and hope. 1

   At this period, and later, there were some who thought that

his Christian love was not so warm, nor his Christian zeal so

earnest, as they had been for some time after his spiritual

change. He was seldomer seen at religious meetings, and
seldomer engaged in public Christian work. But they forgot

that Christianity as a life ever, in natures like his and in

cases where there is no official connexion with the public work

of the Church, after its first fresh impulses subsides into calm,

quiet channels. It was much thus with him. The estimate

of his Christianity was to be formed from the healthy influences

it was exercising in the social circle, among his patients, and

among the strangers from many lands to whom he ever offered
Ifthe most hearty hospitality.
                                                          his voice was not heard in the

streets, the influence of his example was owned in more in
fluential quarters. " He that believeth shall not make haste."

Some of the Christian friends who knew him best, and rejoiced

most sincerely over the gift and grace of Jesus Christ in him, were

glad to notice the growing unfrequency of his appearance at great

public religious meetings. At such gatherings the harp is too

often struck only on one string. The love of God is exalted at the

1 A straw on the surface will indicate the direction of the current. The

following trifle shows how firmly the geniality of earlier years kept its hold
of him :--
                                     " Questions and Answers.
"I. --Put on your wishing-cap, and what would you wish for? -- The

recovery of the idle Past.                                                      stones,  and
   " ii. -- Gather your favourite flower. -- Forget-me-not.

  "ni. -- Name your principal tastes. -- ' Auld nicknackets,'

books,     --anWd h(taetll  it not)  a cup   of tea   !   prolong ?-- The  New  Year.
    " iv.                   time of  year   would
                                                     you
" v. --Choose a motto. -- ' Excelsior.'
" VL --Where is the pleasantest spot in memory ?--Any spots
                                                                                       where

neither    bells, messages, letters, nor telegrams        can reach me.                ?--Ladies'
                                                          subject for reform
   " vn.   --What do you think the fittest                     J. Y. Simpson, M.D.

dresses, without a doubt.

" Baltimore House, Sep. 1868.

" Written in Miss F. M. Colquhoun's album."
510 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

expense of His righteousness, and views find expression fitted

to beget the belief that the law of God is not part of the Gospel

of Jesus Christ. Many who look to the privileges of the Sabbath,

as the means through which they have often got strength for

the work of the week, are saying that Christian ordinances are

not what they were wont to be. Men speak from the pulpit as

if they had come to believe that their hearers had minds but

not consciences, while the appeals from the religious plat

form often seem to indicate, that the speakers have an impres

sion that the audience have consciences but not minds. It is

doubtful if Sir James would have escaped this one-sided

tendency, had he, with his want of leisure and occasion for

systematic study of the Bible, continued to do a tithe even of

the public religious work on which he had entered, with so much

earnestness and heart, at the time of his change.

  In the autumn of 1868 he was brought into close relation with
Mr. Spurgeon. "Sir James and Mr. Spurgeon became first

acquainted in 1864, at the house of their mutual friend, Mr.

William Dickson, York Place, where they were wont to meet

on Mr. Spurgeon's successive visits to Edinburgh. Not a little

similar in type, physically as well as mentally, an affectionate

friendship was quickly the result, and both seemed greatly to

enjoy their brief subsequent opportunities of intercourse. On

being told, in 1867, of the painful illness of Mrs. S., Sir James, in

the kindest and most delicate way, offered, through Mr. Dickson,
his professional services in London. ' But, remember,' he charac

Iteristically said, ' if go, it is as a friend, and not as a doctor.'

The offer was gratefully accepted. Alluding to Sir James's

lamented death, Mr. Spurgeon wrote, -- 'Our friend Sir James
has gone over to the majority. It cannot be wrong.' "

On the 27th September Mr. Spurgeon wrote to Mr. Dickson :
"I I-- am no small trouble to you, but what can do ? . . . My
... Idear wife grows worse.
                             wrote to Sir James about a week

ago. . . . You will do me a service incalculable and never to be

forgotten if you can see our kind friend and get him to appoint a
time." Again, on the 7th October, --"My dear Friend, --Let me
                         HOSPITALISM.    511

Ilive the age of Methuselah, shall not forget your goodness.
IThe Lord reward you, cannot. This is to bear one another's

burdens, and to fulfil the law of Christ." And again, after Sir
James had visited Mrs. Spurgeon :--

                           I " Clapham, Tuesday, 1 a.m.

   " My very dear Friend, -- am writing far into the night

to tell friends how my dear wife has sped. That dear

angel of mercy, Sir James Simpson, has been very successful,

as usual, and the operation is well over ; patient, very patient,
Ifand in good spirits.
                         you know 10,000 eloquent men in
IScotland, would give them work for the next hundred years ;

viz., to praise the Lord for sending to us such a man, so skilful

and so noble a doctor."

In the beginning of the session 1868-69 he again took up

the subject of Hospital Eeform, which had so early and so often

exercised his mind. He had long had a strong conviction, that

the public accommodation for the diseased was not in harmony

with improved methods of treatment, but rather interfered with

them. His views on the subject of acupressure had now a

strong influence on his investigations.  But his methods of

work neutralized tendencies to bias against prevalent modes

of hospital practice. He generally based his inferences on

statistics, published for other purposes than that for which he

used them. He simply wished for facts.

            TO DR. WATT BLACK.

--I" My dear Dr.,        " 52 Queen St., Edinburgh, 2Sth Dec. 1868.
                         had on Saturday morning a talk with

of Guy's Hospital, when he promised to give me the

amputations of the limbs at Guy's during the last seven years

-- their number and result.

  I I" At the time, thought that might obtain returns from the

Superintendents or Registrars of St. Bartholomew's, Middlesex,

University, King's College, etc., by writing them. But none of

their names are in Churchill's Directory, under the staff of these

hospitals.
512 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

I" wish greatly you would look in at any of these, and ask

for any printed returns of their cases and operations. Some,

like Guy's, publish these annually. They would give us all we

want. Or, if they have none published, have they any tables

Ithat would fill up such returns as enclose, and a long list of

which T have had now returned to me ?

   "Please make for me (this week if you can, against our

Infirmary annual meeting on Monday) inquiries as to what

London hospitals have obstetric, as well as medical and surgical

wards. Guy's and the London have them.
   " Do the London hospitals contain, like ours, more surgical

than medical patients ? Have they lists of their beds ?
I I" am sorry to trouble you with all this. To-morrow am
Igoing to see a case in Glasgow.
--Yours always,                   got down well, but very cold.

                                       J. Y. Simpson."

    He saw that the record which would most truly serve his

purpose was that furnished by the acting surgeons of public
hospitals for the information of the managers. This he

questioned, examined, and cross-examined, with the view of
ascertaining the soundness of his own views touching hospital
accommodation. Huge hospital edifices in cities he held to be

bad, and circumstances determined him at this time to try and
convince the public of this. Two methods occurred to him.

On the one hand, he might compare the mortality in the great
hospitals at present with that, in similar cases, in the older and
smaller buildings that preceded them. On the other hand, he

might contrast the results of country amputations with those

in city hospitals. In either case the advantage, at first sight,
might be expected to lie with the city institutions ; because it
is to be supposed that surgical skill is now far greater than it
was in bygone days, and that the arrangements of great hospitals
in the centres of wealth and of science would far surpass what
could be found in rural districts and in cottage homes. But
in all his investigations facts compelled him to conclude other
wise. He took immense labour to obtain the facts which, in
HOSPITALISM.  513

the spring of 1869, he embodied in two elaborate papers on
Hospitalism. Assuming the operative skill of the practitioners
in town and country, in palatial hospital edifice and in lowly
cottage home, to be equal, the test came to lie in the influence

of the external circumstances and surroundings on the patient.

He set himself with his wonted thoroughness of effort and single

ness of aim to discover the truth, and here are the results :--
    " The total number of limb- amputations collected from

private country and provincial practice amounts to 2098. On

counting up the limb -amputations collected from eleven large

and metropolitan hospitals, the total number happens acci

dentally to be very nearly the same, for it amounts to 2089.

    " The whole collected number operated upon is thus nearly
similar in hospital practice and in rural practice. But the
results as to the relative number of lives lost in these two types

or places of practice is immensely different.
    " After the 2098 limb-amputations in the country, 226 of

the patients died. After the 2089 limb-amputations in eleven

large and metropolitan hospitals, 855 of the patients died.
    " The mortality after limb-amputations in the country is thus

1 in 92, and after limb-amputations in large and metropolitan

hospitals 1 in 2 '4. Hence the number that die after these
operations in such hospital practice, when compared with rural
practice, nearly four times greater.

   "But the experience of the country surgeon loses --as we
have seen -- only 1 in every 12-4 of his patients upon whom he

performs limb-amputation. Hence the experienced country
surgeon operating upon his patients in poor cottages and
villages is-- as compared with the experienced city surgeon,
operating upon his patients in rich and magnificent hospitals

--FIVE TIMES MORE SUCCESSFUL.

  I" In some minor amputations -- and hence, believe, in other

minor operations also --the contrast is still more marked between
the success of amputation in country practice and in the practice
of large hospitals. In country practice, after amputation of the ,

                                                     2K
514 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

forearm, 2 died out of 377 cases, or 1 in every 188 operated
on. In eleven large and metropolitan hospitals, out of 244 cases
of amputation of the forearm, 40 died, or 1 in every 6 operated
on. Hence, according to these data, the death-rate in hospital
practice was, as compared with the death-rate in rural practice

in this individual operation, thirty times greater.

     " The tremendous differences between the two practices may

perhaps be more pointedly and simply stated thus :--

     Out of 2089 amputations in hospital practice, 855 died ;
      Out of 2098 amputations in country practice, 226 died;

                 Giving an excess to hospital practice of 629 deaths.

   "This excess, in about 2100 limb-amputations, of 629 deaths

in hospital practice as compared with rural practice --in our

palatial hospitals as compared with our rural villages and

--cottages --in large wards as compared with isolated rooms
Iis certainly much greater and more pronounced than myself
Iexpected when began the present inquiry. But must the

calling of this dismal death-roll still go on unchallenged and
unchecked ? Shall this pitiless and deliberate sacrifice of human
life to conditions which are more or less preventable, be con
tinued or arrested? Do not these terrible figures plead elo
quently and clamantly for a revision and reform of our existing
hospital system?"

   These papers were published in pamphlet form, and widely
circulated. They were much criticised, but the inferences

were not set aside. It was his intention to review these criti

cisms and to give yet greater prominence to his views. He
felt that to carry them out would be an inestimable boon to
humanity. Other men saw formidable difficulties to the
realization of his plans. He saw none. His fellow-men were
to be benefited. The sufferings of the diseased were to be

Ifalleviated, and human life to be saved. This was enough.

such blessings were to follow the hospital schemes which he
proposed, there must be a way to them. Had bis life been
VISIT TO ROME.  515

spared it is not unlikely we would, even now, have had his

views worked out, at least partially.
   These pamphlets contain so much useful information, are so

suggestive of aspects of improvement in the sites and surround
ings of hospitals, and indicate so emphatically the failure of
the very highest skill, where such things are neglected, that
they deserve the careful attention of philanthropists.

   As the hard work of the winter drew to a close he began to
think of a holiday, and ultimately arranged to visit Eome. He
had a pleasant run, and was greatly delighted with Eome. The
following notice of the visit appeared in the Scotsman, April

18 :--"A medical correspondent writes us from Eome : ' Our

eminent countryman Sir James Simpson, along with his friend
Mr. Pender, arrived in the city of the Caesars on the evening
of Monday, 29th ult., and will leave for Florence and home this
evening, Monday, 5th inst. His time has been much occupied
in visiting the mighty ruins of the Kings, Eepublic, and Em

perors, the antiquities generally, hospitals, sanitary arrange
ments, and the many other things of ancient and modern Eome
which claim attention from a mind like his, so full of know
ledge, inquiry, and Christian philanthropy. His short period
of recreation here has not been free from professional consulta
tions, and a few even of the Eoman nobility have anxiously
solicited his advice ; nor have any been sent empty away, for
to one and all he has acted the part of the Good Samaritan.

He visited the Protestant burying-ground --always so silent

and sunny ; in most instances, it is the last resting-place of
 strangers; yet few go there who do not stumble on some
known family name or friend's friend. Sir James, with charac
teristic feeling, has given orders to have the grave of John Bell,

 the celebrated surgeon, anatomist, and author, cleared and

dressed up; also that of Keats the poet --both in the old
cemetery. Sir James was pleased with the two principal
hospitals here --viz., S. Spirito and S. Giacomo. He attended
divine service in the Free Church yesterday, where the Eev.
516 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Mr. Dykes is now officiating. Before doing so, he had an op

portunity of seeing the Pope, in gala procession, on his way

from the Vatican to the Sopra Minerva Church, where high

mass was performed, it being the feast of the Annunciation.

Sir James has been the guest of Lord Northesk, Captain

Beckett, B.N., Mr. M'Bean, banker, Miss Haig (Bemerside),

etc. ; and, if time had permitted, a public reception would have

been given him.' "

   In a note to his friend Mrs. Close, Killeny Castle, Ireland

"Ihe writes, -- was rejoiced to learn you were so well, and

sorry that ' Pearl ' gave Mr. Close and you so much anxiety.

I IBut hope she will grow up a strong young lady. . . . Eome

enjoyed immensely. Some antiquarian friends showed me all
the great archaeological sights --one of them consisting of various

portions of the very wall that Eomulus built around the Pala

tine HilL" He returned home less refreshed and strengthened

than he was wont to be after " long scampers."

On the 21st of August he paid a hasty visit to Bathgate

Arriving in the morning, he intended to return home in the

afternoon, but during the day a favourite black and tan terrier,

belonging to his son William, which had gone with him, went
amissing. When the time for starting arrived, " Puck " had not
turned up. " We were indebted to the dog," says his brother,
" for having him another night in our house. He could not

think of leaving without and stayed the night with us." It
a:

          if

            I
                          it,
                       I

                              I

                                                if

                                                                                                        a
was the last night he was to spend in Bathgate. He spent

happy night with his beloved brother. Bathgate, present and

past, was the chief theme of conversation. But ever and anon
he interrupted the talk, saying--" wonder there are any

tidings of Puck 1"  Immediately on his return home next day
he wrote --

                           " 52 Queen Street, Edinburgh, 22<Z Augt. 1869.

" My dear Sandy, -- shall be very happy to hear that Puck
Ifhas been found.
                    not, offer the boys who saw him half a-

crown or crown they will find him.  fancy he would try

to make his way to the railway station or the Inch. Have they
                DOGS AND CHILDREN.  517

seen him about the stations or engines ? Could he have tried
Ifalong the road to Edinburgh ?
                                   seen, the boys could tempt

him with food.

"Would it be worth while to print a bill about him, or

advertise in the Bathgate paper ?
" Perhaps the police could send a notice of him to Airdrie
Ifor Glasgow.
                he had come near Edinburgh he would have

found his way home. His collar was of faded greenish leather.
   " Pray excuse all this trouble, and believe me yours affec

tionately,                          J. Y. S.
If" P.S. -- found, send ' Business ' in with him, but he will

require a leading-string."
   To the great delight of the household, " Puck " arrived at

52 Queen Street a short time after its master, having made a
journey of about twenty miles, through a district with which it

was wholly unacquainted.
    Sir James seldom left a dog unnoticed that came in his

way on professional visits. " Good-bye, doggie," was not an

unusual remark on leaving the house of a patient, when some

canine favourite sought to touch his hand with its tongue, as if

grateful for his visit to its mistress. " Children and dogs

expected to be made of by him. The child on a sick-bed

watched for his coming, and at the sound of his foot would

untie its little night-gown, that the great head might listen if

there were 'any pigeons cooing inside.' He had a whole

dialect of jokes for children. Eeturning to us one day a manu
Iscript he had corrected, he said, ' would have put in more
...stories for children.'
                           On the day of his own heaviest stroke,

when his eldest son was pronounced to be dying, an inquirer

was admitted to see him, accompanied by a child, who crept
overawed into a corner of the room. While his tears were falling

fast, he lifted down a book of natural history, and carrying it
to the child, he whispered, ' Pretty pictures there.'" l

   These incidents show some of the deep simplicity and tender
ness of his strong nature. His own children early felt their charm,

  1 Golden Vial* Filled: A New-Year's Address. By M. F. Barbour. 1871.
518 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

and yielded to their power. These, and what they saw of his un

wearied efforts in behalf of others, formed that attitude of loving

but reverent familiarity which marked their intercourse with
him as they grew up. " Being," says Sir Walter, " a very busy

man, he had not much time to spend in drawing out his children.

Consequently, as children, none of us, except perhaps Jessie,

were ever inclined to be familiar with him, though at the same
Itime in no way afraid of him.
                                remember now the plea

sure it gave him when she used to interrupt him by climbing

up the back of his chair and pulling his hair. Though poring

over some writing, or however employed, Jessie's teasings were

always successful in drawing him into play for some minutes.

If we were anxious to make some purchase, we had no hesitation

in asking our mother for the money. The request might be
granted or not. In any case there was nothing eventful in making

the request. But when a request was to be proffered to my father

(and we early discovered that when the contemplated purchase
was more than usually costly he was the most likely parent to

apply to), there always had to be a good deal of making up of
Itminds before doing so.
                          was necessary to have arguments as
Ifto the reasonableness of the request ready.
                                               these existed

we seldom were refused ; but it would have been a humiliation if

we had. As we grew up we began to understand and appre

ciate him, and in several conversations my brother David and

I communicated to each other the discovery we had made of

' what a brick ' he was, and agreed that his ' brickishness '

called for our care in not vexing him.
    " Although he often showed how much satisfaction it would

give him to have us as young men confide in and consult with

him as a friend, sons naturally do not, without an effort, make

companions and confidants of their fathers, and him more espe

cially it seemed presumptuous to bother with our trifles,

occupied, as he was, so unremittingly with higher matters.

I IBut within the last few years, when did make the effort,

found an untiring and interested listener, entering into my

feelings, and ready, without a word of rebuke, to help out of
              HOME AFFECTIONS.                 519

Iany scrape.  have confided things to him that very few sons

would have cared to tell a father."

   In engrossing cares of professional pursuits and public work,

or in the excitement of hasteful travel-- for all his excursions
took the form of a scamper --the home circle was ever on his

heart. His frequent letters almost always bore messages to the

boys, or notices of persons and places written chiefly for the

children : --" My dearest wifie, love and kisses to all. Yours

always, J. Y. S." " Blindest love to thee, my own dear, dear

Jessie, and to the children one and all, and a fond, fond kiss

Ito each. Yours ever, J. Y. S." " am going to write to Davie

and Walter. Your opinion of our dear little mannie delights

Ime." " In the forenoon visited the Courts of Law with Dr.

Storrar, and saw lots of Judges. Tell Davie we entered the

Courts from a hall about 150 feet long, and this hall was built by
William Eufus. Ask Walter how old it is. Say to Davie,

Iwe saw the spot where King Charles was beheaded." " have

been an hour in the British Museum this morning with Mr.
IFranks, revelling in some Eoman antiquities.
                                               saw Prince

Albert yesterday ; very kind and gentlemanly ; showed me his

Ilibrary, etc. ; talked of Punch, Scotland, chloroform, etc. went

over the Palace, and was introduced to the Prince of Wales,

Prince Alfred, and the two youngest children." When travelling

abroad he kept the boys informed of whatever he thought likely
to interest them. Writing from Dover, he says, " Tell Davie

Iand Walter climbed to the top of the cliffs through a spiral

staircase, cut out, as a great deep hole, in the substance of the
solid chalk." From Paris he writes : " My dear, dear Boys,--

Sit you down, and you and I shall have some talk about Paris
Iand its wonders. But must make one bargain, namely, that
Iwhile speak to you,
                      is not to pick his nose !" A very

graphic description of Paris follows, in which he touches with

great skill on points sure to interest them. He concludes:
" Everywhere there are men and women keeping peeries dozing,

several at a time, and wishing to sell them. They are made of

Ibrass (Paris peeries) -- capital bummers ; will bring you one
520 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

each." " To-morrow morning Dubois gives a lecture ON (as he

expresses  a it)  Professor Seempson and have to be early up
                          I;
                                I

                                                         :

                                            I
for it." Writing from Strasbourg, he says " My dear Boys,
--Take up map and see where have been since last wrote

you." Then follows description of the city, its famous steeple,a
etc. From Heidelberg they are told, " Old Naegele was ex'
tremely kind. He would not at first believe was Dr. Simp-
                                                                                 I

                                                                                          V'

                                                                                          I
sou,' for he fancied me always tall, large, and old.' Ever and

anon he marched up to me with, 'Est-il possible                                                                chloro

formed patient. On parting he belaboured my cheeks with
        a

kisses!" In his notice of Utrecht he says, "They are funnily

clean here, washing the front of their houses, etc., to-day (Satur

day). It actually ludicrous. But in one thing they are not
        I
              is                                                                 travelled with
clean.     mean that abominable smoking.                                         I

                                                                                                                    a

young lady, of seventeen or eighteen, who smoked her cigar and

crunched   a      piece of apple alternately. Every man in the

Medical Society to-night was enveloped in tobacco-smoke, and

busy, busy with his cigar or pipe, unless when actually speaking.
To-morrow expect to see the cows with their tails tied up for
           I

                       a
                               a

                                                       a
                                                                           a

                                                                                                            '

                                                     I

                                                                                       is
cleanliness."

    His own idea of holiday puzzled the young folk. " He
said to me one day," says Sir Walter, " that he was very tired,

and must have rest It was very hot day, so proposed

going down to Viewbank, where the rest of the family were

then staying, and lying on the grass. He said, That no rest

Go down and get Eve, and we will take scamper round the

Lakes, and be back to-morrow night.'"

    Still working at hospitalism, and watching the steps being

taken to rebuild the Eoyal Infirmary on new site, he addressed

   communication to the Daily Review (29th Sept 1869), in
which he called in question the virtues claimed by Professors
Syme and Lister for carbolic acid in surgical cases. Then he
earnestly pleads " that, in the construction of our new Infirmary,
a
                                                                              a

the great disinfectants and antiseptics that we should alone

depend upon are abundance of space, abundance of light, and

above all, abundance of fresh, pure, and ever-changing air to
HOME AFFECTIONS.  521

every patient and every ward in the hospital -- a result that

will probably be attained most cheaply and certainly by leaving
the present Watson's Hospital, with its numerous class-rooms,
bedrooms, etc., for the administrative part of the institution,

and erecting upon the ground above and below this central
building a series of village or villa hospitals or wards, furnished
with all the latest and best sanitary improvements." To his son

Walter, then a student at Cambridge, preparing for an examina
tion, he writes : --

                                  " 52 Queen Street, Edinburgh, 8th Dec. 1869.

  I" My own dear Walter, -- know you have no time to read
Ia long letter this week ; but cannot help writing to wish you
Iall success in your impending struggle. During the week

shall often think of you and your work. You must telegraph

me on Tuesday or Wednesday a few words to say how you feel
that you are getting on. And of course you will telegraph me
at the end of the fight.

  I I" shall rejoice greatly, very greatly, if you succeed ; and

know that you will take a good place, if not the best ; high, if

Inot the highest. And shall feel delighted and thankful if

you come out in the second, or third, or fourth rank.
   " That God may bless you, and be ever near you and with

you, is the sincere prayer of your affectionate father,

                                                  " J. Y. Simpson.

    "P.S. --Mamma, Willie, Magnus, Eve send you all their very

best wishes."

    The student did not disappoint his father's sanguine antici

pations.

   In the Medical Times of January 1, 1870, there appeared a

communication from Sir James, entitled " Therapeutic Note on
Chloral." Other than intrinsic interest attaches to this. Its
use in medical practice may be regarded as the fulfilment of
an anticipation he ventured to express so early as 1853, when
he delivered the Presidential Address to the Edinburgh Medico-

Chirurgical Society.
522 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   On the 3d of January he addressed his first communication
to Dr. Bigelow, senior, in answer to a letter published by him

at Boston, U.S., on the History of Anaesthetics in America and
in this country. The second communication was written in
April following. Both of these have already been noticed
under Anaesthesia. The letters were published separately in

America. On receipt of the first, his intimate and attached

friend, Dr. Horatio R Storer of Boston, wrote :--

" My dear Professor, --Your letter is in type, and will be

...very extensively circulated. It was needed, for more reasons than
one. . . . Your letter has found me in great trouble.  Of our

own strength we cannot bear such loads. You will recollect me
Ias an Unitarian. That has all passed.
                                        should have else been
Ibroken. Now, find at the foot of the Cross a peace and com
I Ifort and hope of which never even dreamed.
                                                       think of my

darling little Jessie Simpson, who would have so rejoiced my

Iheart had she been spared, and bless Him who took back to

IHimself what He had given. And if my boy must too be
called,  can resign him to the sheltering arms of the dear

Saviour, through whom alone we have eternal life. When

your great trials came, my heart was stirred with profound
I Isympathy, but felt, when recollected your words, that you
Ihad hold of the Father's hand.
                                 can only pray for the same

all-sufficient grace. . . . Ever yours sincerely,

                                        " Horatio R Storer."

   The opening year brought with it to Sir James increased

demands for thought and effort. But while he undertook ear
nestly whatever came to his hand, it was clear to Lady Simp
son and his familiar friends that he was more easily " knocked
up," as he said, than he used to be. He complained of fatigue

more readily. Night-watching by the bed of a patient, and
night-journeying to reach one, brought with them a sense of
weariness to which he had hitherto been a stranger. No

wonder ! The professional practice, of which the reader has
had frequent glimpses in the course of this narrative, was more
MEDICAL WRITINGS.                                                523

than any one man could get through without injury to health.

It was enough to tax the highest effort and energy of several

men. But, as if he was determined to light life's taper at both

ends, he accomplished a vast amount of literary work at the

same time. Some of the most important of his writings have

recently been re-edited.1 Besides these, there are pamphlets,

papers, outlines of lectures, religious addresses, and religious

tracts, sufficient in themselves to win for any man a fair place
in authorship :

" not on downy plumes, nor under shade

   Of canopy reposing, fame is won."

In the course of this narrative pretty full notices of Sir

James's archaeological writings, and references to his medical
Ipapers, have been given.
                           have not, however, dwelt much on

the latter, chiefly because the Memoir is designed for general

reading, and also because the works now referred to are easily

accessible to medical students and practitioners. An analysis

or even a general outline, of their contents, would necessarily

be purely technical, and interesting only to the medical pro

fession. Sir James was a man of general culture, a philan

thropist, an archaeologist, but, above all, he was a physician,

and he ever felt that all his other attainments bore their highest

fruits when they gave prominence to his work and standing as

a medical man. Accordingly his purely professional writings

must ever constitute his chief title to distinction as an author,

and to them the reader is referred for the full record of Sir

James's discoveries as a scientific physician, and for full illus

1 The Obstetric Memoirs and Contributions of J. Y. Simpson, M.D., F.S.S.E.
Edited by N. 0. Priestley, M.D., and Horatio B. Storer. 2 vols. Edin

burgh, 1856. Homoeopathy.  I vol. Edinburgh, 1853. Acupressure.  1

vol. Edinburgh, 1864. Selected Obstetrical Works. Edited by J. Watt

Black, M.D. lvol. Edinburgh, 1871. Ancesthesia and Hospitalism. Edited

by Sir Walter G. Simpson, Bart, B.A. 1 voL Edinburgh, 1871. Clinical

Lectures on the Diseases of Women. Edited by Alexander Simpson, M.D.,

Professor of Midwifery, University of Edinburgh. 1 voL Edinburgh, 1872.

Archaic Sculpturings of Cups, Circles, etc., on Stones in Scotland, England, and

other Countries. 1 vol. Edinburgh, 1867. Archaeological Essays. Edited

by John Stuart, LL.D. 2 vols. Edinburgh, 1872.
524 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

tration of the new methods of treatment introduced by him

into medical practice.

   On Friday, February 11, 1870, Sir James was summoned to
London to give evidence in a celebrated divorce case. At

midnight, after he had left Edinburgh, a telegram arrived at

Queen Street announcing the postponement of the trial till

Wednesday the 16th. He hastened home on the 14th, paid

several visits to patients in the country, returned to London on

the 15th, and was examined as a witness for the lady on the

day following.
    He left London the next day. Stopping at York, he dined

at Lord Houghton's, and afterwards called at the house of
his friend Dr. Williams in Micklegate about 1 1 P.M. " He

spoke," says Miss Williams, "of Dr. Hanna and other Edin
burgh friends. When my father and Mr. Keyworth came into

the room he conversed with great animation on the medical

questions of the day."
  I chanced to call at Queen Street on the morning of the
I18th. He was looking ill. "You must be very tired !" said.
I" Yes.
         suffered an awful amount of pain last night, and was

glad to rest for awhile on the floor of the railway-carriage."

Soon he began to look fresh and vigorous, and gave a most

animated account of the trial --instancing other cases of puer
peral insanity besides the example given in his evidence.
Work went on as usual. A few days after he was called to

Perth to see a patient. On his return he felt fatigued and

weary, and on the 25th took to bed. The tidings of his illness

sped fast and far. As one said --" ' The world is praying for
him.' As far as the telegraph-wire has penetrated, wherever

an English mail had time to reach praying men and women,
in every language there was prayer. . . . But prayer could not
keep him here." 1 The assurance of this general interest in the
issue of his sickness cheered and comforted him, and helped

him to that highest attainment of the soul --implicit trust.

                        1 Golden Vials Filled.
      LETTER TO HIS SON.              525

In March he was able to write to Magnus, then at Geneva :

      --Magnus,     " Edinburgh, 18th March 1867.
                 This is the first letter have
I"My own
dear

tried to write sitting up. Perhaps it may not be very legible

Ior long, as feel very weak, and not very able to exert my pen.
I IBut am anxious to say how happy feel when your letters

come, and tell us all that you are well and not disliking, if not

yet entirely liking, Geneva. Have a brave and stout heart for

I Iit. The longer have lived, the more have regretted the state

of my knowledge of spoken French, German, etc. ; and in all pro

fessions the knowledge of languages every day becomes more

and more indispensable, because the new discoveries and dis

quisitions on them must be read in various languages to enable

those running in the race to keep up the required pace.

  " Eve wrote you a few days ago wondering (for me) if there

Iwere any cup-markings or cups and circles (such as wrote a

book about two years ago) cut in the curious islet rock in the
Ilake, and which was the seat, if recollect aright, of some
IfEoman or ante-Eoman pagan worship.
                                      you are ever on

this little rock island, look for the cups, or cups and circles.

  I"Mr. Pender and talked some weeks ago of going to
IHolland or elsewhere next month. But have little or no

chance of getting back sufficient strength to travel. My fancy

Iwas to go to Spain, and have read numbers of books upon
ISpain since lay down. There must be many old Druidical

and prehistoric stones there, but nobody seems to note them
or care for them. Eve has been my kind nurse of late.

  I I" have telegraphed for Walter to-day, as think he should
Ibe here and near me at present ; for at times feel very, very
Iill indeed, as if should soon be called away. My sole and

whole trust is in the love and work of Christ --as my all-
sufficient Sin-bearer and Saviour --my Creator as well as my

Eedeemer.
    " Let me add how happy you have ever made me, and how

Idearly and deeply love you. --Yours ever affectionately,

                                                  " J. Y. Simpson.
526 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

" Sunday.--Walter has come. Dr. Wood thinks me much
I Ibetter.
will write you very soon again, as get stronger.
                                                               " J. Y. S."

Some of the notes of personal experience which follow are

introduced after much consideration.               Many readers may

think that they make public what strangers have no claim to
know ; but others may find quickening and strength in the
illustrations of the love and faithfulness of God in Christ which

they supply. Besides, he had himself spoken often and freely

in public of God's ways with him, and this record would be

incomplete were we to omit to notice his feelings, as he lay

consciously on the threshold of the eternal and the unseen.

  I" saw him," says his nephew Mr. Eobert Simpson, W.S.,1

" very often, and spent much of my spare time with him. It

was always delightful to be with him in health or in sickness,
but especially so during his last illness. His wonderful kind

ness and his intense interest in the welfare of all whom he

Iloved were most marked. On a Saturday evening spent three

or four hours with him. He spoke of his letter, appended to

Dr. Hanna's work, on the Physical Cause of Christ's death, and

said he would like to make some correction on it." 2

   In the intervals of relief from suffering he heartily busied

himself with the interests of his profession, or with the works

1 Most of the notices of sick-room experiences that follow are abridged

from Mr. R. R. Simpson's notes.
   2 " Did Christ die of a Broken Heart ? " is the title of the letter appended

to Dr. Hanna's work, The Last Day of our Lord's    Passion.    The correction
was not, as the author of Oolden Vials Filled has              point out that
                                                   said, " to

the blood which the spear drew from our Saviour's side was dead blood."
IThis he had clearly stated in the letter itself.
                                                   had occasion to know that
he was beginning to doubt the expediency even of speaking of " the physical
cause of Christ's death." He had been struck with the questions, -- " If the

heart was ruptured under the load of sorrow, would not that have implied
defect in the ' body prepared ' for Him ? Then have we not the complete
explanation in John x. 17, 18 ?--' Therefore doth my Father love me, because
I Ilay down my life, that might take it again. No man taketh it from me,
I I Ibut lay it down of myself.
power to take it again.' "  have power to lay it down, and have
ILLNESS.  527

which members of the household had on hand. He spoke to
his nephew Eobert about his business prospects, went over a
school-exercise with Eva, talked of the Carrubber's Close Mission,

Iof Christian work in Eome and in Spain,--" Were to recover,
I would like to visit Spain to look at its antiquities," -- of the

interests of the Edinburgh Industrial Brigade, and Sabbath-

school work. In the beginning of April a bed was prepared
for him in the back drawing-room. The notes which follow
are for the most part purely religious. But throughout his

last illness he talked freely and frequently of all the subjects
that had occupied his attention when in health. Even when

he wrote the last letter to Dr. Bigelow (p. 236) the conviction
was growing in his mind that he was dying. After the letter
was finished he became too weak to read long himself. When

he did so it was some short story. But he had Froude's
History read to him at intervals, and often stopped the
reader, asking him to go in search of some book in which he

remembered some passage verifying or confuting Froude's
statements. He talked of Medicine, Archaeology, and Hospi
talism. He went back on his monograph, " The Cat-Stane,"

and explained new points he would have liked to introduce.

I I" would have liked to complete Hospitalism, but hope some
Igood man will take it up." " How old am ?" he said one
I Imorning. "Fifty-nine? Well, have done some work.
Iwish had been busier." " Chat away," he would often say

pleasantly to those around him, when his breathlessness kept

him from speaking, -- " chat away. It cheers me up, and keeps
me from sleeping." " It was a wonderful sick-room," says one.

I" could not have believed it possible that any man could have

attained to such familiarity with the thought of death and

eternity."

  I" April 3.--Spent the whole day with uncle. Told him

was going to address the lads of the Industrial Brigade, in
whom he took a deep interest, in the evening. ' What is your
subject?' 'Out of the heart are the issues of life.' He ex
528 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

Iplained to me ossification of the heart, and showed how might

illustrate my subject by it. Aunt Jessie read part of the story
of 'Orfie Sibbald,' with which he was charmed, and asked me to

send a copy to Miss Williams of York, an intimate personal

friend. He had it read to him chapter by chapter. April 6.--
Spoke to me with great calmness, as if he would not live long,

and asked me to write a codicil to his wilL When the codicil

was signed he was greatly relieved, and began to speak of his
Ispiritual concerns. He said --' have not lived so near to
I IChrist as desired to do.
                             have had a busy life, but have not
Igiven so much time to eternal things as should have sought
I IYet know it is not my merit am to trust to for eternal life.
IChrist is all.' Then he added with a sigh, ' have not got far
Ion in the divine life.'
                          said we are complete in Him. ' Yes,

that's it,' he replied with a smile.  ' The hymn expresses my

thoughts, --

             I" Just as am, without one plea,

             But that Thy blood was shed for me."

I so like that hymn.' He spoke of not having a mind for
ITheology. ' like the plain simple Gospel truth, and don't care

to go into questions beyond that.' He spoke most tenderly of
all his family, naming each. He seemed much concerned about

Eva, and asked me to write to Mrs. Hoyes, Ainslie Place, Mrs.

Close, Killeny Castle, and Mrs. Ainsworth about her. Wished
Mr. M'Kie, advocate, to get some memento of him as a mark
of his friendship, and that Mr. Imlach should get books. He

desired that his tracts on Hospitalism should be published

together, and expressed great regret at his inability to complete
Ithis work.  mentioned the subject of Spurgeon's sermon --

'When they had looked round about, they saw no man any

more, save Jesus only, with themselves.' ' Will you read it to

Ime V As read part of it he was suffering a good deal, but

his face at times lit up with animation, as he said, ' That's

nice. Eead it again.' He spoke of Alick with much affec

tion. Thought he should become a candidate for the Chair,
although at first it might be a pecuniary sacrifice to him.
                     NOTES OF SICK-BOOM.                                                                     529

' Of course          will be a candidate. He would seek to

reverse my treatment. Alick would help to perpetuate it.
IApril 10. --Before leaving for the Sabbath-school,
                                                                                                             went to
Isay good-night. ' Come back,' he said, ' and stay all night.
I Ido not think shall be long here, and should like you to
Iremain to the end. From extreme pain have not been able
Ito read or even to think much to-day, but when think it is
of the words " Jesus only," and really that is all that is needed,
is it not ?--" Jesus only V" On my return he said, ' I've been
telling Eve and all of them about " Jesus only." Will you read
Ia hymn?'            'Aread ' Eock of Ages.'
                                                beautiful hymn,' he
I Iremarked, ' but like " Just as am " best. Will you read
                                                II
please               During the night, when in great suffering, he said,I
'
             V                                                     a'

                      I                                                 it,
Eepeat me some texts.' quoted several verses from his favourite

chapter, John xiv. Though he was very familiar with the

words, they now seemed new to him. When came to the

verse,             am the way, the truth, and the life,' he said, What
1a
     a

     I'

                 i.
wonderful redemption this                       Christ's blood can float cork
                        is
                             a

                                  is

                                             !
or man-of-war. It can bear every one to heaven.'                                                             quoted

Tim. 15, "This           faithful saying, and worthy of all

acceptation, that Jesus Christ came into the world to save

sinners, of whom am chief." 'Well may make use of
                     I

the words            He then spoke with much enthusiasm of the
        it

              !'
atoning power of Christ's blood. More than once he said he

wished was all over, as he knew from the disease how much

suffering was before him, but he bowed submissively to the will

of God. In former illnesses he was sometimes fractious. There

was nothing of this now. Jarvis, remarking this, said to Dr.

Wood, he thought was bad sign.' He spoke with joy of
        '

              I' a
                    I I it

                                                a
                                                                 a

                                                                                                          '
being for ever with the Lord, and of the reunions of heaven.

April 11. --Dr. Duns called. He told me he enjoyed the Dr.'s

visit, but felt remark he made about opium.                                                                  As regards

that,' he said, am entirely in my doctor's hands.'"

    During this visit   had some most interesting talk with Sir
James. He told me       had come at good time, " for though so

                                 2L
530 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

breathless, my mind is free from the opiates the doctors have
Ibeen giving me." " We know not till we are tried,"
                                                             said,
I I" but think would face the pain and dispense with the
I Iopiate."
saw at once had touched a tender point, and

instantly remembering his views of the theory of the alleged

Itherapeutic value of bearing pain, added, " But the doctors
"Iknow best." "Yes," he said, am entirely in their hands." We

turned to more interesting themes --salvation, death, resurrec
tion. " The passage in your last book," he said, " about the

world being made by the hands that were nailed to the cross,

Ithas brought me much strength and comfort.                  has stuck to me
Iever since read it."1 As we spoke, Lady Simpson withdrew

into the window to weep. His eye followed, and he gazed

on her for an instant, with a look of inexpressible anxiety and

yearning tenderness. The simplicity of his trust in Christ was

Ivery striking. "It has happily come to this -- am a sinner
Ineeding a Saviour, and Jesus is the Saviour need."
" He spoke of his unshaken confidence in Jesus," continues
IMr. R E. Simpson. " ' have mixed a great deal with men of
Iall shades of opinion.
                         have heard men of science and philo

sophy raise doubts and objections to the Gospel of Christ, but

I Ihave never for one moment had a doubt myself since
Ibelieved.' gave him a message from Mr. Jenkinson, for whom

he had a great regard, 'To trust in the finished work of

I IChrist.' ' That's it,' he said. ' That's what desire to do.'

repeated a verse of a hymn * which Mr. Jenkinson gave me for

   1 The following  is"  the passage to which    he refers.    It occurs in Science and
Christian Thought.       These all, minutest as  greatest,
                                                             were the workmanship of
Him whose hands on Calvary were nailed to the transom of the Roman cross.' '

                    * " The sands of time are sinking,

                             The dawn of heaven breaks,
                         The summer morn I've sighed for,

                             The fair sweet morn awakes :

                         Dark, dark hath been the midnight,
                            But day-spring is at hand,

                        And glory, glory dwelleth
                           In Immanuel's land."

This beautiful hymn -- Tlie Last Words of Samuel Rutherford, by A. E. C.

(Mrs. Cousin, Melrose) -- was greatly liked by Sir James.
                      BIBLE-READINGS.                     531

Ihim. ' Eepeat it again,' he said. ' Thank him for it.  should

so like to get a shake of his hand again.' Bead the last part of

' Jesus Only,' which greatly comforted him. On returning at

I9.30, found Dr. Andrew Wood, Dr. Moir, Dr. Coghill, Dr.

Munro, Mr. Drummond, and Eev. Mr. Philip with him. Mr.

Philip prayed with him. Eev. Mr. Morgan, for whom he had
a great liking, had called. ' Mr. M.,' he said, ' told me to rest

my head on Jesus' bosom as John did at the supper-table.          1
I Icannot just do that.
                      think it enough if have hold of the

hem of his garment.'  Passages from 'Oliver Underwood,'

' Orfie Sibbald,' ' Yeddie's First and Last Sacrament,' and ' Little

Will ' were read to him. ' Little Will ' is the simple story, in
rhyme, of a boy's faith. It was told to him first by Dr. Park

of Andover, and greatly pleased him. April 1 3. -- Eead John iii.

IWhen came to the eighth verse, ' The wind bloweth where it

listeth,' he said, ' That was the means of B. B.'s conversion.' "

The days glided past, often marked by much pain, but always

by evidences of strength made perfect in weakness, and grace
sufficient--grace abounding. There were meditations on Luke

iixv., John i. x. xiv., Eom. viii., Eph. iii iv. v., Isaiah liii. lv.,

1 Cor. iii., Heb. xii., 1 Peter i. ii., and on Eev. xxii., as the

city with the pearly gates, the golden streets, the pure river of

the water of life, clear as crystal, and the throne of God and

the Lamb was rising to his eye in ever-growing brightness.
But before " entering in," the brother who had watched over him

so tenderly in childhood, helped him in youth, and rejoiced

in all the successes of his bright career, spent with him his

last night but one on earth. He sat on the pillow with Sir

James's head on his knee, on which he had been dandled in

childhood, hearing ever and anon throughout that night's silent

watching, the touching words, soft, and low, and slow, as if a

weary sick child spoke, " Oh, Sandy, Sandy !" When the

morning came Sir James was unconscious of all around ; and

on May 6 his spirit passed, with one great sigh, but without

struggle or trace of pain, into the presence of God our Saviour.
                    CHAPTEE XVL

Tidings of Sir James's Death --Offer of a Grave in Westminster Abbey --
Funeral -- Funeral  Sermons--Letter from
--National Loss --  Letters of Condolence--  HVeerrseMsaj"esInty  MtehmeorQiaumeen"
-- Minutes of Public Bodies --The End.

   The tidings of Sir James's death called forth everywhere
expressions of the truest and deepest sorrow. His fame had

grown world-wide. The affections of men had come to cluster
round the Edinburgh Professor as God's gift, not to Britain only
but to the human race. His name was revered wherever

Christian philanthropy walked hand-in-hand with civilisation,

and the high claims of the noblest of scientific professions were

acknowledged. Shortly after the news of his death reached
London, a proposal to honour him by interment in Westminster
Abbey was originated and warmly taken up. At little more
than a few hours' notice, a committee for promoting the object
was formed, which included, with many others, the following
names :-- Sir William Fergusson, Dr. Gull, Dr. Sibson, Dr.
Stewart, Dr. Eisdon Bennet, Dr. Peacock, Mr. Cock, Mr. Hilton,
Mr. Bowman, Mr. Simon, Dr. Davies, Dr. Andrew Clark, Dr.
Sutton, Dr. Sieveking, Dr. Little, Dr. Garrod, Mr. Flower, Dr.
Priestley, Mr. Spencer Wells, Mr. H. Lee, and Mr. Hutchinson-

The Dean of Westminster was applied to, and at once cordially

took up the proposal. " It is," says Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson,

Ione of the promoters, " with great pleasure that have to

add that the Dean of Westminster, in reply to a private
THE FUNERAL.  533

 inquiry (through Mr. Flower) made on Monday, stated, with
the utmost kindness, that he should at once accede to the

proposal, and made suggestions as to the details."

    On the 10th, Dr. Begbie received the following telegram, --
" Could you ascertain whether a public funeral in Westminster

Abbey for Sir James Simpson would be agreeable to his family
and friends ? Permission has been granted." The family

appreciated very highly the offer of this rare honour, but,
knowing Sir James's own wish to be buried in Warriston
Cemetery, they decided to decline the proposal. The funeral
took place on the afternoon of Friday, May 13th.

    Never before, nor since, has Edinburgh witnessed such a

public funeral It was computed that more than thirty thousand

persons were present, either as taking part in the procession
or as spectators. Many were there even from distant parts
of the country. Scotland mourned the loss of one of her greatest
sons, Edinburgh, her chief citizen. " Throughout the day flags
floated half-mast high from the City Chambers and other
prominent positions. The University closed its class-rooms at

noon. The Stock Exchange suspended its transactions. Indeed,
as the hour appointed for the funeral approached, the general
business of the city was brought to a pause, and for a time some
of our busiest streets wore an aspect of impressive stillness.
The bells of St. Giles's and other churches sent forth a solemn

funeral note ; and altogether there was presented the impressive

spectacle of a great community doing a last act of homage to

departed genius and worth."1

   1 The following public bodies joined the procession :-- Students, the Public,
Granton Literary Association, Philosophical Institution, the Chamber of
Commerce, the Merchant Company, Solicitors before the Supreme Court,
Writers to the Signet, Advocates, Kirk-Session and Deacons of Free St.
John's Church, United Presbyterian Synod, Free Church Presbytery, Esta
blished Presbytery, Rector and Masters of High School, Principal and Pro
fessors of Veterinary College, Edinburgh Geological Society, Botanical Society,
Society of Arts, Society of Antiquaries, Royal Scottish Academy, Royal
Society, Royal Medical Society, Pharmaceutical Society, Medico -Chirurgical
Society, Obstetrical Society, College of Surgeons, College of Physicians,
534 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

   As the procession proceeded towards Warriston, the hushed
solemnity of the dense crowd of spectators through which it

moved was most impressive. Tears streamed down many

cheeks, and frequently sobs, as from hearts bearing a deep

personal sorrow, fell on the ear. In the crowd were many

whose dress and appearance indicated great poverty. They

had evidently come from the poorest districts of the city. At

the corner of Cumberland Street two blind men had taken their

place to listen to the measured tramp of that great company

as it passed, bearing on their countenances a look of deep

solemnity and sadness. Not only had Bathgate sent its Town

Council, but many from the town and surrounding district were

present. " It 's a sair day for Bathgate this," said one who had

been at school with Sir James.

Letters of condolence from all ranks and from all parts of

the country began to reach 52 Queen Street immediately after
Sir James's death, and they continued to be received for many

months. In almost every case the writers refer to his death as

a great public calamity. The gracious message of her Majesty

the Queen was received with heartfelt gratitude.  It was

conveyed by His Grace the Duke of Argyll to Sir Walter G.

Simpson :--

  I" Sir, -- have received an order from her Majesty the Queen

to convey to the family of Sir J. Simpson the expression of her

Majesty's warmest sympathy in the loss they have sustained,

and an expression also of her Majesty's own sorrow on account

of the loss which the country has sustained in the death of so
Igreat and so good a man.
                           now obey her Majesty's com
Imands. And need hardly add, on behalf of the Duchess

and myself, that we both mourn the loss of a very dear personal
Ifriend. -- am, Sir, your obedient servant,       Argyll."

Senatus and Office-Bearers of the University, Lord Provost, Magistrates, and
Council, Office- Bearers of High Constables, Town Council of Leith, Town
Council of Portobello, Town Council of Bathgate, the General Body of High
Constables, Directors of Briton Medical Assurance Society.
                 LETTERS OF CONDOLENCE.                                     535

   The perusal of the letters of condolence has not been an un

pleasant task. They reveal so many old ties of affection
hastening to cluster around the memory of Sir James. They
show how fast his friendships had been, how quickly he bound
men to him in love, and how deep was the gratitude of
his patients. Then they are all so full of heart. The following,

taken almost at random, are introduced as specimens, -- " It is,"

writes Sir James's old friend, Dr. Storrar, London, " an oppressing

Iheartache to think have lost such an affectionate friend. We

were neither boys nor students together, and, indeed, our lot

and sphere of work were different and far apart. Yet from the

morning we first met in the late Dr. John Thomson's library, in

1833, we have been fast friends, and have ever hailed each

other when we came together with the affection of kinship."

Another fellow- student writes to his brother as follows :--

                                 "             " Ravensdowne,         6th,  1870.
                                    Berwick-on-Tweed, May
I" My dear David, -- have your sad letter -- for sad it is to lose
Isuch a man.
                 indorse every word you say of him, and have, as

is natural, many additional reasons for remembering his kindness
                 ILast time saw him was at Mrs. Scott's death
professionally.
Ibed ; was watching her all night, and could hardly persuade

him even to take an hour's rest, so we sat and talked all night

long on various matters. He was a true genius. It may be easy

enough to get as efficient a Professor, but the like man is not
Ileft in the University.         shall miss him in many ways--

books which he sent me, besides professional advice, and visits

here now and then, often carrying me back to the old days of

John Thomson, for he so often called me by my Christian

name, as in those days.
    " One feels in such a case as his how much of the sadness of

the loss is removed by his gain. -- Ever affectionately yours,

                                                         " P. W. Maclagan."

                                 --'' 2M7 rIsn.veBralelfiothur  Row,  1th May 1870.
                                                                 and      desire most
I" My
dear             Lady  Simpson,
536 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

deeply and sincerely to sympathize with yon in your over

whelming bereavement. It is indeed a sad trial, under which

you and your family can only be supported by strength from

above.

  I I" By the death of your dear husband feel that have lost
Ione of my earliest medical friends, to whom and my family

are indebted for many kind services.

  I" rejoiced in the eminent position which he had attained,
Iand looked forward to many more years of pleasant and pro

fitable intercourse.

   " God has willed it otherwise, and we must bow in submis

sion.

   " To your dear husband the change has been a happy one.
He trusted in Christ, and has gone to be for ever with the
Lord, where there is no more sorrow or sighing.

  I" pray earnestly that you may be enabled to commit your

self and family to the keeping of Him who is the Husband of
the widow and the Father of the fatherless.

   " Accept our sincere condolence, and believe me yours truly,

                                             "J. H. Balfour."

   " My dear Lady Simpson," says Dr. Halliday Douglas, writ

Iing on May 7, -- " This is no time to intrude upon you, but

cannot allow this day to pass without sending you the assur

ance of my heartfelt sympathy. Sir James's removal is an

unspeakable sorrow to many, though to none such as it is to

you. Still it may be a solace to you to know that so many

mourn with you ; but the great consolation to you, and to all

who can receive  it,  : is,that he had been taught to rejoice in our

risen Saviour. The Lord did great things by Sir James's active

life, He may do much by his unlooked-for death."

                           " QuEENSBERRY PLACE, SOUTH KENSINGTON,
                             4

--" My dear Simpson,         '                    11th May 1870.  is    griev

                                Sir James Simpson's death            a

ous loss to the nation       it      truly national concern.'
                                     a
                                 is
LETTERS OF CONDOLENCE.                                      537

" These are the words which Mr. Gladstone addressed to me

in the lobby of the House of Commons last night. . . .

  I" need not say how all here sympathize deeply with the

affliction of yourself and family. --Yours sincerely,
                                                       " Lyon Playfair."

  I" deeply sympathize with you," says Mr. Duncan M'Laren,

M.P., " in the great loss you have all sustained, and in the loss
which the city of Edinburgh, in all its aspects, has sustained
by his decease ; for his name and fame shed lustre on our

University and on the city."
                           " Hotel de France, Pau, May 9th, 1870. -- Monday.

  "Dearest Lady Simpson, --We are bitterly sorry to be

abroad to-day when the terrible news has come to us. We

could not bring ourselves to believe that it was to come. We

cannot have any letter till to-morrow afternoon (as there is no

mail to-day), but it is in Galignanis telegram.
   " For him indeed we do rejoice, while we are left in tears to

wonder how the world is ever to go on without him. It is a

universal mourning, and many a prayer is going up for you.
" It seems impossible to realize that that loved voice is silent
I Inow. It is the first very heavy trial have ever had.
                                                         can

not let the day pass without writing this expression of our

deep sorrow for you and yours. --Your affectionate
                                                                        "Margo."

                       "Rome, May 22, 1870.
" My dear Lady Simpson, -- In the midst of my own grief
Iyou will, am sure, believe the sincere sorrow and distress with
Iwhich received the announcement of the death of our dear Sir
I IJames.
cannot express to you how much feel the loss of
Iso great and true a friend, nor the deep regret have heard

here expressed in Eome ; it is a truly national calamity, and
will be ever felt so by those who, like myself and my dear wife,

reverenced his genius, were honoured with his friendship, and

indebted to him for many, many kindnesses which we could
Inever hope to repay.
                       can only beg you to accept my most
538 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

sincere sympathy and condolence in your great bereavement --
And believe me, dear Lady Simpson, faithfully yours,

                                                 " Reeley Halswelle."

                                         " Cheapinohaven, Denmark, May 24, 1870.

  I" My dear Lady Simpson, -- have purposely allowed some

few days to go by before writing these lines --lines of sympathy
and condolement on the great loss which has befallen not only

yourself and family --but so many, many admiring and attached

friends all the world over. Truly a Prince has fallen in our
Israel ! But we must not repine. He has gone a little before
us to our common Lord and Father, and He who called him
just now doeth all things well. Indeed, we ought to be doubly
thankful, first, that he was given to us at all, and then that we
had him so long. His memory shall remain among us, the
glory of his country and the boast of his friends. . . . Believe
me, with great respect, yours very gratefully,

                                                               " George Stephens."

                                                   " Hotel, Pelham, 23d May 1870.

   " My dear Lady Simpson, --Your son's telegram of the 6th

inst., conveying the sad tidings of your dear husband's death,

Ireached me at Washington, where had been attending the

session of the American Medical Association, then just ended.
Appropriate measures were at once taken to testify to the
national sense of loss and sympathy, the newspaper account of

Iwhich have sent you, and of which you will also duly receive

a formal and certified copy through the British Minister to this

country.
    " Upon returning home, a Memorial Meeting of the Gynae

cological Society of Boston, of which your husband had been

the first honorary member, was convened. It was of the most
solemn and impressive character -- testifying to the sincerest

and most heartfelt grief of men, who every one of them felt,
though some of them had never seen him, that they had lost a

personal friend. You will receive copies of the papers con
taining an account of this meeting, and of the June number of
                   LETTERS OF CONDOLENCE.  539

the Society's Journal, in which it will also appear. . . . With
                                Horatio R Storer."
sincere sympathy,

                          " Baltimore, Maryland, U.S., 16th May 1870.
" My dear Sir Walter, --The cable brought to this country

a few days ago the afflicting tidings of your father's death. We

were in some degree prepared for it by letters from home,
Ireceived about a week before.
                                can truly say that ever since

these sad letters gave us the premonition of what was coming,

your family, and especially your father, was very much in my

I Ithoughts, and cannot tell you how much felt when the
Itelegraphic announcement met my eye in the newspaper.

cannot refrain from writing to you this brief expression of

sympathy and Christian interest in the season of your afflic

tion. Your father was very widely known in this country, and

Iwhen alluded to his death this day week at a public meeting
Iin Petersburg, near Eichmond, Virginia, could readily gather

from the look of the people how much they were concerned

and surprised, and how they felt that a light had been extin

guished in the firmament. . . . Ever yours very truly,
                                                              " W. G. Blaikje."

   On Sabbath, 1 5th May, sermons were preached in St. John's

Free Church, of which he was a member. Eeference was also

made to Sir James's death in most of the Edinburgh pulpits,

and in many throughout the country. On the evening of the

same day special services were held in the Free Church
Assembly Hall, which was densely crowded on the occasion.

   In early numbers of several of the illustrated periodicals por
traits of Sir James and notices of his career were given. Verses

In Memoriam appeared in journals and newspapers ; others

were printed separately, or forwarded in MS. to Queen Street.
Sydney Dobell, A.RO, Dr. Symonds of Clifton, and others, not

unknown, hung chaplets on his tomb. As to the last named,
the editor of the Lancet says :--" An accomplished correspon
dent, whose initals will be at once recognised by scholars of the
profession, sends the following :--
540 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

                               " PROMETHEUS.

(Our lamented Sir James Simpson was the subject of Angina Pectoris.)

                                                      i.

          " ' Ah me ! alas ! pain, pain, ever, for ever ! '
                 So groaned upon his rock that Titan good,
                 Who by his brave and loving hardihood

                Was to weak man of priceless boons the giver,
              Which e'en the supreme tyrant could not sever

                 From us, once given ; we own him in our food
                 And in our blazing hearth's beatitude ;
              Yet still his cry was ' Pain, ever, for ever ! '

Shall we a later, harder doom rehearse ?             ;
   One came whose art men's dread of art repressed

   Mangled and writhing limbs he lulled to rest,
And stingless left the old Semitic curse ;
Him, too, for these blest gifts did Zeus amerce ?

       He, too, had vultures tearing at his breast.

                         II.

Hush ! Pagan plaints, our Titan is unbound ;
   The cruel beak and talons scared away ;
   As once upon his mother's lap he lay,

So rests his head august on holy ground ;
Spells stronger than his own his pangs have found ;

    He hears no clamour of polemic fray,
   Nor recks he what unthankful men may say ;
Nothing can vex him in that peace profound.

And where his loving soul, his genius bold ?
   In slumber ? or already sent abroad

On angel's wings and works, as some men hold ?

   Or waiting Evolution's change, unawed ?

All is a mystery, as Saint Paul has told,

Saying : ' Your life is hid with Christ in God.'

Cufton, May 13th, 1870.                       J. A. S., M.D."

   There are also seventeen exceedingly touching stanzas by

one of his colleagues, Dr. Stevenson.1

              1 " Great in his art, and peerless in resource,

                          He strove the fiend of human pain to quell ;
                    Nor ever champion dared so bold a course

                       With truer heart, or weapons proved so well.

                    Yet greater was he in his own great soul,
                     A brimful fount of pity, warm and pure, --

                      Which, as the quiv'ring needle for its pole,
                       Panted to soothe the pains it could not cure.
           MINUTES OF PUBLIC BODIES.                                       541

   In less than a month, between forty and fifty notices of Sir
James's Life appeared in Britain. In America and on the

Continent there were as many more. Public bodies hastened

to transmit to Lady Simpson minutes expressing their sense
                                         I give only two
of the loss sustained by his death.

here :x--

Extract from Minute of Meeting of Senatus Academicus of
      the University of Edinburgh, of date 27th May 1870.

" The Senatus Academicus, on this first occasion of their

meeting since the funeral of the late Professor Sir James

Young Simpson, Bart., resolve to record their admiration of his

genius, and of the benefits which he has conferred upon man

kind by his discoveries.
    " They resolve also to record their high appreciation of the

ability and energy with which Professor Sir James Y. Simpson,
during a period of thirty years, conducted the classes of Mid

wifery, of the lustre which his name conferred upon the Uni

versity, and of the great loss which the University has sustained

by his untimely death.
    " And the Senatus further resolve to transmit a copy of this

resolution, along with the expression of their sincere regret, to

Lady Simpson and his family.             John Wilson,
               " Extracted by

" Edinburgh, 3d June 1870."              Sec. Senat. Acad.

           On such emprise his ardent heart was bent

           While, walking by faith's holy light, he trod

           The Shepherd's  path, with    tears and blood  Gboedsp! r"ent,
              Which leads  the flock up  to the hills of

  1 Extract minutes were also transmitted from the records of the United Pres

byterian Synod, the Royal College of Physicians, the Managers of the Royal
Infirmary, King and Queen's College of Physicians Ireland, Royal Scottish
Academy, the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, the Botanical Society of
Edinburgh, the Obstetrical Societies of London, Edinburgh, and Dublin,
the Liverpool Medical Institution, the Bathgate Town Council, etc.
 542 SIR JAMES Y. SIMPSON.

     FROM THE RECORDS OF THE FREE CHURCH GENERAL ASSEMBLY.

    " It is not the province of this Assembly to record the

 matchless services rendered to science by Sir James Simpson ;
 while at the same time it desires gratefully to remember the
 unspeakable blessings which some of his achievements have
 conferred upon our sick and suffering humanity.

    " It is becoming, however, in the Church of which he was a

 member, and to which he was warmly attached, to whose min
 isters and their families he was ever, amidst all his labours, a
 loving and ready adviser in days of weakness, to recall his un
 selfish services in the interests of all that affected the wellbeing
 of our race ; his spirit of generous liberality to the poor and
 needy ; his willing submission of the great gifts with which
 God had intrusted him, to the honour and glory of Him who
 gave them ; and his simple trust, as he entered the dark valley,
 in Jesus as the Saviour of sinners. The Church in its Supreme
 Court records its sympathy with the marvellous tribute paid
 by a mourning community on the day of his funeral, and to
 bless the Lord, who made him not only a man of genius, but a
 man of grace.

     " The Assembly desires to express its condolence with his
widow and family, and to commend them to the loving care of

the Good Shepherd." l

    On the 30th May a public meeting was convened in Edin
burgh, to consider what steps should be taken for a public
memorial of Sir James. The Eight Hon. the Earl of Dalhousie
presided, and many of the leading medical men and citizens
of Edinburgh were present. Eesolutions were moved by the
Lord Provost, Principal Sir Alexander Grant, Dr. Alexander
Wood, Sir William Gibson Craig, and Sir George Harvey. The
resolutions were adopted unanimously, and a Provisional Com
mittee was appointed, consisting of the Earl of Dalhousie, chair
man 5 the Eight Hon. Lord Eosehill, Hon. George Waldegrave

                               1 Drawn up by David Maclagan, Esq.
                THE END.                          543

Leslie, Sir George Warrender of Lochend, Bart., and Edward S.
Gordon, Q.C., M.P., Dean of the Faculty of Advocates, as vice-

chairmen; Dr. Alexander Wood and Councillor Colston, as

honorary secretaries ; and W. J. Duncan, Esq., manager of the
National Bank, as honorary treasurer. A monument, or a public

hospital, with a tablet to his memory in Westminster Abbey,

were the objects proposed. A short time afterwards an impor

tant meeting was held at Stafford House, London, the residence

of the Duke of Sutherland, and a committee was appointed to

co-operate with the Edinburgh one. Subscriptions at once

began to come in rapidly.

In this record of Sir James Simpson's life, an earnest attempt

has been made to present a true view of his intellectual and

moral qualities, and faithfully to describe what he set himself

to achieve, and what he achieved. The insatiable thirst for

knowledge which distinguished him in boyhood continued

through life. Born in a condition, and in early years sur

rounded with circumstances little favourable to intellectual

pursuits, a strong will, steady self-reliance, and singular indus

try enabled him to surmount every obstacle and climb to high

social position and world-wide celebrity, as physician, philan

thropist, and man of science. In that branch of a noble pro

fession to which he chiefly devoted his genius, talents, and

highest energies --a branch in which even great skill fails, if

dissociated from high moral tone --his almost maidenly delicacy

of taste and feeling drew to him the love and trust of the most

gentle and refined. True manliness and deep tenderness have

seldom been more perfectly combined than in his person. It

was not unfrequently his lot, as it has been the lot of most

men who have raised themselves to high place, to be entangled

in controversy  :

                " Ssepius ventis agitatur ingens
                   Pinus."

When he deliberately took up a position, he held it with
544 SIB JAMES Y. SIMPSON.
vigorous determination against all comers, and made his assail
ants feel the weight of his blows. In such circumstances no
considerations could influence him till he had secured, what he
believed to be, the triumph of truth. But he disliked contro
versy, and no sooner had an opponent given way than he ex
pressed his willingness to forgive and forget. More than
once he showed his readiness to do battle for a bitter enemy
who for the time was upholding the honour of his profession,
or the interests and dignity of science. In the last years of
his active usefulness, and when in the very bloom and vigour
of his faculties, Sir James lived as an earnest, devoted, and
humble Christian, feeling it ever to be the crown and glory of

his life that he could sincerely and joyfully say, " It pleased

God, who called me by His grace, to reveal His Son in me."

                             PRINTED BY T. AND A. CONSTABLE, PRINTERS TO HER MAJESTY,
                                                 AT THE EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY PRESS.
                                                    88 Pbikoes Street,
                                                            Edinburgh, May 1873.

EDMONSTON & DOUGLAS'

       LIST OF WORKS.

                                          -ooo-

The Culture and Discipline of the Mind, and other Essays.

     By JOHN ABERCROMBIE, it. I). New Edition. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 3s. M,

Wanderings of a Naturalist in India,

The Western Himalayas, and Cashmere. By Dn. A. L. ADAMS of the 22d Regi

ment. 8vo, with Illustrations, price 10s. 6d.                                     .
    "The author need be under no apprehension of wearying his readers. .

He prominently combines the sportsman with the naturalist." --Sporting Review.

Notes of a Naturalist in the Nile Valley and Malta.

     By ANDREW LEITH ADAMS. Author of ' Wanderings of a Naturalist in India.'
      Crown 8vo, with Illustrations, price 15s.

        " Most attractively instructive to the general reader." --Bell's Messenger.

The Orkneyinga Saga.

     Edited, with Notes and Introduction, by JOSEPH ANDERSON, Keeper of the
      National Museum of the Antiquaries of Scotland. 1 vol. demy 8vo. [In the press.

Alexandra Feodorowna, late Empress of Russia.

By A. TH. VON GKIMM, translated by Labt Waixacb. 2 vols. 8vo, with

Portraits, price 21s.                     of information concerning  Russian affairs and Russian
soci"etyC.o"nt--ainMsornainngamPooustn.t

Always in the Way.                                  12mo, price Is. 6d.
      By the author of ' The Tommiebeg Shootings.'

Australian Beef and Mutton, and how to make the best of

     them. By Miss C. L. H. DEMPSTER. Sewed, price Id.

The Malformations, Diseases, and Injuries of the Fingers

     and Toes, and their Surgical Treatment. By THOMAS ANNANDALE, F.R.C.S.
      8vo, with Illustrations, price 10s. 6d.

Odal Bights and Feudal Wrongs.                                           8vo,

     A Memorial for Orkney. By DAVID BALFOUR of Balfour and Trenaby.

       price 6s.
                        EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS,

Sermons by the late James Banner-man, D.D., Professor of

Apologetics and Pastoral Theology, New College, Edinburgh. In 1 vol., extra

fcap. 8vo, price 5s.

The Life, Character, and Writings of Benjamin Bell,
F.R.C.S.E., F.R.S.E., author of a 'System of Surgery,' and other Works.
his Grandson, BENJAMIN BELL, F.R.C.S.E. Fcap. 8vo, price 8s. 6d.                               By

The Holy Grail. An Inquiry into the Origin and Signifi

cation of the Romances of the San Great. By Dr. F. G. BERGMANN.                                Fcap.

8vo,"  price Is.  6d.   a short  wsphaacteh, aas  carefully-expressed account         of the romances of
       Contains,    in                            been called the Epic cycle         of the San Grcul." --
chivalry, which compose
AlheiKBum.

Homer and the Iliad.

     In Three Parts. By JOHN STUART BLACKIE, Professor of Greek in the Uni
      versity of Edinburgh. 4 vols. demy 8vo, price 42s.

                                                  By the same Author.

Four Phases of Morals : Socrates, Aristotle, Christianity,

and Utilitarianism. Lectures delivered before the Royal Institution, London.

Fcap. 8vo, price 6s.

On Democracy.

      Sixth Edition, price Is.

Musa Burschicosa.

     A Book of Songs for Students and University Men. Fcap. 8vo, price 2s. (id.

War Songs of the Germans, translated, with the Music, and

      Historical Illustrations of the Liberation War and the Rhine Boundary Question.
      Fcap. 8vo, price 2s. 6d. cloth, 2s. paper. Dedicated to Thomas Carlyle.

On Greek Pronunciation.

       Demy 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Political Tracts.
No. I. Government. No. 1. Education. Price Is. each.

On Beauty.                                              Lyrical Poems.

Crown 8vo, cloth, 8s. 6d.                                     Crown 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d.

The New Picture Book. Recreative Instruction.

      Pictorial Lessons on Form, Comparison, and Number, for Children under Seven
     Years of Age. With Explanations by NICHOLAS BOHNY. Fifth Edition.
      86 oblong folio coloured Illustrations. Price 7s. 6d.

The Home Life of Sir David Brewster.

By his daughter, Mrs. GORDON. 2d Edition. Crown 8vo, price 6s.

"With his own countrymen it is sure of a welcome, and to the savants of
Europe, and of the New          World,  it        will  have  a  real  and  special  interest  of its own."
--Pall Mall Gazette.

France under Richelieu and Colbert.

By J. H. BRIDGES, M.B. Small 8vo, price 8s. 6d.
       88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH.

Works by John Brown, M.D., F.R.S.E.

Locke and Sydenham. Extra fcap. 8vo, price 7s. 6d.

Hon.*: SuBSKciv.e. Seventh Edition. Extra fcap. 8vo, price 7s. 6d.
Letter to the Rev. John Cairns, D.D. Second Edition, crown 8vo, sewed, 2s.

Arthur H. Hallam ; Extracted from ' Hone Subsecivie.' Fcap. sewed, 2s. ; cloth,

     2s. tid.

Rab and his Friends ; Extracted from 'Hone Subsecivae,' Forty-seventh thou

sand. Fcap. sewed, 6d.

Rab and his Friends. Cheap Illustrated Edition. Square 18mo ; ornamental

    wrapper. Is.

Rab and his Friends. With Illustrations by Sir George Harvey, R.S. A., Sir J.
   Noel Paton, R.S.A., and J. B. New Edition, small quarto, cloth, price 3s. 6d.

Marjorie Fleming : A Sketch. Fifteenth thousand. Fcap. Bewed, Ad.
Our Doos ; Extracted from 'Horn Subsecivae. ' Nineteenth thousand. Fcap.

     sewed, 6d.

" With Brains, Sir ; " Extracted from ' Hone Subsecivse.' Fcap. sewed, 6d.

Minchmoor. Fcap. sewed, 6d.                       Price lid.
Jeems the Doorkeeper : A Lay Sermon.

The Enterkin. Price 6d.

Memoirs of John Brown, D.D.                                   Chapter by his Son,

    By the Rev. J. CAIRNS, D.D., Berwick, with Supplementary
    John Brown, M.D. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 9s. 6d.

Select Hymns for Church and Home.

By R. BROWN-BORTHWICK.     18mo, price 2s. 6d.

The Finger of God in the Disruption and the Christian

      Ministry, being the Opening and Closing Addresses delivered at the General

    Assembly of the Free Church of Scotland, May 1872, by CHARLES J. BROWN,

      D.D., Moderator. 8vo, price Is.

The Biography of Samson

     Illustrated and Applied. By the Rev. JOHN BRUCE, D.D., Minister of Free St.
      Andrew's Church, Edinburgh. Second Edition. 18mo, cloth, 2s.

The Life of Gideon.

By Rev. JOHN BRUCE, D.D., Free St. Andrew's Church, Edinburgh. 1 vol. fcap.

8vo,"  price 5s.   this able and admirable        volume  to the cordial acceptance  of our
       We commend
readers." --Daily Review.

By the Loch and River Side.                       Oblong folio, handsomely  bound, 21s.

      Forty Graphic Illustrations by a New Hand.

The De Oratore of Cicero.

     Translated by F. B. CALVERT, M.A. Crown 8vo, price 7s. 6d.
                  EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS,

My Indian Journal,

      Containing descriptions of the principal Field Sports of India, with Notes on the
     Natural History and Habits of the Wild Animals of the Country. By Colonel
     WALTER CAMPBELL, author of 'The Old Forest Ranger.' 8vo, with Illustra
       tions, price 16s.

Popular Tales of the West Highlands,                                            4 vols. extra fcap.
    Orally Collected, with a translation by J. F. CAMPBELL.

       cloth, 32s.

Inaugural Address at Edinburgh,

April 2, 1866, by THOMAS CARLYLE, on being Installed as Rector of the Uni
versity there. Price Is.

Carswell's Gaelic Prayer Book.

      The Book of Common Prayer, commonly called John Knox's Liturgy. Translated
     into Gaelic, a.d. 1567, by Mr. JOHN CARSWELL, Bishop of the Isles. Edited,
     with an English Translation, by THOMAS M'LAUCHLAN, LI,. O., Translator of
      the Book of the Dean of Llsmore. 4to, half Roxburgh*. Price 30s.

On the Constitution of Papal Conclaves.

By  "W.A  C. CARTWRIGHT, M.P. Fcap. 8vo,                      price 6s. 6d.
          book which will, we believe, charm                  careful students
                                                                                of history, while it
will dissipate much of the ignorance which in this country surrounds the subject."
--Spectator.

Gustave Bergenroth. A Memorial Sketch.

By W. C. CARTWRIGHT, M.P. Author of 'The Constitution of Papal Con

clav"esT.'o  Crown 8vo, price 7s. 6d.

memoir       those who knew this     a--ccoSmtapnldisahredd.  student, Mr. Cartwright's enthusiastic
             will be very welcome."

Life and Works of Rev. Thomas Chalmers, D.D., LL.D.

Memoirs or the Rev. Thomas Chalmers. By Rev. W. Hanna, D.D., LL.D. 4
      vols., 8vo, cloth, £2 : 2s.

          Cheap Edition, 2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 12s.

Posthumous Works, 9 vols., 8vo--

    Daily Scripture Readings, 3 vols.,£l :11 :6. Sabbath Scripture Readings, 2
       vols., £1 Us. Sermons, 1 vol., 10s. 6d. Institutes of Theology, 2 vols.,
       £1 : Is. Prelections on Butler's Analogy, etc., 1 vol., 10s. 6d.

    Sabbath Scripture Readings. Cheap Edition, 2 vols., crown 8vo, 10s.

      Daily Scripture Readings. Cheap Edition, 2 vols., crown 8vo, 10s.
Astronomical Discourses, Is. Commercial Discourses, Is.
Select Works, in 12 vols., crown 8vo, cloth, per voL, 6s.

    Lectures on the Romans, 2 vols Sermons, 2 vols. Natural Theology, Lectures
             on Butler's Analogy, etc., 1 voL Christian Evidences, Lectures on Foley's
          Evidences, etc., 1 vol. Institutes of Theology, 2 vols.               Political Economy :
          with Cognate Essays, 1 voL Polity of a Nation, 1 vol.                 Church and College
          Establishments, 1 voL Moral Philosophy, Introductory Essays, Index, etc.,
          1 vol.

Characteristics of Old Church Architecture, etc.,

     In the Mainland and Western Islands of Scotland. 4to, with Illustrations, price 25s.
                          88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH.

Dainty Dishes.

Receipts collected by Lady HARRIETT ST. CLAIR. New Edition, with many
      Receipts. Crown 8vo. Price
new   Well worth buying, especially       5s.    that class of   dpeelircsaocnises."wh--o,    though  their
                                            by  and recherche                               rimes.
   "

incomes are small, enjoy out-of-the-way

The Constitution Violated.
An Essay by the Author of ' The Memoir of John Grey of Dilston,' dedicated to
the Working Men and Women of Great Britain. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Country Life in Jamaica, l vol. fcap. 8ro.                                                  [immediately.

Sir John Duke Coleridge.

      Inaugural Address at Edinburgh Philosophical Institution, Session 1870-71. 8vo,
      price Is.

"Wild Men and Wild Beasts-- Adventures in Camp and

Jungle. By Lieut. -Colonel GORDON CUMM1NG. With Illustrations by Lieut-
Col. Baiorie and others. Second edition. Demy 4to, price 24s.

           Also, a Cheaper Edition, with Lithographic Illustrations. 8vo, price 12s.

Notes on the Natural History of the Strait of Magellan

and West Coast of Patagonia, made during the voyage of H.M.S. ' Nassau' in the
years 1866, 1867, 1868, and 1869. By ROBERT O. CUNNINGHAM, M.D., F.R.S.,

Nat"urTahleisrte  to the  Expedition.   With Maps and numerous   Illustrations. 8vo, price 15s.
                    is a  good deal    of interesting and novel  information in the present
                                          it especially                                     Ho in that
volume,     a"n--d    we can   recommend                    to those  whose  tastes
direction.          Standard.

The Annals of the University of Edinburgh.

By ANDREW DALZEL, formerly Professor of Greek in the University of Edin
burgh ; with a Memoir of the Compiler, and Portrait after Raeburn. 2 vols, demy

       8vo, price 21s.

Gisli the Outlaw.

From the Icelandic. By G. W. DASENT, D.C.L. Small 4to, with Illustrations,

       price 7b. Cd.

The Story of Burnt Njal ;

      Or, Life in Iceland at the end of the Tenth Century.            From the Icelandic of the
     Njals Saga. By GEORGE WEBBE DASENT, D.C.L.                       2 vols. 8vo, with Map and
      Plans, price 28s.

Select Popular Tales from the Norse.

For the use of Young People. By G. W. DASENT, D.C.L. New Edition, with

Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Plates and Notes relating to some Special Features in Struc

tures called Pyramids. By ST. JOHN VINCENT DAY, C.E., F.R.SS.A. Royal

folio, price 28s.                      By the same Author.

Papers on the Great Pyramid.

       8vo, price 4s.

Some Evidence as to the very early Use of Iron.

8vo, sewed, price 2s. 6d.

                                                                                                             S
EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS,

The Law of Railways applicable to Scotland, with an

     Appendix of Statutes and Forms. By FRANCIS DEAS, M.A., LL.B., Advocate.
      1 vol. Royal 8vo, price 38s.

On the Application of Sulphurous Acid Gas                                  By JAMES

     to the Prevention, Limitation, and Cure of Contagious Diseases.
      DEWAR, M.D. Thirteenth edition, price Is.

Rheumatism and Rheumatic Gout treated on Antiseptic

     Principles. By JAMES DEWAR, M.D. Price Is.

Dick and I.                                                                Square 18mo,
      Uniform with ' Little Tales for Tiny Tots,' with six Illustrations.
       price la.

Memoir of Thomas Drummond, RE., F.R.A.S., Under-Secre

     tary to the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, 1835 to 1840. By JOHN F. M'LENNAN,

       Advocate. 8vo, price 15s.

       "A clear, compact, and well-written memoir of the best friend England ever

      gave to Ireland."-- Examiner.

Political Survey.

     By MOUNTSTUART E. GRANT DUFF, Member for the Elgin District of Burghs ;
     Author of ' Studies in European Politics,' ' A Glance over Europe,' Ac. &c. 8vo,
      price 7s. 6d.

        " In following up his ' Studies in European Politics ' by the ' Political Survey '
      here before us, Mr. Grant Duff has given strong evidence of the wisdom of the

      choice made by the Ministry in appointing him Under-Secretary for Indis. In the
      space of about 240 pages, he givea us the cream of the latest information about
       the internal politics of no less than forty-four different countries under four heads,

      according to their situation in Europe, Asia, and Africa, Northern and Central
      America, or South America."-- Pall Mall Gazette.

                                                   By the tame Author.

Elgin Speeches. 8vo, cloth, price 8s. Gd.
A Glance over Europe. Price is.
Address as Rector at the University of Aberdeen. Price is.
East India Financial Statement, 1869. Price is.

Remarks on the Present Political Situation. Price is.

Expedit-- Laboremus. Price is.

Veterinary Medicines ; their Actions and Uses.                             [In the pren.

     By FINLAY DUN. Fourth Edition, revised and enlarged. 8vo.

Social Life in Former Days ;

      Chiefly in the Province of Moray. Illustrated by letters and family papers. By
     E. DUNBAR DUNBAR, late Captain 21st Fusiliers. 2 vols. demy 8vo, price

       19s. Gd.
              88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH.

Deep-Sea Soundings.

COLLOQUIA PERIPATETICA. By the late JOHN DUNCAN, LL.D., Professor
of Hebrew in the New College, Edinburgh ; being Conversations in Philosophy,
Theology, and Religion. Edited by Rev. W. Knight. Third Edition. 1 vol. fcap.
n.v.i. Price 8s. 6d.

     "Since   these lectures              we'rCe olplouqbulisiahedPeripthaetereticah,'as   appeared an exceedingly
interesting   volume, entitled                                                            by the late John Duncan,
LL.D., Professor of Hebrew in the New College, Edinburgh. These Colloquies are
reported by the Rev. William Knight, who seems to be admirably adapted for the
task he has undertaken. His friend must have been a man of rare originality,
varied culture, great vigour in expressing thoughts, which were worthy to be ex
pressed and remembered                             The reader who shall give himself the
                             of studying this short      volume                            will  suggest more to him
benefit and   gratification  its size) will find that                (it                  been    bribed to speak well
than many     of ten times                               I have    not                    me.     The only excuse for
of it by any                                                       on                            writings which they
alluding to   praise which Dr. Duncan has bestowed                                         my
              it is, that it contains the severest censure           on

have ever incurred, though they have not been so unfortunate as to escape censure.
                           Against any ordinary criticism, even a writer who is naturally
thin-skinned becomes by degrees tolerably                hIarhdaevneedt.hougOhnte                          frnoomticea."ma--n
of such learning and worth as Dr. Duncan                                                  proceeding
                                                                                          it a duty to
Extract from Pre/ace to 'The Conscience.' By the late Professor F. D. Maurice.
Second Edition, 1872.

Recollections of the late John Duncan, LL.D., Professor of
      Hebrew and Oriental Languages, New College, Edinburgh. By the Rev. A.
      MOODY STUART. Extra fcap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Memoir of the late John Duncan, LL.D. , Professor of Hebrew,

New College, Edinburgh. By the Rev. DAVID BROWN, D.D. Second edition,

crow"nDr8vBo,rocwlont'hs,  price 6a.      be read  and   re-read.  We must therefore refer our
                           book must           to        discriminating and                      carefully wrought
thoughtful    and inquiring readers                this
biography."   --Literary World.

Edmonston and Douglas' Juvenile Library.

Square 18mo, with Illustrations.               Is. each.

LDiitctkleanTdaleI.s por Tiny Tots.            Nigh|It-CapNTSs.hteoerlileCyshRaTivroietlryds'BinaGztraheaear.tWRoiocdhse. s.
Birds' Nest Stories.
                                          New
             **# Other volumes of this attractive series in preparation.

Karl's Legacy.

By the Rev. J. W. EBSWORTH. 2 vols. ex. fcap. 8vo. Price 6s. 6d.

Charlie and Ernest ; or, Play and Work.                                                          By M. BETHAM

    A Story of Hazlehnrst School, with Four Illustrations by J. D.

      EDWARDS. Royal 16mo, 3s. 6d.

A Memoir of the Right Honourable Hugh Elliot.
By"hLisadGyranMdidnatuoghpteror,ductehde  COUNTESS of MINTO.
                                          a valuable memoir when                          8vo, price 12s.  substance          of
                                                                                          she printed the
the work before us for private circulation in 1862. It now, in its completed shape,

presents a full-length and striking portrait of a remarkable member of a remark
able race." --Quarterly Review.
                                   EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS,

The Spiritual Order, and other Papers selected from the MSS.

of  t"heItlawteillTfHoOr Ma AfeSw  ERSKINE of Linlathen.      Crown 8vo, cloth, price 5s.
                                   have a value which others  will not the least understand.
                                                                                              But
all must recognise in it the utterance of a spirit profoundly penetrated with the
sense of brotherhood, and with the claims of common humanity." -- Spectator.

                                                   By the same Author.

The Unconditional Freeness of the Gospel.

      New Edition revised. 1 vol. fcap. 8vo. Price 3s. 6d.

The Purpose of God in the Creation of Man.

Fcap. 8vo, sewed. Price 6d.

     A few Copia of the original editions of Works by the same Author are Hill for Sale.

An Essay on Faith. Fourth Edition, 12mo, 3s.
The Brazen Serpent; or, Life Coming through Death.

      Second Edition, 12mo, 3s.                                 4 vols., fancy covers, Is.

Good Little Hearts.

     By AUNT FANNY. Author of the ' Night-Cap Series.'

each ; or cloth extra, Is. 6d. each.         I     Nelly Rivers' Great Riches.
      Charity Bazaar.                        1     Stories Told in the Wood.
      Birds' Nest Stories.

L'Histoire d'Angleterre. Par H. LAME FLEURY. I8mo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

L'Histoire de France. Par M LAME FLEURT. New Edition, corrected to

       1373. 18mo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

Christianity viewed in some of its Leading Aspects.

By Rev. A. h. R. FOOTE, Author of 'Incidents in the Life of our Saviour.' Fcap.

cloth, 3s.

Kalendars of Scottish Saints, with Personal Notices of those
of Alba, etc. By ALEXANDER PENROSE FORBES, D.C.L, Bishop of Brechin.
1 vol. 4to. Price £3 : 3s. A few copies for sale on large paper, price £5 : 15 : 6.
    "
    "  A truly valuable contribution     to  the archawlogy   of Scotland."--Guardian.
       We must not forget to thank      the  author for the   great amount of information
he has put together, and for the labour he has bestowed on a work which can never
be remunerative."-- Saturday Review.

The Deepening of the Spiritual Life.
      By A. P. FORBES, D.C.L., Bishop of Brechin.
      Is. 6d. ; or paper covers, Is.                          Third edition.  18mo, cloth, price

Frost and Fire;

Natural Engines, Tool-Marks, and Chips, with Sketches drawn at Home and Abroad
by a Traveller. Re-issue, containing an additional Chapter. 2 vols. 8vo, with

Map"s    and numerous    Illustrations  on Wood, price 21s.     delicious     freshness       of its
                       among books,     in the originality and
       A very Turner
style, and the truth and delicacy of the descriptive portions. For some four-and-
twenty years he has traversed half our northern hemisphere by the least frequented
paths ;                               with artistic and philosophic eye, has found something to
describe  a--ndheerveeryinwhteirney,  trout-stream or fleecy cloud, there in lava-flow or ocean
current, or in the works of nature's giant sculptor-- ice."-- Reader.

The Cat's Pilgrimage.                                                         With 7 full
    By J. A. FROUDE, M.A., late Fellow of Exeter College, Oxford.

     page Illustrations by Mrs. Blackburn (J. B.) 4to, price 6s.
         88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH.

Gifts for Men. ByX. H.

    1. The Gift of Repentance.           II 3. The Gift of the Holy Ghost.
    2. The Gift of the Yoke.             I 4. The Promise to the Elect.

" There  is hardly a living  theologian  who                          Crown 8vo, price 6s.
her thoughts as his own."-- Glasgow Herald.   might not be proud to claim many of

Glimpses of Life in Victoria.
By     Resident. 8vo,    with Illustrations, price 12s.
    a  Out of sight the  best book about Australia that
                                                         has come into our hands." --
    "

British Quarterly.
The Gospel in Isaiah : being an Exposition of the 55th and
56th Chapters of the Book of his Prophecies. By JOHN GEMMEL, M.A., Fairlie.

Ex. fcap. 8vo, price 5s.

Arthurian Localities : their Historical Origin, Chief Country,

     and Fingalian Relations, with a Map of Arthurian Scotland. By JOHN G. S.
     STUART GLENNIE, M.A. 8vo, price 7s. 6d.

Works by Margaret Maria Gordon (ne'e Brewster).

Workers. Fcap. 8vo, limp cloth, Is.                      Crown 8vo, cloth, 9s.
Lady Elinor Mordaunt ; or, Sunbeams in the Castle.

Work ; or, Plenty to do and How to do it. Thirty-fifth thousand. Fcap. 8vo,

     cloth, 2s. 6d.

Little Millie and her Four Flacks. Cheap Edition. Fifty-third thousand.

     Limp cloth, Is.

Sunbeams in the Cottage; or, What Women may do. A narrative chiefly ad
    dressed to the Working Classes. Cheap Edition. Forty-third thousand. Limp
    cloth, Is.

Prevention ; or, An Appeal to Economy and Common-Sense. 8vo, Gd.

      The Word and the World. Price 2d.

     Leaves or Healing for the Sick and Sorrowful. Fcap. 4to, cloth, 3s. 6d.

           Cheap Edition, limp cloth, 2s.

    The Motherless Boy ; with an Illustration by J. Noel Paton, U.S.A. Cheap

           Edition, limp cloth, Is.
          " Alike in manner and matter calculated to attract youthful attention, and to
     attract it by the best of all means --sympathy." -- Scotsman.

' Christopher North ;'

     A Memoir of John Wilson, late Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of

      Edinburgh. Compiled from Family Papers and other sources, by his daughter,
      Mrs. GORDON. Third Thousand. 2 vols, crown Svo, price 24s., with Portrait,

      and graphic Illustrations.

' Mystifications.'

     By Miss STIRLING GRAHAM. Fourth Edition. Edited by John Brown, M.D.
      With Portrait of ' Lady Pitlyal.' Fcap. 8vo, price 8s. 6d.

Happiness and Utility as promoted by the Higher Educa

     tion of Women. By Sir ALEX. GRANT, Bart. Price Is.  [In the press.

Grandmamma's Lessons, or Little Trix.

     A Story for Children. Square 18mo.
10 EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS,

Life of Father Lacordaire.

By  "DOShReAhaGs RdEonEeNaWgEreLaLt.     Fcap. 8vo. Price 6s.
                                      service in bringing before
                                                                           the  English public the career
oRof maagnreaCtatmhaonlic.w"h--osCehubrciohgrTaipmheys. they might have refused to read if written by a

Scenes from the Life of Jesus.

By  "SOAnMe UoEfLtheGRfEewG.      Second   Edition, enlarged.               Ex. fcap. 8vo, price 3s.  fid.
                              theological    works which can               be heartily commended      to all
classes." -- Inverness Courier.
Arboriculture; or, A Practical Treatise on Raising and

Managing Forest Trees, and on the Profitable Extension of the Woods and Forests
of Great Britain. By JOHN GRIGOR, The Nurseries, Forres. 8vo, price 10s. fid.
  " He is a writer whose authorship has this weighty recommendation, that he can
support his theories by facts, and can point to lands, worth less than a shilling an
acre when he found them, now covered with ornamental plantations, and yielding
through them a revenue equal to that of the finest corn-land in the country. . . .
His   book has interest both for the adept   apnladntthoeutn."ov--icSea, tufrodraytheRelvairegwe. proprietor
and"  him that has but a nook or corner to   all points on which an intending planter
      Mr. Grigor's practical information on
is interested is particularly good. . . . We have placed it on our shelves as a
first-class book of  reference        osnamalle.p" o--inFtasrmreelar.ting  to Arboriculture  ; and we strongly
recommend others      to do the

An Ecclesiastical History of Scotland,

     From the Introduction of Christianity to the Present Time.                 By GEORGE GRUB,
      A.M. 4 vols. 8vo, 42s.

Chronicle of Gudrun ;

     A Story of the North Sea. From the medieval German. By EMMA LETHER-
    BROW. With frontispiece by J. Noel Baton, R.S. A. New Edition, price 5s.

Notes on the Early History of the Royal Scottish Academy.

     By Sir GEORGE HARVEY, Kt., P.R.S.A. 8vo, price 3s. fid.

The Resurrection of the Dead.

By WILLIAM HANNA, D.D., LL.D., author of "The Last Day of oui Lord's
Passion," etc. I vol. fcap. 8vo, price 3s. 6d.

The Wars of the Huguenots.                   Ex. fcap. 8vo, price 5s.

     By Rev. WILLIAM HANNA, D.D., LL.D.

The Life of our Lord.

By the Rev. WILLIAM HANNA, D.D., LL.D. 6 vols., handsomely bound in
cloth extra, gilt edges, price 30s.

                     Separate vols., cloth, extra gilt edges, price 5s. each.

      1. The Earlier Years of our Lord.      8th Thousand.
      2. The Ministry in Galilee. Second     Edition.
      3. The Close of the Ministry. 6th Thousand.

      4. The Passion Week. 5th Thousand.
      5. The Last Day of our Lord's Passion. 47th Thousand.
      6. TnE Forty Days after the Resurrection. 9th Thousand.

The Guidman of Inglismill, and The Fairy Bride.

Legends of the North. With Glossary, etc. 4to, price 2s. 6d.
              88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH.                                               11

Heavenly Love and Earthly Echoes.

By a Glasgow Merchant. 4th Edition. 18ino, price Is. Od.
" We have read this volume with unmingled satisfaction.
                                                                   We very cordially re

commend it, as one much fitted to commend religion to the young, to cheer and

help the tempted and desponding, and indeed to have a wholesome influence on
              and hearts of all." -- Original Secession Magazine.
the"  minds   to be useful and heart-stirring to all who are in    earnest  in religion.  We
      Fitted
hope and believe it will reach many more editions."-- Christian Work.

Herrninius.                                            Ba.                  of £1 will entitle
                                                        An Annual Payment
     A Romance. By I. E. S. Fcap. 8vo, price

Historians of Scotland.

           Price to Non-Subscribers, 15». per volume.
      the Subscriber to Two annual volumes.

Vols, for ) Fordun's Scotichronicon. VoL I.
 1871-2. ) Wyntoun's Chronicle. VoL I.

/Vols, for ) Wyntoi-n's Chronicle. Vol. II.

 1872-3. Fordun's Scotichronicon. Vol. II.

                    *#* Detailed Lists of the forthcoming Volumes on application.

If the Gospel Narratives are Mythical, what then ?

Crown 8vo, price 3s. 6d.                                                   It is an attempt to

  " This is a striking little essay . . . thoughtful and subtle.

show that something like the philosophy of the Christian Gospel would be forced
upon us by the facts of our spiritual nature." -- Spectator.

Lectures on Scotch Legal Antiquities.

     By COSMO INNES, F.8.A., author of " Scotland in the Middle Ages."
        Contents:-- I. Introductory. II. Charters. III. Parliament. IV. The Old

     Church. V. Old Forms of Law. VI. Rural Occupations. VII. Student's Guide
    Books. VIII. Appendix. In 1 voL demy 8vo, price 10s. 6d.

Sketches of Early Scotch History.

      By COSMO INNES, F.S.A., Professor of History in the University of Edinburgh.
      1. The Church ; its Old Organisation, Parochial and Monastic. 2. Universities.
      8. Family History. 8vo, price 16s.

Concerning some Scotch Surnames.

     By COSMO INNES, F.S.A., Professor of History in the University of Edinburgh.
      Small 4to, cloth antique, 5s.

Instructive Picture-Books.

      Folio, 7s. 6d. each.

           "These Volumes are among the most instructive Picture-books we have seen,
      and we know of none better calculated to excite and gratify the appetite of the
      young for the knowledge of nature."-- Times.

                                                   I.
     The Instructive Picture Book. A few Attractive Lessons from the Natural
History of Animals. By ADAM WHITE, late Assistant, Zoological Department,
12 EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS,

British Museum.    With 54 folio coloured Plates. Eighth Edition, containing many
new Illustrations
                   by Mrs. Blackbubn, J. Stewabt, Goubuy Steell, and others.

                                            II.

      The Instructive Picture Book. Lessons from the Vegetable World. By the
Author of 'The Heir of Kedclyffe,' "The Herb of the Field,' etc New Edition,

with 64 Plates.                        III.

Instructive Picture Book. The Geographical Distribution of Animals, in a
Series of Pictures for the use of Schools and Families. By the late Dr. Gkeville.

With descriptive letterpress. New Edition, with 60 Plates.

                                            IV.             48 Folio Plates.
Pictures of Animal and Vegetable Life in all Lands.

                                                                          V.
          Recreative Instruction. Pictorial Lessons on Form, Comparison, and number,
      for Children under 7 years of age, with explanations. By Nicholas Bohny. Fifth
      edition. 26 Oblong folio Plates, price 7s. 6d.

The History of Scottish Poetry,

      From the Middle Ages to the Close of the Seventeenth Century. By the late
     DAVID IRVING, LL.D. Edited by John Aitkkn Cablyle, M.D. With a Memoir
       and Glossary. Demy 8vo, 16s.

Johnny Qibb of Guslietneuk. 12mo, ornamental boards, price 2s.

Sermons by the Rev. John Ker, D.D., Glasgow.

Ninth Edition. Crown 8vo, price 6s.

"This is a very remarkable volume of sermons. And it is no doubt a most

favourable symptom of the healthiness of Christian thought among us, that we

are"  so often able to begin a notice  with  these words.  frequently  introduced  to our
      We cannot help wishing that      such   notice more

readers a volume of Church of England sermons. Still, looking beyond our pale,

we"reMjori.ceKenrothwaisthdstuagndbinogld. ly and diligently into the vein which Robertson opened ;

but the result, as compared with that of the first miner, is as the product of skilled

machinery set against that of the vigorous unaided arm. There is no roughness,
no sense of labour ; all comes smoothly and regularly on the page --one thought

evoked out of another. As Robertson strikes the rock with his tool, unlooked-

for sparkles tempt him on ; the workman exults in his discovery ; behind each
beautiful, strange thought, there is yet another more strange and beautiful still.

Whereas, in this work, every beautiful thought has its way prepared, and every

strange thought loses its power of starting by the exquisite harmony of its

setting. Robertson's is the glitter of the ore on the bank ; Kcr's is the uniform

shining of the wrought metal. We have not seen a volume of sermons for many a

day which will so thoroughly repay both purchase and perusal and re-perusal.
And not the least merit of these sermons is, that they are eminently suggestive." --

Con"teTmheposraerrymoRnesviebwef.ore us are indeed of no common order ; among a host of com
petitors they occupy a high class -- we were about to say the highest class --

whether viewed in point of composition, or thought, or treatment.
88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH.                                                13

       " He has gone down in the diving-bell of a sound Christian philosophy, to the

     very depth of his theme, and has brought up treasures of the richest and most
     recherche character, practically showing the truth of his own remarks in the preface,
     · that there is no department of thought or action which cannot be touched by that
     gospel which is the manifold wisdom of God.' These subjects he has exhibited in
     a style corresponding to their brilliancy and profoundness -- terse and telling,
      elegant and captivating, yet totally unlike the tinsel ornaments laid upon the sub
     ject by an elaborate process of manipulation --a style which is the outcome of the
      sentiment and feelings within, shaping itself in appropriate drapery."-- British and
     Foreign Evangelical Review.

Studies for Sunday Evening ; or, Headings in Holy Writ.

     By Lord KINLOCH. New edition, in 2 vols. fcap. 8vo, price 9s.

                                                               Also separately.

Readings in Holy Writ, and Studies for Sunday Evening.

      Price 4s. 6d. each.

Faith's Jewels.            with other  devout  Verses.  By Lord KINLOCH.     Ex. fcap.

      Presented in Verse,
       8vo, price 5s.

The Circle of Christian Doctrine ;                              By Lord KINLOCH.

     A Handbook of Faith, framed out of a Layman's experience.
      Third and Cheaper Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. W.

Time's Treasure;                                Year.   Expressed in verse.  By Lord
                                                 Fcap.  8vo, price 3s. 6d.
      Or, Devout Thoughts for every Day of the
     KINLOCH. Fourth and Cheaper Edition.

Devout Moments.

     By Lord KINLOCH. Price 6d.

Hymns to Christ.

     By Lord KINLOCH. Ex. fcap. 8vo, price 3s. 6d.

The Philosophy of Ethics :

     An Analytical Essay. By SIMON 8. LAURIE, A. M. Demy 8vo, price 6s.

Notes, Expository and Critical, on certain British Theories

     of Morals. By SIMON S. LAURIE. 8vo, price 6s.

The Reform of the Church of Scotland

     In Worship, Government, and Doctrine. By ROBERT LEE, D.D., late Professor
      of Biblical Criticism in the University of Edinburgh, and Minister of Greyfriars.
     Part I. Worship. Second Edition, fcap. 8vo, price 3s.

Life in Normandy ;

      Sketches of French Fishing, Fanning, Cooking, Natural History, and Politics,
     drawn from Nature. By an English Resident. Third Edition, crown 8vo,
      cloth ex. gilt, price 4s. Oil.
14 EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS,

A Memoir of Lady Anna Mackenzie,

Countess of Balcarres, and afterwards of Argyle, 1621-1706. By ALEXANDER
LORD LINDSAY
   " All who love   (Earl of Crawford).   Fcap. 8vo, price   3s.  6d.   loyal  Covenanter."
-- Atlas.          the byways of history  should read this  life  of a

Lismore, Book of the Dean of.

     Specimens of Anoient Gaelic Poetry, collected between the years 1512 and 1529
     by the Rev. JAMES M'GREGOR, Dean of Lismore-- illustrative of the Language
     and Literature of the Scottish Highlands prior to the Sixteenth Century. Edited,
     with a Translation and Notes, by the Rev. Thomas Maclauchlan. The Introduc
     tion and additional Notes by William F. Skene. 8vo, price 12a.

Literary Belies of the late A. S. Logan, Advocate, Sheriff

      of Forfarshire. Extra fcap. 8vo, price 3s. 6d.

Little Ella and the Fire-Bong,                                                 Second

     And other Fairy Tales. By M. W., with Illustrations by Henry Warren.
      Edition. 16mo, cloth, 3s. 6d. Cloth extra, gilt edges, 4s.

Little Tales for Tiny Tots.

     With 6 Illustrations by Warwick Brookes. Square 18mo, price Is.

A Survey of Political Economy.

"By JAMES MACDONELL, M. A. Ex. fcap. 8vo, price 6s.

       The author has succeeded in producing a book which is almost as easy read
                            novel." -- Athetuvum.
ing"asOfa  three-volume     one of the best we have  seen ; and  had  we  to   choose  for a

           its class it is

beginner among the crowd of manuals and introductions to the study, there is
                               us to recommend the present volume." --Spectator.
muc"h   which would   induce
       Mr MacdoneU's    book,  entitled 'A Survey of Political Economy,' establishes
him as a writer of authority on economical subjects."--Mr. Newmarch.

Ten Years North of the Orange Biver.

     A Story of Everyday Life and Work among the South African Tribes, from 1859 to
     1869. By JOHN MACKENZIE, of the London Missionary Society. With Map
      and Illustrations. 1 vol. crown Svo, cloth, extra gilt, price 4s. 6d.

Nugre Canorsa Medic®.

      By DOUGLAS MACLAGAN, Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in the University
     of Edinburgh. A new edition, enlarged, with Illustrations by Thomas Faed, R. A. ;
     William Douglas, R.S.A. ; James Archer, R.S.A. ; John Ballantyne, R.S.A.,
     etc. In 1 vol. 4to, price 7s. 6d.

Select Writings : Political, Scientific, Topographical, and

     Miscellaneous, of the late CHARLES MACLAREN, F.R.S.E., F.G.S., Editor of
     the 8cotsman. Edited by Robert Cox, F.S.A. Scot., and James Nicol, F.R.S.E.,
     F.G.S., Professor of Natural History in the University of Aberdeen. With a
     Memoir and Portrait. 2 vols. crown 8vo, 15s.
88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH.                                                15

Memorials of the Life and Ministry of Charles Calder

Mackintosh, D.D., of Tain and Dunoon. Edited, with a Sketch of the Religious
History of the Northern Highlands of Scotland, by the Rev. William Taylob,
M. A. With Portrait. Second Edition, extra fcap. 8vo, price 4s. 6d.

Macvicar's (J. O., DJD.)
The Philosophy of the Beautiful; price 6s. 6d.   First Lines
plified ; price 5s. Inquiry into Human Nature ;                  of Science  Sim
                                                 price 7s. 6d.

Mary Stuart and the Casket Letters.                              Ex. fcap. 8vo,
    By J. P. N, with an Introduction by Henry Glass ford Bell.

      price 4s. 6d.

Max Havalaar;

Or, The Coffee Auctions of the Dutch Trading Company. By MULTATULI ;
translated from the original MS. by Baron Nahuys. With Maps, price 14s.

Why the Shoe Pinches.                                    METER,  M.D., Professor

     A contribution to Applied Anatomy. By HERMANN
      of Anatomy in the University of Zurich. Price 6d.

The Estuary of the Forth and adjoining Districts viewed

Geologically. By DAVID MILNE HOME of Wedderburn.         8vo, cloth, with Map
and Plans, price 5s.

The Herring :

     Its Natural History and National Importance. By JOHN M. MITCHELL. With
      Six Illustrations, 8vo, price 12s.

The Insane in Private Dwellings.

      By ARTHUR MITCHELL, A.M., M.D., Commissioner iu Lunacy for Scotland,
      etc 8vo, price 4s. 6d.

Creeds and Churches.                 MONCREIFF, Bart, D.D.       Demy Svo,

     By the Rev. Sir HENRY WELLWOOD

       price 3s. 6d.

Ancient Pillar-Stones of Scotland :                                          8vo,

     Their Significance and Bearing on Ethnology. By GEORGE MOORE, M. D.
       price 6s. 6d.

Heroes of Discovery.

By SAMUEL MOSSMAN. Crown Svo, price 5s.

Political Sketches of the State of Europe-- from 1814-1867.

      Containing Ernest Count Minister's Despatches to the Prince Regent from the
     Congress of Vienna and of Paris. By GEORGE HERBERT, Count Miinster.
       Demy 8vo, price 9s.

Biographical Annals of the Parish of Colinton.

     By THOMAS MURRAY, LL.D. Crown 8yo, price 8a. 64
16 EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS,

HisatorercyapitRuelasticoun eodf ,"  in   Answer        to " History     Vindicated," being
                                                                         nReviewers Reviewed, in
                                     The  Case for the  Crown," and the

the Wigtown Martyrs. By MARK NAPIER. 8vu, price 5s.

Nightcaps :                               By " Aunt Fanny."              6 vols, square 16mo, cloth.

     A Series of Juvenile Books.

In case, price 12s., or separately, 2s. each volume.

1. Baby Nightcaps.                        I 8. Big Nightcaps.            I 5. Old Nightcaps.

2. Little Nightcaps.                      I 4. New Nightcaps.            I 6. Fairy Nightcaps.
" Neither a single story nor a batch of tales in a single volume, but a box of six

pretty little books of choice fiction, is Aunt Fanny's contribution to the new supply

of literary toys for the next children's season. Imagine the delight of a little girl

who, through the munificence of mamma or godmamma, finds herself possessor of

Aunt Fanny's tastefully-decorated box. Conceive the exultation with which, on
raising the lid, she discovers that it contains six whole and separate volumes, and

then say, you grown-up folk, whose pockets are bursting with florins, whether you

do not think that a few of your pieces of white money would be well laid out in

purchasing such pleasure for the tiny damsels of your acquaintance, who like to

be sent to bed with the fancies of a pleasant story-teller clothing their sleepy

heads with nightcaps of dreamy contentment. The only objection we can make to

the quality and fashion of Aunt Fanny's Nightcaps is, that some of their joyous

notions are more calculated to keep infantile wearers awake all night than to dis

pose them to slumber. As nightcaps for the daytime, however, they are, one and

all, excellent."-- Atherueum.

New Nightcaps. New cheaper Edition, Fancy Cover, price Is.

ODDS AND ENDS--Price 6d. Each.

Vol. I., in Cloth, price 4s. 6d., containing Nos. 1-10.
Vol. IL,
                                          Do.           do. Nos. 11-19.

1. Sketches of Highland Character.                      2. Convicts.     3. Wayside Thoughts.
4. The Enterkin.
                                                        5. Wayside Thoughts-- Part 2.

6. Penitentiaries and Reformatories.                    7. Notes from Paris.
8. Essays by an Old Man.
                                                        9. Wayside Thoughts -- Part 3.

10. The Influence of the Reformation.                   11. The Cattle Plague.
                                                        13. On the Education of Children.
12. Rough Night's Quarters.
14. The Stormontfield Experiments.                      15. A Tract for the Times.

16. Spain in 1866.                                      17. The Highland Shepherd.
18. Correlation of Forces.                              19. ' Bibliomania.'

20. A Tract on Twigs.                                   21. Notes on Old Edinburgh.

22. Gold-Diggings in Sutherland.                        23. Post-Office Telegraphs.

The Bishop's Walk and The Bishop's Times.

By ORWELL. Fcap. 8vo, price 5a

Man : Where, Whence, and Whither ?                                                 By DAVID PAGE,

      Being a glance at Man in his Natural-History Relations.
     LL."DC. auFtcioapu.sly8vaon,dprtiecme p3esra. t6edly. written."-- Spectator.
88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH.                                                                                                                        17

The Great Sulphur Cure.

By ROBERT PAIRMAN, Surgeon. Thirteenth Edition, price Is.

Kidnapping in the South Seas.

      Being a Narrative of a Three Months' Cruise of H. M. Ship Rosario.                                                                   By Captain
     GEORGE PALMER, R.N., F.R.G.S. 8vo, illustrated, 10a. 6d.

France : Two Lectures.

cBoynt"Mem.ShpPooRuralEdrVyObSeFTcr-aePrnAecRfhuAlDHlyOissLtto,urdyie."do--f btDyhaeeilvFyerreRynecovhineewA.wcahdoemwyis.hes  8vo, price   2s. 6d.  about
                                                                                                                                to know    anything

Suggestions on Academical Organisation,

With Special Reference to Oxford. By MARK PATTISON, B.D., Rector of Lin
coln College, Oxford. Crown 8vo, price 7s. 6d.

Practical Water-Farming.

By WM. PEARD, M.D., LL.D. 1 vol. fcap. 8vo, price 5s.

On Teaching Universities and Examining Boards.

By LYON PLAYFAIR, C.B., M.P. 8vo, price Is.

On Primary and Technical Education.

     By LYON PLAYFAIR, C.B., M.P. 8vo, price Is.

Popular Genealogists;

      Or, The Art of Pedigree-making. Crown 8vo, price 4s.                                                                                 By a Clergy

The Pyramid and the Bible:

      The rectitude of the one in accordance with the truth of the other.

      man. Ex. fcap. 8vo, price 3s. <5d.

Quixetar.

     By the Author of 'Blindpits.' A Novel, in 3 vols. Crown 8vo, price 31s. 6d.

Christ and his Seed : Central to all things ; being a Series of

     Expository Discourses on Paul's Epistle to the Ephesians. By JOHN PULSFORD,
      Author of ' Quiet Hours.' Square 8vo, price 8s. 6d.

A Critical History of the Christian Doctrine of Justification
and Reconciliation. By ALBRECHT RITSCHL, Professor Ordinarius of Theology

in the University of Gottingen. Translated from the German, with the Author's
sanction, by John S. Black, M.A. 8vo, cloth, price 12s.

    "An exceedingly valuable contribution to theological literature. The history
begins no earlier than the Middle Ages ; since he considers that in earlier times,

while the theory of a price paid to Satan was current, there was no real theology
on the subject. A more thorough historical study of the doctrine of the Atone
ment, and a correct; understanding and appreciation of the various forms it has
assumed in different schools, are very much needed in this country." -- British ami

Foreign Evangelical Review.

Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character.                                                                                  Library Edition,

     By E. B. RAMSAY, M. A. , LL. D. , F. R. S. E. , Dean of Edinburgh.
      in demy 8vo, with Portrait by James Faed, price 10s. 6d.

   *»* The original Edition in 2 vols., with Introductions, price 12s. ; and the
Popular Edition, price 2s., are still on sale.
18 EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS,

         " That venerable Dean, who is an absolute impersonation of the ' reminiscences '
      of all the Scottish Churches, who in his largeness of heart embraces them all,
      and in his steadfast friendship, his generous championship of forgotten truths and
      of unpopular causes, proves himself to be in every sense the inheritor of the noble
      Scottish name which he so worthily bears.'' -- Dean Stanley's Lectures on the Church

      of Scotland.

Dean Ramsay's Reminiscences.

      Twenty-first Edition, in fcap. 8vo, boards, price 2s. ; cloth extra, 2s. Cd.
         " The Dean of Edinburgh has here produced a book for railway reading of the

      very first class. The persons (and they are many) who can only under such circum
      stances devote ten minutes of attention to any page, without the certainty of a
      dizzy or stupid headache, in every page of this volume will find some poignant
      anecdote or trait which will last them a good half-hour for after-laughter: one of
      the pleasantest of human sensations." --Athenceum.

Recess Studies.
     Edited by Sir ALEXANDER GRANT, Bark, LL.D. 8vo, price 12s.

Rights of Labour, and the Nine Hours' Movement.

     Addressed to the Men of Newcastle. By a LADY. Price One Penny.

Fast and Present: or, Social and Religious Life in the North.

By  "HT. hGes.e  REID.     1 vol., crown 8vo, illustrated, price 6s.
                          show great good sense, a thorough appreciation
                  papers                                                                                                               of the import

ance of social questions, and a deep conviction of the influence of principle and
truth in a nation's true progress." --Freeman.

Art Rambles in Shetland.

Bfiny"isJhTOehdHisNorfecTroe.rcdeRnEtofIpDAu.rbtlicHRaaamtnidobsnloesms oemf ta4hytisob, escolcorlttah.s",s--epdSraoatfuumrsdoenalyyg  illustrated, price 25a.
                                                                                                                                       the most choice and highly-
                                                                                                                                       Review.

The One Church on Earth. How it is manifested, and what

     are the Terms of Communion with it. By Rev. JOHN ROBERTSON, A.M.,
      Arbroath. Extra fcap. 8vo, price 3s. 6d.

Historical Essays in connection with the Land and the

     Church, etc. By E. WILLIAM ROBERTSON, Author of 'Scotland under her
      Early Kings.' In 1 vol. 8vo, price 10s. Od.

                            Contents.

                    Standards ok the Past in Wsioht and Currency.
    Part I.-- 1. The Roman and Byzantine Pounds. 2. Talents of the Classical

Era. 3. The Roman Currency. 4. The Stipcndiuin. 5. Early Byzantine Currency.
Approximate Standards.

    Part II. -- 1. Early Substitutes for a Coinage. 2. Currency of the Early Franks
and the House of Capet. 3. Early Germanic and Prison Currency, 4. Norwegian
and Irish Currency. 5. Mombetin and Early Spanish Currency. 6. Early English

Currency and Standards. Mediaeval Standards.

                          The Year and the Indiction.

    The Land.-- 1. The Acre. 2. The Hide. 3. The Land-gavel. 4. The Shire.

0. Scottish Measurements.   6. Irish Measurements.                                                                                     7. Irish Land-tenure.  8.

The Toshach and the Thane.
                88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH.                                19

Chapters or English History before the Conquest. -- 1. The King's Wife.

2. Handfasting. 3. The King's Kin. 4. Dunstan and his Policy. 5. The Corona
tion of Edgar.

                                                         Rome.

                            In 1 vol. Demy 8vo, cloth, price 10s. 6d.

Scotland under her Early Kings.
A History of the Kingdom to the close of the 13th century. By E. WILLIAM
ROB"EMRrT.SROoNb.ertsonIn,
                            2 vols. 8vo, cloth, 36s.  " Scotland  under  her Early Kings " on
                             in the Appendix to his

the English claims, appears to the Editor to have completely disposed of the claims

founded on the passages in the Monkish Historians prior to the Norman Conquest.
This paper is one of the acutest and most satisfactory of these very able essays."--
W. F. Skene in Preface to ' Chronicles of the Picts and Scott.'

Doctor Antonio.                    Cheap Edition, crown 8vo, boards, 2s 6d.

     A Tale. By JOHN RUFFINI.

Lorenzo Benoni ;

     Or, Passages in the Life of an Italian. By JOHN RUFFINI. With Illustrations.
      Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 5s. Cheap Edition, crown 8vo, boards, 2s. 6d.

The Salmon ;                                By ALEX. RUSSEL.             8vo, price 7s. 6d.

     Its History, Position, and Prospects.

Druidism Exhumed. Proving that the Stone Circles of

     Britain were Druidical Temples. By Rev. JAMES RUST. Fcap. 8vo, price 4s. 6d.

Gowodean :                                  8vo, price 6s.
     A Pastoral, by JAMES SALMON.

Natural History and Sport in Moray.

     Collected from the Journals and Letters of the late CHARLES St. JOnN, Anthor
      of ' Wild Sports of the Highlands.' With a short Memoir of the Author. Crown

       8vo, price 8s. 6d.

A Handbook of the History of Philosophy.

     By Dr. ALBERT SCHWEGLER. Fourth Edition. Translated and Annotated by
    J. Hutchison Stirling, LL.D., Author of the 'Secret of HegcL' Crown 8vo, price 6s.

         " Schwegler's is the best possible handbook of the history of philosophy, and
      there could not possibly be a better translator of it than Dr. Stirling." -- Westminster

       Review.

The Scottish Poor-Laws : Examination of their Policy,

History, and Practical Action. By SCOTUS. 8vo, price 7s. 6d.               upon this
    " This book is a magazine of interesting facts and acute observations

vitally important subject."--Scotsman.

Gossip about Letters and Letter-Writers.

      By GEORGE SETON, Advocate, M. A. Oxon., F.S.A. Scot. Fcap. 8vo, price 2s. 6d.
         " A very agreeable little brochure, which anybody mny dip into will] satisfaction

      to while away idle hours."-- Echo.

                                                                                                r
20 EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS,

' Cakes, Leeks, Puddings, and Potatoes.'

     A Lecture on the Nationalities of the United Kingdom. By GEORGE SETON,
      Advocate, M.A. Ozon., etc Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, sewed, price M.

Culture and Religion.
By J. C. SHAIRP, Principal of the United College of St. Salvator and St.
                           Third Edition, fcap. 8vo, price 3s. 6d.
Leonards, St. Andrews.  nnlike a great many other wise books, has that    carefully-

   " A wise book, and

shaded thought and expression which fits Professor Shairp to speak for Culture no

less than for Religion."-- Spectator.

John Keble :                                                 By J. C. SHAIRP, Principal
      An Essay on the Author of the ' Christian Year."

of the United College of St. Salvator and St. Leonards, St. Andrews. Fcap. 8vo,

price 8s.

Studies in Poetry and Philosophy.                                         and St.
    By J. C. SHAIRP, Principal of the United College of St. Salvator

      Leonard's, St. Andrews. Second Edition, 1 voL fcap. 8vo, price 6s.

The Shores of Fife; or the Forth and Tay.

Comprising Inland     "SQceuneeerny   in Fife,  Perth, Clackmannan, Kinross, and Stirling :
with frontispiece --                 Margaret   expounding the Scriptures to Malcolm Can-
more," presented by Sib Noel Paton, Knight, R.S.A., Her Majesty's Limner for
Scotland ; and original drawings, by Waller H. Paton, R.S.A., Samuel Bouoh,
A. R.8. A. , Johx Lawson, W. F. Vallance, E. T. Crawford, R.S. A., Clark Stanton,
A. U.S. A., ,1. H. Oswald, John T. Reid, and other Artists. Engraved by William
Balungall,

                                     containing --

An Outline or the Archeology or Fife, by A. Laing, F.S.A. Scot., New-

burgh-on-Tay.                          accocnt of St. Andrews, by the Very Rev.

  Historical and Descriptive
Principal Tulloch, D.D.
   Historical and Descriptive Notes on Falkland Palace, Lochleven, Rumb
ling Bridge, Perth, Dundee, Newport, Brouohty-Ferry, Bell Rook, etc., by the
Rev. George Gilfillan.

  Stirling, Alloa, Clackmannan Tower, Castle Campbell, Dollar, Kincar
dine, etc, by the Rev. J. Mitchell Harvey, M.A.

  The Shores from Leven to Torryburn, lnclcding Dunfermline, etc., by
the Rev. Jajies S. Mill.

  The Shores from Largo to St. Andrews, by the Author of ' The Hotel Du Petit

St. Jean.'
  The Eden, Cupar, Kenngway, Kettle, Leslie, Markinch, Thornton, Leuchars,

Ladybank, etc., by John T. Reid, Author of ' Art Rambles in Shetland.'
  As Outline of the Geology of Fife, by David Page, LL.D., Professor of

Geology, College of Science, Newcastle.

Sketch of the Mineralogy of Fife, by M. Forbter Heddle, M.D., Professor

of Chemistry, University of St. Andrews.
  An- Outline of the Botany of Fife, by Charles Howie, Secretary of the

Largo Field Naturalists' Society.

                                     4to, Cloth, price 30s.
                   88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH.                                                            21

A Memoir of the late Sir James Y. Simpson Bart. M.D.

     By JOHN DUNS, D.D., Professor of Natural Science, New College, Edinburgh.

       Demy, 8vo.

Archaeological Essays by the late Sir James Y. Simpson,

      Bart., M.D., D.C.L., one of her Majesty's Physicians for Scotland, and Professor of
     Medicine and Midwifery in the University of Edinburgh. Edited by JOHN
     STUART, LL.D., Secretary of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, Author of
      ' The Sculptured Stones of Scotland,' etc. etc. 2 vols. am. 4to, half Boxburghe,

       price £2 : 2s.

Proposal to Stamp out Small-pox and other Contagious
    Diseases. By Sir J. Y. SIMPSON, Bart., M.D., D.C.L. Price Is.

The Four Ancient Books of Wales,
      Containing the Cymric Poems attributed to the Bards of the Sixth Century. By
    WtheIL"tLaMIbAlreM.s SokefFn.ael'lSs CKeEbloNtoicEk .awntiiWlql,uitaharisaMnasampsaatntaendrdsocFhfaocclsaoirmusr.is"lees--. aAndn2Junveeoocleslo.sgsi8itayv,oC, afpvinriibdcreeint3ss6Ups.l.ace on

The Coronation Stone.                                                 With Illustrations in Photography and

     By WILLIAM F. SKENE. Small 4to.                                  in Scripture and in Nature.
      Zincography. Price 6s.

Nearness of Kin: its Principle

     By Rev. J. M. SLOAN. 8vo, price 6d.

The Sermon on the Mount.

     By the Rsv. WALTER C. SMITH, Author of ' The Bishop's Walk, and other
      Poems, by Orwell,' and 'Hymns of Christ and Christian Life.' Crown 8vo,

       price 6s.

Disinfectants and Disinfection.
          ROBERT ANGUS SMITH. 8vo,
By"DBr.y  common consent Dr. Angus Smith                              price 5s.      the  first  authority  in Europe
                                                                      has become
on the subject of Disinfectants.  To this subject he has devoted a large portion
of his scientific life ; and now, in a compact volume of only 138 pages, he has
condensed the result of twenty years of patient study. To Sanitary officers, to
municipal and parochial authorities, and, indeed, to all who are particularly con
cerned    for the  ptruebaltiicseh."ea--lthChaenmdiclaifl eN;ewans.d  who  is  not?  we
Angus     Smith's                                                                         sincerely  commend Dr.

Life and Work at the Great Pyramid.
With a Discussion of the Facts Ascertained. By C. PIAZZI SMYTH, F.R.SS.L.

and E., Astronomer-Royal for Scotland. 3 vols, demy 8vo, price 56s.

An Equal-Surface Projection for Maps of the World, and

     its Application to certain Anthropological Questions. By C. PIAZZI SMYTH,
      F.R.SS.L. & E., Astronomer-Royal for Scotland. 8vo, price 3s.

Britain's Art Paradise ; or, Notes on some Pictures in the

     Royal Academy, 1871. By the EARL of SOUTHESK. 8vo, sewed, price Is.

Sir Walter Scott as a Poet.

     By GILBERT MALCOLM SPROAT. 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d.

Ruined Castles, Monuments of Former Men, in the Vicinity

of Banff. By JAMES SPENCE Crown 8vo, price 5s.
22 EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS,

Scottish Liturgies of the Reign of James VI., from MSS. in
the British Museum and Advocates' Library. Edited, with an Introduction and

Notes, by the Rev. GEO. W. SPROTT, B.A. Extra fcap. 8vo, cloth, price 4s. 6d.

    "The title  of this book   will   bo  enough to! make many pass                                                                            it by as of mere
                  interest.   It is,  on  the contrary, one of national
denominational                   Prboyteasltlanwthisom, .t"h--roCugohnranaLny                                                                   importance, and

ought to be carefully   studied                                                                                                         line   of descent,                                                                                         connect
themselves with early  Scotch

The Doctrine of Christ Developed by the Apostles : a Treatise
on the Offices of the Redeemer, and the Doxology of the Redeemer. By Rev.
EDWARD STEANE, D.D. 8vo, Price 10s. 6d.
I" I have now attentively, and with great pleasure, perused your volume, and
cdaetsi"iorenW."eto--heaJx.vpeHrer.sesaHdmintythoisnsin, cveoMrlue.mAte.hanwkiftuhlnemssoretothGaond  and to you for so                        timely a                                                                                            publi
                                                                                                      ordinary pleasure.                         In the                                                                                            midst
of so much in modern theological literature that is objectionable or doubtful, it is
refreshing to meet with a clear, manly, outspoken                                                     'ecxopmosmitoionnly                      of those   great evan
gelical doctrines which are in danger of being less                                                                                             believed   among us                                                                                         '

than they were among our fathers. The style of the whole book is clear, free, and
vigorous ; it is characterised by a   tone  of sustained                                                                                       which reminds
more of the style of Dr. Chalmers     than  anything we                                               eloquence                                for a long time."                                                                                   u--s
                                                                                                      have read

Wesleyan Methodist Magazine.

     "The   style  Pisurigtraancetfuylpe.a"n--d Gfelonwerinagl ,Batphteist  spirit devout                                                      and tender,                                                                                         and the
theology   of the                                                            Magazine.

eexccpli""eaHstIoineorjry,e'otuhserathcjgeruirrdfeeigcaemt,iesdnnotcno, torrinoauennmctoheoarfrttjeauinswvthiaficliucshoaaubtLnileoudnthocbenoyrntftcharaieibtllhue.ddt"ioo--cn'trADinrianteiiclyuaolRufsesivnsigsuetlwbea.snttviistoulutvimoelen   and of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   cadentis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     to the
exposition, defence, and illustration of evangelical truth has not been often made.
Twhitoh"uAgehqhtuafaunlldpseoldemausecuartewedealcnCodmhrepisrtobifaoitno.k"l,a--yfmTuhleleno,LfisttehtuerdaeornyHtsW,Gooarslnpdde. l,          ministers, will read it
                                                                                                                                        young  rich in tenderness and
                                                                                                                                          and
feeling, the ripe fruit of an honoured and green old age. The work is conscientiously
and lovingly done, and the result is a treatise on the Prophetic, Priestly, and Kingly
Offices of Our Lord such as will give to all readers much intelligent thought and
much holy and suggestive sentiment. The text gives proof of careful study and
ample scholarship, and it is further enriched with notes taken from recent Biblical
criticism."-- The Freeman.

Memoir of Sir James Dalrymple, First Viscount Stair,
      President of the Court of Session in Scotland, and Author of 'The Institutions of
     the Law of Scotland.' A Study in the History of Scotland and Scotch Law during
     the Seventeenth Century. By M. J. G. MACKAY, Advocate. 8vo, price 12s.

History Vindicated in the Case of the Wigtown Martyrs.

     By the Rev. ARCHIBALD STEWART. Second Edition. 8vo, price 3s. 6U

Dugald Stewart's Collected Works.

Edited by Sir William Hamilton, Bart. Vols. I. to X. 8vo, cloth, each 12s.
Vol. L-- Dissertation.        Vols. II. HI. and IV.-- Elements of the Philosophy
of the Human Mind. Vol. V.-- Philosophical Essays. Vols. VI. and                                                                                                                                                                                   VII.--
PLehciltousroepshyonofPothlieticAacltivEecoannodmyM. oraVl oPlo. wXer.s--                             of Man. Vols. VIII.                                 and                                                                                       IX. --
                                                                                                                                                            of
                                                                                                      Biographical Memoirs                                                                                                                         Adam
Smith, LL.D., William Robertson, D.D., and Thomas Reid, D.D. ; to which
is prefixed        a Memoir of Dugald       Stewart, with                                                                               SeVleoclt.io--nsTrafnrosmlatiohinss
spondence,         by John Veitch, M. A.      Supplementary                                                                                                                                                                                        Corre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of the
Passages in Foreign Languages contained in the Collected Works ; with

General Index.
                88 PRINCES STREET, EDINBURGH.                                         23

Jerrold, Tennyson, Macaulay, and other Critical Essays.

     By JAMES HUTCHISON STIRLING, LL.D., Author of "The Secret of Hegel.'

1 vol. fcap. 8vo, price 5s.
"The author of 'The Secret of Hegel' here gives us his opinions of the lives
and works of those three great representative Englishmen whose names appear on
the title-page of the work before us. Dr. Stirling's opinions are entitled to be heard,
                         with them. He is       a  lucid  and  agreeable writer, a
and carry great  weight  his able translations     from   the  German has proved    profound
metaphysician,   and by                                                             his grasp
of mind and wide acquaintance with philosophical speculation." --Examiner.

Songs of the Seasons.

By THOMAS TOD STODDART, Author of '.The Angler's Companion.'                        Crown
8vo, price 6s.

Christ the Consoler;

Or, Scriptures, Hymns, and Prayers, for Times of Trouble and Sorrow. Selected and
arranged by the Rev. ROBERT HERBERT STORY, Minister of Roseneath. Fcap.

8vo, price 3s. 6d.

Recollections of Professor John Duncan.
      By the Rev. A. MOODY STUART. Uniform with 'Colloquia Peripatetlca.'
      Fcap. 8vo, cloth, price 3s. 6d.

Outlines of Scottish Archaeology.

     By Rev. G. SUTHERLAND. 12mo, sewed, profusely Illustrated, price Is.

Works by the late Professor Syme.

     Observations in Clinical Surgery. Second Edition. 8vo, price 8s. 6d.
     Stricture of the Urethra, and Fistula in Perineo. 8vo, 4s. 6d.
     Treatise on the Excision of Diseased Joints. 8vo, 5s.
     On Diseases of the Rectum. 8vo, 4s. 6d.
     Excision of the Scapula. 8vo, price 2s. 6d.

Taine's History of English Literature.

A New and carefully revised Library Edition. In 4 vols., small demy 8vo, price
                                                               [Vol. I. immediately.
7s. 6d. each.

Taine's History of English Literature.
Translated from the French by Henri van Laun.
                                                               Third edition.  2 Vols, demy
8vo, price 21s.

*"»*'  Copies   of Vol. 11., Second Edition, may still be      had to complete sets.  of the
       Taine's  History of English Literature' shows a         sounder appreciation
spirit of our literature, and is a better exponent of its      growth from stage to   stage,
and of the minute characteristics of each stage, than           any of the numerous     sum
...HhOwbmheaifiiagttrsrtdhh"ietelhlcyrysTweh.aaheibnpagxieetncepe'dhnsoresloMoirstaoouih.olkntonleVirndmtaoeWneucotefrhhfoLhaoaradipdstrurhtteaeownemrrpbiiethauonhsoatruaiinsscntnuudtterCrhedaltahithnttoaeesuablrabcnhyateeldaeitramvudMrerriae.ittssemtbhTseiiteatsfeihoiimcnnofwapeortonaioapoyrrruinkotngsmid.c"hauout--tlchdlyeaeoioTsdrrwnfhlacyeetwSeeblhllEoyynatxrookwakEtsmoenptsrwwhgehitnehloaeoiesrrrrhtetvc.h'mersayerne.ycannhdgogianterpgne. t.iasuetpsr.e.a"a"--bck.oil'TutiothldAyoe
EEa.yxienaragm."rolsiifsnM.heE.rn.vowgaflinatahnsLdcaa.hs"uo--ntlraurThehTaeohsaneSedspoyaeonmncfeatpatlayhattsoehdirsy.imffooicasfsutalitfbctroaainllsllsikuahmnisatmdlambitfoeeiorkahscberlyitthhiawcadetalln,bFdrraebnaaycthetberradihlnlaisastlhanepttirnoirnghdteuetcliloneertdcioctuiaatfnhloer
24 EDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS.

Thermodynamics.
     By P. O. TAIT, Professor of Natural Philosophy In the University of Edinburgh.

       1 vol. 8vo, price 5s.

Day-Dreams of a Schoolmaster.

     By D'ARCY W. THOMPSON. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, price 5s.

Sales Attici :

     Or, The Maxims, Witty and Wise, of Athenian Tragic Drama. By D'ARCY WENT-
      WORTH THOMPSON, Professor of Greek in Queen's College, Galway. Fcap. 8vo,

       price Qs.

Two Little Rabbits, or the Sad Story of Whitetail.

     By G. A. DALRYMPLE. With 8 Illustrations. Square 18mo, price Is.

Hand-Book of the Education (Scotland) Act, 1872.
    Containing--I. A digest of the Act, with subjects grouped for the convenience o f
    School Boards. II. Copy of the Act, with Explanatory Notes. III. The Incor

    porated Acts, Industrial Schools' Act, etc., and Index. By JAMES TOD, Advo
     cate. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, price 2s. 6d.

Twelve Years in China :                             Illustrations.                                           Second Edition.       Crown

      By a British Resident. With coloured

      8vo, cloth, price 10a. 6d.

Travels by Umbra. 8vo, price ios. 6d.

Hotch-Pot.

By UMBRA. An Old Dish with New Materials. Fcap. 8vo, price 3s. M.

The Merchant's Sermon and other Stories.

By   "L.AB.voWluAmLeFOoRfDv. ery  18mo, price Is. 6d.
                                   modest appearance
                                                                                                   which deserves       more than  the brief
notice for which we can           find              Ththeesfeo,ur'                                 tales it             are all pleasant and
spirited little stories.           The  space.  of                                                 Dolly      contains   Green Feather,' is
really admirable."-- Spectator.           last                                                               Spanker's

A History of the Battle of Bannockburn, fought AD. 1314.
      With Map and Armorial Bearings, and Notices of the principal Warriors who
     engaged in that Conflict. By ROBERT WHITE, Author of ' A History of the
      Battle of Otterbum.' 1 vol. 8vo, price 12s.

Dante's-- The Inferno.                                                                                       Fcap. 8vo, price 5a.

     Translated line for line by W. P. WILKI E, Advocate.

Researches on Colour-Blindness.                                                                                         of Railway and
                                                                                                                        8vo, 5s.
      With a Supplement on the danger attending the present system

      Marine Coloured Signals. By the late GEORGE WILSON, M.D.

An Historical Sketch of the French Bar, from its Origin to
     "PprrAeesseuensntet fuDdlaacyy.o."n--tBriSybautAutiRrodCnayHtIoBRoeAvuLireDwk.noYwOlUedNgGe,
the                                                                                                Advocate. Demy 8vo, price 7s. 6d.
the
                                                                                                   of the leading French politicians of
I

