The Worthies of Cumberland. John Dalton, F.R.S. [etc.].

Lonsdale, Henry, 1816-1876.
London, 1874.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/nnc1.cu60746912

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
/J

    Columbia tttttotacftp

             THE LIBRARIES
                        THE

WORTHIES OF CUMBERLAND.
PRINTED BV BALLANTYNE AND COMPANY
             EDINBURGH AND LONDON
IdJ^Jt^, %<£ <?

                                                              i
       V, O K T 1 1 I L S

\c v m b ]-;u;. a :

                7V' J > .I '/. y'i'.V

          ;.n rv '-."..." vl:/ "i ;».
.-:
         ('..«.  <.':.
              }.

             !K

       1l

                                       >,
                                                »

                            iJ
."..':'.[

T. [.j.          ,\\
   'Mv  < *'  ' v/

V
                            THE

      WORTHIES

                                                         OF

CUMBERLAND.

JOHN D ALTON, f.r.s.
    Member of the French Institute ;
Hon. D.C.L. Oxon.; LL.D. Edin.        ;

President of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester,

<5rV. &-V.

                                      BY

HENRY LONSDALE, M.D.

«'>' '·-'   ::

                     LONT/OtT:

GEORGE ROUTLEDGE AND SONS,

                    THE BROADWAY, LUDGATE.

                                               1874.
oP ?uVP
1:1

-J
                                                    To

        HENRY E. ROSCOE, B.A.,

                                           Ph.D., F.R.S.
               Professor of Chemistry in Owens' College, Manchester ;

                          ris guntflir

                                        is inscribed,

               with the sincere good wishes of his Friind
                                 THE AUTHOR.

'-^

                        / o t (J /
            PREFACE.

          HE centenary of Dr John Dalton's birth was

                 commemorated at Carlisle on September
                  5, 1 866, by a public dinner, at which gentle
                  men from all parts of the country assem
bled. The proceedings of the meeting were reported
in the Manchester Guardian and Carlisle Journal.

In the absence of one more worthy of the post, I

occupied the chair, and was further honoured by a
request to enlarge my extempore biographical sketch

of Dalton, and to publish it as a brief memoir.
More mature consideration showed that the history
of the Founder of the Atomic Theory could not be

embraced in less than a volume ; and that it would be
well to wait the issue of the Lives of John Christian
Curwen, William Blamire, and Sir James Graham, the
first of the series of " Cumberland Worthies." The
delay that has arisen since that period has not been
viii *  .  Preface.

of science, but rather to my being too deeply engaged
in the historical department of the Biological Sciences,
of which some proof is afforded in my Biographies of

Professor Goodsir and Dr Robert Knox, the highly

distinguished Scottish anatomists.

   As one of the promoters of the Cavendish Society,

London, I was glad the Society entrusted the Life of

Dr Dalton to his able pupil and literary executor,
Dr William Charles Henry, F.R.S., than whom no one

was better fitted for the task. Seven years previous

to the issue of Dr Henry's valuable Memoir, I had

commenced inquiries regarding Dalton's family rela

tions and his earlier years ; and owing to my plea
sant intimacy with the leading members of the
" Society of Friends " in Cumberland, every facility

was afforded me for obtaining information regarding
his personal history and character. The centenary

had passed, and my plan of this Memoir sketched

out, before I was aware, through the kindness of my

estimable friend Mr Edmund Potter, F.R.S., formerly
M.P. for Carlisle, of the excellent Life of Dalton,
written by Dr Robert Angus Smith for the Literary
and Philosophical Society of Manchester. Both

these Biographies are admirable and conclusive as

to Dr Dalton's original work and grand services to
Preface.  ix

  without deriving advantage, and here I beg grate

   fully to acknowledge my indebtedness to them both.

  They wrote for the scientific public ; my effort is a
  much humbler one, aiming more or less to satisfy the
  wants of a quasi-popular or less instructed class of
  readers. The science that Dalton taught has not,
  however, been lightly passed over in the following
  pages, but rather epitomised and offered, as far as

  circumstances permit, in a form comprehensive to
  all persons of average intelligence.

     Favoured by a number of letters of Dalton's, and

 much original information hitherto unpublished, I am

  enabled to present my readers with a more correct
 personal history of the famous chemical philosopher
 than has yet appeared in print.

    Among those with whom I had repeated conversa

 tions on Dalton's history may be mentioned my late
 worthy friends Jonathan and Jane Carr of Carlisle,
 who were pupils of the Daltons at Kendal, and had
 a lively recollection of the junior schoolmaster; my
charming and joyous-hearted friend Mary Sutton,
who thoroughly appreciated the chemical philosopher;
and the estimable Mr John Wilson Fletcher of Tarn
Bank, near Cockermouth, with whom Dalton invari

ably spent an evening on all his visits to Cumberland.

                                                         f
x Preface.

Friends, who aided me, have passed the bourne that

allows of no grateful recognition. Others, happily,

live, to whom I can offer .my cordial thanks--namely,

my constant friends Isaac Fletcher, M.P., F.R.S., and
William Fletcher, Esq. of Brigham Hill, for valuable
documents ; Henry A. Fletcher, Esq. of Lowca
Works; Wm. B. Clarke, Esq. of Barwickstead ; and
Edward Waugh, Esq. of Cockermouth, for aiding
me in my inquiries : to my dear friend Mrs Henry

Wigham of Dublin I am indebted for Dalton's cor

respondence with Elihu Robinson ; whilst the letters

that passed between Dalton and Joseph Dickinson

on colour-blindness came from the valuable repertory

of Cumbrian literature of my friend Mr William
Jackson of Fleatham House, St Bees.

  I was greatly helped in my inquiries at Manchester

by my esteemed friend Professor Roscoe, and to

Mr G. S. Woolley I am indebted for a perusal of his

father's essay, and Dalton's correspondence with the

Johns family.
   In looking over the history of the Atomic Theory

and the opinions of authors, among whom Professor

Daubeny stands foremost, I cannot help recalling the

eloquent mode in which my Edinburgh associate, and

truly a man of genius, Dr Samuel Brown, treated this
subject in a series of lectures, which were, after his
Preface.              xi

death, published in two 8vo volumes by Thomas
Constable & Co., under the title " Lectures on the
Atomic Theory, and Essays Scientific and Literary,
by Samuel Brown."

   The portrait of Dalton in the frontispiece, and
described in page 225 of this Memoir, has been
faithfully lithographed by Vincent Brooks, Day, and
Son, London. The autograph beneath the portrait
was copied from a certificate of Dalton's, written
about his sixty-third year.

Rose Hill, Carl1sle.

      July 20, 1874.
^
         CONTENTS.
CHAP.

 .....INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER
II. GEORGE FOX IN CUMBERLAND --EAGLESFIELD-- JOHN DAL-           PAGK
          TON'S ANCESTORS -- HIS BIRTH, EDUCATION, AND                 I

 ......FRIENDS--SCHOOLMASTER AND PLOUGHMAN-- ADIEU
TO HOME                                                          22

III. KENDAL SCHOOL AND SOCIAL LIFE -- LECTURES ON NATURAL

             PHILOSOPHY -- MR COUGH'S FRIENDSHIP -- CONTRI

            BUTION TO "THE DIARIES" -- INVESTIGATIONS OF

       -44ENGLISH SURNAMES . . . .

IV. NATURAL HISTORY PURSUITS -- METEOROLOGICAL LABOURS           6]
           AND CORRESPONDENCE -- BOTANY -- ENTOMOLOGY --

            STUDY OF MAN AND THAT OF MEDICINE CONTEM
            PLATED --HIS FATHER'S WILL IN DISPUTE, AND NOVEL
           ARBITRATION --LEAVES KENDAL FOR MANCHESTER .

V. NEW COLLEGE OF MANCHESTER -- "METEOROLOGICAL
          ESSAYS AND OBSERVATIONS" --THE ATMOSPHERE --
          EVAPORATION --AURORA BOREALIS --JOINS THE LITER

.SoARY AND PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY OF MANCHESTER--
CORRESPONDENCE  .  .  .  .

-99VI. ON DALTON'S COLOUR-BLINDNESS . . .

VII. HIS IDEAS ON QUAKER- WORSHIP-- THE HANDSOME WIDOW
              AND LOVABLE SPINSTER -- POETICAL EFFORT -- ESSAYS

              ON THE QUANTITY OF RAIN AND DEW-- ON THE
xiv Contents.

       POWER OF FLUIDS TO CONDUCT HEAT --MAXIMUM                 126

       ....DENSITY OF WATER -- THE SECRETARYSHIP OF THE

       LITERARY AND PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY-- ESSAYS ON

       HEAT AND COLD PRODUCED BY CONDENSATION AND

       RAREFACTION OF AIR -- CONSTITUTION OF MIXED
       GASES -- FORCE OF STEAM -- EVAPORATION -- EXPAN

       SION OF GASES BY HEAT
VIII.  ELEMENTS OF ENGLISH GRAMMAR -- AN EXCURSION --
             VARIETY OF CORRESPONDENCE -- GRAMMAR AND
             PUPILS --THE ATMOSPHERE -- FIRST INDICATIONS OF
             MULTIPLE PROPORTION -- ELASTIC FLUIDS --ABSORP
             TION OF GASES -- ATOMIC WEIGHTS AND INDEX TO

            ATOMIC THEORY . . . . -143

IX. A SKETCH OF THE ATOMIC THEORY FROM THALES TO SIR

       ISAAC NEWTON  .....                                       l6l

X. THE ATOMIC THEORY FROM SIR ISAAC NEWTON TO JOHN
       .l8lDALTON
                     .. .                      .

XI. JOHN DALTON ESTABLISHES THE ATOMIC THEORY     .              201
                                                                 223
.......XII. PORTRAITURE --SOCIAL HABITS--TEACHING AND ITS RETOPICS245
            WARDS -- LECTURES AT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION,

             LONDON -- HIS RESIDENCE -- HIS RETICENCE ON PUBLIC

             AFFAIRS -- LECTURES IN EDINBURGH, GLASGOW, AND
            LONDON --HIS CORRESPONDENCE ON A VARIETY OF
XIII.  VISIT FROM M. PELLETAN -- DALTON'S APPARATUS --
             CHEMICAL PROGRESS -- GAY LUSSAC'S LAW OF COM
            BINATION BY VOLUME -- DALTON'S OBSTINACY--ROYAL
             SOCIETY-- NEW SYSTEM OF CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY --
             ACADEMY OF SCIENCES --POLAR EXPEDITION --VISITS

              PARIS UNDER HAPPY AUSPICES

XIV.   DR DALTON'S HOLIDAYS -- MEMBER OF THE FRENCH INSTI
            TUTE -- D.C.L. --HIS CLAIMS TO A PENSION --OPINIONS
             OF DRS HENRY AND SEDGWICK ON THE SUBJECT
.....CHAP.Contents.                                     xv

      COURT PRESENTATION -- REFUSES KNIGHTHOOD --       MCI
      ILLNESS -- VISITS TO EAGLESFIELD -- DEATH AND

      FUNERAL OF DALTON                                 265

XV. BONAPARTE'S LOVE OF SCIENCE --OPINIONS OF THOMSON,

      WOLLASTON, HERSCHEL, GRAHAM, BERZELIUS, FARA

      DAY, LIEBIG, ROSCOE, CANNIZZARO, TYNDALL, DUMAS

      ....AND WURTZ ON THE ATOMIC THEORY...             289
                                                        3OI
JOHN                            APPENDIX.

      DALTON'S STATEMENT OF THE CASE IN THE AFFAIR

BETWIXT HIS BROTHER AND SELF

LIST OF DR DALTON'S ESSAYS AND WORKS . . . 309

ATOMIC SYMBOLS . . .          . . -321
                    ERRATUM.
Page 32, 13th line, for "Sep. 6," read "Sep. 5."
JOHN DALTON.

INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER.

" Now the true and genuine end of the sciences is no other than to
enrich human life with new inventions and new powers. . . .
Fruits and discoveries of                                                for
the truth ofphilosophies"  works are   as the vouchers  and  securities

                           --Lord     Bacon.

             IGHT, more light !" was the last utterance

                  of Goethe the poet, playwright, and philo

                  sopher. Emanating with the lightning
                   before death, these words were looked
upon by the friends and disciples of the renowned
German, as the breathings of the oracular spirit, or
"primitive divination," that Lord Bacon assigned to
men of philosophic genius in the hour of their de

parture for the unknown bourne. More light is the
chief desideratum in the world of thought, as it is
the guide and aim of all who strive after the good,
the beautiful, and the useful ; but of the multitude

of workers so disposed, how incomparably few can

expect to realise the height attained by Goethe, a
great master in art, the founder of German literature,

                                                             A
2 John Dalton.

   Light traverses space with measured yet almost

inconceivable rapidity, and reveals countless orbs and
a countless time ; but the light of ideas, brought to
bear upon the interpretation of nature, is but gradatory

and fitful in its manifestations, and ever dependent
on the happy genesis or moulding of a human being
endowed with "the vision and the faculty divine."
When this psychological light comes vividly forth in
such instances as Da Vinci, Galileo, Harvey, and
Newton, it gives rise to new and nobler develop
ments of human thought, and furnishes permanent

landmarks in the historical path of science and

philosophy.

   As chemistry treats of the nature and composition
of bodies, its study might have been held of para

mount value and attractiveness, as furthering the
interests of man in all his advances to material en
joyment and civilisation. Its interest, however, does
not seem to have been commensurate with the atten
tion bestowed upon the physical sciences, the laws of

which were in part indicated by Ptolemy, and after a
long halt by Copernicus, and subsequently so nobly
interpreted by the labours of Galileo, Kepler, and

Newton. Yet the crude arts of chemistry may be
recognised as coeval with the earliest of all human

inventions ; indeed, every effort to rise above the
essential wants of bodily sustenance, and even to aid

in that primary step of life, would necessarily call
forth the ingenuity of man, seeking to convert the
organic growth and inorganic substances of the earth
to the increasing of his resources, and the bettering of

his physical condition.

    Enraptured in belief, and not less prone to the wild
Alchemy and the Occult Arts.  3

est of superstitions, the nations of antiquity traced

their origin to demigods, prophets, and heroes of the
superhuman sort, and to make their pretensions to
science consonant with the fabulous character of their

history, gave large attention to those dark-age mys
teries, astrology and alchemy. The former pursuit

(astrology) evoked divination and protean prophecies ;
the latter (alchemy) dealt largely in mystic arts,
from which, after the lapse of centuries, arose tan

gible data, constituting important accessories to a real
science, that of chemistry itself.

   A few words on the rise of alchemy, " the sacred and

divine art of making gold and silver," may serve as
an introduction to the modern science of chemistry,
of which John Dalton became the Grand-Master in
these latter days of European history. The origin of
alchemy is involved in doubt, but the curious in such
matters will find the genii of the East, as well as
angels and women, credited with a part in the esoteric

 dogma, upon which probably more arts than that
of alchemy were based. The prefix al, in alchemy,

is clearly Arabian, possibly invented by the fol
 lowers of the occult art, to distinguish the doctrine of

transmutation from the chemia that embraced only
 simple chemical operations -- in other words, that
 of vulgar chemistry as disjoined from "the divine

 art."

    In all his attempts to unravel the web of history,

 man looks to the East for the growth and collateral

 bearings of his civilisation, and, in endeavouring to
 fathom the impenetrable problem of his own genesis,
 and the gradatory lines of his intellectual and moral
4 John Dalton.

and erudition of the people who occupied the banks

of the  Nile many thousand years ago.   of  In this   (Nile)
valley  of sunny sky and pure ether --               rich in
                                             lands
cereal and saccharine growth -- man's physical wants

were easily sustained, thereby affording him freer

scope for the exercise of his understanding and the

culture of his genius. No one possessing the oppor

tunity of traversing the land of the Pharaohs can fail

to observe that the Egyptians who lived in the palmy
          Luxor and Thebes --upwards
days of  the Christian era-- showed an  of 3000 years
before                                   acquaintance

with the chemistry of the arts far beyond the general

supposition of modern writers. The Egyptian sepa

rated metals from their ores, and practised the arts of

metallurgy with manifest success ; he quarried massive
monoliths from the syenite of Assouan, and carved the

finest lines on the hardest of granitic structures ; he

fabricated gold and silver, and jewelled ornaments to

deck his person, already beautified by cosmetics and

fragrant with essential oils ; he wove his linen and

woollen stuffs, then bleached and dyed them ; and

pursuing his chemical operations beyond our know

ledge and discovery, adorned his temples and tombs

with frescoes of matchless colours and unfading

splendour ; and lastly, and not least significantly of

his chemical skill, embalmed his dead for historic

contemplation and wonder, if not for the houris and

joys of the everlasting Hades.

The Hindoos, who in their vast temples sought to

do honour to the gods, and in pertaining to a know

ledge of the cosmic atoms, to teach the general cos

mogony; and the Chinese, rejoicing in quaint edifices

and quainter attire, that borrowed astronomical em
Chemistry of the Eastern Nations.                      5

blems for their faith and the propitiation of their
deities, were equally alive to the arts of chemistry in
their reduction of metallic ores, in the processes of
dyeing, the fabrication of paper, earthenware, several

salts, and possibly gunpowder itself. Chronologically

or not, it is difficult to say, but the Phoenicians, wel

comed for their higher arts by King Solomon, and
ready to offer the inimitable purples of Tyre to the
populations on both sides of the Mediterranean --nay,
not content with the intercourse of the Great Sea,
navigated their way through the Pillars of Hercules
to the Ultima Thule of the geographical world of that

day, and made their metallurgical zeal accessory to

the exploration of Britain itself. In the plastic and

pictorial arts, in bronze statuary and diverse artistic

methods, the Etruscans proved their aptitude in

chemistry as well as technology. In short, all the

historical groupings or nations of antiquity left
legacies to the world of their manipulative skill,

blended with the practice of chemical arts, occasion
ally, indeed, displaying a degree of excellence in their
workmanship that has not as yet been surpassed by

modern operators.
   The last breath of the love-inspiring Cleopatra

marked the last flicker of the once glorious Egyptian
lamp. Then came Caesarism, that sought to carve
Roman fame in every land, even at the cost of a
ruthless destruction of the archives of the Pharaohs
--an act of Vandalism on the part of Diocletian that

future ages can never forget*

* Gibbon, in his "Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire," chap.

xBioiio.,ksa"tteomf pthtse  to vindicate Diocletian's  destruction of the "Ancient
                            Egyptians, on the ground   of their containing but "mag-
6 John Dalton.

   Before an adverse fate had laid Egypt at the feet of
the " Mistress of the World," classic Greece had come

to the front with a freshness and radiance that almost
shadowed the illustrious renown of the mighty em

pires of the East. Its people, as if favoured by the

gods, presented a noble physique and a still nobler
emulation. They won the esteem of the neighbour
ing nations by their mental character and vigorous
defence of liberty ; they enlightened mankind by
their ethics and philosophic culture, and left most
precious proofs of their architectural skill and sculp-
torial arts, unquestionably the grandest achievements
of inspired art ever presented to the gaze and open
admiration of man. The historical Greeks were truly
men of ideas and vast conception, able to embody
natural phenomena into universals and generalities

in appropriate symbols. If more disposed to hazard

theoretic views on the cosmogony than to test
their opinions by methods of induction, and more
given to abstract and metaphysical studies than to
the painstaking efforts demanded in physical re
search, their penetrative eyes could not overlook
the more obvious claims of chemistry, were it only
for the aid it offered them in the arts of war and

innidfiicceanttionpsreotefn"simonissch"ievtoousthpeurmsuaitksin."g   of gold and silver and other
                                                                    Surely the Alexandrian Library,

with all its rare manuscripts and recondite lore, setting forth the arts

and discoveries of one of the oldest dynasties of the world, older than

those of Biblical history, was worthy of preservation. The Romans,

in all their greatness, could not vie with the Egyptians in the higher

branches of human knowledge j nay, more, after eighteen centuries of

Christian life, experience, and enlightenment, the European has failed

to reach the eminence attained by the Nilotic races in some depart
The Higher Minds of Greece.  7

peace, and not less as a source of gratification to
their aesthetic tastes displayed in the colouring of
their statuary, and the decoration of their magnificent

temples.

   The higher minds of Greece --excepting the learned

author of the " Historia Animalium " --tended more
generally to philosophy than science, and, it may
be supposed, saw but dimly into the chambers of
chemistry. In a subsequent chapter, treating of the
atomic theory, it will be shown that the Greeks
revelled in hypothesis, apparently less partial towards
the experimental basis of the statics of chemistry
than the natural history of atoms, upon which
problematic formation they could found endless
speculations and doctrines. Now and then they came

across chemical phenomena without recognising their
import. Thus Empedocles, on burning wood upon
the surface of a cold body, observed during the

process smoke or air, followed by flame or fire ; then

moisture or water deposited on the cold substance,

whilst ash or earth remained : so the wood had been

resolved into its co-efficients or elements --fire, air,
water, and earth. Though the aims of Empedocles

were to illustrate his cosmic ideas, he had made a

true chemical experiment, and so far offered an
explanation of the results obtained. This was the
first instance of the art of analysis, with a view to

discover the ingredients of which matter was com

posed, and the doctrine formed upon it the first
starting-point of chemistry in history. Further in

quiry might have led to beneficial purpose ; but the
Greek, somewhat hasty in his generalisations, invested
8 John Dalton.

what was worse, indoctrinated the world of thought
with the same dogma and unwise limitation.

   The military prowess of the Romans not only
insured them dominion over the sea board territories
of the Mediterranean --that " Great Sea" upon whose
shores the grandest drama of human history has been
played by the greatest actors on the world's stage, a
drama revealing in its many acts the formation of
political institutions, and the antagonistic forces of
race, the rise of republics, the downfall of empires, and
all those organic critical periods in the natural order of
human progress in which Polytheism or Monotheism,
Christianity or Rationalism have alternately claimed
jurisdiction and power over the thoughts of mankind
--but extended far beyond all previously ascertained
geographical bounds. The Roman of the Augus
tan age, might well boast that he could march with
safety under the protective aegis of his citizenship
through Caledonia "stern and wild," or take his
siesta amid the glowing charms and sunny favours

of Ma-nv-lak. All the arts and sciences -- all govern

ments, records, and beliefs -- all traditions and customs

were marshalled ; nay, all history, was culled and
digested on behoof of Imperial Rome. This concen
tration of the intellectual forces and industrial arts,
tending to man's cultured aims, should have been
productive of great advantage not only to the Roman
people, but to the world at large. Such proba
bilities, however, were not realised ; for whilst fully
appreciating the eloquent outpourings of Lucretius
and Cicero on the cosmic atoms, and their vivid
resuscitation of the Greek philosophy, it is doubtful
The Romans and Arabians.  9

world, threw any light upon the real aims and opera
tions of chemistry. The pages of Celsus, Dioscorides,
and Galen afford proofs of an ample Materia Medica
in the hands of the Roman physicians, including the

more important metals and their compounds, saline

substances, and animal and vegetable products ; and
thirty years ago the archaeological researches of

my lamented and accomplished friend, Sir J. Y.

Simpson, fully set forth the fact of the Romans in
Britain being conversant with ophthalmic surgery,

and the treatment that rested on chemical agencies.

Unfortunately, nearly all the knowledge that had
been gathered of the chemical arts in the days

of Rome's highest ambition got scattered to the
winds in her decline and fall. Sic transit gloria

mundi.

   In this faint sketch of the progress of chemistry, it
is needful to pass over the polypharmists of Arabia,
eg., Rhazes, of 200-volume fame and marvellous
erudition; Alfarabius, courted for his wisdom by
caliphs, and still credited as the first of cyclope-
dists ; and Avicenna, the prince of physicians, who
got glimpses of a true chemistry amid his alche
mical pursuits. Then we come to Albertus Magnus,
the distinguished European of the thirteenth cen
tury --a truly great man, of whom it was correctly
written :--" Magnus in magia naturali, major in
philosophia, maximus in theologia" Albertus saw
beyond the vista of Avicenna ; nay, traced chemical

affinity, and employed the word in its precise sense,
as designating the combinations of bodies, and the
effects of nitric acid as a solvent. His pupil, the
10 John Dalton.                                          :

not far behind, and among many discoveries, saw                                      a
the nature of an amalgam. Then arose our country                                                                        it,
man, Roger Bacon, known as a monk, and often
named a magician ; yet the latter epithet he dis
claimed, and tried to contravene by his treatise " De

Nullitate Magiae." His "Opus Majus" proved his
recognition of the experimental method of investi
gating natural bodies. Raymond Lulli, pupil or not,
followed Roger Bacon's footsteps, without, however,
abandoning the hope of finding the philosopher's

stone ; nay, he is credited with having possessed
and of having filled the coffers of his liege lord, the
king of England, by his manipulations in the labora
tory erected in Westminster Abbey. Towards the
close of the following or fourteenth century, Basil
Valentine of Erfurth appeared with his quaint sym
bolical designs of alchemical processes, and not with
out knowledge of many metallic compounds and the
stronger acids, and various chemical operations and

reactions.

   The alchemistry of the Middle Ages offered large
field for chicanery and charlatanism. There was the
alluring search for the philosopher's stone, to trans
mute the baser metals into gold, and the universal
elixir, to cure all the ills of the flesh, thereby confer
ring immortality on man -- grand consummation
devoutly to be wished. Yet these alchemists were
men of acuteness, and persevering inquirers into the
mysteries of nature; their independent labours
helped to pave the way to a fuller and better know
ledge of the art, and ought to be held in grateful
remembrance by mankind. Paracelsus thus wrote of
his brethren -- " They are not given to idleness, nor
The A Ichemists.  11

go in a proud habit, or plush and velvet garments, but
diligently follow their labours, sweating whole days
and nights by their furnaces.* They wear leather
garments with a pouch, and an apron wherewith they
wipe their hands. They put their fingers amongst
coals, into clay and filth, not into gold rings. They
are sooty and black, like smiths and colliers, and

do not pride themselves upon clean and beautiful

faces."

   Whilst empiricism and mystic arts clouded the
operations of too many of the brethren, there were
notable exceptions to be found among these pioneers
to a higher science, of whom Friar Bacon was a
notable example ; and his namesake, the Lord Chan
cellor of England, four centuries later suggested the

method of interrogating nature by observation and

experiment ; and in the practice of these true modes
of investigation, there in time arose from the furnaces
and alembics a new philosophy that confounded all
the reasoning of the ancients.

   Putting aside Hermes Trismegistus, " the doctor
of three parts of the wisdom of the world," also the
Egyptian and scriptural authorities, the esoteric
angels with naughty longings for Eve's fair daughters,

   * The alchemist's laboratory comes down to us as "a gloomy, dimly-
lighted place, full of strange vessels and furnaces and melting-pots,
spheres, and portions of skeletons hanging from the ceiling ; the stone

floor littered with stone bottles, pans, charcoal, aludels and alembics,
great parchment books covered with hieroglyphics j'the bellows with its
motto Spira, Spera, the hourglass, the astrolabe, and over all cobwebs
and dust and ashes. The walls covered with various aphorisms of the
brotherhood, legends and memorials in many tongues, passages from
the Smaragdine Table of Hermes Trismegistus, and looming out from

all in great capitals ANArKH."-- ("Birth of Chemistry," Nature,
12 John Dalton,

Maria the Jewess, and other mythological entities, it

may in  part be  coofnofeusrsedday,witthhatM"onpsraiecutircaDl ucmheams, istthrye
French  chemist

took its rise in the workshops of the smith, the potter,

or the glass-blower, and in the shops of the per

fumer, the first elements of scientific chemistry dat

ing no further back than yesterday."

   To the Hon. Robert Boyle, the first President of
the Royal Society of London, the science of chemistry

owes no small amount of obligation. He entered his

protest against alchemistry, and raised valid objec

tions to the introduction of morals and politics into

philosophy. His experimental inquiries have ranked

him among the first of the true chemists. He saw that

metals increased in weight when calcined in the air,

as had been surmised in the year 1630, by Rey of

Perigord, and was cognisant of the air containing a

principle which is consumed during respiration and

combustion. Dr John Mayow, of Oxford, was a
worthy contemporary of Boyle's, and had definite

notions as to the combination of acids and alkalis;

they and the inventive Robert Hooke, who was more

of a philosopher than a chemist, contributed several

papers to the Royal Society, the character of which

rests mainly on the observation and the description

of what has been called the qualitative side of phe

nomena, yet not without real value in building up

the science.

Sir Isaac Newton was more or less an alchemist,

who spent days and nights in trying to discover the

secret by which grosser metals might be changed into

the more refined of gold or silver; but he failed, like
the more ancient brethren in the art. His hypo
Van Helmont, Stahl, and Lavoisier.  13

thetical and grandly deductive investigations found
their real place and value in the walks of Natural

Philosophy : all his tentative experiments in chemis
try were but haphazard guesses recorded in his
celebrated " Queries."

   Among others of real note was Van Helmont, the

mystic Belgian and psychologist, who helped to
develop pneumatic chemistry by observing the pro
perties of several elastic fluids, and who also described
some of the qualities of the carbonic acid gas in the
Grotto del Cane near Pozzuoli. But the most con
spicuous and able man of his time was Stahl, of

Anspach, who propounded his phlogiston theory in
1697, possibly borrowed in part from Albertus

Magnus, -- a theory that took well with the culti

vators of chemistry early in the following century,
and retained its grasp for upwards of a hundred
years, checking in part the thoughts of Black, Caven
dish, and Priestley, and for a time at least modifying
the larger views of Lavoisier, and thus proving how
tenaciously a doctrine once established will hold its
own against the innovations of modern and more

 correct science.

    The eighteenth century, that ushered in Stahl's
theory with such force, happily provided chemistry
with some of its most renowned cultivators and dis

coverers, notably Lavoisier, whose powers of gene
ralisation cast the balance against the doctrines of
combustion propounded by the learned Professor of
Halle, and opened out fresh fields of inquiry of large
interest and importance.

   The Stahlian theory of phlogiston did service in its
14 John Dalton.

more or less analogous, e.g., those of combustion,
calcination, and acidification, though it erred in attri
buting these processes to the dissipation of a peculiar
ingredient. The new theory advanced by Lavoisier

excluded the analogies, and offered an explanation
more conformably to their nature, in the addition of
the pervading element oxygen. This was the turning
over of another page in chemical history, upon which

was inscribed the freshest interest.

    Chemistry was manifestly in the ascendant through

out the eighteenth century, and among the leaders
of the science were Scheele, Black, Cavendish, Priest
ley, and Lavoisier ; others of close secondary rank
were Boerhaave, Bergman, Watt, Wenzel, Richter,

and Higgins. A few words on some of the chiefs may

be offered here, whilst a passing remark is due to
Benjamin Franklin, the printer, for his revealing a
new phase of electricity that excited the attention of
the philosophic intellects of the world.

   Charles William Scheele, the Swede, and pupil
of Bergman, was an able analyst, who proved the
character of several salts and gases, notably oxygen,
without being aware of Priestley's earlier knowledge
of the qualities of the gas. He discovered arseniate
of copper, known as a pigment under the name of
Scheele's green, and also succeeded in obtaining for
the first time the active poison prussic acid in a sepa
rate form. Scheele justly ranks with his countrymen
Linnaeus and Berzelius, and the three constitute a tri
nity of eminence, in their respective walks, of whom
the greatest nation in Europe might well be proud.

   The investigations of Dr Joseph Black of Edinburgh,
Black, Watt, and Cavendish.  15

mild and caustic alkalis, have been regarded as the

inauguration of the quantitative method in chemis
try, and the first instance in which the nature of

chemical combination and decomposition was clearly

pointed out. These ideas were afterwards extended
by Lavoisier to the whole range of chemical pheno
mena. About the year 1760 Black evolved the
theory of latent heat, on which his scientific fame

mainly rests, a theory from the practical application

of which his pupil and assistant, James Watt, ob
tained a great success in his own line, the chemico-
dynamical --so great indeed, that it has revolutionised
the mechanical powers of the world, and added a

thousandfold to man's enterprise and superiority.
    The most renowned man in science yet born to

the aristocracy of England was the Hon. Henry
Cavendish, nephew to the third Duke of Devonshire.
He was educated at Cambridge, and devoted his

whole life to scientific investigations ; nay, shunning
society and women, and all the pomps and vanities

of the world, till philosophy marked him for her own.'
To him we owe much of the foundation of pneumatic
chemistry. His discovery of hydrogen, and the radi

 cal difference between it and nitrogen, led to projects
 for aerial navigation or ballooning. He ascertained
 the composition of water from the union of two gases

-- oxygen and hydrogen --a discovery of greater im

 portance than any single fact yet arrived at by human

 ingenuity in the whole range of chemistry. He con
 tributed to the Royal Society of London many papers

 on electricity, astronomy, and historical subjects.

 All his experiments and processes were of a most
1 6 John Dalton.

that had never been equalled. He had but one ser
vant, and lived the life of a recluse. His science

was his mistress and delight ; yet he was the largest
holder of bank stock in England, probably to the
extent of a million, besides a landed estate of ^6000
a year and tens of thousands at his bankers !

  If Henry Cavendish's walk was confined to his

own laboratory and the meetings of the Royal Society,
Dr Joseph Priestley was one of the most conspicuous
men of his epoch, and as bold and fearless in politics
and theology as he was broad and successful in
science. He discovered oxygen, and contributed
largely to our knowledge of electricity, and vision,
light, and colour, and would have done vastly more,

if he had not suffered dire persecution from Cal-

vinistic fanatics. He led a grand and virtuous life,

and his memory was gloriously honoured by an iloge
from the great Cuvier, addressed to the Institute of
France. Both Cavendish and Priestley rendered
great service to the cause of chemistry, and left im
perishable names to the country of their birth.

   It is difficult, and not always safe, to institute com

parisons on the respective merits of men of science,
inasmuch as prejudice and nationality occasionally

disturb the historic balance ; yet I may be permitted

to remark that the English, German, and Swedish
chemists of the eighteenth century directed their
aims to practical methods and exposition, in time
realising valuable data, whilst Lavoisier, the noble
Frenchman, being more solicitous for general prin
ciples, sought by experiment and logical precision to
establish a comprehensive groundwork for the science.
The Noble Lavoisier.                                                17

furore of 1794,* he would have been the Laplace
of chemistry, eclipsing all his contemporaries, and
probably anticipated the important researches of

 Dalton.
    French writers are prone to claim the majority of

discoveries in science. Even Wurtz has written : --
" La chimie est une science Frangaise, elle fut institute

par Lavoisier d'immortelle memoire." A late writer,

 Ferdinand Hoefer, in his history of Physics and

 Chemistry (1872), is more just, but not correct as to the

 individual Englishmen, in stating :-- " Tout en suivant

 chacun une route differente, trois chimistes ont fonde",

 vers la fin du dix-huitieme siecle, la chimie moderne,

 Priestley, Scheele, et Lavoisier, un Anglais, un Suidois,
 et un Frangais'.' Cavendish, by far the greatest
 name in English chemistry up to the time of Dalton,

 has been strangely overlooked in this historical criti

 cism of Hoefer's.
    The investigations of Wenzel, Higgins, Richter,

 and others, whose names will appear as claimants to
 the doctrines expounded by Dalton, were in the

* In reference to the fate of Lavoisier, one is tempted to exclaim, in

the words of the noble Madame Roland on her way to the same mar
tyrdom -- " O Liberty,                                               "
                        what crimes  are  committed  in  thy  name
                                                                    !

Seized in his laboratory by the gens d'armes of the bloody Convention,

and knowing that a few hours would decide his fate, Lavoisier asked

permission to finish the experiments in which he was engaged, and to

record the results before he bade farewell to science and life !

  A historical parallel might be drawn between our Sir Walter

Raleigh, one in a long bead roll of famous Englishmen, whose beha

viour in his last hours comported with the philosophic calmness of

Lavoisier : the one was a martyr to the monarchical hate of a vile

king, the other a victim to republican furor. Fortunately, neither

autocrats nor republicans can impair the honourable worth and gran

deur of such lives as Raleigh's and Lavoisier's ; history is proud to

offer the homage due to immortality. J                   B
1 8 John Dalton.

same direction as Lavoisier's, and should have exer
cised a marked influence, inasmuch as they contained
part of the germ or scheme that in Dalton's hands

led to great results.
   The crowding of men of genius to the goal of the

last century naturally betokened well for the progress
of chemistry in the present; yet much light was
required to clear away the misty phlogiston atmos
                              form to the dicta collectanea
phere, and to  give tangible
furnished by   the workers    of the past. At the dawn

of the nineteenth century England rose to the fore
most position, and France and Sweden nobly closed

up the ranks of scientific competition. In the whole
some development of science, every step gracefully

follows another, and every movement adds life and
enterprise to it. True science recognises neither
nationality nor creed, nor political bias ; thus, the
rivalry of the Saxon and the Celt was healthfully

bestowed in promoting the public good by the spread

of chemical knowledge.
As the phlogistic theory fell into the shade, the
discoveries of Galvani and Volta happily came in

aid of chemical investigation, opening out a new

world of research, that has already yielded mar

vellous results, and bids fair to eclipse the cravings

of the most poetic imagination. Messrs Nicholson

and Carlisle, in 1800, then Cruikshanks, Henry,

Wollaston, Pfaff, Biot, Thenard, and perhaps more

than all, Berzelius, laboured in the work, and showed

that various compounds were capable of decompo

sition by electricity. These competitors, however,

were speedily outstripped in the race by Humphrey
Davy, the woodcarver's son, of Penzance, and " mere
Swedish, French, and English Chemists.  19

apothecary," who, entering upon a comparatively
new field of chemistry, startled his contemporaries
both at home and abroad by the brilliancy of his

discoveries.

   Though necessarily sparing in historical comment,
and afraid of selecting single examples from a galaxy

of worthies, I must not overlook Berzelius, the Swede,

of the highest rank in science, so grandly methodical
in all his work, and no less inductive in his beautiful
methods of experimenting; Gay Lussac, of noble aim

and nobler achievement ; Berthollet, the voluminous
writer; Thenard, Proust, Fourcroy, and others of
the French school ; all of whom highly distinguished
themselves ; and, ranking with these were Wollaston,
Professor Thomas Thomson of Glasgow, and the
famed Count Rumford*

   Of this noble band of workers and discoverers,

to whom the civilised world is so largely indebted,

none had the good fortune to meet the exigencies
of the hour, that called for a new hand to bind

the accumulated and heterogeneous facts into a
homogeneity of doctrine, upon which chemistry
might step forth and claim high place among the

pure sciences.

   The light so long and earnestly solicited, to dispel

  * My scientific friends will please to look upon this introductory

chapter as meant for the general reader. So slight a historical sketch
of the rise of chemistry can only offer a glance at the tentative efforts
of the early workers in the field, polypharmists, alchemists, and the

like. At the same time, it may serve to show the slow growth of the

leading principles upon which a true science has at length been founded.
   Those who wish for an interesting resumt of the rise and progress

of chemistry will do well to consult Mr G. F. Rodwell's interesting
volume on "The Birth of Chemistry," issued as one of the ''Nature

Series," and with apt illustrations by Macmillan & Co., 1874.
                20 John Dalton.

                 the mists overclouding the dawning science of che
                  mistry, and to give precision and tangible method to
                  its study and profitable pursuit, came from a very
                unexpected quarter of England --a city of cotton
                  interests and hard cash, not without laudable am
                 bition to become " the Cottonopolis of the North."
                 The lamp of knowledge got trimmed amid the
                 din of shuttles and spinning-jennies and multifari
                  ous handicrafts by an unobtrusive Quaker, pursu
                 ing his calling of schoolmaster in a back street of
                 Manchester, and thankful to earn the wages of a
                skilled artisan. Yet this humble individual, scarcely
                 known outside the pale of his peculiar religious deno
                 mination, was daily absorbed in profound intellectual
                  studies, the discoveries arising from which placed him
                 among the great chemists of the day, and ranked him
                 in a position only secondary to that of the immortal
                  Lavoisier.

                    The early history of the man was in every way so
                 antipodal to the favours of fortune, that the most
                 imaginary and hopeful of temperaments could not
                  have foreshadowed for him any great rise in the world,
                  much less a claim to distinction in the higher sciences.
                Of the humblest origin, and apparently born to
                 manual labour and the lowest grade of social life,
                 schooled in a retired hamlet of the North country,
                  and reared amid coarse bucolicism and marked
                 barrenness of thought, he had no propitious patron
                 to advance him to the associations and emulation of
                  our public schools, and no friends in court to secure
                him a place among the humblest alumni of our Uni
               versities. In short, possessing none of the advan

x
Humble in Means, Rich in Science.  21

from a poor household on the bare uplands of Cum
berland, away from the main arteries of England, and
the great centres of industry and enterprise, John
Dalton appeared on the horizon of inductive research,

a self-taught man, whose genius and assiduity elicited
an original and comprehensive law in the Physics of
Chemistry, that gave breadth, and form, and solid
structure to a science deeply interwrought with the

                                                        .-
          CHAPTER II.

" It is not so essential to have a fine understanding, as to apply it

                          rightly." --Descartes.

GEORGE FOX IN CUMBERLAND -- EAGLESFIELD  JOHN
DALTON'S ANCESTORS -- HIS BIRTH, EDUCATION, AND

FRIENDS -- SCHOOLMASTER AND PLOUGHMAN -- ADIEU

TO HOME.

           HEN George Fox, the Leicestershire shoe

                  maker, could find no means to salvation at
                the hands of the spiritual directors of the
                State Church, some of whom advised him

beer and concubinage, others tobacco and psalm-

singing, he sought the Scriptures for himself, and
speedily made up his mind to doff his leathern apron,
and to go into the world on a mission of evangelisa

tion. In his tour northwards he spent some time in

Cumberland, and obtained a great success by carrying
the pluralist Vicar of Brigham off his tithe legs, and
all his congregation, to a free ministry. The religious
fervour of the Cumbrians was heightened by the
preacher appearing in a buckskin suit of his own
tailoring, greased by use and compulsory companion
ship with the filthy occupants of filthy jails, to which

his strong speech and heterodoxy often consigned him.

Fox addressed an open-air-meeting at Pardsey Crag

in Brigham parish, and among the motley thousands
              The Influence of Quakerism.  23

John Dalton of Eaglesfield. The growth of Quaker
ism in Cumberland had no small influence in promot

ing the educational and religious status of the lower

orders, to whom the great text was daily proclaimed
--" Search the Scriptures." *

   In the parish of Brigham, and not more than three

miles south-west of the market town of Cockermouth,

stands the village of Eaglesfield, which forms part of

the ancient manor and borough of Cockermouth.

Eaglesfield enjoys some historic repute from giving

name or title to a learned ecclesiastic of the Plan-
tagenet epoch, " Robert de Egglesfield," chaplain to

Edward the    Third, and    founder of Queen's College,
Oxford -- an   institution   that has conferred many

lasting advantages on Cumberland and Westmore

land men of Oxonian merit. A greater honour fell to

Eaglesfield when it gave birth to John Dalton, whose
name is indelibly recorded in the archives of the

world's science, as one of the leading philosophers of

his age and country.

The township of Eaglesfield situated on the un

dulating limestone formation of West Cumberland,

previous to the enclosure of the waste lands, and the

introduction of good husbandry about half a century

ago, would offer little more than herbage for rough

  * " Search the Scriptures," coupled with Fox's soul-inspiriting exhor

tations, induced many to become readers who had previously neglected

the very alphabet. It is well-known that the reading community of

England was comparatively small in the seventeenth century, and that
the agricultural districts were the worst in this respect ; nay, so little
progress had been made a century later, that Edmund Burke computed

the reading population of this country at only 30,000 !--probably much
too low an estimate, and not in accordance with what is generally

                                                                            /
      24 John Dalton.

      kine, and hard lines of life to the scattered inhabi

      tants. Bucolic life of the boorish sort prevailed in

      the hamlet, in which farmers of small holdings,

      their clodhopping service, and common craftsmen,

      laboured for a subsistence of a vegetative or earthy

      sort. The village consisted, and its features are not

      much altered to-day, of old-fashioned grey stone

      dwellings, regular in their irregularity of position, and

      in structure dilapidated ; straggling manure heaps, a

      bit of dirty common or village green, and dirtier

      duckpond, backed by a dingy "smiddy," to which

      the loungers with their gossip and tittle-tattle daily
      gravitated to discuss the news of the district. There

      was little to affect the stagnant life and clodhopping

      proclivities of the locality, beyond the calls of the

      huckster, or the cries of the travelling tinker ; and its

      passive    quaint domesticity was only    occasionally
      ruffled  by the loud bravadoes of " John  Barleycorn,"

      and the louder reproachings of his disappointed

      spouse. Eaglesfield folk were a stiff race of country

      men, presenting stalwart forms in coarse woollen

      garb of home-make, and the horny hands and sweat

      ing brows of labour, rejoicing in hamlet isolation,

      and heedless of the contentions and turmoil of the

      world.

      The redeeming feature to what might have been

      doltishness and dotage in the Eaglesfield district,

      was the presence of Quakerism, a light of itself both
      in precept and example, and ever tending to habits of

      discipline no less than mental and moral improve
      ment. This light shone on the hearth of the Daltons,

      and was reflected from other sources that proved of

      high import in the training of John Dalton, nay, of

>  V
         His Birth-place --Eaglesjield.              25

lasting influence in his long career of patient inquiry

and investigation.

  As pilgrimages to the shrines of saints draw

thousands of English Catholics to the Continent,

there may be some persons in the British Islands

sufficiently in love with science, not only to revere
the memory of its founders, but to wish for a de

scription of the locality and birth-place of a great

master of knowledge -- John Dalton--who did more for

the world's civilisation than all the reputed saints in

Christendom. To those, who may be termed scientific

pilgrims, the following brief outline may not be un

acceptable.

   On approaching the village of Eaglesfield by way

of Brigham (a railway station two miles from Cocker-
mouth, and about thirty from Carlisle), the road

diverges ; the broad and continuous line leads to the
" Friends' Meeting-house" and burial ground, and the

higher parts of the village ; the narrower road sweeps
         left, and takes you direct to "
to the                                    yJoohun--  Dalton's
house "  --pointing south, and towards               its gable

forming the boundary of a lane that gives access to

the centre of the village. The house in which Dalton

was born has been altered and much improved since
his day ; its low thatched roof has been raised and

slated ; the partially boarded loft converted into upper
rooms ; its small leaden windows displaced by larger
panes of glass ; and the greystoned facing of the
building white-washed : still the general features of
the interior of the humble dwelling remain pretty
much as when occupied by weaver Joseph Dalton,

and his active spouse Deborah --the parents of John
26 John Dalton.

pots and pans, you enter the kitchen or general sitting
and business-room of the family, where, probably,
Joseph had his loom placed ; from this apartment, by a
narrow passage, you reach a smaller room immediately
adjacent, in height and width six feet, and in length
fifteen feet. The recess to the left of the door-way
was occupied by a chaff-bed, upon which Joseph and
Deborah slept, and there John Dalton, the chemist,
first saw the light of day, on or about September 6,

1766.

   In his annual visits to Eaglesfield when blessed
with fame and fortune, John Dalton would occasion
ally walk into the domicile of his birth, and point out
to some of his old friends, who accompanied him,

the domestic arrangements that surrounded his in
fancy, the fireplace open to the chimney, the position
of the " old settle," and his own three-legged stool ;
the dresser with its pewter plates and horn spoons ;
and always with a smile on his countenance pointed
his stick to the recess occupied by the corner cup

board. Liking sugar and sweets, this cupboard was
the earliest idol of his fancy, and in trying to obtain

a footing whereby to reach the latch, he took the
novel mode of kicking the wall beneath it with his
calkered clogs. This was hardly an act worthy of a
young philosopher, who could have used the chair
with little risk of detection, whereas the plaster on
the floor exposed his naughtiness, and led to a severe

whipping.
    The ancestors of John Dalton were truly sons of

toil, either engaged in rough husbandry, or as artisans
Social Position of his Ancestors.  27

station in life, and thankful for a livelihood that
demanded thrift and economy to make ends meet.
Living on rough fare, and clothed in rougher garb,
their physical requirements got easily supplied ; the
mental appetites would claim little or no consideration.
They realised the saying of the Roman philosopher,
that wealth consists not in having great possessions,
but in having small wants. The highest ambition of
such men as the Daltons was to possess a cottage
and a small garth or close of land for a cow's sum
mer grazing ; * and he must have been a poor crafts
man who could not in a few years save earnings to
acquire both, when land and labour were of so little

value.

   John Dalton was more lucky in his genealogical
tracings than the famous Daniel Defoe, inasmuch as

he could go back to his great grandfather on the
maternal side, whose name was Thomas Fearon, born

at Eaglesfield in 1658, and who died there in 1704.

In the year of the Great Revolution of 1688, this
Thomas Fearon married Mary Gill of Eaglesfield, at
Pardshaw Hall Meeting-house. There were thirty-

ffive witnesses to the marriage document.

   * There was a large common, or portion of unenclosed ground ex
tending for miles around Eaglesfield, on which the villagers drove their
cows, donkeys, and geese, occasionally spending half a day in finding
their live stock, in their wild rambles ; and it is highly probable that
weaver Dalton had a cow on this rough pasturage, and that he occa

sionally benefited by his father's or brother's paddock at suitable

seasons.

  t After the simple form of marriage of Quakers has been gone through

at their Meeting-house, the chief point being a mutual declaration by
the respective parties of their willingness to take each other as man

                                                                          s
28 John Dalton.

   Little or no information can be offered on the social
position of Thomas Fearon ; * probably he was a
yeoman, who had some closes of land, the whole or
portions of which he bequeathed to his daughter
Abigail, born in 1690.

   Now the Daltons come into view by a Jonathan
Dalton, shoemaker, and grandfather of the subject of

this memoir, marrying Abigail Fearon, daughter of

the aforesaid Thomas and Mary Fearon, at Pardshaw
Hall Meeting-house in 1712. " Nineteen witnesses."
To this marriage there was issue Jonathan, born June
4, 1715; Anne in 1717 ; Ruth in 1719; Abigail in
1726; and Joseph on September 25, 1733. Passing
over the daughters of Jonathan and Abigail Dalton,
let it be said that Jonathan, their eldest son, became

a farmer ; and Joseph, their youngest son, of special

interest in this narrative, was put to handloom weav

ing. Jonathan Dalton, senior, shrewd and observant,
pursued his craft with diligence and success j and in
1727,1 purchased some freehold and customary land,

fthoermnaelwwlye-wddeidndgeddoccouumpelentst;epandfortwhaeryd,areanddeasitgtancahtetdhe"irthenamweitsnetsosesth."e
A certain amount of respectability is attached to the numbers who sign,

as  proving the popularity  of the  contracting parties.
    * Among the old deeds   of Dr   Dalton, there is noted (January
                                                                     1, 1 700)
a purchase deed of lands at Eaglesfield from John Leayths, by Thomas
Fearon of Eaglesfield, yeoman.

   + From the same deeds the following record is taken :
   6 Feby. 1695. Purchase of lands at Eaglesfield, from John Fletcher
of the Hill Blindbothel, by Samuel Robinson, cordwainer, and Mary

Fearon, spinster, both of Eaglesfield as joint tenants, so that survivor

would get the property, which consisted of a messuage and land, part of

which laid before Peter Dalton's house, price ^43.

   4 Aug. 1727. Purchase of freehold and customary land at Eagles
           Genealogy and Title Deeds.                             29

from John Iredale of Cockermouth, price £74; and
subsequently became possessed of more land and
hereditaments, the value of which, long after his de
cease in 1772, and that of his son Jonathan in 1786,
did not exceed ^35 a year. Whether this holding of
land accrued to his own industry, or was part of his
wife Abigail's dowry, is a matter of conjecture, but

after his death in 1772, his son Jonathan inherited it.
This Jonathan Dalton married Mary Thompson of

Gilcrux in 1741, at Pardshaw Hall Meeting-house,
but had no issue. His death is recorded, " Jonathan
Dalton of Eaglesfield, yeoman, aged 71 years, Novem
ber 3, 1786." His widow survived him four years, and
may be heard of again in this memoir as "Aunt Mary ; "
on her decease, December 2, 1790, the property of her

late husband fell to his brother Joseph Dalton,

weaver.

   Joseph Dalton, the father of John Dalton the
philosopher, was a common country weaver, who

showed no parts, and earned but small pittances by
his shuttle.* He was looked upon as somewhat inert,

of Eaglesfield, yeoman, price .£74. Jonathan Dalton the elder is ad
mitted on the Court Rolls in same year.

   24 Apl. 1749. Jonathan Dalton the elder surrenders the customary
land to his son Jonathan the yr.

  25 March 1 75 1. An award between Jonathan senior, and Jonathan
the younger, respecting their lands in Eaglesfield --both described as

yeomen.

20 Deer. 1787. Jonathan Dalton, eldest son and heir of Joseph

Dalton, who was only brother and heir of Jonathan Dalton, deceased,
is admitted tenant of the land purchased from John Iredale. Dr
                       admitted as brother and heir of Jonathan.
Dalton is  afterwards  of the handloom weaver of a century ago    were
   * The   operations
30 John Dalton.

if not a feckless sort of man ; yet he had courage

enough at the age of twenty-one years to go miles
from home, to court Deborah Greenup of Caldbeck,
whom he married at Cockermouth Meeting-house on
June 1o, 1755. The Greenups of Caldbeck were a
respectable family of yeomen ; and Deborah, who
linked her interests with weaver Dalton, was an active

cloth of home-make, or linen of their own spinning. For the rougher

wocthoreeaatnsyroeo"opfmwrheeeunprseabaramanndtaidodfmnea,remfnothirntahgttehcelselahdwseseet--poasv'a"erwtdh;ioesotailgnnrdcwetayifvsrceoomwaaatsspthphoeeidfsllCamautnimoadntbeserpirbaulealninntdwhg.e"ituhs"edSlgiutrtfceolehyr

coats are still to be met with in outlying districts, and my heart would

rejoice if the honest independence and patriotic fervour of the men who

"fought so many political battles could still be recognised under the old

  grey stuff." A better sort of wool was subjected to repeated washings

atghenendseerballtaeioatntceshr.insgusTchhfeoarsdatwhyeesreopfumr"paosdhseeodindoyfthf"einae"nrdgcolsoohdtahboibnldignetasimsndeos bf"lpaulnarkspteoestdse  ; and of
                                                                                                                                                            for three
                                                                                                                                                             had not

then dawned on the commercial world of England.

The weaving of linen was of equal import. The small landed pro

prietors and farmers used to grow their own flax ; and in the Eaglesfield

district this is very distinctly shown by the name Hemplands, corrupted

into that of Hemplin, being still applied to fields on nearly every farm.
                                                                                  processes the flax or "lin"was
After  bbyreeatahdteying"fosarmndathloletwhwheeer eavlpserer"p;athrtaehtneoriyn"
                                                                                  use in  wevheeryelsco" unwterrye  kitchen,                                and
spun                                                                              large                               applied                                 to
made

wool. Forty years ago the kitchens of respectable farmers during the

winter evenings offered a refreshing sight in the mistress of the house

and her maids busy at the whirl-go-round of the "small wheels;"

whilst the master and man-servants on the other side of the ingle nuik

talked over farm work and the customs of the country side.

  In Dalton's youthful days, the manufactures of this country were
almost entirely domestic. In the farm houses and cottages were fabri

cated almost every article of clothing which their occupants required.

The growth of our population, and still more the introduction of
The Date of his Birth in Doubt.  31

minded, energetic woman, from whose veins it may

naturally be supposed her son John gained a share

of his best blood ; if he did not in part inherit

the observant character of his grandfather, Jona
than Dalton, who, like many of the sons of Crispin,

displayed both acumen and intelligence. It is sup

posed that Deborah brought a small dowry to her

husband.

   By this marriage of Joseph Dalton with Deborah
Greenup there were six children, three of whom--
namely, Jonathan, Mary, and John -- grew to years of

maturity. Jonathan was born on September 9, 1759 ;
Mary on January 24, 1764 ; but there is no record nor
registry whatever of the birth of John Dalton, the
subject of this memoir. Both parents were " Friends,"

and had hitherto, as seen in their daughter Mary's
birth registration, conformed with the rules of the
Society ; and there is no evidence or even indication
of their having departed from them. Was the omis
sion of John Dalton's name from the Quaker registry
of births purely accidental ; or was the birth of a

strong boy so passively viewed at Eaglesfield that
they cared not to make any record of the fact, either
in the Family Bible, where all domestic events of

import got inscribed, or the registry book of the
religious denomination of the parents ? As Quakers
 have no faith in water baptism and priests, there
was no christening of the lad, therefore no god

 father's or godmother's testimony to be had, and

 of course no parochial register of John's advent.
 His father had evidently overlooked the registra
 tion, or deemed such a form of little or no con
32 John Dalton.

sequence, seeing that his youngest son's inherit
ance might be little more than the trappings of a
weaver's loom, the corner cupboard, and "bits of

furniture." It was only when John Dalton at

tained eminence that the world began to inquire
the date of his birth, and he, being appealed to, and
knowing nothing of the pleasures of birthdays, those
first intelligible memoranda of the youthful mind,
could not answer the question satisfactorily. After
various inquiries in the district, more particularly of
women who had been in the same " interesting situa
tion " as Dame Deborah, it became established that
John Dalton was born on September 6, 1766. The
historical reader will recall the fact of Voltaire's
birth being unknown, and the Duke of Wellington's
remaining a matter of doubt as to the month at least,
and the present narrative is not less strange, quoad
the birth of a great chemical philosopher, whose
coming into the world could only be vouched for
by the furbished-up memory of puerperous neigh
bours, aided by the village gossips and "smiddy"

oracles.

   As soon as John's fingers were pliable enough, he

had to hold the spools, to prepare the shuttles, and do

other light work attached to the weaver's handicraft.

In due season he was sent to Pardshaw Hall School,
two and a half miles distant from Eaglesfield, and
placed under the tuition of Mr John Fletcher, the
son of a highly respectable Quaker yeoman, and a
youth of attainments vastly superior to his age. Mr

Fletcher had in neighbourly kindness undertaken the
His School days.     33

getting a liking for the work, continued to act till he

attained his majority.

  John Dalton was by no means a quick boy, neither

sharp at work nor demonstrative at play, but steady-

going in all his actions, and ever faithful to his book.

The prominent and noticeable feature of his early

youth was constancy of purpose ; indeed, this plod

ding and thoughtfulness grew with his growth, and

became a chief characteristic of his manhood. Mr

Fletcher seems to have marked the promising traits
of the boy, and lent him every aid and encouragement
from his initiative rudiments onward to his study of

mathematics. Under Mr Fletcher's good guidance
Dalton gained those habits of self-reliance and in

domitable perseverance which enabled him to go

through arithmetic and navigation before the com

pletion of his twelfth year. It is pleasant to note

here that John Dalton ever spoke in the highest
terms of the excellent training and instruction he
received at the hands of his first and only school

master,* whose friendship he esteemed through life,
and whose memory he did not cease to revere.

   John Dalton early afforded proofs of his mental

superiority, and the story is told to this day at
Eaglesfield, of his curiosity being excited by a dispute
that arose among some mowers in a hayfield, as to

   * The Quaker schoolmasters were by far the best of their kind in
these northern parts. Their own home training, orderly habits, quiet

demeanour, and self-denial, constituted a valuable groundwork to the
patience and painstaking efforts required in the daily tuition of obstre

perous youth ; whilst their superior intelligence and culture made their
written formula tangible to the learner, and gave pleasant colouring to

                  C
34 John Dalton.

whether sixty square yards or sixty yards square

were identical. At first he saw no difference between

the two statements, but maturer consideration of the

subject showed him his error. The solution of the

question by a boy of ten years old did not pass
unnoticed ; and it was by such " feats of calculation "

that he won the good opinion of the neighbours, and

came to be recognised by his companions as their

intelligent leader. Another instance of his precocity

has come to my knowledge. One evening, on his

way home from school, he was observed standing on

the highest part of a hedge, delivering an extempore

lecture to his schoolfellows on a [ subject that he
believed he could enlighten them upon, and it is

probable that he succeeded in imparting some infor

mation, or that his juvenile effort was gratifying to

his audience, from whom were heard the exclama
tion -- " Bravo, John ! "       " Hip,                 "
                           and          hip,  hurrah
                                                      !
If fortunate in having a teacher in John Fletcher,
John Dalton was equally fortunate in securing the
attention of Elihu Robinson, a Quaker gentleman of

ample means and ampler knowledge, whose scholar

ship and philanthropy well entitled him to the desig
nation of " the man of Eaglesfield," a century ago.

The recognition of Elihu was a step in advance to

the educational and social status of John Dalton, who,
being invited to his house, could not fail to mark the

difference between his father's lowly dwelling and

sanded floor, dirty loom, and other appurtenances,

and the carpeted parlour, library, and comforts sur

rounding his new patron, and his well-educated wife.

As a true Cumberland worthy, independent of his

being the friend and active promoter of John Dalton's
His friend Elihu Robinson.  35

 mathematical studies, a few words are here due to

the memory of Elihu Robinson. If the reader could

be favoured with a peep at Eaglesfield, as it presented
itself exactly one hundred years ago, he would mark
Elihu Robinson decked out in his three-cocked beaver,

 light drab coat, vest, and knee-breeches, yellowish-
grey ribbed stockings, and silver-buckled shoes, all
 in the best style of rich Quakerism, fine and spotless,

 and walking in sober fashion through the village with
silver-headed cane in support. Everybody bowed
respectfully to the head of the village, a man of

probity and learning, a benefactor of the deserving,
and a thoroughly good neighbour. Elihu was pro
bably the first of Cumberland's meteorologists,

gauging the rainfall, recording the readings of the
thermometer and barometer, noting the seasons and

crops, and many natural phenomena ; moreover, he
had manipulative skill that was exercised on the
construction of philosophical instruments, sundials,
&c.* He was the friend of Collinson, the correspon

dent of Benjamin Franklin, of Dr Fothergill, of Anti-
slavery Clarkson, and others of scientific renown,
many of whom visited him at Eaglesfield. United
with John Fletcher and other promoters of education
in Cockermouth and Whitehaven, a Book Club was
instituted, consisting of the magazines and chief
works of interest obtainable quarterly from London.
Thus literature and science had got a footing in
West Cumberland, chiefly promoted by " Friends,"

  * Mr William Sutton of Scotby, near Carlisle, who, on the paternal
side, is a descendant of Elihu Robinson, possesses a well-constructed
36 John Dalton.

and aided by Dr Brownrigg, of Whitehaven, and John
C. Curwen, M.P., of Workington Hall. These West
Cumbrians were men of real mark and magnanimity,

who not only encouraged a love of letters, and the
aspirations of science, but heartily co-operated in all
the schemes of reform and practical philanthropy
which dawned upon England after the declaration of
American independence.*

   Elihu Robinson invited John Dalton to his house,
and offered to assist his studies along with a young
man of the name of William Alderson, then in his
service, and anxious for self-improvement. The two
lads worked well together in the evenings, and
though Alderson was much the senior, Dalton was
generally ahead of him. When they came to a stand
still in solving a problem, Alderson would fain have
sought Mr Robinson's aid, but Dalton, with resolute
aim and a belief in his own powers, would encourage
his companion to renewed exertion, by remarking in
broad Cumbrian dialect --" Yan med deu't " (one
might do it). This phrase of John's always came to
his rescue in difficulties, and, like a clerical text of
pithy meaning, conveyed a wholesome sermon point

   * "The Society of Friends," collectively and individually, have ever

taken a laudable part in social, educational, and political questions.
Speaking from large opportunities afforded me of perusing the private
correspondence, public manifestations, and parliamentary petitions got
up by Cumberland Quakers, in the past as well as the present century,
there can be no doubt that they have always been far ahead of the rest
of the world in all matters affecting the welfare of humanity and the
varied social interests dependent on governmental legislation. Every
work they engaged in pro bono publico, found them zealous and indefa
tigable supporters, be it peace or pious endeavours, civil or religious
liberty, the interests of our national commerce, or the education and
happiness of our people.
                     " Van med deu't."  37

ing to self-dependence, and persevering energy as the

groundwork of success in life. The rivalry of the

lads was healthful, but one day a dispute arose

between them as to the best mode of working out a

problem ; Alderson would bet Dalton sixpence on
the subject, but Mr Robinson objected to this, as all

Quakers properly do to betting, and in place of the
money wager, suggested that the loser should supply

his companion with candles for their nights' studies in

winter. This advice was acted upon, and Dalton
came off victorious. Mr Robinson occasionally tested

John's highest powers of thought by setting him an
algebraic question, and after the lapse of an hour
would return, and say, " Well, John, hast thou done
                  "  " No," replied John, with his " Yan
that  question
                ?

med deu't;" and another hour elapsing with no better

result, John met his kind     friend's  interrogation by,
                              mebby
" I can't deu't to-neet, but            to-morn I will."

So he went home, slept over the problem, and rose

again to work with refreshed brain that brought a

solution to his difficulty.

The day's schooling at Pardshaw Hall, and the

evening prelections of Elihu Robinson, were re

markable adjuncts to the development of a brain so

broadly constituted as Dalton' s, and the result was

visible in his rapid advance to knowledge and supe

riority over lads of his own age. Of this position he

seemed to be aware, or he would not have ventured

on so bold a step as that of opening a school on his

own account at Eaglesfield, in his thirteenth year. The
retirement of Mr Fletcher from Pardshaw Hall school

was probably the first incentive, as he never would
38 John Dalton.

of any school in Eaglesfield, and not less the limited

means of his father, may have cast the balance in favour
of the undertaking. Weaver Dalton had in John's
infancy removed three doors higher up the lane, and
upon the outside, or as some say, on the front door, of
this dwelling John posted a large sheet of white paper,
inscribed with a bold hand, containing the announce
ment of his having opened a school for both sexes, and
on reasonableterms. This advertisement long did duty,
and was also accompanied by another to the effect
that " paper, pens, and ink " were sold within -- two
literary acquisitions to Eaglesfield, springing from the
enterprise of a lad of twelve or thirteen years of

age.

   For a short while he taught his primitive school in
an old barn, then in his father's house, and finally in

the Friend's Meeting-house within the burial-ground

enclosure. His scholars were of all ages, from infancy

to seventeen. Some were so young, that he had to

mount them upon his knee to teach them their A BC's;

others were as old, and much older and bigger than
himself, the proximity of the school having brought out
lots of Eaglesfield lads whose education and manners
had hitherto been grossly neglected. These last-named
proved highly refractory scholars ; so much so, that
when John threatened them with chastisement for
neglecting their lessons, or their naughtiness for play
ing at leap-frog over the graves of the dead --

            " Where heaves the turf in many a mouldering heap,

                 Each in his narrow cell for ever laid,
The young Schoolmaster.  39

Here was a pretty contretemps, the scholars defying
theirmaster in open day,andin pugilistic fashion. How
the young "dominie" got over an exhibition so offen
sive in character, and so derogatory to his dignity as
head of the school, can only be inferred on reflecting

on his dogged perseverance, and Quaker firmness
under the most direct and worst forms of provocation.

   Whilst busy teaching the lads and lasses of the

hamlet, he was more busily engaged educating himself,
and carrying on the good work the foundations of

which had been so pleasantly laid by his attentive

friends John Fletcher and Elihu Robinson. Those

around him observed that, be the subject what it might

occupying his mind, it got his undivided attention ;

he sat desk-bound and immovable, uninfluenced

by noise or chatter, and not easily roused by repeated
interrogations. His mental power seemed focussed

upon a point, and no side-rays were permitted to in

terfere with the one concentrative thought falling on

the work in which he was engaged.
   " The Ladies' Diary, or Woman' s Almanac, for 1779,

containing new improvements in arts and sciences, and

many entertaining particulars, designed for the use
and diversion of the fair sex," came into his hands,

probably through Mr Robinson's kindness, and he
copied it verbatim. The existence of an almanac in
his own handwriting, now in the possession of Mr
John Robinson, of Eaglesfield, led some persons to
suppose that John Dalton had at the age of thirteen
years constructed an almanac for himself; whereas it
is that [of the Ladies' Diary --probably the first

periodical that he had seen, and the first to call forth
40 John Dalton.

arithmetician ; for he and William Alderson in the

winter evenings used to pore over the enigmas and

mathematical problems it contained as long as the

farthing dip,* or midnight oil, or the last flicker of the

fire would enable them to read their pencil-markings

on the rough slabs of Cumberland slate. This

Diary, which, by the way, cost the large sum of

three shillings, owing to the heavy taxation of that

day on all kinds of knowledge, will claim more

particular notice in the next chapter.

John Dalton, in the briefest of autobiographical

records, which he had been solicited to contribute to

Mr Roberts' " Book of Autographs," states that after

two years of schoolmastering he was "occasionally

employed in husbandry for a year or more." Why

or wherefore this change of pursuit from that of

teacher can only be inferred. He may have found

his big and rebellious scholars too much for his

guidance, or that his teaching was less profitable than

a fair day's work   of manual labour on his Uncle

Jonathan's estate.   From what I can gather from
other sources, to
                    be noted in the biography of

Abraham Fletcher, of the pay of schoolmasters by

weekly pence a century ago, I do not suppose that

John Dalton realised more than five shillings a week

as the master of Eaglesfield school ; so that husbandry

was as good a thing, if not better, in his instance,

   * The term "farthing dip" is used to distinguish the crude, home
made tallow candle of that day--long in the stalk, of dirty-grey colour
and rough surface --that was perhaps as much in favour as the little
lamp that was made to do duty in consuming any oily refuse. A stick or
turf fire, that emitted an occasional blaze, had occasionally to do the
part of both candle and lamp, the eyes of the lieges being like the wiry
Pretty nearly a Clodhopper.  41

seeing that healthful occupation in the fields cleared
his brain, and fitted him the more for evening studies.

At this period, when entering upon his teens, he can

have had no ideas beyond the bucolic life around him ;
and the highest aim of his ancestors was farming, with
the prospect of some day realising by wholesome
industry the ownership of a dwelling and some acres
of land -- a cottage and cow, garth and hempland, so

as to become passing rich on £40 a year. And it is
doubtful if his father's handicraft had advanced his

status beyond the possession of a cow and a cow's

grassing until the death of his brother Jonathan --
uncle to John. From the circumstance of John Dalton
joining the rank and file of husbandmen, it may be

inferred that his

                " Ambition did not mock their useful toil,"

and that he did not disregard their " homely joys."
His disposition to farming may have been influenced
by the fact of his Uncle Jonathan, then in the enjoy
ment of a few acres, being in the sixty-fifth year of his
age, and without any probability of issue, and that the
said uncle had noticed with favour the merits of his
nephew, upon whose shoulders the burden of the day
might soon fall. Moreover, an honest farmer, with a
small yeoman's position in prospect, would be viewed
quite as respectable, and much more profitable, than
the grade of a country schoolmaster on the uplands of
Cumberland. Thus circumstances might have thrown
John Dalton into the position of a poor farmer, with
aims no larger than selling corn and cows at Cocker-
mouth market, instead of becoming a chemical philo
42 John Dalton.

   All biographical notices of John Dalton's assign to

him yeoman's ancestry. This would appear to be a
mistake, as the foregoing pages prove the artisanship
of both his father and grandfather, and probably arose
from the fact of Jonathan, the shoemaker, possessing
a few acres of land through his own industry, or as
the dowry of his wife Abigail, which eventually fell to
John Dalton on the death of his brother, the school
master at Kendal. In a statement of John Dalton's
(hereafter to be noticed), complaining of the distribu
tion of his father's property, there is no mention of
any other possession of his father's than what had
accrued to him as the successor of his brother
Jonathan --uncle to the chemist. The only circum
stance to lead to a contrary opinion is a mortgage
of £150, or thereabouts, on the Eaglesfield pro
perty, and this may have been laid on by Joseph
Dalton, the weaver, after his brother Jonathan's
death, with the view of assisting his two sons in
the establishment of a boarding-school at Kendal
in 1786.

   Whilst John Dalton was plodding away in his
capacity of schoolmaster, or taking his honest share
in husbandry operations, by which his bone and

muscle got their truthful balance and vigour along
with the development of his nerve-power, his brother
Jonathan was acting as usher or assistant to his
cousin, George Bewley, who kept a school at Kendal.

It was probably owing to Mr Bewley's wish to retire

that Jonathan Dalton held out to his brother John
the desirability of leaving Eaglesfield and joining
Seeks fresh fields and pastures new.  43

Deborah, the parents, having taken counsel of
" Friends," approved of the son's proposal ; and in the
summer or autumn of 1761, when he was about to

complete his sixteenth year, John Dalton bade fare
    CHAPTER III.

" For Nature's crescent does not grow alone,
In thews and bulk ; but, as this temple waxes,

The inward service of the mind and soul
                     --Shakespeare.
Grows wide withal."

KENDAL SCHOOL AND SOCIAL LIFE --LECTURES ON NATURAL
      PHILOSOPHY -- MR GOUGH'S FRIENDSHIP -- CONTRIBUTION
      TO " THE DIARIES "-- INVESTIGATIONS OF ENGLISH SUR

        NAMES.

N anticipation of getting on in the world,

and disposed to covet the latest novelty of

a   gentleman's      outfit, John  Dalton       bought
an                   a curiosity   of its       kind a
      umbrella --
hundred years ago -- at Cockermouth, and with this

equipment in one hand, and a bundle of body-clothes

in the other, started on his journey for Kendal, a

distance of forty-four miles, which he accomplished in

a day. This was his first break off from the home

circle, and if his emotions at all responded to the

natural scenery through which he passed, he may

have framed for himself a sort of earthly paradise en

route. Journeying through Cockermouth, and by the

banks of the placid lake of Bassenthwaite, he soon

came in view of Derwentwater in all its glorious

beauty and surroundings, with the unrivalled peaks

of Borrowdale beyond, each step revealing new fea
His first sight of the Lakes.  45

and green meadow. Crossing Dunmail Raise showed
him another sight, the attractions of which could not
fail to lighten his descent to Grassmere, Rydal, and
Windermere -- " the queen," and fair daughters of the
lakes-- and to fill his mind with poetical fancy and
unspeakable admiration. The mental enjoyment of
such a day would bar all feeling of physical fatigue,
and enable him to reach Kendal with a mind as

buoyant and bright as the ethereal atmosphere float
ing o'er the mountain-tops of Skiddaw and Langdale

Pikes.

   As a boy in his early teens, travelling alone amid
the indescribable loveliness of the lake country, and

gazing at the flickering lights and shadows on the
everlasting hills, he little conjectured the strange
evolutions of the coming time --that a day of his

torical distinction was about to dawn over the scene

of his journey, mainly owing to the genius of Words
 worth, the Coleridges, Southey, and De Quincey ;
 and still less did he suppose that the meteorological

 characteristics of the district would some day become
 a theme of fertile interest to himself, the successful

 investigation of which would give him rank among
 the scientific discoverers of the age, and a niche in

 the pantheon of English celebrities.
    Kendal, at the time of John Dalton's entry, had a

 population of 5000, and a flourishing wool and cotton
 trade, demanding hundreds of packhorses * to carry

  * Before Dalton's time stage-waggons had partly displaced " pack-

horses," and a stage-coach -- the "Flying Machine" -- drawn by six
horses, arrived twice a week from London ; but it was 1 786 before a
mail-coach ran from London to Kendal. Though churches and schools
46 John Dalton.

its merchandise to the seaports -- Liverpool chiefly.

If its stalwart sons in native green had bravely fought

and won on Flodden field, they were no less anxious

in the Georgian era for the arts of peace and com

mercial life ; they were men of enterprise, and the

leading families of the town were Quakers, not want

ing in culture and education.

theJohKnenDdaaltlonC,olropookriantgiona--t t"hPe amnontutso  on the arms  of
                                                                          --
                                                             mihi panis"
might be disposed to think if the staple produce of

the town yielded bread to its working folk, the edu

cation of the lieges should go a step higher, and

provide him with butter to that bread. Teaching

the young ideas offered, however, no easy path to

the comforts, much less the indulgences of life ;

indeed, no class of persons fared worse, considering

their great merits, than the schoolmasters of England

in the 18th century.

  It was in the year 1781 that John Dalton joined

his cousin George Bewley, who, with Jonathan

Dalton as assistant, conducted a school for both

sexes --mainly Quakers' children. On the retirement
of Mr Bewley in 1785, the brothers Dalton announced

their intention of continuing the school, "where

youths will be carefully instructed in English, Latin,

Greek, and French ; also writing, arithmetic, mer

chants' accounts, and the mathematics." They also

offered to take boarders on reasonable terms. Their

sister Mary came from Eaglesfield to act as their

housekeeper. At this time their pecuniary means

were very limited, having occasionally to borrow two

progress was being made in the town, bull-baiting held its place till
, Not passing rich on £4.0 a year.  47

or three pounds from Mr Bewley and other friends,

as well as their own parents,* to enable them to carry
on their small establishment. The earnings of the
two brothers in the first year were about 100 guineas
and this sum was thirty guineas more than the
average proceeds of some succeeding years. They
made a little money by " drawing conditions," collect
ing rents, making wills, and other small commissions
befitting the pen and ready-reckoning attributes of

country schoolmasters ; but it is doubtful if the two

brothers conjointly, and by arduous labour, realised

^100 a year, on which sum they had to supply their
own and their sister's wants, and to appear in respect

able costume, suited to the middle-class social position
of Kendal.

   A second circular, issued on July 5, 1786, by the

Daltons, showed that they were not disposed to hide

their talents under a bushel, and that their educa

tional programme embraced almost all that could be
taught in the highest public schools in the realm,
seeing that it embraced what they had previously
advertised, and nearly the whole range of subjects
included under the heading of Natural Philosophy.
The public were also informed that the Daltons
would give private instruction in the use of the globes
 after school-hours ; that they " could conveniently
 teach a considerable number of scholars more than

 at present;" and that parents might rely on their

 children being carefully instructed.

    * Joseph and Deborah Dalton used to visit their sons and daughter
 at Kendal, carrying them Eaglesfield cakes and home produce, deeming
 the long day's journey of forty-four miles on foot a matter of minor
 consideration when the welfare of their family and their own parental
48 John Dalton.

   Whilst truly zealous in their calling of school
masters, the brothers Dalton were neither gainly
nor genial in manner, and somewhat deficient in the
art of winning the pleasant regards of their pupils.
The bucolicism of Eaglesfield still clung to their
nature, and manifested itself outwardly in their up
right coat-collars, broad-brims, and an unbending fell-
side Quakerism. As schoolmasters, they were severe
disciplinarians, exacting silence, order, and a faithful
adherence to prescribed rules : the gentlest prating of
the little girls, or the smallest blot on a page of writ
ing, called forth rebuke. Admonition was the fact

of the hour, and if this did not suffice, the cane or

" the tawse," consisting of short leather thongs, was
applied to the palm of the hand, and in worse forms
of punishment to the bare back. One instance of
severity brought the Daltons rather prominently
before the public, and led them to exercise greater

caution in future in flagellating the worst offenders.
Jonathan was looked upon as principal of the school,
and was the severer taskmaster. John's more youth
ful sympathies saved him from so much juvenile

reproach ; yet my information, derived from their

pupils, tends to show that he was far from conciliatory
in method, or prone to educe the kindlier parts of
his scholars. Their teaching was much more elemen
tary than their curriculum of study, classics, and

physics, indicated. It is said that in the midst of

thirty or forty scholars, and all their noisy doings,
John found minutes of leisure at his own desk to

work out the higher mathematics ; if so, he possessed

a fifty-schoolmaster power of abstraction, along with
Lectures on Natural Philosophy.                                                                                               49

With the dawn of manhood John Dalton would try

his hand at public lecturing, and here is his pro

:-gramme issued to the Kendalites on October 26,

1787

   "Twelve Lectures on Natural Philosophy, to be

read at the school  a sufficient number of sub
;

                          (if

                                                       ;
                                                                                                                           ;
scribers are procured) by John Dalton. Subscribers
to the whole, half a guinea or one shilling for single
nights. N.B. --Subscribers to the whole course will

have the liberty of requiring further explanation of

subjects that may not be sufficiently discussed or

clearly perceived when under immediate considera

tion also of proposing doubts, objections, &c. all

which will be illustrated and obviated at suitable

times to be mentioned at the commencement." His

syllabus included mechanics, optics, pneumatics,
astronomy, and the use of the globes, and concluded

with " Ex rerum causis supremam noscere causam."

   This course of lectures he repeated in 1791, with the
addition of lecture on Fire. As indicative of his
;

          a

                                        it
                                            it

                                                                 aa
first effort being less supported than ought to have

been, his terms of admittance to the second course

were five shillings for the whole, or sixpence for each

lecture in other words, half the charge that he made
in 1787. Dr Henry states that " became part of
Dalton's regular occupations, and an important source

of his slender revenues, to deliver lectures in Man

chester and elsewhere." Repeated inquiries on my

own part have failed to show his character as public

lecturer. His readiness to impart knowledge may be

assumed, but how far his address and language and

illustration were suited to a general audience at this

                                 D
50 John Dalton.

inexperience in the art, no less than his early training,
would offer no small drawback to his success and

popularity.

   His seven hours' tuition, and the needful victualling
of the man himself, occupied the best part of his diurnal ;

his evenings not engaged in private instruction were

given to classics, mathematics, and historical reading
and the Diaries. There is nothing in his records or

reasoning, as far as I can learn, to indicate large attain

ment in philology or classical literature. The former
study engaged his thoughts for a time, as will pre
sently be noted, but only within the range of an
English tracing : nor could such accomplishments
be expected in a man the bent of whose mind lay
partly in the direction of natural history, and more
largely towards the culture of the strictly physical
sciences. Each day found him work to do, and
ability and force to grasp what he undertook ; it was
work at school, work at home, and much cogitation

everywhere.

   John Dalton bore considerable affinity to Benjamin
Franklin in mental vigour and bodily constitution,
and specially in habits of industry and forethought ;
but the renowned American printer found hours of

leisure, and could bestow a helping-hand towards the
social and political amelioration of his fellow-citizens.
Moreover, he entered with zest into the spirit of the
times and the calls of society, thoroughly appreciated
the smiles and favours of women, and all the ameni
ties of life. Nor did his philosophy and patriotism
suffer an iota by these deviations from the rigid lines
of study and reflection, but probably gained much

invigoration and lastingness, and gave him facili
Contrasted with Benjamin Franklin.  5r

ties of intercourse with, as well as high rank among,
the learned men of his epoch. The Cumbrian school

master, on the other hand, would direct his nerve-force

almost exclusively to purely intellectual aims, passing

through his adolescence apparently indifferent to the
status quo of governments and municipalities, and
not much cognisant of the various relations of man to

man--civil, commercial, and political.
    During the first few years of his residence in

Kendal his society was almost entirely confined to

the guarded coterie of his own " regiment of drab"--

a social circle possessing many good qualities of both

head and heart, and not without its pretty white

 caps, rustling muslins, and personal charms, but more
 or less deficient in breadth of character, vivacity of
deportment, and adaptation to the usages of the
world. His probationary period on the banks of
 the Kent extended over twelve years, namely, from
 his early teens to the age of twenty-seven years, an

important period in a man's life, when the body
breathes full vitality and force, and the heart should
be plastic and impressionable. His youth and grow
ing adolescence showed lots of vigour and mental

 scope; yet his life comes down to us not betokening
any signs of an active citizenship, but rather as the
 manifestation of an intellectual machine seldom
beating time to the social or political impulses of a

free and happy community like that of England. It

 may, however, be said in favour of this comparative
seclusion from the fraternisations of the world, that

 high aims can only be grasped by continuous and

concentrated efforts in one direction, and John Dal-
   52 John Dalton.

   and the methodising of science out of a careful study
   of natural phenomena. He was a student, and a
   hard-working one, all his days ; the temptations of

   youth seem to have passed him by as one too sparingly
   emotional for the snares of life. Love, which a great

   poet said  " Rules the court, the camp, the grove,"

   seemed to find no favour in Dalton's eyes, even at a

   time when, if ever, the feelings are warm and prone
   to be waylaid by the blandishments of the fair. His

   eyes, it is true, were peculiarly affected, and could not
   be gladdened by the roseate hue of woman's cheeks,

   or the ribbon adornments and other coloured media

   displayed as attractions indigenous to the sex.
      John Dalton's studious character, and solicitations

   foradvancement beyond the sphere of common mortals,

   as evinced by his public lectures, would suffice for an

   introduction to Mr John Gough, the intellectual man
   of Kendal, and the pleasant friendship that sprung

   up from this intercourse, was the third piece of good
   luck falling in the way of the poor weaver's son, the
   tuition of John Fletcher and the guiding counsel of
   Elihu Robinson, constituting the two first props to

   his well-doing in the world. Though blind from
   early infancy, Mr Gough was a person of rare accom

   plishments, whose fertile mind travelled over a large
   field of science, and whose character was well-known
   to some of the leading minds in the north of England.

   It is difficult to estimate the amount of good derived

   by Dalton from a man of such ripe judgment and

   intellectual grasp as Mr Gough, who could be no

   ordinary person to gain the following tribute from

   Wordsworth the poet :--

X
      His friend John Gougk.                   53

IMethinks see him now, his eyeballs roll'd

Beneath his ample brow -- in darkness pained,
But each instinct with spirit, and the frame
Of the whole countenance alive with thought,
Fancy, and understanding, whilst the voice
Discoursed of natural or moral truth
With eloquence and such authentic power,
That in his presence humbler knowledge stood
Abashed, and tender pity overawed."

  A letter of Dalton's to Mr Peter Crosthwaite, of

Keswick, shows his opinion of his friend Mr Gough :--
   " John Gough is the son of a wealthy tradesman in

this town ; unfortunately he lost his sight by the small

pox when about two years old, since which he has
been quite blind, and may now be about thirty. He
is perhaps one of the most astonishing instances that

ever appeared of what genius, united with perseverance

and every other subsidiary aid, can accomplish when
deprived of what we usually reckon the most valu
able sense. He is a perfect master of the Latin,

IGreek, and French tongues, the former of which
knew nothing of six years ago, when I first came here

from my native place near Cockermouth, but under his

tuition have since acquired a good knowledge of them.

He understands well all the different branches of

mathematics, and it is wonderful what difficult and
abstruse problems he will solve in his own head. There

is no branch of natural philosophy but what he is

well acquainted with ; he knows by the touch, taste,
and smell almost every plant within twenty miles of

this place ; he can reason with astonishing perspicuity
on the construction of the eye, the nature of light and
colours, and of optic glasses ; he is a good proficient
 54 John Dalton.

I have been for a long time very intimate ; as our pur

 suits are common, viz., mathematical and philosophical,
 we find it very agreeable frequently to communicate

 our sentiments to each other, and to converse on those

 topics."

    In his preface to his " Meteorological Observations

 and Essays," published in 1834, Dalton expresses his

 obligations to Mr Gough in the following words :--

    " For about eight years during my residence in
 Kendal we were intimately acquainted. Mr Gough
 was as much gratified with imparting his stores of

Iscience as was in receiving them. My use to him

 was chiefly in reading, writing, and making calcula
 tions and diagrams, and in participating with him in
 the pleasure resulting from successful investigations ;

 but as Mr Gough was above receiving any pecuniary
 recompense, the balance of advantage was greatly in

my favour, and I am glad to have this opportunity of
acknowledging it. It was he who first set the example

of keeping a meteorological journal at Kendal."
    " During this period," writes Dr Henry, " he con

tributed frequently to two periodical works then in
considerable repute, the Gentleman's and Ladies'
Diary. The volumes from 178410 1794 contain many
solutions of questions in mathematics or general

philosophy to which his name is attached. He

obtained two of the prizes awarded by the editors."

   Quoting from " An Account of the Early Mathe
matical and Philosophical Writings of the late Dr
Dalton," by Mr T. T. Wilkinson, F.R.A.S., of Burn
ley, Dr Henry continues his remarks on the Diaries,
and Dalton's contributions. " The selection of ques

tions for the year 1 "jZ"j embraced nearly airthe branches
Contributions to the " Diaries."  55

of mathematics then cultivated by English geometers ;
and yet he correctly solved thirteen out of the list of
fifteen, the prize question included. His solution of
question 850 is inserted at length in the Diary, and
is probably the earliest printed specimen of his mathe
matical writings. He was equally successful in the
following year, 1788, and from his replies to questions

in general philosophy, appears to have already be
stowed some attention on chemistry, and to be

conversant with some French writers on that science.

Mechanics and fluxions had also engaged his atten

tion. On the appearance of the Ladies'* Diary for
1789, Mr Dalton must have felt himself amply

rewarded for all his previous disappointments ; for,

besides obtaining insertion of his answers to all the
philosophical queries, and to three out of eleven solu

tions sent to the questions in the mathematical
department, he was awarded the "prize of six diaries."

In the Gentleman 's Diary for the same year his name

is announced as having furnished correct solutions to
seven of the mathematical questions, of which that
to question 591, relating to a case of hydrostatical

equilibrium, is inserted at length, and gained him his
first position amongst the correspondents to that
noted and difficult serial. The Ladies' Diary and
supplement for 1790 conveyed the gratifying intel
ligence, that he had been awarded the highest prize
of ten diaries for his masterly solution of the prize

question."

  A few extracts from the Ladies' Diary, containing

some queries and solutions by Dalton on questions

  * The Ladies' Diary is said to have been conducted by Dr C. Hutton,

                                                                       ^
56 John Dalton.

apparently incongruous with his usual studies may
interest the reader ; they were furnished by my late

friend Dr George Wilson of Edinburgh to Dr Henry
of Manchester.

   Query 1. --Whether, to a generous mind, is the conferring or

receiving an obligation the greater pleasure ?

               Answered by John Dalton as follows: --
   The pleasure arising from conferring an obligation, especially
if it be effected without much inconvenience, is pure, and must

be a grateful sensation to a generous mind ; but that arising

from receiving an obligation is often mixed with the unpleasing

reflection of inability to remunerate the benefactor. It is pretty

clear, therefore, that the pleasure of conferring an obligation
must exceed that of receiving one.

   Query 2.-- Is it possible for a person of sensibility and virtue,

who has once felt the passion of love in the fullest extent that

the human heart is capable of receiving it (being by death, or
some other circumstance, for ever deprived of the object of its

wishes), ever to feel an equal passion for any other object ?

           Answered by John Dalton as follows: --
It will be generally allowed that in sustaining the disappoint

ments incident to life, true fortitude would guard us from the

extremes of insuperable melancholy and stoic insensibility, both

being incompatible with your own happiness and the good of

mankind.  therefore, the passion of love have not acquired
          If,
                       it,

                                                if

                                                                    it,

                                                        I

                                                                                          it
too great an ascendency over the reason, we may, think, con

clude that true magnanimity may support the shock without

eventually feeling the mental powers and affections enervated

and destroyed by and consequently that the query may be

answered in the affirmative. However, this passion be too

strong, when compared with the other faculties of the mind,

may be feared that the shock will enfeeble  so as to render
\the exercise of its functions in future much more limited than
A new line of thought.  57

William Alderson of Eaglesfield, shows a new walk of;

study, and is highly characteristic of the writer :--is,
                          it,
                                           " Kendal, 8 mo., 4/A, 1788.
   " Respected Fr1end, --Happening a while ago tois
be in company where the topic of conversation was
the derivation of surnames, a subject quite new toit
me, and being, as thou may remember, inquisitive
into things seemingly involved in mystery, and which

Irequire some sagacity to unravel, could not help

afterwards reflecting a little upon it. The substance

of my reflections, and the information I could get

being put to paper, will run nearly as follows. There
is very little utility arising from the subject, but a

small matter of curiosity, which I thought might not

be altogether unacceptable.

   "Anciently in this kingdom it seems to have been

customary to have only one name, that what
now called the Christian name and that not being
sufficient for distinction, others were added to such

as were most fit to answer that end, such as whose

son a person was, what trade he was, where he came
from, &c., which, however, were subject to change,
according to the caprice of the neighbourhood or

fancy of the person, till the Legislature found

necessary that they should be fixed, to prevent the
evils that might otherwise arise.

        " INVESTIGATION OF ENGLISH SURNAMES..

  "1st. Of those ending in -SON.

   " We have a large tribe of these from Christian or
first names, such as John, Jack, Harry, Dick, Richard,
William, Will, Tom, Robin, Robert, Ben, Allen, &c.--
   58 John Dalton.

   that            the father being called John, his son was
                   is,
                                                                            is,
   called John's-son, or Johnson, &c.

      "Also diminutives of some of these; as Dickin, Wil

   kin, Tomlin, Jenkin, &c. -son; that little Dick's

   son, &c.                                                                               ;

     " A few, probably bastards from women's names

   as Ann, Elly, Matty, Nel, Patty, &c. -son.

      " Some from other surnames as Cook, Smith,
                                      ;

   Hodge, Dodge, Dod, Dob, Hood, &c. -son.
      " 2d. Another custom seems to have obtained in

   the south part of the kingdom, that                                           is,  using the

   genitive case of the father's name instead of the word

   son at the end of         is, it   thus we there meet with
   '                               ;
                '

   Stephens, Roberts, Philips, Edwards, Harrys or

   Harris, Jones (that Joan's or John's), &c., which
   in the north are more commonly Stephenson, Robert

   son, &c.        it        may be suspected the Harris
      " From this

   families in the north were originally from the south,

   otherwise they would most likely have been called

   Harrisons.
      " 3d. Another source of surnames we have from an

   cient and trading towns as York, Chester, Lancaster,
                             ;

   Kendal, Carlisle, Derby, Wakefield, &c. Thus an in

   habitant of Kendal called Tom, removing to a distant

   place, would be called Kendal Tom, to distinguish
   him from the other Toms of the place. Besides these,

   a great number from places of less note ending in ton

   («>.,town), thwaite place cleared of wood) asBraith-
   waite, Cros-thwaite, Lew-thwaite Dal-ton village in
                   a                  ;                                          (a ;
                         (a
   Lancashire meaning Dale-town), New-ton, Penning

   ton, Pockling-ton, Nor-ton, Wes-ton, &c. To these

   may be added few from the names of nations as
                                                                                       ;

x
English Surnames.  59

Scot, English, Ireland, French, Norman (i.e., a fol
lower of William the Conqueror from Normandy),
Wales, &c.

   "Also a number derived from the situation of their
dwellings ; as Fell, Gill, How, Hill, Bank, Bottom,
Beck, Brook, Wall, Penn (i.e., Hill), Mount, Slack,

Cragg, Moor, Moss, Tarn, Pit, &c.

  " 4th. A vast number from trades, &c. ; as Smith,

Wright, Weaver, Webster, Waller, Mason, Fisher,
Hunter, Fiddler, Piper, Harper, Walker, Cleaver,
Slater, Sadler, Herd, Cook, Clark, Steward, Butler,

Baker, Brewer, Gardener, Roper, Fletcher (one that
makes bows and arrows), Glover, Barber, Ridler,

Stamper, Shepherd, Turner, Forster (i.e., Forester),
&c. Also from articles, &c., dealt in; as Hay, Stone,
Steele, Bell, Wood, Peat, Lindsey, Wolsey, Cotton,

&c.
   " 5th. From animals ; as Fox, Tod (an old word for

a fox), Stag, Hinde, Kid, Lamb, Drake, Duck, Cock,
Peacock, Salmon, Pike, Trout, &c.

    "6th. Some adjectives; as Black, Blake, Dun, White,
Brown, Green, Grey, Petty, Wild, Swift, Smart, Sharp,
Wise, Young, &c.

  " 7th. A few ending in man ; as Bulman, Cow-man,

Bow-man, Chap-man, Priest-man, Spel-man, Wool-
man, &c. Also several in ley; as Ains-ley, Bay-ley,
Bew-ley, Brink-ley, Cow-ley, Hors-ley, Chalk-ley,
Hay-ley, Hart-ley, Priest-ley, &c. Ley is an old
word for scythe, also for ploughed land now resting

for the scythe.
   "8th. Compound names of pretty obvious origin ; as

Brock-bank, Sow-den, Lang-mire, Mire-house, Water-
60 John Dalton.

(N.B. Bourn is Saxon, meaning a brook), Black-stock,
Light-foot, Young-husband, Tod-hunter, Drink-water,

&c.

  I" might pursue the subject farther, as also of the

origin of the names of places, &c., but I leave it to

antiquarians.

  II" However, as have explained my own name,

must do the same with thine. Alderson means un

doubtedly older-son, old being pronounced aid in this
county, where possibly the name originated ; but it

is not easily made appear how such a name rose. --
Please to accept the best respects of thy friend,

   " W1ll1am Alderson,     "John Dalton.

            Eaglesfield."

\
CHAPTER IV.

" Nature is not an inert mass ; and to him who can comprehend her vast
sublimity, she reveals herself as the creative force of the universe --
before all time, eternal, ever   active, she calls            all
                                                    to  life       things,  whether
perishable or imperishable"     -- Schell1ng.

NATURAL HISTORY PURSUITS -- METEOROLOGICAL LABOURS AND
      CORRESPONDENCE -- BOTANY -- ENTOMOLOGY -- STUDY OF MAN
      AND THAT OF MEDICINE CONTEMPLATED --HIS FATHER'S WILL
      IN DISPUTE, AND NOVEL ARBITRATION --LEAVES KENDAL FOR

       MANCHESTER.

            N his hours of comparative relaxation, John
                Dalton took his constitutional walk, and

                 on Saturdays extended his rambles o'er the

                 country side ; admiring the grand pano

rama--the sweeping outline of mountain range and
fertile valleys in the environs of Kendal ; and medi
tating much on the geognosy of the district, its fauna,
flora, and natural history in general. Like Goethe,
Alexander von Humboldt, and others who paved

their way to distinction by researches in the domain
of natural science, Dalton early engaged in the study

of botany, entomology, and more especially mete

orology. The friendship of Mr Gough naturally

exercised a beneficial influence over Dalton's scientific

endeavours. In that day when Buffon, Goldsmith,

and peripatetic herbalists held sway as naturalists,

and Linnaeus was only to be found in the hands of

the learned, it is doubtful if any other library than

                                                                                     r
               62 John Dalton.

               to him, from which he could even cull a knowledge of

                the descriptive forms of plants and the common kinds

              of insects. And this kind of information, little more
               than a systematic nomenclature in the hands of the

                renowned Swede, was but elementary and limited in

              scope compared with the needs of a true science. As
               far as the study of meteorology was concerned, Dalton
              could have no better guide than Mr Gough himself.

                   Dalton's love of nature did not find expression in
               the sentimental language of Rousseau ; it was neither

                 exalted nor demonstrative, and probably owed less

                 to his emotional or pleasurable instincts than to his

              innate scientific ardour, ever aiming at the grasp of

                 the unproclaimed and the unknown. Imbued with the
               faculty of originating fresh paths of inquiry, and pos
                 sessing a genetic force to cope with difficulties whence-

                 soever arising, he would seem to have anticipated
                 Schelling's observation, that philosophy advances not
               so much by the answers to difficult problems, as by
               the starting of new problems, and by asking questions
               which no one else would think of asking.

                  In his endeavours to elucidate the phenomena in
              cluded under the general term of meteorology --phe

                 nomena so fitful and protean in character on the shores

               of England, and markedly pluviose around Kendal
              --he fell upon an inquiry consonant with his untiring
               industry and careful methods of observation. The
                 subject, comprehensive in itself, also involved many
                 questions which had never been asked, and as many
               more equally worthy of solution. Meteorology had

Aan historical basis as old as Aristotle himself, and
               though the theme of many minds in many countries,
               yet so little progress had been obtained since the
His first Meteorological efforts.  63

days of the Greek naturalist, that it presented almost

a new field for John Dalton's patient investigation.
Observation and observations ever repeated were,
from the very nature of the elements in operation,

essential to unravel the phenomena grouped under
the subject-matter of the weather, the seasons, and

climate; and these, again, had to be viewed under the
modifying influence of heat, electricity, and more
strictly astronomical causes. The general laws of
physics and chemistry, and due recognition of the
researches of Galileo, Torricelli, and Newton, formed

an instructive basis upon which future labourers

in the field must rest their lines of inquiry. All

this would be patent to Dalton, and the encoun

tering of difficulties at the very threshold would

really offer the largest inducement to him to per

severe in the pursuit. As the thermometer, baro

meter, and rain-gauge were the first requirements in

the physical investigation of meteorology, he thought
the best way of knowing how to use them, was to know
how to construct them ab initio ad finem. Besides,
philosophical instruments of all kindswere exceedingly
scarce and dear in the north of England ; and John's
pecuniary means were not commensurate with any

extraordinary outlay.

   As Dalton's meteorological labours will be more

appropriately discussed in the next chapter, all that
is needful here is to trace the beginning of his work,

and to show by his letters how his enthusiasm led him

to try and indoctrinate others with the same scientific

penchant. From personal inquiry I am led to infer

that Dalton's first meteorological observations were
6\ John Dalton.

rather more clearly set forth, by Dr Henry, who re

ports that he found among his friend's papers a small

quarto volume entitled "Philosophical      Memoirs,
begun at Kendal, 1787 ; auctore, Johanne  Dalton ; "

and that it was "loosely attached to two similar

books, which carry down the history of his inquiries to

1 801." This journal records little of interest between

June 1787 and the end of the year, except the
measurement of some hills near Kendal by means of

the barometer.   The year 1788    commences with    a
" memorandum    of the going of  two hygrometers,  or

pieces of whipcord, each being eight feet five inches

long, stretched by equal weights, and similarly

situated along an oaken post in the school, where

was no fire." These experiments are followed by a

table of times when the aurorce boreales have been

seen, together with the moon's age at the several times.

Subjoined is a letter to Miss Hudson, one of his

Eaglesfield pupils, couched in terms to imply that

Cumberland villages had young women of education

capable of grasping decimals and the use of a scientific

instrument. The letter is given in extenso, to show his
mode of rain-gauge and calculations :--

Respected  Fr1end, -- The        Kendal, 8 mo., 4th, 1788.
                           study of Nature having been with
me a predominant inclination, it is not unlikely that I should
be ready to prompt others to the same. I have been tempted

           to think that thou would take a pleasure in remarking the

\quantity of rain that falls with you each day, if thou knew with
         what facility the same is effected. I have observed here that
           people who are entirely ignorant of the matter suppose it a

            work of great labour and difficulty, and which can only be done
           by those they call great scholars. This, however, is a great

         mistake. A very little knowledge of mensuration is sufficient
                                       His Rain-Gauge.                                                    65

for the theory of and nothing but plain addition wanted in
                                7 it,                         6 it I
the practice.
                                                                            7;
   The annexed scheme will represent the most simple appara
tus A                                                                                    is
   C C:         B       a three-foot stool, to be fixed in a garden bed, &c.
                    is

A and D two posts fixed in the same
                B

about 11 or 12 inches, and support the arm

C      D, which         is           inch broad and deep

                         l\

the pipe of the funnel exactly fits the hole
in D, keeping the funnel firm and level.

The funnel may be                      6,    7,  or more inches

over and                       have an upright rim of an
       ; it it
             is
inch,           if better, but will do without it.
                      it
Also, should be painted to save from
the weather. A common glass bottle will

hold all the water that falls at any time in

24 hours, the funnel be on only orif
inches diameter except, perhaps, two or three days in the year.
                               ;
A pair of scales, with a few small weights, are requisite.

   Now, to determine the depth of water that falls on any level

surface from the above, we have the following tables made for

funnels of and inches, wherein are set down the depths,6

corresponding to the several weights, in decimal fractions. And
any person who has learned mensuration will be able to adapt
a table to any funnel, by knowing that 62^ lbs. Avoirdupois
equal cubic foot of water.
          1
                    1
                                3
    Suppose there                    6 is  caught  We1ghts.                       D1ameters of Funnels.
with a funnel of                           inches

diameter lb. oz. 5I drs.                           lb. Av.    I 2 4 8 I 2 4 8 1\  6              inches.  inches.
                                                      oz.
of water, required the depth.                                                              a     .9778     '7184
                                                          drs.
          14 1 2lib. =               '9778I                                                    E7.4889     *3592
                                     *1222                                                       '2445     .1796
              1    oz. =             'o6l                                                        *I222     '0898
                           =                                                                     *o6n      .0449
                                     'o1'53
                   drs. =                                                                        '0306     '0225
                            =        'OO38                                                       *Ol53     '01 12
                                     *OOIO                                                       "OO76     "0056
                       _                                                                         'OO38     '0028
                                                                                                 'CO19     *oo14
                               I-l8l2                         &                                  "OOIO     '0007
                                                                                                 .0005     '0004

That      is,     the depth that would have fallen on level surface

                                                                                                                   s
66 John Dalton.

will be 1 inch, I tenth, 8 hundreds, 1 thousand, and 2 ten
thousand parts of an inch.

   Suppose with a funnel of 7 inches there is caught 1 02. 7J drs.

1 oz.           =   '0449      That
                =   *o112
4 drs.          =
                =   '0056
2               =   "0028
1\                                                                                              ten
                                                            is,"0014
                                                          6
                                                                                            95
                                        hundredth,

                               hundredth or thousandth, ten

                               thousandth parts of an inch.

                    '0659

N.B. --The water supposed to be taken at stated hours, as
6, r            I
            8,
or or 10 at night.    it is

By this time apprehend the difficulty generally supposed toa I is

attend this matter removed.       should be glad thou, or any
                               I             it, if

other in your neighbourhood, on whose accuracy one might

rely, would find   agreeable and convenient to notice this

matter but, however, do not mean to request                       but only to
;

show the easiness with which   it      done. Ignorance, no doubt,

                                   's

will look upon this as trifling and childish amusement, but

few of this nature are such in a philosophical sense. If to be

able to predict the state of the weather, with tolerable precision,

by which great advantages might accrue to the husbandman,
to the mariner, and to mankind in general, be at all an object

worthy of pursuit, that person who has in any manner contributed

to attain cannot be said to have lived or to have laboured in
I

   it
                                                              is
vain.* -- am respectfully, thy friend,  JOHN DALTON.
  To Sarah Hudson,

Eaglesfield.

   Dalton's mode of making thermometers described
in the following letter to Elihu Robinson. In pre

senting these instruments to those who befriended
his early youth, he proved his gratitude for past
favours, no less than a wish to see the struggling
science of meteorology promoted by men of real

capacity and worth.

   * The caligraphy of this and the following letter nearly as perfect
                                        is
               Makes his own Thermometers.                                     67

                                            Kendal, 8 mo. 23d, 1788.
Dear COUSIN, -- Herewith thou wilt receive, I hope safely,

two thermometers with somewhat longer scales than the former ;

please to take thy choice of the three, to let John Fletcher
have the next choice, and to reserve the other till my brother

comes.

   You will probably chuse by the length of the scales ; but
those with the least bulbs will soonest come to the temperature

of the surrounding medium. However, the largest, I apprehend,

will rise or fall to within a degree of the proper place in half an
hour in the air. Thou may try whether that thou hast already

is with these two or not, by dipping the bulbs into a bason of

water for five minutes.

   Possibly the manner of making them may not be unentertain-

ing. A small receptacle being fixed on the end of the tube, a

quantity of mercury is poured into part of which runs downis it,
the tube so as to half fill the bulb, and then stops, the tube

being still filled with mercury, which unable to fall by reason

of the pressure of the air in the bulb. Then candle applied
to the bulb, which, rarefying the air contained in raises the
mercury in the tube quickly to the top, and then escapes in

bubbles through the mercury in the receptacle. This done,
                                                        a
                                                                  it it,

                                                                       is

                                                                               it

cooled again, when the internal air contracting, another
is
        is is
portion of mercury falls down into the bulb and this opera
                                                        ;

tion           repeated till all the air        expelled. Then the mer
               is
                          a

                                                    ;

                                                is
                                                    is
cury heated above boiling water, and the end of the tube

melted and closed at the same time, when, the mercury sub

siding, there  left vacuum this                         done chiefly to keep the

moisture, dust, &c, out of the tube. The whole then put
                                                        it (if
                                                                is
into boiling water, when the barometer stands at 30 inches, and

the boiling point thereby determined afterwards circumstances
                         is

                                             ;
admit) the freezing point found by putting into a mixture
of water and pounded ice, or water and snow, which, when
melting before the fire, keep at an invariable point (320) till the

whole melted. If this cannot be done, as in summer, may
      is                                                                   it

be set by another thermometer, and the scale adapted accord
ingly. N.B. -- As the freezing points of these two were not

found on account of the season,           it    will not be amiss to try
68 John Dalton.

   The principles on which they act need little explication ; as
mercury, like most other bodies, is subject to be contracted by
cold and expanded by heat ; and as the capacity of the bulb
remains always filled, the total variation of the mercury in
bulk, it is evident, will be manifested in the tube.

   The range of the thermometer is little in these parts compared
with the more northern. At Petersburgh the summer heat is
equal to ours, but in winter severe cold predominates ; the
thermometer is frequently found 40 or 60 below nothing ; and
in Siberia it has been observed even 100 or 120 below nothing.
On the contrary, in the burning sands of Africa it reaches 120
or 140 above nothing. Is not the internal principle of heat in
man and other animals a wonderful phenomenon, that can
sustain these two extremes without any sensible variation?
Remark. -- Reaumur's scale (used by the French and others)
counts from o at the freezing point to 80 at the boiling point ;
consequently 2\ degrees Fahrenheit are equal to 1 of Reaumur.

     Abstract of my Journal for the present year.

Thermometer w1thout.              Ra1n.                                      Wet Days.   Aurora

                             Inches and                                                 BoREALES.
                             Dec1mals.

       Mean. Highest Lowest

1 mo.  39'    47      20           5 6160                                    20         6

2 mo.  38-3   47      28           3 '3064                                   =3         2

3 mo.  36-8   5°      18           2-8183                                    16         4

4 mo.  463    69      32           2-9047                                    16         11

5 mo.  53'    80      38           1*1872                                    10         7

6 mo.  57 '3  80      '45          2-3137                                    7          2

7 mo.  56-8   68      47           70323                                     28         1

                  Thunder-storms.

mo., 19. 2 P.M., distant, W.
87 S
                 3-

                          "}\
                                                                          ;

                                                                     8
'' 26. 7 p.m., frequent loud peals, very near.

mo.,          6 P.M., frequent peals, some very near.

mo., 16.      P.M., distant about miles S.E., but loud and

tremendous about 20 or 30 flashes were observed in as many

minutes, and the reports of each heard through the cloud, was
but just visible above the horizon the zenith clear. -- My love

to Cousin Ruth, self, and family,                                            JOHN Dalton.
                       His Barometers.                 69

Dr Henry, who had access to a series of letters

written by Dalton to Mr Peter Crosthwaite of Keswick

in the year 1787-94, relating almost entirely to mete

orological observations made simultaneously by the

two friends at their respective stations, Kendal and

Keswick, for the purpose of comparison, informs his
readers that " Dalton supplied Mr Crosthwaite with a

barometer and thermometer of his own construction,

for which he charged the modest sums of eighteen

shillings and five shillings. It is true that the baro

meter was not a very refined instrument, for in a

letter to Mr Crosthwaite, May 24, 1788, he describes
minutely the mode of its construction. It is obvious,

that as he omits to boil or even heat the mercury

after it is poured into the tube, both air and moisture

must remain attached to the tube, and mingled with

the mercury. This imperfection he seems to have

Idiscovered, for he writes soon afterwards : ' intend

to renew mine as soon as convenient ; if thou do the

same, be careful in undoing             and attend to the
                               it,

                                              ;

                                                           it
cautions give. Be sure to rub the inside of the tube
        is I
well with warm dry cotton or wool and have the

mercury, when poured in, at least milk-warm; for

moisture      above all things else to be avoided, as

depresses the mercury far more than a particle of air

does mine as have said, at least -j^th of an inchis,
:                  I it II
                           is
too low, and yet               clear of air, and to all appear

ances dry; but doubt not but attending to these

precautions, which knew nothing of when was
filled, will raise up to its proper height.' Again,
                   it          I

in January 1793, he observes:                      it
                                        consider both our

barometers as inaccurate with respect to the distance
JO John Dalton.

provided they be true in other respects ; this only

serves to show the relative heights of the places to the
sea, which we can come at better by other means.' "

   Botany also came in for a share of his correspond

ence, and I am again indebted to Dr Henry's quota

tions from the Crosthwaite series of letters : --
   " Dalton informs Mr Crosthwaite that he had ' dried

and pressed a good many plants, and pasted them

down to sheets of white paper, and found that they

look very pretty, and attract the attention of all, both

learned and unlearned ; this has induced me to think

that a tolerable collection of them, treated in this

manner, would be a very proper object in the museum.
I cannot say what kind of recompense would be
equivalent to such a task, but think I could engage

'Ito fill a book of two quires for half-a-guinea.' He
afterwards writes, October 4, 1791:  have at

length completed the book of plants, and made an

Iindex both to the Linnaean and English names.

am not so confident in my abilities as to maintain

Ithat I have given no plant a wrong name, but

believe the skilful botanist will find very few, if any,
miscalled.' Mr Isaac Braithwaite remembers, that

once when Dalton was botanising with a companion,
' they had a narrow escape from a bull that attacked

them in a field ; Dalton saved himself by climbing
into a tree, or over the wall.' "

Dalton's classification of the Kendal flora extended

         no further than the lines of systematic botany. There

\was little more to be gained at the time, for owing to
         the neglect of the older authors, such as Malpighi,
         structural botany was little cultivated ; and till the
His Botanical Pursuits.  7.1

botany, so full of general interest, had scarcely been
heard of in England. In short, a true botany had as
yet no place among the sciences, and Dalton, like

others of his day, were busy collecting and learning
the names of plants without any clear insight into the
deeper meanings of phytology.

   His herbarium or collection of specimens of plants
around Kendal is preserved in the Public Free
Library of Manchester. According to Dr Angus
Smith, Mr T. P. Heywood of the Isle of Man has
eleven volumes of Dalton's Hortus siccus. The first
is a thick volume, containing the general title-page,
"Hortus siccus, seu Plantarum diversarum in Agris
Kendal vicinis sponte nascentium Specimina, Opere et

studio Johannis Dalton collecta, et secundum Classes et
Ordines disposita. 1790."

   With a mind ever on the alert for novelty of study

and treatment, the insect tribe came under his sur
veillance, along with botanical forms. Some of the

butterflies he caught and prepared found their way

to Mr Crosthwaite's museum at Keswick ; other speci
mens and groups of various entomological genera got

scattered among his friends, and were lost sight of
--probably owing to their imperfect preparation or

preservation.

   It would appear that Dalton was occasionally

occupied in the years 1787-89 with observations on
the changes of caterpillars, and on the power of a

vacuum or immersion in water to destroy or suspend

vitality in snails, mites, and maggots. In sending to
his correspondent, Mr Crosthwaite, specimens of

butterflies and ichneumon flies for the museum, he
   72 John Dalton.

   but nothing that enjoys animal life, or that vegetates,
   is beneath the dignity of a naturalist to examine."

      His collecting of insects, and his physiological
   experiments on mites and maggots just referred to,
   came to the ears of the public, and created some talk
   and curiosity, if not distinct disapproval. The tradi
   tions of sorcery, and the beliefs in

                         ' ' Adder's fork * and blind- worm's sting

                 For a charm of powerful trouble,"

   still slumbered along the mountain-sides, and super

   stition, in all its hydra-headed forms, lent wings to the

   imagination of the unlettered class ; so that insinua
   tions, promoted by the twisting influence of an enemy,

   might have proved damaging to John Dalton's more
                          His studious habit
   humane reputation.  the idea of his being        and         Quaker's
   garb, and probably                               an "        herbalist

   and half doctor," that attributed his snail-gathering to

   a medical purpose, saved him from the declamation of

   gossiping women.

   Inasmuch as he had a marked deficiency in the

   perception of colours, it would not be the attractive

   rainbow-coloured wings of the butterfly hanging over

   lovely roses, or the emerald coat of the beetle shining

   amid the dusky moss ; nor the beauteous world of

   light, and the radiance of colours and shapes spread
   around --
              "  In
                     air, in water, and on earth,
                 A   thousand gems were struggling  forth  "--

\  that captivated his entomological zeal. His choice
   seems rather to have been determined by a love of

              I* " Adder's wisdom have learned,

                        To fence my ears against thy sorceries."-- M1lton.
From Mites up to Man.  73

knowledge for its own sake, and a wish to embrace
the study of animated nature within his expansive
sphere of observation. These natural history pursuits

were a happy relief to his scholastic calling ; they
offered fresh fields and pastures new, correcting his

more dry-as-dust studies, and giving him higher and
healthier views of the outer world. The beetle and

the butterfly would in time be viewed by Dalton not
as individual species only to be examined per se, but

as types and illustrations of generic form ; and these
again as but minor links in the great and apparently
endless chain of organic life. Advancing onwards
from this initiative step, the larger scheme of organi
sation would force itself upon his attention, and, as
a corollary, the workings of the human machine, the
investigation of which proved a large incentive to his
study of the structure and physiology of man.

   As he had no knowledge of the anatomy or ground
work of man's physical nature, Dalton fell upon a
plan of his own to ascertain the mode of building up
and sustentation of the human frame, and the meta

morphoses which the solids and fluids of nutriment

undergo in the digestive and respiratory processes

of the economy. His method of inquiry, if crude,

rested its evidence on the application of the balance,

and so far claimed the consideration of accuracy. It

consisted in his daily weighing his own ingesta and
egesta, including, of course, the perspiration, in the
hope of discovering man's positive wants as an animal ;
the quantity of food and drink essential to healthy life ;
and the mode in which nature disposed of the excre
tory and effete matters of the body. However curious

and apparently foreign to all but the strictly pro
it,         74 John Dalton.I
   is                          it, I
            fessional class such an investigation will appear, it
           isis strongly indicative of Dalton's love'of research, and
             of the deep interest he took in the laws of vitality
I
              affecting man's constitution.
                This new experimental investigation, far from agree

              able in pursuit, usurped his attention for some time,
             and gave a new direction to his thoughts of the

          future. If the proper study of mankind be man, why

              pursue laborious teaching, that saddens the patience

            rather than improves the intellect, when the laws of

              physiology await elucidation, and the pathological

            conditions of man demand his best energies and skill

              to overcome ? Such thoughts evidently possessed

            Dalton when he wrote the following letter to Elihu

              Robinson, soliciting his opinion on a change of pro
             fession -- that of medicine being most to his mind, and

            evidently springing from the pursuits just noticed: --

                                                                      Kendal, 4 mo., %th, 1790.

                Dear Cousin, -- The occasion of my addressing thee at this
              time is a projected change of my occupation, which I have been

                meditating on for some time past, in which thy countenance or
                disapprobation cannot fail of having due weight.

                I have but one objection to my present business, which, how

                 ever, is a very material one, and a very rational one ; that is,
                 the emoluments attending it are not sufficient to support a small

            family with the decency and reputation I could wish, should it

                fall to my lot to have it to do. As to the making of a fortune
                 by that entirely out of the question. much doubt whether
                there one person in the kingdom (amongst friends, mean)
                who has, after a laborious life, reached independence by it.
                Indeed, very few people of a middling genius, or capacity for
                other business, will be found willing to undertake for the
                  obvious reason assigned above.

                      hope thou wilt not impute the above sentiments to the mo

^V
Desirous of Becoming a Doctor.                               75

declining school, as neither of these causes exist in any degree ;

they are the result of mature consideration and unbiassed

judgment

   Thou wilt next expect I should signify what way my inclina
tion has led me, as I may now be presumed capable of judging

for myself, after having reviewed the vast variety of trades, arts,

sciences, and professions with which the country abounds.

Though I doubt not but my inclination would yet adapt itself

to any business that promised to be of advantage, yet it seems

most natural to turn to such wherein literary or scientific

knowledge is requisite, as my pursuits and acquisitions hitherto

have been chiefly of this nature. At the head of these stand

law and physic. Whether of these professions would be more

likely for me tojmake a livelihood, or whether would require

more time and expense to attain, I cannot tell ; but, interest
being set aside, I should much prefer the latter.

The great objections are the expense at first, and the uncer

tainty of getting business afterward ; but these, though great,

I think, are not insurmountable. To qualify for a physician,

three winters' study at Edinburgh will be indispensable ; the

board for six months may perhaps be had^for ^10 or ^15, and
the college fees will be about 12 guineas each season : the two

intermediate summers may be employed in some sort of business,

which will render the plan as frugal as possible. Now, putting
the case at the worst, that I spend most or all of my effects in

this scheme, and cannot succeed at last, I may then return to

my present employ, as places are frequently vacant nearly as

profitable as this.

Upon the whole the plan does not appear to me chimerical,
and I should be glad to know thy sentiments upon
                                                      I it,  at or

before the time of the ensuing meeting at Lancaster.         have

not yet acquainted friends here with it. Please also to inform

us how and where my mother is. Our quarterly meeting on
                                                             is

the 18 and 19 instant.                  I  might add some
   Were disposed to amuse thee a little,
I
     I
         I
experiments have lately made to determine the quantity of

matter discharged from the body daily by insensible perspira

tion, &c, which made for two weeks successively and other
                                           ;
    j6 John Dalton.

    past with good success ; but further of these some other oppor

    tunity.
    I hope this will find you all well, as it leaves us, and am thy

    affectionate cousin,                         JOHN Dalton.

    To El1hu Rob1nson,

             Eaglesfield,

             near Cockermouth.

    Mr Robinson's reply intimated his wish to see

    Dalton continue in his own groove of schoolmaster,
    as being suited to his talents, which would " not only

    shine, but be really useful in that noble labour of

    teaching youth." Lest he should run counter to any
    settled opinions of his friend, he continues : " Now,

    after using so much freedom, I may own, I doubt not

    but thy genius, unshaken perseverance, and steady

    application may gain a competent knowledge in any

    profession, and I am far from thinking that of physic

    would be a misconstruction or misapplication of thy

    talents, parts, or genius. So I much desire thou

    mayest be guided by best wisdom in all thy pursuits."

    He also consulted his uncle, Thomas Greenup, then

    in London, on the subject, and cannot be said to have

    obtained much encouragement.                 Thus wrote Mr
    Greenup : " As to the two professions of law and
    physic, if thou wishest to be at the head of one of
    ... Ifthose professions --that to be at the bar or to be a

    physician -- think they are both totally out of the
    reach of person in thy circumstances.
             it a I
                                            is,
                                            a
    thou art tired of being teacher, and wishest to

    change for some more lucrative or agreeable em

    ployment, and couldst be content, instead of becoming

    a physician or barrister, to move in the humbler

"v
A Quaker Court of Arbitration.                                                 77

perhaps, be able, with a little capital and great init
dustry, to establish thyself in one of these."
                                                                          it,
   Here it becomes necessary to notice a family dis
pute of the brothers Dalton, arising out of their
father's will, where John, the younger son, was the

complainant. Joseph Dalton died in 1787, leaving a

widow, an only daughter, and two sons. In the dis

posal of his affairs he seems to have laboured under

the belief that the property which came to him on

his brother Jonathan's death was an entail of their
father's, and that he could not meddle with and

that must necessarily fall to his oldest son, Jonathan.

John Dalton, on the other hand, felt sure that his

father wished to make no distinction between his two

sons, and argued for a more equal distribution of his
father's effects. John did not think of applying to a
court of law--there, indeed, he would have been non
suited --but, in the spirit of George Fox and what may

be termed a high moral equity, solicited the mediation
of the Friends' monthly meeting on his behalf. This

mode of procedure cannot fail to strike the reader as
a denominational novelty of startling kind, and so

   is. And though seldom brought to bear upon tes
tamentary matters, such a court of arbitration, con
sisting of two or more members -- the chiefs and
elders of Quakerism -- a happy exemplification
of their peaceful attitude as religious body, and their
laudable wish not only to avoid the meshes of the

law, but so to counsel the brethren that they may

live in amity and peace. In the instance before us

the good purposes of the arbitration, however the
decision was made, was best demonstrated in the fact
it

                                            is
                                                a

                                                         a
78 John Dalton.

affection --a circumstance but rarely seen after the
antagonisms and conflict of a lawsuit involving the
rights of property, and too often a man's personal

status.

   John Dalton's statement of the case in the affair
betwixt his brother and self is set forth in the follow
ing articles ; his arguments in support of these will be
given in extenso in the Appendix, so as not to disturb
the general narrative :--

   "Article 1st. That my father, in apportioning the

paternal inheritance to us, has made a vastly great
and unusual distinction betwixt my brother and self.

   " Article 2nd. That he would have placed his chil

dren upon a more equitable footing if he had appre

hended it was in his power to do so with reputation

to himself.

   "Article 3rd. That it was in his power to dispose
of the whole of his property according as he should
think best ; but from a great deficiency in the know
ledge of the law, and from a want of advice suited to
the exigencies of his situation at the time he made

his will, he has not availed himself of his power.

  I"Article 4th. That upon these considerations

think myself entitled to something more out of the

paternal inheritance than I have yet received."
  A body of Protestant Dissenters in the year 1786

established a New College at Manchester. This edu

cational institution seems to have arisen out of the

Warrington Academy for Dissenters, where Dr Joseph
Priestley taught, as well as Dr Aikin, father of Mrs
Barbauld; Dr Enfield, author of "The Speaker;" and
Gilbert Wakefield. Dr Barnes, the principal of the
Adieu to Kendal.                                    79

mathematical and natural philosophy course, applied

to Mr Gough of Kendal, who recommended John
Dalton to the situation --vacant in 1793. The terms
proposed and accepted by Dalton were that he

should receive three guineas per session from each

student attending his lectures, with the proviso that

the total remuneration of the year should not fall
                    session often months. " Commons
below £8o for each    college " were allotted him at
and rooms in the

£27, 10s. per session, which being deducted from

the probable and stipulated sum of .£80, would leave

him fifty guineas clear money for his year's work.

Thus after twelve years' residence in Kendal, where

he had laid part of the foundation of his future emi

nence, he moved to Manchester, carrying with him

the revised proofs of his "Meteorological Essays,"

credentials of high promise for the future. There he
continued to live for the remainder of his life. His

first six years were engaged in the New College ;

afterwards he acted as a private teacher of youth,

and may be said to have devoted every available hour
                      CHAPTER V.

                  " The whispering air

Sends inspiration from her shadowy heights

And blind recesses of the caverned rocks." --Wordsworth.

NEW COLLEGE OF        "M--ANTCHHEESTAETRM--OS"PHMEERTEEO--REOVLAOPGOICRAALTIOENSS--AYASUROANRDA
        OBSERVATIONS
BOREALIS --JOINS THE LITERARY AND PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
OF MANCHESTER -- CORRESPONDENCE.

           j|N establishing the New College of Manches
                 ter, the promoters made a worthy effort
                to meet the growing wants of the Non

                  conformists, then, and long afterwards,

denied access to the reputed "great seminaries of
learning"--Oxford and Cambridge. Its formation

marked the footing and laudable expectations of the
followers of George Fox, the Wesleys, and that small

and highly intellectual band who looked to John
Milton and Sir Isaac Newton as their religious anti
types ; and who, in the middle of the last century,
had a noble advocate in Dr Joseph Priestley --himself

a worker in the Warrington Academy, the head

quarters of advanced opinion in politics and religion,
and the foster-parent of the Manchester Institution.

As a college it pertained to the progressive in art and
science, and the embodiment of instruction suited to

the purposes of English life ; it sought for independent

habits and culture, and a sounder enlightenment than
Unitarian and Quaker Philosophers.     81

of knowledge in the torn and tattered garments of an
antiquated scholasticism. No more fitting place for

such an institution could have been found than cen
tral Manchester, where the discoveries of Arkwright
and Crompton were daily in force to convert a staple
produce of the New World to the material advantage

of the Old, and the general interest of commerce and

civilisation ; and where the leading citizens were
guided by the spirit of enterprise and the ennobling
march of education. Moreover, the ranks of science,

and not less the religious sects that held aloof from

State Churches, were growing in numbers and merit ;

for who could claim higher distinction in the annals

of British or even Continental science than Dr Priest
ley, Dr Thomas Young,* and John Dalton? Yet

the former as a Unitarian, and the two latter as

Quakers, were as much excluded from the privileges

of Oxford and Cambridge as if they had been aliens

in race, and paganish in principles. The New College

served an essentially good purpose claiming special
attention in these pages ; it helped to foster the bent
and genius of John Dalton when his mind, buoyant
in freshness and vigour, was looking up from elemen
tary teaching to the higher domain of physics and
chemistry for its more energetic display.

   The materials from which Dalton constructed his
" Meteorological Essays and Observations " were

obtained at Kendal, indeed written and printed there,

  * Professor Tyndall, in his lectures " on light" to the people of the

United States, nobly vindicated the high claims of that truly great

and sagacious philosopher, Dr Thomas Young; and deserves the
thanks of all men for exposing the foul and unwarranted attack made
on the modest Quaker by Lord Brougham in the Edinburgh Review,

                                    F
82 John Dalton.

but published at Manchester in September     1793.
                                             been
A second edition was issued in 1834. It has

justly inferred that his birthplace on the uplands, and

his residence up to the age of twenty-six years amid

the lakes and mountains of Cumberland, made him

familiar with the ever-varying conditions of the atmos
phere -- the deposition of vapour on the colder sum
mits in the form of cloud, and its breaking up and

disappearance when drifted into the warmer valleys.

In endeavouring to account for these phenomena, he

was led to those meteorological inquiries with which

his name is now historically associated. The example

of Elihu Robinson at Eaglesfield may have furnished

him with a taste for the pursuit, and the encourage

ment of Mr Gough at Kendal gave it a wholesome

direction.

   Seeing the advantages of Mr Gough's meteorolo

gical journal, he would observe for himself; and the

proximate stimulus to his meteorological fervour

arose from the appearance of a grand aurora borealis

on  "MOabrscehrv2a4t,ion1s787o.n   The first entry in his record
                                  the Weather," &c., was on the
of
same day : " In the evening, soon after sunset, there

appeared a remarkable aurora borealis, the sky being

generally clear and the moon shining ; it spread over
above one-half of the hemisphere, appeared very

vivid, and had a quick vibratory motion; about eight

the heavens were overcast, and the aurora almost

disappeared. N.B. -- Three nights before, a similar

aurora appeared with rather a brisk wind, and the

day following windy and stormy."

    This kind of general observations on the weather
Meteorological Essays.  83

tabulated form, the indications of the thermometer,
barometer, and hygroscope, all of his own construction,

a"nTdhewhbicahromareeterdeisscrigbreadduaintedtheinftoolloswixitnegenstehnsteoncf easn:

inch. The thermometer is mercurial, with Fahren

heit's scale, exposed to the open air, but free from
the sun. The hygroscope* is about six yards of
whipcord suspended from a nail, with a small weight
to stretch it ; its scale, length of inches, beginning

from no certain point -- the less the number, the

shorter the string and the greater the moisture."

   Dr Henry possessed two volumes of this journal,

comprising the years 1787-93 in Kendal, and 1793-
1803 in Manchester; and it is affirmed that he con
tinued his records with unbroken sequence to the

last day of his life.

   As every fact pertaining to the aurora borealis

observed by Dalton in his early attempts to unravel
its character is interesting, it is well to note here that

in June 1788, about a year subsequent to his com
mencing his meteorological journal, he writes to Mr
Crosthwaite that he had " added a fresh column
relative to the tides of the air. What gave rise to this
was a supposition that these tides may possibly give
birth to some of the more minute changes in the

weather; or that they may have some influence on

the aurora borealis, a phenomenon which has baffled

the sagacity of the last and present age to account

for in a satisfactory manner."
   Afterwards, in February 1793, he tells his corre

   * This simplest of all modes of determining the volume of vapour in
the atmosphere was thrown aside by Dalton when he became acquainted
84 John Dalton.

spondent I: " am engaged at present in observing the

daily variation of the needle by an excellent compass.
The aurora borealis disturbs the needle pretty much,
perhaps half a degree or more, during its action in the
air. This was first discovered by an Italian philo

sopher ; but I have discovered a further connection

betwixt these two so apparently different phenomena
of the aurora borealis and magnetism. Instead of
observing in future to what point the beams of light

converge, observe at what point of the compass the

beams rise directly upwards, or perpendicular to the

horizon."

  Again, in April of the same year, he writes to Mr
Crosthwaite : " It will be unnecessary to remark my

very high satisfaction with thy observations on the

Iaurora. I think no one could have done better.

should wish to know whether the observation of the

altitude was repeated or only taken once. Upon re
viewing my observations, I find the altitude here was

53;° thine was 480; the difference, 50, gives the height

about 150 miles. I think the true altitude here would

not be 2° over or under ; probably there the altitude
would be within 2° of 480 also. The height of this arc
must therefore be very great, and much higher than the

atmosphere has usually been supposed. I should like

to have at some opportunity the notes thou hast made

upon the other aurora this winter, and then I think

thou may desist from so watchful and particular care
of these phenomena, as we shall hardly have another
opportunity so fine as that above, of determining

their height."
   His first notion in publishing these essays was to

explain the nature of the barometer, thermometer,
           Meteorological Essays.  85

and other meteorological instruments ; * and then to
offer a few practical rules for judging of the weather,
deduced from his own experience ; but as his obser
vations led him to discover the relation of the aurora

borealis   to magnetism,    he was prompted to extend
his plan,   and to address   " a pretty large dissertation

more peculiarly to philosophers." In the first part of

his volume he described the Barometer, Thermometer,

Hygrometer, and Rain-gauges; and under each of these

headings offered an epitome of his own observations

made at Kendal, also those equally accurate of his
friend Mr P. Crosthwaite of Keswick, over a period
of five years -- 1788 to 1793 ; and, as far as related to
the barometer and rainfall, the results of three years'

observation made in London, and reported in the

Philosophical Transactions. In other sections, also

in the first part of his work, he records the height of
the clouds, the thunder-storms, hail-showers, winds,
frost, snow, &c., observed at Kendal and Keswick ; and

gives special attention to the number and character

of the aurorae boreales, seen by himself and friend in
their respective localities, from May 1786 to May 1793.

   In the preface he leads you to infer that he had not
" a superabundant assistance from books " in pro

viding and digesting the matter contained in his
volume, and therefore seeks the credit of resting his

opinions on an attentive consideration of facts. A

highly laudable claim, it must be conceded, yet not

without its drawbacks to the student zealous to be

made partaker of the history of the subject, as well as

  * Meteorological Observations and Essays. By John Dalton. 8vo.
London : Baldwin & Cradock. My quotations are from the second
86 John Dalton.

the special services rendered by the last competitor
in the field of discovery.

   Dalton's innate originality of method made him less
prone to review the labours of those who had gone
before him than was consistent with the position of a
man who, inter alia, was not reticent as to his claims for
novelty of research ; and this occasionally placed him

in a slightly equivocal attitude qua his contemporaries
and his predecessors. Thus in 1793, after printing
off his essay, he found that his theory of the trade-
winds had been explained by George Hadley, F.R.S.,
in the Philosophical Transactions for 1735. Again,
his more complete essay on the aurora borealis, one
which he had no doubt would " attract the attention
of philosophers," had been greatly anticipated by the

learned Dr Halley, who formed a hypothesis to
account for this curious atmospheric phenomenon by
magnetism. It is of paramount import to those who

seek to enlighten the world, to trace the historical
development of their science, not less as a bene

ficial prelude and exercise to their own efforts, than

as affording a groundwork to the clear understanding
of the subject, and the exposition of their claims to

discovery. Dalton's indifference to the labours of

others was at times more apparent than real, and owed
much, particularly in the investigations he made at
Kendal, to his not having had access to a library
of any great value ; at the same time, it must be
admitted that it more frequently sprang from his
own solid force of mind, and the high privilege he
possessed of being able to mark, learn, and with
equal facility interpret the phenomena of nature
for himself. When he came to the knowledge
The A urora Borealis.  87

of having been forestalled in his researches, as in
the instance of De Luc's observations on the varia
tions of the barometer, he, with due acknowledg
ment of the fact, had the satisfaction of stating that

it was "a favourable circumstance to any theory

when it is deduced from a consideration of facts by
two persons independently of each other."

    He gives a list of the aurorae boreales observed at
Kendal and Keswick, eighteen miles distant, for seven
years (May 1786 to May 1793), and seems to have
been specially struck with the appearance of the aurora
seen at Kendal on October 13, 1792, where a large
luminous horizontal arch to the southward, with one or

more faint concentric arches northward, was noticed ;
and all the arches exactly bisected by the plane

of the magnetic meridian. His description of this

southern light ending in the whole atmosphere being
covered with streamers, rises in eloquence with the
grandeur of the panorama presented to his notice :
" The intensity of the light, the prodigious number
and volatility of the beams, the grand admixture of
all the prismatic colours* in their utmost splendour

variegating the glowing canopy with the most luxuriant

and enchanting scenery, affording an awful, but at the

same time the most pleasing and sublime spectacle
in nature. Everybody gazed with astonishment ; but
the uncommon grandeur of the scene only lasted
about one minute; the variety of colours disappeared,

and the beams lost their lateral motion, and were

converted, as usual, into the flashing radiations ; but

   * This glowing description from Dalton's pen is difficult to reconcile
with his well-known visual defect regarding the colour of objects -- to
88 John Dalton.

even then it surpassed all other appearances of the

aurora, in that the whole hemisphere was covered with

it" (Essay, p. 64).
   He discusses the "constitution, figure, height, &c,

of the atmosphere ; and on the subject of winds
remarks (p. 83), " The inequality of heat in the dif

ferent climates and places, and the earth's rotation on

its axis, appear to me the grand and chief causes of

all winds, both regular and irregular ; in comparison

with which all the  rest are trifling and        Binasriogmniefticear,nt"."is
   His essay, " On  the Variation of the

carefully drawn up, as the following quotation shows :

it,It appears from the observations (recorded in page 1 5 of the
    isEssays) that the mean state of the barometer is rather lower
                                             isthan higher in winter than in summer, though a stratum of air
on the earth's surface always weighs more in the former season
;
than in the latter ; from which facts we must unavoidably infer

that the height of the atmosphere, or at least of the gross parts
of less in winter than in summer, conformable to the table,

p. 80. There are more reasons than one to conclude that the
annual variation in the height of the atmosphere, over the
temperate and frigid zones, gradual, and depends in a great

measure on the mean temperature at the earth's surface below,

for clouds are never observed to be above four or five miles

high, on which account the clear air above can receive little or
no heat but from the subjacent regions of the atmosphere,
which we know are influenced by the mean temperature of the
earth's surface also, in this respect, the change of temperature
in the upper parts of the atmosphere must in some degree be
conformable to that of the earth below, which we find by
experience increases and decreases gradually each year, at any
moderate depth, according to the temperature of the seasons.

    Now, with respect to the fluctuations of the barometer, which
are sometimes very great in twenty-four hours, and often from
one extreme to the other in a week or ten days, must be
                                                 it
Fluctuations of the Barometer.                           89

country varies according to the barometer, or otherwise that the
height is little affected therewith, and that the whole or greatest
part of the variation is occasioned by a change in the density

of the lower regions of the air. It is very improbable that the
height of the atmosphere should be subject to such fluctuations,
or that it should be regulated in any other manner than by the

weekly or monthly mean temperature of the lower regions ;

because the mean weight of the air is so nearly the same in all
the seasons of the year ; which could not be if the atmosphere

was as high and dense above the summits of the mountains in
winter as it is in summer. However, the decision of this

question need not rest on probability ; there are facts which
sufficiently prove that the fluctuation of density in the lower

regions has the chief effect on the barometer, and that the
higher regions are not subject to proportionable mutations in

density. In the " Memoirs of the Royal Academy," at Paris,
for 1709, there is a comparison of observations upon the baro

meter at different places, and, amongst others, at Zurich, in

Switzerland, in lat. 47° N., and at Marseilles, in France, lat.
43° 15' N. ; the former place is more than 400 yards above the

level of the sea. It was found that the annual range of the

barometer was the same at each place ; viz., about ten lines ;

whilst at Genoa, in latitude 44° 25' N., the range was 12 lines,
or 1 inch ; and at Paris, latitude 48° 50' N., it was about 1 inch

4 lines. In the same Memoir it is related that F. Lavel made

observations, for ten days together, upon the top of St Pilon, a

mountain near Marseilles, which was 960 yards high, and found

jthat when the barometer varied 2| lines at Marseilles, it varied

but 1 upon St Pilon. Now, had it been a law that the whole

atmosphere rises and falls with the barometer, the fluctuations
in any elevated barometer would be to those of another baro

meter below nearly as the absolute heights of the mercurial
columns in each, which in these instances were far from being

so. Hence, then, may be inferred that the fluctuations of

the barometer are occasioned chiefly by variation in the
density of the lower regions of the air, and not by an alternate
elevation and depression of the whole superincumbent atmos
phere. How we conceive this fluctuation in the density of the
it,
          it
                                                      a

                                                                     S
90 John Dalton.

facts, relative to the variations of the barometer, may  be

accounted for, is what we shall now attempt to explain.
   This is referred to the varying amount of vapour.

If dependent on others for his remarks "on the

Temperature of different Climates and Seasons," he

is more at home on evaporation, rain, hail, snow, and

dew. After advancing a series of experiments made

in order to ascertain what pressure upon the surface

of water is requisite to make it boil at a given tem

perature, it appeared to him "that evaporation and

the condensation of vapour are not the effects of

chemical affinities, but that aqueous vapour always

exists as a fluid, sui generis, diffused among the rest of

the aerial fluids " (pp. 127, 128) ; and on the following

page, "that it may be determined a priori what

weight of vapour a given bulk of dry air will admit

of, for any temperature, provided the specific gravity

of the vapour be given." This was breaking fresh

ground ; and as his opinions became a matter of public

discussion, he continued his experiments, and at p.

I1 88 more clearly defines his views by saying, "

am confirmed in the opinion that the vapour of water
{and probably of most other fluids) exists at all times
in the atmosphere, and is capable of bearing any known
degree of cold without a total condensation, and that
the vapour so existing is one and the same thing with

steam  ,  or vapour of the temperature of 2  1 2° or upwards?
                                              " Hence, then,
After     further illustration he writes,

we ought to conclude, till the contrary can be proved,

that the condensation of vapour exposed to the common
air, does not in any manner depend upon the pressure of
the air" (p. 189). To revert for a moment to p. 135,
New Views on the Aurora Borealis.  91

water is mixed with the air and not combined, he

explains how the precipitation takes place ; the mul

titude of exceedingly small drops forming a cloud,

mist, or fog, descending very slowly, compared to
clouds with heavy drops, as the resistance of the

drops is as the square of the diameter --a fact cited
by Dr Smith to show how Dalton's mathematical

knowledge helped his meteorology.

   His eighth essay, "On the Aurora Borealis," is much
elaborated. In introducing it he writes, " As this

essay contains an original discovery which seems to
open a new field of inquiry in philosophy, or rather,
perhaps, to extend the bounds of one that has been,
as yet, but just opened, it may not, perhaps, be unac
ceptable to many readers to state briefly the train of

circumstances which led the author to the important
conclusions contained in the following pages." This

declaration ought to induce a careful examination of
his views, some of which are undoubtedly original,
and should become historical, though it must be
admitted that in this department of physics Dalton

has not hitherto had full justice meted out to him
either at home or abroad. Some of his observations

had been anticipated, notably that of the aurora in
relation to magnetism, by Dr Halley ; but his reason

ings on the subject went much beyond his learned
predecessor. His views as to the luminous beams

being straight and parallel to each other, and nearly

perpendicular to the horizon, and probably cylindrical,
were also forestalled by Henry Cavendish [Phil.
Trans, for 1790). This historical reference, however,
in no way detracts from Dalton's character as an

original observer, who had ever shown himself cap
92 John Dalton.

able of the keenest discrimination and power of

generalisation to elucidate not a few of the most

obscure of natural phenomena.

   The grand aurora seen on the 13th October 1792,
led him to the discovery of the relation betwixt the

phenomenon and the earth's magnetism. He writes :
"When the theodolite was adjusted without doors,

and the needle at rest, it was next to impossible not

to notice the exactitude with which the needle pointed

to the middle of the northern concentric arches ; soon

after, the grand dome being formed, it was divided so

evidently into two similar parts by the plane of the

magnetic meridian, that the circumstances seemed ex

tremely improbable to be fortuitous ; and a line drawn

to the vertex of the dome being in direction of the

dipping needle, it followed, from what had been done

before, that the luminous beams at that time were all

parallel to the dipping needle: that the beams were

guided, not by gravity, but by the earth's magnetism*

and the disturbance of the needle that had been here

tofore observed, during the time of an aurora, seemed
to put the conclusion past doubt " (pp. 147, 148).

   His chapter on the theory of the aurora borealis

shows a greater tendency to undue hypothesis than

generally marks Dalton's views, and it is to be

regretted that the opinions which he hazarded in

1793, in the inchoate stages of meteorology, when

cruder materials existed and more daring theories

\ * The able researches of Ampere                   oHnumtebrroelsdttriaflrommaghnies ti"smTheaonride  the
              electro-dynamic forces (as quoted by
                                                                                                       ties

Phenomena Eleclro-dynamiques" 1826, p. 199) ; and the brilliant dis
covery made by our own Faraday of the evolution of light by magnetic
forces, gave an empirical certainty to the correctness of Dr Halley's

bold conjecture in 1735, and Dalton's more assured view of the aurora
Is the Light of the Aurora Electric ?       93

were admissible, should have found place in his work

issued at so late a date as 1834, long after the

researches of Arago, Humboldt, Farquharson, and

not a few of his own countrymen, had thrown new

light on the subject, more or less invalidating his

earlier prognostications. Dalton considered it "almost

beyond doubt that the light of the aurora borealis, as

well as that of falling stars and the larger meteors, is

electric light solely, and that there is nothing of com

bustion in   any of these   phenomena"      (p. 168). He
continues :                 elastic fluids
             " Air and all                   are reckoned

amongst the non-conductors of electricity. There

seems, however, a difference amongst them in this

respect, dry air is known to conduct more than moist

air, or air saturated with vapour. Thunder usually

takes place in summer, and at such times as the air

is highly charged with vapour ; when it happens in

winter, the barometer is low, and, consequently, ac

cording to our theory of the variation of the barometer,

there is then much vapourised air ; from all which it

seems probable that air highly vapourised becomes an

imperfect conductor, and, of course, a discharge made

along a stratum of it will exhibit light, which I sup

pose to be the general cause of thunder and lightning."

He inferred from the observations collated at

Kendal and Keswick, that the appearance of the

aurora borealis is a prognostication of fair weather ;

that the aurora is more frequently followed by fair

weather in summer than in winter.

After some general rules and observations for judg

ing of the weather, Dalton furnished an appendix

containing additional notes on different parts of the
is,94 John Dalton.

information, consisting mainly of the results of his
own observations compared with other workers in the
same field. The last chapter is " On the Height of
the Aurora Borealis," in which he regrets, " to the no
small discredit of meteorology, that there are, at this
day, some persons who hold the height of the aurora

to be 1ooo miles, others who hold that 1ooo feet may
be nearer the truth."

    His earlier observations led him to infer that the
height of the rainbow--like arches of the aurora above
the earth's surface --was about 150 English miles.
The altitude of the remarkable aurora seen on March

29, 1826, he viewed as from 100 to no miles above

the earth ; and to the latest period of his life was not

disposed to yield to the larger and more correct
experience of others, especially the Arctic observers.

The Rev. Mr Farquharson, from full observation of

the same aurora that Dalton saw in 1826, believed
that there were several nearly vertical fringes of the
said aurora hanging over many lines from Edinburgh

to Warrington, at a few thousand feet above the
surface of the earth. The experience of that glorious
band of men, Captain (afterwards Sir John) Franklin,
Sir E. Parry, Dr Richardson, &c., derived from several
hundred appearances of the aurora borealis in the
Arctic regions, 1819-22, &c., seemed to determine
that the height of the aurora, instead of being, as
supposed by Dalton and others, beyond the region of
the atmosphere, in fact, rarely above six or seven
miles, or not higher than the region of the clouds.
This seemed proved by angles taken in the same

moment at two distant places, always exceedingly
             Height of the Aurora Borealis.  95

with which a beam darts from one side of the horizon

to the opposite side, which could not happen if a

hundred miles high, or upwards ; by its frequently

darting its beams beneath the clouds, and at very short

distances from the earth's surface, and by its being

acted upon by the wind.
   Dalton was apt to be tenacious of his own opinions;

and as the investigation of the aurora borealis had

been a pet and original subject in his earlier scientific

days, he fought hard for his measurements of the

altitude ; and did not much relish the publication of

Mr Farquharson's paper as stamped with British
authority. Thus in a letter he addressed to Dr

"IFaraday (Sept. 3, 1840), he makes the following
comment:     observe the Council have voted the

Rev. Mr Farquharson's paper as fit for publication in

the second   part, 1839. The   height of   the aurora was
1897 yards,   or rather above  one mile ;
                                           I calculated it

100 to 160 miles (1828) ; Mr Cavendish, 52 to 70 miles
(1790); Robert Were Fox, 1000 miles (183 1). Surely

this would be an interesting phenomenon to the

British Association, whether its height was 1 mile or

100 miles."

   Much distrust has been expressed regarding the
modes of determining the height of the aurora borealis ;
so that Humboldt and Arago might be justified in

expressing that every observer sees his own aurora,

and no two men the same ; the former adding that this
may arise from the phenomenon of "the effusion of light

being generated by a large portion of the earth at once."
The Arctic voyagers had the best chance of determin

ing this knotty point, and much confidence may well
96 John Dalton.

to contravene the measurements of Dalton. Colonel

Sabine, one of the noble Arctic band, had no doubt

as to the aurora occasionally resting on the surface of

the sea or land ; and records an instance which fell
under his own observation in Skye, of an aurora, of

similar character to those described by Mr Farquhar-
son, " low in the atmosphere, having during the day

the appearance of a thin mist, permitting the forms of

the hills, and the irregularities of the surface of the

ground, to be distinctly visible through                            and at
            3,

                            it

                                                           it,
night becoming luminous with auroral streamers

proceeding from it."

On October  1794, John Dalton appeared as a

member of the Literary and Philosophical Society of

Manchester; a society, be remembered, that has

done good service to the cause of literature and

science, not only in the manufacturing districts of

Lancashire, but throughout the whole of Northern

England and on the 31st of the same month made
;

                                             a
his scientific debut by reading                 paper entitled
" Extraordinary Facts relating to the Vision of
Colours." * Nothing could be more auspicious of the

rise of the young philosopher than this first appear

ance before a learned society, to whom he com

municated an important discovery, arising oddly
enough from a personal imperfection --a discovery

fraught with interest in scientific point of view, and
                      a

                                                                 ;
not without material bearing on man's non-adaptation

to certain callings, trades, or professions. This essay

well deserves another chapter.

   His residence and engagements in the "New
College" or "Academy" of Manchester; his mode

of life, philosophical tendencies and work his social
      The Manchester Academy.     97

and intellectual relations, are touched upon in the
following letter, addressed to Elihu Robinson of

Eaglesfield. It also recalls Manchester of eighty

years ago, the old watchmen of the night proclaiming
the hour on their different beats, and the condition of
the sky, for the benefit of the sleeping lieges :--

Dear  Cous1n, --Amidst  an  Manchester, 2 mo., 20th, 1794.   --
                             increasing variety of pursuits

amidst the abstruse and multifarious speculations resulting from

my profession, together with frequent engagements to new friends

and acquaintance, shall I find a vacant hour to inform thee
where I am, and what I am doing ? Yes ; certainly one hour

out of sixteen some day may be spared for the purpose.

  I need not inform thee that Manchester was a large and

flourishing place. Our academy is a large and elegant building,
in the most elegant and retired street of the place ; it consists of a

front and two wings ; the first floor of the front is the hall, where

most of the business is done ; .over it is a library, with about 3000
volumes ; over this are two rooms, one of which is mine ; it is

about eight yards by six, and above three high, has two windows

and a fire-place ; is handsomely papered, light, airy, and
retired; whether it is that philosophers like to approach as

near to the stars as they can, or that they choose to soar above

the vulgar, into a purer region of the atmosphere, I know not ;

but my apartment is full ten yards above the surface of the
earth. One of the wings is occupied by Dr Barnes' family ; he
is one of the tutors, and superintendent of the seminary ; the

other is occupied by a family who manage the boarding, and

seventeen in-students with two tutors, each individual having a

separate room, &c. Our out-students from the town and

neighbourhood at present amount to nine, which is as great a

number as has been since the institution ; they are of all

religious professions ; one Friend's (Quaker) son from the

town has entered since I came. The tutors are all Dissenters.

Terms for in-students, 40 guineas per session (10 months) ;
out-students, 12 guineas. Two tutors and the in-students all

dine, &c., together in a room on purpose ; we breakfast on              f

tea at 8£, dine at 1 J, drink tea at 5, and sup at 8£ ; we fare as
well as it is possible for any one to do. At a small extra

expense we can have any friend to dine with us in our respective

rooms. My official department of tutor only requires my

                               G
98 John Dalton.

attendance upon the students 2 1 hours in the week ; but I find

it often expedient to prepare my lectures previously.

There is in this town a large library, furnished with the best

books in every art, science, and language, which is open to all,

gratis ; when thou art apprised of this and such like circum
stances, thou considerest me in my private apartments,

undisturbed, having a good fire, and a philosophical apparatus

around me, thou wilt be able to form an opinion whether I spend

my time in slothful inactivity of body and mind. The watch
word for my retiring to rest, is "past -- 12 o'clock --cloudy

morning."

  Now that I have mentioned clouds, it leads me to observe
that I continue my meteorological journal, have two rain-gauges

about a mile off, at a friend's house ; one gauge is in the garden,

and the other upon the flat roof of his house, 10 yards higher

than the former. I find that the lower gauge catches 12 parts of
rain for the upper 11. From my correspondence with my

brother, it appears they have had about twice the rain we

have. I hope my friends there are not altogether disappointed

with my essays ; please to make the following correction, and
intimate it occasionally to such as have them. Page 37 --total
rain at Kendal 1790, should be 62.363, and for 1791, 66.200.

   Among my late experiments, have had some on the artificial

production of cold, but have not been able to freeze quicksilver.

I find that two parts of snow and one of common salt, mixed
and stirred, produce a cold regularly of-- 7° or 7° below O. I

have sunk the thermometer below O, in a common wine glass,

half filled with the mixture.

   There is    a  very considerable     body of    Fmrieenetdinsgs.(QuaI khearvs)e
here ; near  200  attend our first-day   (Sunday)

received particular civility from most of them, and am often at a
loss where to drink tea on a first-day afternoon, being pressed

on so many hands. One first-day lately, I took a walk in

company with another to Stockport ; there are but few Friends

there, but the most elegant little meeting-house that can be con

ceived ; the walls and ceiling perfectly white ; the wainscot,
seats, gallery, &c., all white as possible ; the gallery rail turned

off at each end in a fine serpentine form ; a white chandelier ;

the floor as smooth as a mahogany table, and covered with a

light red sand ; the house well lighted, and in as neat order as
possible ; it stands upon a hill ; in short, in a fine sunny day
it is too brilliant an object to be attended, by a stranger at
                                                   John Dalton.
least, with the composure required.
        CHAPTER VI.

ON dalton's colour-bl1ndness.

" Oculus advitam nihil facit, advitam beatam nihil magis."-- Seneca.

        Or,

"  The  eye, no servitor of duty,
   But  minister of all life's beauty.
                                        "

          JOHN DALTON, passing a shop-window in

                Kendal, saw a pair of stockings prominently
               marked --"Silk, and newest fashion," and

                 having examined their texture, bought
them as a fitting present for his mother, whom he knew
to be acquainted only with knit yarn and home-made
sorts. On his next visit to Eaglesfield, the com
pliment of the stockings was duly made, and elicited

the following exclamation from Dame Deborah :--
" Thou hast brought me a pair of grand hose, John,

but what made thee fancy such a bright colour ?

What, I can never show myself at meeting in them ! "

John was disconcerted by the maternal comments, as
the colour of the said stockings appeared to his eyes a
bluish dark drab, and quakerish enough in all verity.
" They 're as red as a cherry, John ! " But John

could not see this, nor could brother Jonathan, who
was also present; so there were two to one in the
dispute, and poor Deborah left in the minority.
1oo John Dalton.
whose verdict was " varra fine stuff, but uncommon

scarlety."

   As John believed in his young eyes rather than

his mother's spectacled ones, the ambiguous reception
of the cardinal-coloured hose dropped out of view, and
apparently claimed no further consideration from him

till the summer of 1793* It will at once strike the

reader as strange, that a teacher of youth, and a man
of ability and observation, mingling in society where
the colour of objects would often be remarked, should

live to the age of 26 years without being fully alive to
such an imperfection as that of not distinguishing red
from green. Did he wish to hide his defects, believing
them to be of slight extent and consideration ? or did
he look upon others, and not himself, as wanting in
true perception of colour ? But how did he reconcile
the usual description of natural objects and scenery
with his own notions of colour-distinction ? When
people talked of the beauty of apple blossom, and
cherry ripe fruits, of bonny red hawthorn, and robin

redbreasts, he must have been tried to know their

meaning ; and in the company of friends point
ing to the setting sun in all its golden effulgence, or
the bright hues of the rainbow arch, the picture must

have seemed much overdrawn, inasmuch as the

varied tints and radiance would be little more than
streaks of light on a dull background.

  I* Perhaps should qualify the statement in the text as to the date

(1793), as my information tends to the belief that both John and his
brother, finding themselves alike in colour perception, at some earlier date
tested the vision of their scholars, in several of whom they found a similar
failing to themselves ; indeed, so great a percentage affected, that they
were disposed to console themselves with the notion that the tables
John Dalton's Colour-Blindness.  101

   In a letter to Elihu Robinson, bearing date, Man

chester, 2nd month, 20th, 1794, he first introduces his
defect to the notice of his " dear cousin," in the follow
ing sentences :--

  I am at present engaged in a very curious investigation. I

discovered last summer with certainty, that colours appear differ
ent to me to what they do to others. The flowers of most of the

Cranesbills appear to me in the day almost exactly sky blue,

whilst others call them deep pink; but happening once to look
at one in the night by candlelight, I found it of a colour as

different as possible from daylight ; it seemed then very near
yellow, but with a tincture of red ; whilst nobody else said it

differed from the daylight appearance, my brother excepted, who

seems to see as I do. I never till now set about an examination
into the matter. I have collected specimens of ribbons, &c., of
various colours, and the result, as far as I have yet gone, is

nearly as follows.
   The primary colours, orange, yellow, and blue, appear to me

much the same in the night as they do in the day, and I always

distinguish them and call them by their proper names, as well
as several drabs, and other mixed colours ; some reds -- for in
stance, vermillion -- appear the same or alike day and night ; but
others, and more especially the different shades oipink, confound
me most completely in the day, they all appearing light blue;
all the dyed greens seem to have little or no green about them ;
they appear inclining to red or to brown in the day, and almost
blue in the night ; the pinks and light blues, which appear
almost of the same piece in the day, are as opposite as black

and white in the night, or by candlelight. A piece of silk

ribbon, which some call a very deep pink, and others crimson,
appears to me in the day to be a very dark drab, and exactly

like another which they call a mud colour ; in the night, how

ever, the former seems red or crimson, and the latter unchanged.

I was the other day at a friend's house, who is a dyer ; there

was present himself and wife, a physician, and a young woman.

His wife brought me a piece of cloth ; I said I was there in a
102 John Dalton.

reddish snuff colour ; they told me they had never seen me in any

such coat, for that cloth was one of the finest grass greens they

had seen. I saw nothing like grass about it. They tell me my
table-cloth is green, but I say not, and further that I never saw

a green table-cloth in my life but one, and everybody else said
it had lost its green colour. In short, my observations have
afforded a fund of diversion to all, and something more to philo

sophers, for they have been puzzled beyond measure, as well as

myself, to account for the circumstances. I mean to communi

cate my observations to the world, through the channel of some
philosophical society. The young women tell me they will never
suffer me to go on to the gallery [in the Meeting-House] with

a green coat ; and I tell them I have no objection to their going

on with me in a crimson (that dark drab) gown."
              is,

                                                    is
The following letter on colour-blindness                ad

dressed to Joseph Dickinson, shoemaker, Maryport,

Cumberland.
                                     Manchester, 3d mo., 10th, 1794.

  Respected Friend, Joseph Dickinson, -- Permit a quon

dam coadjutor in aerial castle building to solicit a favour of

thee. Thou must understand that have some time ago dis
              I
                            is I
covered that some colours appear very different to me to what

they do to others, and think my case (and my brothers, for
we are nearly alike in this respect) very singular, unless the

case of Friend Harris, of Maryport, be similar.is    lately read

Huddart's account of the Harrises in the Philosophical TransI

actions for 1777, but does not satisfy me.
              is it
From  it    understand that the most remarkable of them init

        is I               if                     probably still
this respect deceased, but that the captain
                                    is
living, of whom some account            given, and whose case
                                                     a

                                                           I
strongly apprehend similar to mine, and am anxious to know

some further particulars from him in this respect. My friend

Mary Cockbain suggested to me, that thou would be likely

person to procure me this information.

   could wish thee, therefore, thou canst make convenient,
I                                                it

to give my respects to the captain, and desire him on my part
to answer thee some, or all of the following queries--but he
                                                     if
His Inquiries on Colour-Blindness.  103

of his relatives may be able to answer them in part for him ; and

a communication thereof to me would be highly acceptable.

   Query 1. Did he ever look through a prism ? What are the

chief colours he sees in it ?

   2. Do not pinks, roses, &c, which others call red, appear to

him to have some affinity to sky-blue ?
   3. Has he distinct ideas of red, orange, yellow, and green; or

does he not meet with colours which he would hesitate to pro

nounce one of these rather than another ?
   4. What are the most conspicuous colours of the rainbow ?

   5. Does the green woollen cloth, used to cover tables, &c,

appear green, or anyway like grass to him ; or would he not call
it a brownish red? Whether is common red sealing wax or it
more nearly the colour of grass ?

  6. I wish particularly to know whether a ribband of a deep pink

colour appears remarkably different by day light and candlelight,
as well as dark green and crimson ?

   7. Does he perceive in the day-time much difference between
crimson and dark drab ?

   I and M. Cockbain's respects to thee, and mine to cousins
Jona and Sarah Ostle, if convenient. -- I am, thy assured friend,

                                                        John Dalton.

          Direct to me at the New College.

   The following letter is clearly a reply from John
Dickinson, but either its date, or that of John Dalton's
communication, must be an error : probably Dalton's
letter should be 3d, 10th month, 1793.

                                              Maryport, %th, 2d Month, 1794.

  Respected Friend, John Dalton,-- If my quondam friend
be disposed to build aerial edifices, I should be glad to be

employed as a workman or at least a coadjutor in rearing those
visionary fabrics, but beg to be informed where they are to be

erected, that I may bring such materials as I can collect

towards the construction of those pendant piles. So much in
freedom, but to the point in request. Two of the Harrises,
Thos. and the captain thou mentioned, are dead long ago ; there

is yet living other two nearly similar to those, with one I have

                                                                              S
104 John Dalton.

Quaere ist. --Did he ever look through a prism ? What are the

chief colours he sees in it ?
   Ans. ist. -- Yellow the most conspicuous colour he sees in it.
   Quaere 2d.-- Do not pinks, roses, &c. which others call red,

appear to have some affinity to sky-blue ?

  Ans. 2d.--Roses, pinks, &c., he calls sky-blue.
   Quaere 3d.-- Has he distinct ideas of red, orange, yellow, and

green ; or does he not meet with colours which he would hesitate

to pronounce one of these rather than another ?
             --
   Ans. 3d.  of  Qyeulitloewa--n himespiteatrefescttoidceaall  of red, orange, and green;
some idea                                                      red, orange and green.
Quaere 4th. --What are the most conspicuous colours of the

rainbow ?
AQnusa.er4eth5.t--h. --AnDsoweesregdreeinn
                                            first, yellow.     cover  tables,  &c., appear
                                            cloth used to

green, or anyway like grass ; or would he not call it a brownish

red ? Whether is sealing wax or it more nearly the colour of

grass ?

   Ans. 5th. -- A table-cloth don't appear like grass; red sealing-
wax appears rather darker than it (only a shade), but neither
like grass ; no difference between dark green and blood.

   Quaere 6th. -- I wish particularly to know whether a ribband of
a deep pink colour appears remarkably different by daylight

or candlelight, as well as dark green and crimson ?

   Ans. 6th. -- A ribband of a deep pink colour appears remark

ably different by candlelight/rom daylight ; he calls it the colour
of an orange.

   Quaere 7th. -- Does he perceive in the day-time much difference
between crimson and dark drab ?

   Ans. 7th. -- He can perceive a difference between crimson and

dark drab; he calls crimson blue. I was beholden to one of his

brothers who has no defect, who assisted me in making the fore

going experiments.

   It must be observed, he says he has no just ideas of any

colour except black, white, and yellow, some little idea of drab.

In order to try him, we prepared a basket of creweling or quilt
ing worsted, of, I think, almost all colours and shades, and

wished him to choose out a colour nearest resembling blood,

and to our astonishment he chose out a dark green. We
                    A Maryport Family Colour-Blind.                                       105

                    asked him, if a white cloth or stocking should be spotted withit,J. ita                II
                    blood if he could perceive it ? he said he would not know it fromis
                    dirt. jWe asked him, if ever he saw blood near slaughter-housesitaif

                    or a smithy door? he says he has perceived a wetness, and;I
                    judged it to be blood from the little bells or froth frequently
                    upon which all he knew by.a

                       We tried him with a glass prism held in the sunshine, which,it
                    reflecting upon the wall what philosophers call a spectrum,is
                    could not perceive struck him more than reflected from a
                      I
                    looking-glass, only a little deeper, which he called yellow.
                                                    J.
                    think these are all the observations made respecting his parti
                    cular case what was hindrance, he seemed rather backward in

                    giving us explicit answers, arising from knowledge of his

                    imperfection in not having the same optics as other men.
                       He has another brother and nephew, nearly similar,

                    thought.
                       Please make my respects to and M. Cockbain, and accept of

                    same thyself. remain, thy assured friend,

                                                                                                 D1ck1nson.

                       P.S. My own affairs prevented me from writing thee sooner.

                            To John Dalton,
                                   At the New College, Manchester.

I                                                       Manchester, 13M ofqth Month, 1794.;is
  I                    Respected Fr1end, Joseph D1ck1nson,-- received and
                                                                is                          I
                  itperused thy letter with great pleasure, and consider my best
                    acknowledgments to ^be due to thee, and to the others conI
                    cerned in the business.
                                           I
                          find by that friend Harris's eye constituted like my own
                    and that of my brother and am induced to think from what

                    have heard from different quarters, that there are several indi
                    viduals and branches of families up and down, who do not see

                    colours as the generality of people do, but as we do. It a

                    subject that has not been much [handled by philosophers;
                       mean, therefore, to make inquiries in different places, to

                    ascertain the facts as well as can, and then endeavour to
                    account for them. The result of my labours will be communi
                    cated to the public, in] some way or other. The only circum

                                                                                                               ,
106 John Dalton.

rather backward in giving you his judgment. I do not, however,

wonder at for the reason assigned but tell him from me,
it,                                 it

    I                                  ;
      II                                                :

                                                a I; I

                                                              a

                                                               I
                                                                    I
that formerly when used to call pink sky-blue, and incur the

ridicule of others, used to join in the laugh myself, and then

nobody thought was in earnest nor did think at that time,

that there was such a great difference in the appearance of

colours to me and to others, as now seems there is. thought

we differed chiefly in words and not ideas but now that am

certain of a real and very great difference, make no scruple of

publishing the circumstance respecting myself, in every company

where happen to be, and boldly assert with grave face, that
I

                      is
                            a
pinks and roses are light blue by day, and reddish yellow by

night, that crimson            bluish dark drab, that all the dark greens

(so miscalled) are of a red or blood colour, and the most dis
agreeable colour imaginable for a table, infinitely different from

the pleasant verdure of the fields.

Having made this long introduction, must beg leave to
                                       I
                                          :I
                                                    II
                                                              I
trouble thee a little farther on the business hope shall rest

satisfied with one more communication. Though am per

suaded friend Harris and agree in ideas in general, yet

wish] to ascertain the matter by particular observations. My

method this get a number of coloured ribbons and look at
I

          it
              is

                I
                   :I

                         I
                                 I
them by daylight; put down the name to each, such as                   I

think merits, and make comparisons betwixt them, guessing

as near as can how one colour might be made from two

others, by mixing such and such proportions of the colours.

then do the same by candlelight.       have sent herewith a
                                     II
specimen of colours and my opinions upon them, by which you

will understand my meaning more fully. wish him to give you

his opinion of the colours, in like manner, both by daylight and

candlelight; he should not see my remarks, so as to be guided

by them in making his remarks to you.

   [Unfortunately the colours to which this above paragraph
refers, are not forthcoming so that both his letter and
Dickinson's reply lose part of their value this is[of less moment,
as the history of Dalton's case, and all that really pertains to
                               ;
                                                         ;

                                                                       J.
            Tests the Colour Blindness of Others.                                            107

thee, and hast kept a grave face all the while, thou hast done

more than anybody here has yet ; but the person thou art to

show the colours to, will find nothing strange in all this, I ex

pect. These observations will sufficiently point out to thee
what sort of questions to put, in order to find whether we are
alike. Thou wilt please to inform me of the Nos. in which we

agree by day or night, and likewise of those                                              such there be)
            ;

                                 I
                                       is I

                                                                                       ;

                                                                     (if
in which we seem to disagree.     hope he will be explicit and

unreserved whatever ridicule      incurred, shall be equally

divided amongst the whole fraternity of us when we become

acquainted with each other, will heartily take my share. But

perhaps we shall be so strong a party, as to be able to turn tails

upon our antagonists, and convince them that 'tis they not we,
who do not see things in a proper light.

   Besides his remarks on the enclosed colours, wish to knowI

the following particulars --
               :

                              ?
                                is
Does he not, in looking properly through a prism at the flame

of a candle or fire, see a very grand blue or purple, as well as

yellow  ?

Is he, or was any of the family who were in the same predica

ment, in any degree shortsighted    his sight strong or weak,

that can he look at a brilliant object without uneasiness andis,
                                                                                          ?
       ?
do objects appear clear and distinct to him, the colours ex

cepted

  If convenient, should wish to know more precisely whether

the brother and nephew living, and those dead, were in the

same state  ?

I  should suppose they would have no objection to their names

being mentioned in an account of the subject  ;                                           so, please to

                                                 if

give me them.

  N.B. have kept duplicate of this letter and the colours, so
that they need not be returned. -- am, thy sincere friend,

                                                        John Dalton.
        I      a

                             I

                                                                          [No date.]

  Respected Fr1end, John Dalton.-- In order to gratify

thy request more fully, have waited a long time with im
patience on my part (and daresay with more on thine) for
               I jI
108 John Dalton.

necessary, in order to obtain a more full investigation of the
matter in request ; at last his company being had, we have
had an opportunity with his brother John Harris, who, I think,
gave us as explicit answers as he well could, both by day and
candle light, which is here annexed,* whereby I hope thou '11 be
enabled to make a fair comparison between the visionary organs

of the said J. Harris and thyself; I should be glad to hear

reasons assigned for such a strange phenomenon.

   In looking through a prism at the flame of a candle or fire he

sees a blue as well as a yellow, but does not seem struck with
any grand appearance thereof. Neither he nor any of the
family are in any degree shortsighted (except a daughter of his,
who has no defect respecting colours, is of a very strong sight,
and can look at brilliant objects without much uneasiness).
Objects appear clear and distinct to them at a great distance,

colours excepted.
   The brother Joseph living, we had an opportunity with by day,

who, I think, is nearly similar, except not quite so defective in

reds, which thou '11 perceive by his remarks on the colours, which
is herewith transmitted.*

   The other two brothers who are dead were in the same state,

whose names were Thomas and Jonathan.

   Indeed, friend John, thou conjectured right ; I did not read

thy remarks with a grave face, but on the contrary with many

fits of risibility which I am subject to, but I think more so on
hearing J. Harris' remarks and my own reflections thereon. I

find by your accounts you must have very imperfect ideas of
the charms, which in a great measure constitute beauty in the

female sex, I mean that rosy blush of the cheeks, which you so
much admire for being light blue, I think a complexion nearly

as exceptional in the fair sex as the sunburnt Moor's or the

sable Ethiopian's, consequently (if real), a fitter object for a show
than a wife.

   The following are their remarks by daylight and candlelight
after thy manner ; but observe these are Joseph's remarks by

day only, we had no opportunity with him by candlelight. I

showed him the effects of a prism, and observed he was like
        A Sky-Blue Rose deemed Beautiful.                                              109

cloudy to them. I am glad to find they have no objection to

having their names made use of in what decent manner thou
may think proper, provided it may be of benefit to mankind.
After relaxing my muscles a little on writing these above remarks

of theirs, I have composed myself and am glad. I think I have

nothing more to communicate at present on the subject. Wishing
it may give thee full satisfaction, and prove of real advantage

to thyself and the community at large, is the sincere wish of

thy assured friend,                              J. D1ck1nson.*

As soon as Dalton had collected his ideas on

colour-blindness, derived from a study of his own

and brother's vision, and the facts obtained by J.
Dickinson, he read a memoir on the subject, entitled

" Extraordinary Facts relative to the Vision of

Colours," to the "Manchester Literary and Philo

sophical Society," at their meeting on October 31,

1794.    The main facts of his           memoir  are                   to  be  found
        following excerpts :--
in the
  " In the course of my application to the sciences,

Ithat of optics necessarily claimed attention ; and

became pretty well acquainted with the theory of

Ilight and colours before was apprised of any pecu
liarity in my vision. I had not, however, attended
much to the practical discrimination of colours, owing,

* This Joseph Dickinson of Maryport was a shoemaker, and father

of Isaac Dickinson, now of Whitehaven. The said Joseph was sent to

learn the art of St Crispin in Roper Street, Whitehaven, in 1 778, and

had hardly got reconciled to his sleeping garret, when a great tumult

was heard in the street ; and on looking out he saw the shipping on fire.

He rushed down to the strand, and on to the rocks, where the bold

pirate, Paul Jones, was seen hauling aft his starboard sheets and making
off after his victory, laughing over his taffrail at the efforts of the trades

folk to rake the gravel out of their great guns in the halfmoon battery.

Isaac Dickinson, now living at Whitehaven, has colour blindness like

the brothers of his  grandfather j  his  bveisicoonnsriedseermedble"s    very closely  that
of John Dalton.      Isaac objects  to                                 colour-blind,"  and
     no John Dalton.

     Iin some degree, to what conceived to be a perplexity

     in their nomenclature. Since the year 1790, the
     occasional study of botany obliged me to attend

     more to colours than before. With respect to colours

     Ithat were white, yellow, or green, readily assented to

     the appropriate term. Blue, purple, pink, and crimson

     appeared rather less distinguishable, being, according
     Ito my idea, all referable to blue.
                                                 have often seri

     ously asked a person whether a flower was blue or

     pink, but was generally considered to be in jest.

     INotwithstanding this, was never convinced of a
     peculiarity in my vision, till I accidentally observed

     the colour of the flower of the geranium zonale by

     candlelight, in the autumn of 1792. The flower
     was pink, but it appeared to me almost an exact

     sky-blue by day; in candlelight, however, it was

     astonishingly changed, not having then any blue in

     but being what called red, colour which forms
     it,

          I
                       I

                                                            a

                                          I

                                                                                                                     ;;
     a striking contrast to blue.

       " It may be proper to observe that am shortsighted.

     Concave glasses of about five inches focus suit me

     best. can see distinctly at a proper distance and

     am seldom hurt by too much or too little light nor

     yet with long application.

        " My observations began with the solar spectrum, or

     coloured image of the sun, exhibited in a dark room

     by means of a glass prism.                  found that persons in
                                               a? I

                                                                                ?
                                                                                   is

                                                                                     it

                                                                                                    ?
     who console themselves with being perfectly endowed the colour-blind

     ness exists   He professes to see colours bright and brilliant as other
     ;
           ?
     persons and asks, Can anything be grander than a cherry tree with

     leaves the   same colour as the   cherries      Addressing himself to                             me he
     remarked      " You say cherries  are red,  well, what colour red                                 or can
     is

                :
     there be a more beautiful flower than sky-blue rose People say the

     rose pink, but who can clearly describe the colour of pink, may be,

-,.
Describes his Colour-Blindness.  1 11

general distinguish six kinds of colour in the solar

image ; namely, red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and

purple. To me it is quite otherwise-- I see only two,
or at most three distinctions. These I should call

yellow and blue; or, yellow, blue, and purple. My

yellow comprehends the red, orange, yellow, and green
of others; and my blue and purple coincide with

theirs."

    He thus sums up the characteristics of his own and
his brother's vision :--

    1. In the solar spectrum three colours appear,
yellow, blue, and purple. The two former make a

 contrast ; the two latter seem to differ more in degree
 than in kind.

   2. Pink appears by daylight to be sky-blue a

little faded ; by candlelight it assumes an orange or

 yellowish appearance, which forms a strong contrast

 to blue.

    3. Crimson appears a muddy blue by day ; and
 crimson woollen yarn is much the same as dark blue.

    4. Red and scarlet have a more vivid and flaming
 appearance by candlelight than by daylight.

     5. There is not much difference in colour between
 a stick of red sealing-wax and grass by day.

    6. Dark green woollen cloth seems a muddy red,
 much darker than grass, and of a very different

 colour.

    7. The colour of a florid complexion is dusky blue.
     8. Coats, gowns, &c., appear to us frequently to be

 badly matched with linings, when others say they are
 not. On the other hand, we should match crimsons

 with claret or mud ; pinks with light blues ; browns
H2 John Dalton.

   9. In all points where we differ from other persons,
the difference is much less by candlelight than by

daylight.

   In concluding his paper, he thought it probable

that the sun's light and candlelight, or that which we

commonly obtain from combustion, are originally

constituted alike ; and that the earth's atmosphere is
properly a blue fluid, and modifies the sun's light so

as to occasion the commonly perceived difference.

  In reference to red by daylight, he says, " I have

seen specimens of crimson, claret, and mud, which

were very nearly alike. . . . The colour of a florid

complexion appears to me that of a dull, opake,

blackish blue, upon a white ground. A solution of

sulphate of iron in the tincture of galls (that dilute
black ink) upon white paper, gives colour much

resembling that of a florid complexion. It has no

resemblance of the colour of blood. Blood to me
.

     I
                              a
                                           is,
                                                      is
not unlike that colour called bottle-green. Stockings

spotted with blood or with dirt would scarcely be

distinguishable. . . By day some reds are the

least showy imaginable;  should call them dark
drabs." It thus appears, as Dr G. Wilson remarks,

that as Dalton saw the red end of the spectrum dark
or darkish, so certain red objects showed to his eye

as dark blue, dark brown, dark drab, mud-coloured,

dirt-coloured, or even like ink so he seems to have
                         ;

been in certain circumstances blind to red.

   Sir John Herschel and Sir David Brewster, who
both paid much attention to Dalton's case, have

expressed their conviction that he saw as long a

spectrum as others did, but that the red extremity
Herschel and Brewster on Colour-Blindness. 113

Dalton, says :-- " It is clear to me that you, and all

others so affected, perceive as light every ray which
others do. The retina is excited by every ray which

reaches it." And again, -- " It seems to me that we

(the normal-eyed) have three primary sensations
where you have only two. We refer, or can refer in

imagination, all colours to three --yellow, red, and

blue. All other colours, we think, we perceive to be

mixtures of these, and can produce them by actual
mixture of powders of these hues, whereas we cannot
produce these by any mixtures of others. . . . Now,
to eyes of your kind, it seems to me that all your

tints are referable to two." A similar conviction is

stated by Herschel, in his treatise on light (" Encyclo.
Metropol."), in reference to the colour-blind as a

class :-- " All the prismatic rays have the power of

exciting and affecting them with the sensation of

light, and producing distinct vision, so that the defect
arises from no insensibility of the retina to rays of

any particular refrangibility."

   Sir David Brewster (" Letters on Natural Magic,"

1832, p. 31) thus writes: -- "In all those cases [of

Icolour-blindness] which have been carefully studied, at

least in three of them, in which have had the advan

tage of making personal observations ; namely, those of
Mr Troughton, Mr Dalton, and Mr Liston, the eye is

capable of seeing the whole of the prismatic spectrum,
...the red space appearing to be yellow.  I have

lately shown that the prismatic spectrum consists of

three equal and coincident spectra of red, yellow, and

blue light; and consequently, that much yellow and

a small portion of blue light exist in the red space ;

and hence it follows that those eyes which see only                       y
                                                                       H
114 John Dalton.

two colours--viz., yellow and blue, in the spectrum,
are really insensible to the red light of the spectrum,
and see only the yellow with the small portion of
blue with which the red is mixed. The faintness of

the yellow light which is thus seen in the red space
confirms the opinion that the retina has not appre
ciated the influence of the simple red ray."

   Though such eminent men as Dugald Stewart and
M. Sismondi laboured under the infirmity of abnormal
colour-vision, the fact of John Dalton reporting his
own case, led the Continental savans, and notably
those of the Academy of Geneva, to designate the
defect of colour-blindness " Daltonism " and its sub
jects " Daltonians." This was hardly fair to our

countryman, to have his physical weakness trumpeted
to the world when he had won immortality in the

fields of science ; his name, if used at all for special

distinction, should have been applied to his discovery
of the Atomic Theory.

   Various terms, chiefly of Greek origin, have been
applied by Whewell, Herschel, and others, to desig

nate the defect experienced by Dalton. Perhaps the
name Chromato-Pseudopsis, or a false vision of colours,

would be generally applicable, but not entirely so, as

there are gradations beginning with deficient colour-
sight, and ending in monochromic or achromic vision,
or true colour-blindness. The term "colour-blind
ness " introduced by Sir D. Brewster after the ex
planation just given, most expressive and simple, and
as generally adopted by scientific men, will be
used in this brief sketch.

    Professor Wartmann* of Geneva has recorded a

   * Those who seek for complete history of the subject under dis
it

    is

                                         a

                                                                    is,
The Normal Vision of Colours.                                                                                                        115

case of doubtful colour- vision as occurring in 1684, but
the first really well-authenticated instances of colour
blindness were met with in a family of the name of
Harris,* residing at Maryport, Cumberland, to which

reference has been so pointedly made by John Dalton's

inquiries in the foregoing letters to J. Dickinson.
  A few words will show how colour-blind persons

differ from their more fortunate neighbours. Without

aiming at a scientific analysis of light, I may be per

mitted for the purpose of this memoir to assume that

there are three simple elementary or primary colours,

red, blue, and yellow, visible by daylight to perfect
eyes ; besides white, the mutual neutralisation of
these colours ; and black, the absence of these colours.

Perfect natural vision is a three-colour vision, and
each of the colours may be changed by addition of

white into tints, and by addition of black into shades.
Then the primary colours may be mixed with each
other so as to produce by the addition of red to
yellow, scarlets and orange colours ; or by the addi

tion of red to blue, crimsons and purples. All these

secondary colours are visible both in their entirety,
and throughout a long series of tints and shades to a

perfect eye ; as also the mixtures of these secondary
colours with each other, giving rise to russet browns,

olives, &c.

cussion will do well to consult Professor Wartmann's works translated

in Taylor's "Scientific Memoirs," for 1846, and the able monograph of
Dr George Wilson, of Edinburgh, "Researches in Colour-Blindness, "

sEedr*iinesbCuaropgfth. ,"JoSCsueuptmhhebrelHralunaddndda&rtWK, onwrothhxoi,eses1,8"b55ioa.gddrarepshsyedforamsletptearrt   of  the   fourth
                                                                                                                           to        Joseph
                                                                                                                                Dr

Priestley, the chemist, characterising the peculiar condition of some of

the Harris family, which was published in the Philosophical Tran

                                                                                                                                              s
1l6 John Dalton.

   The colour-blind distinguish white and black per
fectly enough, some few having no other perception
of colours than light and shade. The great majority
of them, however, distinguish two only of the primary
colours, yellow and blue ; but are quite at fault with
red, which they confound with green, with brown, with
grey, with drab, and occasionally other colours ; and
not unfrequently red is altogether invisible, or appears
black. So the colour-blind possess a bicolor, or two-
colour vision of yellow and blue, and these only when
deep or full ; but as they are liable to mistake purple
for blue, they in reality are clearly cognizant only of
yellow.

   The most serious defect in the colour-blind is in

reference to red and its complementary colour green.
Now, by artificial light, such as lamps, candles, gas,
red is less liable to confusion with green than by day
light ; in other words, artificial light lessens colour

blindness --a circumstance that is often adverted to
by those so affected, for the purpose of showing that
their vision is not so bad as it has been represented.

    The observations of Professor H. W. Dove (Philo
sophical Magazine, Oct. 1852) tend to show that "we
all become sooner blind to red than to other colours,

so that between us and the colour-blind persons em
phatically so-called, there is but a difference in

degree."

   It will be understood that though there is a defec

tive or negative vision of colours in the colour-blind,
their vision in other respects is good ; nay, not un
frequently they have a very nice perception of form
and outline, not only in full but in faint light ; as was
Colour-Blindness in all Ranks of Life.  117

   Colour-blindness has been met with in all ranks

and stations of life, including the peasant and painter,
the professor and the philosopher. The affection is

congenital, hereditary, and apparently incurable.

It has been traced through five generations, and

whilst descending by both the father and the mother's
side, it always attaches to the sons rather than the
daughters ; as many as six brothers have been found
with this defect of vision. The great preponderance
of males so affected compared with females, as far as

has been hitherto ascertained, seems curious, if not

unintelligible, excepting on the supposition of a

general reluctance on the part of women to admit

of either a moral or physical weakness touching their

personal attributes, or calculated in any way to affect

their matrimonial prospects.

   Dr George Wilson believed that "the number of

males in this country who are subject to this affection

of vision is not less than one in twenty, and that the

number markedly colour-blind, id est, given to mis

take red for green, brown for green, purple for blue,

and occasionally red for black (as in Dalton's case),
is not less than one in fifty. The actual number of

the markedly colour-blind detected in an examina
tion of 1 1 54 males in Edinburgh, was one in fifty-five,
and the parties examined were students, soldiers,
and policemen, born in various parts of the British

 dominions."

   My late esteemed friend, Dr William Mackenzie of
Glasgow, one of the best oculists of his day, only saw
two cases of colour-blindness in thirty years in
40,000 opthalmic patients. This would tend to show

                                                           X
            n8 John Dalton.

               ditions of the eye and the curious phenomena now
               under discussion. Insensibility to colours is in nowise
               incompatible with distinct vision in other respects ;
              nay, probably, as the retina in persons like Dalton is
              unfatigued by the impression of colour, the sensi
              tiveness to light is longer retained ; in other words,
                ordinary vision is rather strengthened than otherwise,
                obviously seen in Dalton, who suffered nothing from
                long application of his eyes.

                  Many odd mistakes have been committed by the
              colour-blind; but how some of them came to be
                painters, and dyers, and tailors, is difficult to compre

           hend. A house painter who could only distinguish

                black and white, and required his wife's eyes to keep
                him right, attempted in her absence a stone tint for
               an outside wall, and had covered some yards of the

           building with a fine blue before he was corrected. A

                tailor, to whom black appeared green, or in particular
                instances crimson, repaired the parson's black silk,
                and the officer's dark blue coat, with crimson, to the

              great chagrin of his employers. An officer daily

                mingling with people in bright colours, purchased a
                blue uniform coat and waistcoat, with red breeches to
                  match !

                    When Dalton had made up his mind to visit Paris
                in 1 82 1, a good external appearance seemed to him
                very requisite ; accordingly he went to a tailor's shop

           Iin Market Street, Manchester, and said : " am going
           to Paris, I want thee to sell me some good strong drab
          Icloth." Passing his hand over a piece lying on the

               table, he remarked, " think this will suit, just the

           colour I want, and stout good cloth." " Why," said

-v
The Chromatic Theory not Proved.             1 19

for hunting  coats   "  " Ah," replied the Doctor, " I

                    !

see thou knowest the infirmity of my eyes."

The seat or cause of colour-blindness is a mystery.

Two theories have been advanced on the subject.
The one refers the false perception of colours to the

chromatic condition of certain portions of the optical

apparatus of the eye ; the other to the peculiar organi

sation of its nervous apparatus, including so much of

the brain as is essential to vision.

   The chromatic theory was upheld by Dalton, who
was strongly of opinion that one of the humours (the
vitreous) of his eye was a coloured medium, probably
some modification of blue. But the examination of

his eyes after death revealed nothing in support of
his views. Mr Ransome, who made the post mortem,
states that " the aqueous humour of one of them was

found to be perfectly pellucid and free from colour.

The vitreous humour and its envelope (the hyaloid
membrane) were also perfectly colourless. The crys
talline lens was slightly amber-coloured, as usual in

persons of advanced age. The tunics, retina, choroid,

and sclerotic, with their subdivisions, presented no

peculiarity." Dr George Wilson discusses the chro

matic theory at great length, chiefly on the relation

which the retina, the yellow spot of the retina (the
foramen of Soemmering*), and choroid membrane
bear to colour-vision.

   The second, or Cerebro-retinal theory of colour

blindness, has found supporters in some of the best
authorities of the day. In reference to the cerebrum

  * Any opinion based on the " yellow spot of Soemmering " should be
received with caution. See my "Life of Robert Knox, the Anato
        120 John Dalton.

         or brain part of this theory, the phrenologists attribute
        the power of distinguishing colours to a particular
        part of the brain lying over the roof of the orbit, and,
        when largely developed, rendering one part of the

         superciliary ridge specially prominent. Dalton's fore
         head, and strongly-marked eyebrows, lent no sanction
        to this opinion ; for as already stated, this portion of
        his cranium bore considerable analogy to that of Sir
        Isaac Newton, whose knowledge of colours was ex

         ceedingly good.
            The only remaining explanation of colour-blindness

        is to be found in the retina itself, that portion of the
        eye upon which vision truly and essentially depends.
        Now, all the great authorities on optics, Young,
        Brewster, Herschel, Miiller, construct their theories

        of colour-blindness entirely on the retina, believing
        some parts of its structure to be deficient, or that its
         sensibility to colour is impaired in those whom we
         call colour-blind.

           In the discrimination of colour, remarkable inequali
        ties would appear to exist in different parts of the
        retina, all of us being more or less blind to red in the
        outermost parts of our field of vision. The accom
        plished Helmholtz* states that " all red colours appear
        much darker when viewed indirectly. This red-blind
        part of the retina is most extensive on the inner or
        nasal side of the field of vision ; and according to
        recent researches of Woinow, there is at the furthest
        limit of the visible field a narrow zone, in which all

\distinction of colour ceases, and there only remain
        differences of brightness. In this outermost circle
         everything appears white, grey, or black."
                          * " Popular Scientific Lectures," p. 248.
Helmholts, Young, and Schultze.  12 1

   The Berlin professor had the good fortune to exa       f
mine the Transactions of the Royal Society of Lon

don, and there met with what he calls a wonderfully
simple solution of the theory of colours, laid down at
the beginning of the century by the renowned philo

sopher Thomas Young. According to Dr Young
" there are in the eye three kinds of nerve-fibres, the

first of which, when irritated in any way, produces
the sensation of red, the second the sensation of green,
and the third that of violet. He further assumes that

the first are excited most strongly by the waves of
ether of greatest length ; the second, which are sensi
tive to green light, by the waves of middle length ;
while those which convey impressions of violet are
acted upon only by the shortest vibrations of ether."

   The discussion of this subject would be apt to lead

far beyond the lines of this memoir. It may suffice

to state that those who suffer from red-blindness are

deficient in that class of nerve-fibres which are sensi

tive to red rays, or that these fibres are so sparingly
distributed as to be incapable of excitation.

   The observations of Max Schultze on the rods
of the retina of birds and reptiles, in which he
found a number of rods containing a red drop of
oil in their anterior extremity, or looking towards the

light, while other rods contained a yellow drop, and

others none at all, are of great interest. And as
Helmholtz has said, " we may with great probability
regard these rods as the terminal organs of those

nervous fibres which respectfully convey impressions
of red, of yellow, and of blue light."

    Hitherto there has been but one post mortem exami
nation of the colour-blind, namely, Dalton himself, so
   122 John Dalton.

   that the theories afloat have not been subjected to the

   proper test ; and a pathological inquiry is essential to

   the elucidation of the cause of this anomalous condition.

     It is worthy of note that Quakers show a greater

   proneness to colour-blindness than any other class or

   denomination ; that  is,    our present statistics can be

   relied upon. The Harrises of Maryport were of thisit if

   persuasion, and where the largest number have

   occurred in one family, has been generally among

   "Friends." The regular avoidance by this worthy

   sect of anything like gay colours in dress or house

   hold adornment, might so far deaden the acuter per

   ception of the finer shades of colour, and possibly

   induce in the course of a few generations a hereditary

   indifference in that direction, and so subject the eye

   to a modified colour-blindness. My friend, Dr George

   Wilson, was disposed to support this theory, and to

   view rather as un fait accompli. The period, how

   ever, elapsing between the stirring days of George Fox,
   it
        itand the first appearance of colour-blindness in the

   Maryport family (Harris), being less than a century,

   implies that the first instances of this defect noticed

   among Quakers in England, owed little or nothing

   to the drab surroundings of their ancestors. It would

   be none the less interesting to ascertain how far
   colour-blindness prevails among " Friends," as com

   pared with the general community and this to
                                 ;

                                         if

                                                         is

   be done, should be done speedily, as the rank and

   file of the regiments of drab are rapidly thinning, and

   bid fair to die out before the end of the present
   century--their present number of bona fide members
   fairly told, probably not exceeding 9000 persons in

A
Dangers attendant on Colour-Blindness.            123

   As colour-blindness has hitherto proved incurable,
care should be taken by parents and guardians to
restrict those affected by it to lines of pursuit, be it

art, trade, or profession, in which colour forms no

essential part. It would be absurd to send a colour

blind person to house painting, dyeing, and weaving ;
and equally futile to make the most educated a
botanist, an analytical chemist, or physician. Above
all other pursuits railway service and sea-faring should
be avoided by such persons ; and it is especially
demanded of railway authorities to test the visual
capacity of all their employed, seeing that the colour
blind often mistake bright red for green, dark red for

brown, and red for black, as well as dark or light
shades of all colours for each other : thus the caution

signal green is liable to be mistaken for the danger
signal red, and the latter, when it appears black, not
to be seen at all. That accidents have occurred, and
do still occur, from employing the more or less
colour-blind, and that many valuable lives have been
sacrificed in this way, can hardly admit of a reason

able doubt.

  If there be any organ in the body more likely than

another to show weakness of function or defect, it

should be the eye, in all its wonderful organisation,
and delicacy, and beauty, resting also for its mani
festations on the motions of a matter of extreme

tenuity --the light,

" From matter streaming, it makes matter bright,
  Matter arrests it on its onward flight ; "

a world of light and colour vibrating through the
                124 John Dalton.

                  Of what moment was it to Dalton to note the
                climatic conditions and physiognomy of Nature, the
               delicate buds of spring, the leafy woods of summer,
                and the yellow ripening of autumn in all their dis
              play of variety of colour, exquisite contrast, and
                beauty ! The organic kingdoms would present to
                him little more than an arrangement of form, whereas

                 to the normally-constituted and aesthetic vision they
                 offered alternate brightness and tint, and to the de
                votee a hieroglyphic of the Eternal, in whose ma
                 terial fashionings were to be found the indications
                of a spiritual existence. Wanting one of the chief
                 senses of the naturalist, or having its capacity and
                fitness impaired, his scope of observation would be
                 more or less limited to the forms and nomenclature
                of organisms, so far worthy of pursuit, but, com
                 paratively speaking, little more effective than peeling

              off the outer bark of the tree, when a more enlarged

                observation would treat of the circulating sap ves
               sels, the structural pith and entire physiology. In
                morphology, a subject akin to his breadth of inquiry
                and powers of generalisation, as it was to Goethe,
                 he might have shone ; for there, as the noble exponent
               of the science aptly wrote --

                                   " All shapes are similar, yet all unlike,

                                            The chorus thus a hidden law reveals."

                    The aesthetic feeling being thus so far impaired,
                Dalton might well remain a bachelor; true beauty,
                  flowing from colour and emotional surprise, could
               offer no charms to him. For what purpose, beyond
                the interchange of commonplace thoughts, did he
                associate with the pretty Quakeresses of Kendal, of
"X
Untouched by Beauty's Charms.  125

fair complexion, peach-blossom cheeks, ruby lips, and

auburn hair, decked out in simple yet seductive
forms of cap and ribbon ? These bright and natural
emblems of Hymen worship touched not the inner
chords of John Dalton's heart. He might have ex
claimed, in the words of Horace,

                                 " Heu ! quove color ? decens
                          Quomotus?"

The " Qu6 fugit Venus " was not applicable to one
who never enjoyed the real flame of love, but only
the smallest of flirtations, nay, hardly so much, with
a pretty widow. Circumstanced as he was to the
aesthetic and beautiful of the world, the best thing
he could do for his own satisfaction was to follow the
science that dwelt in numbers, algebraic forms, and
chemical symbols; for there he could be on a par
with other men, making use of black and white
                                CHAPTER VII.

" Modifications in the religious sentiments and the tenderest social feelings
of men, and changes in the special habits of those who exercise an
                                                                     that
influence on the ideas of the mass, give a sudden  predominance  to  von
which might have previously escaped attention."
                                                   --Alexander

Humboldt.

h1s 1deas on quaker-worsh1p --the handsome w1dow and love-
     able sp1nster-- poet1cal effort -- essays on the quant1ty
     of ra1n and dew--on the power of flu1ds to conduct
     heat --max1mum dens1ty of water--the secretarysh1p of
     the l1terary and ph1losoph1cal soc1ety--essays on heat
     and cold produced by condensat1on and rarefaction of
     a1r--const1tut1on of m1xed gases --force of steam-- eva
     porat1on --expansion of gases by heat.

           OHN DALTON, though reticent on reli

                 gious questions, and never voluntarily
                 entering upon their discussion, felt himself
                 bound to obey regimental orders ; and in
outer habiliments, no less than in denominational
observances, justly ranked as a " Friend," or faithful
disciple of George Fox. His first visit to London in
May 1792, evidently arose out of a wish to attend
the "yearly meeting of Friends,"* where this pious

* The Prince Regent, afterwards George the Fourth, fond of excite

ment and adventure, laid a wager with one of his Beau Brummel jovial

crew that he could appear as a Quaker at the great yearly meeting in
London. In suitable drab and broad brim he entered the meeting

h"oWusoem, eanndFriteonodks  a   seat, a little disconcerted, perhaps, to find that
                             "  sat apart from the men. Whether his embonpoint,
                    His First Visit to London.  12 7

and peaceful people most do congregate from all
parts of the empire ; either as representatives of
their respective " monthly meetings," or as zealous
partakers of the wisdom of the higher orders of the

ministry assembled to discuss the laws and discipline
of the body, and, it may be added, with a solemnity
becoming those who seek the Divine Spirit in all

matters relating to their moral and religious welfare.
   Coming from the quietude of a small market town

like Kendal, he naturally looked upon London as
"a most surprising place, worth one's while to see

once, but the most disagreeable place on earth for

one of a contemplative turn to reside in constantly."
The number and noise of the hackney coaches en

gaged his attention as much as any novelty he saw,
and his numerical habits led him to count the num

ber of coaches conveying Friends to their meeting

house, and he found no less than one hundred and
four in the service. There is no indication of his

having made the acquaintance of any of the scientific
men in the metropolis on the visit, his time being

apparently absorbed with his co-religionists, and a
general glance at the wonders of the New Babylon.

   He felt more than usual interest in the mode of

worship practised by Friends, as is revealed by a

through the porch, some of the elders scrutinised him very closely, and

were consequently led to express a doubt as to his claims to a seat in

the synagogue. After a few minutes' consultation on the subject, an
                                                                              --
Ia"gMedayFrieanskd    approached the Prince, and put this simple question     ?"
                    thee to say what monthly meeting thou belongs to, friend

This interrogation was beyond the card of His Royal Highness, so he

found it convenient to withdraw from the meeting ; not, however,

without a polite uplifting of his broad brim to the wondering Friends
1 28 John Dalton.

record in      haisnoJtohuerrnFarlieonfd,17h9e5,"  where   he   states that,
along with                                         drew   up   a petition to

the yearly meeting soliciting permission to use music

under certain limitations." To those who are aware

of the extreme simplicity guiding Friends in their

religious attitudes, where there is no tuning to the

heavenly spheres, no vociferation, but much silent

meditation, nay, a silence not infrequently quite pro

found during the hour and a half of their assembling,
it is needless to say that so bold an innovation as
that suggested by Dalton must have taken the " Con
script Fathers," and, it may be added, " Mothers,"

seeing that the majority of Quaker ministers are
women, with no small amount of astonishment.

As there is nothing more akin to the higher reli

gious feelings of man than his sympathetic relations

with the tender sex, the following love episodes in

John Dalton's staid and invulnerable bachelorship
may find appropriate place here. In a long letter to

Elihu Robinson (February 20, 1794), after describing

his residence in the New College, his varied engage

ments, and observations on colour-blindness, he
frames a supposition for his Eaglesfield friends --
"I
     wonder    whether John    is going to marry yet or
not    "       then describes  with becoming discretion
          and
     ?

his  ecxirpcelerienocfe"s   with a pretty  love-making widow   in
the                        Friends." For   a time he seemed    to
feel with Shakespeare's " Biron "--

\         I" From woman's eyes this doctrine derive ;

             They are the ground, the books, the academies,

            From whence doth spring the Promethean fire.
            Why, universal plodding prisons up
              " Sir Roger de Coverleyed?                              129

   Philosopher John triangled           ! or " dephlogisticated,"
and nearly " Sir Roger de               Coverleyed " by " the

handsomest woman in Manchester," can only be

credited by sober friends on perusing his own nar

rative of this delicate affair. The untoward symp

toms marking his captivity or bondage may seem a

little peculiar.

    It seems that another of your maids is become mistress-- a

good omen for the next, whoever she may be. Methinks there

Imay  be   a  question   started  from  some side  of  the fire when  this is
              wonder    whether   John   is going  to  marry yet, or  not?"
read  --"  I

    may answer that my head is too full of triangles, chymical

processes, and electrical experiments, &c., to think much of

marriage. I must not, however, omit to mention that I was

completely Sir Roger de Coverleyed a few weeks ago.

   The occasion was this : being desired to call upon a widow,

a Friend, who thought of entering her son at the academy, I

went, and was struck with the sight of the most perfect figure

that ever human eyes beheld, in a plain but neat dress ; her

person, her features, were engaging beyond all description.

Upon inquiry after, I found that she was universally allowed

to be the handsomest woman in Manchester. Being invited by

her to tea a few days after, along with a worthy man here, a

public Friend [a Quaker minister], I should have, in any other
circumstances, been highly pleased with an elegant tea equi

page, American apples of the most delicious flavour, and choice

wines, but in the present these were only secondary objects.

Deeming myself, however, full proof against mere beauty, and

knowing that its concomitants are often ignorance and vanity,

I was not under much apprehension ; but when she began to

descant upon the excellence of an exact acquaintance with

English grammar and the art of letter-writing ; to compare the
merits of Johnson's and Sheridan's dictionaries ; to converse
upon the use of dephlogisticated marine acid in bleaching ;

upon the effects of opium on the animal system, &c., &c., I was

no longer able to hold out, but surrendered at discretion.
During my captivity, which lasted about a week, I lost my

appetite, and had other symptoms of bondage about me, as

incoherent discourse, &c., but have now happily regained my

                                                       I
130 John Dalton.

  Having now wrote till I have tired my hand, and probably
thine eyes in reading, I shall conclude with my love to cousin

Ruth and thyself, and to all inquiring friends,

                                                        John Dalton.

  If Dalton could afford to treat his relations to the

fascinating widow in a vein of facetiousness, it was
far otherwise with his pen, when the object of his ad

miration was worthy of his more thoughtful hours.
Little demonstrative in any direction outside his

own laboratory, he was not without the higher sen
sibilities of our nature that make the society of

women of amiability and mental culture highly en
joyable. In his journeys to Cumberland, he used to

pay a visit to a Friend in Lancaster, who had two

daughters of both of whom he spoke very highly;

but Hannah was evidently his favourite, of whom

he writes in the following enthusiastic terms to his

brother, September 15, 1796. Considering the high
qualifications of the lady, it is to be regretted that

Dalton's means were too limited to enable him to
marry, or there might have been " a wedding of it,"

with probably blissful issue to posterity.

   " I may here observe that it has been my lot for three years
past to be daily gaining acquaintance of both sexes. I have

consequently had opportunities of estimating and comparing

characters upon a pretty extensive scale. Since my first intro
            , twelve months ago, I have spent a day or
duction to

two with them at six different intervals, with the highest satis

faction, as I never met with a character so finished as Hannah's.

What is called strength of mind and sound judgment she pos

sesses in a very eminent degree, with the rare coincidence of a

quick apprehension and most lively imagination. Of sensibility
she has a full share, but does not affectedly show it on every

trivial occasion. The sick and poor of all descriptions are

her personal care. Though undoubtedly accustomed to grave
                Describes a Pair Quakeress.                                               131

banished from her presence, and nothing but cheerfulness and

hilarity diffused around. Her uncommon natural abilities

have been improved by cultivation, but art and form do not
appear at all in her manner -- all is free, open, and unaffected.

Extremely affable to all, though every one sees and acknow

ledges her superiority, no one can charge her with pride. She

is,
          it,

                  I
                   I

                                 is
                                                                            is
as might be expected, well pleased with the conversation of

literary and scientific people, and has herself produced some

essays that would do credit to the first geniuses of the age,

though they are scarcely known out of the family, so little her
                                                                                       is is
vanity. Her person agreeable, active, and lively. She sup

ports conversation, whether serious, argumentative, or jocular,
with uncommon address. In short, the tout ensemble
                                                                                              the

most complete ever beheld. Next to Hannah, her sister Ann

takes in my eye, before all others. She a perfect model of

personal beauty. do not know one that will bear a comparison
with her in this respect, at least in our society. With abilities

much superior to the generality, she possesses the most refined

sensibility, but in strength of mind and vigour of understanding

must yield to her elder sister.      dwell with pleasure upon the
                         a

                                  I
character of these two amiable creatures, but would not have

thee communicate my sentiments to others."

In the journal of tour in the previous year, when

he first became acquainted with this lady, he thus

describes a walk in her company up the river Lune,

as far as Horton --

   " The pleasantness of the evening, the delightful scenery of
                         :

                                                       it
the country, added to the amiable softness, vivacity, and good

sense  of our   female companion, made        one of                            rtehme aprklesas--an"teIsnt
walks     ever  enjoyed." And again he    quaintly
       is I                                                                            :

going to a tea-party we were introduced by our fair companion

to the     hospital for  old maids,  and  saw              one                  of no  very alluring
aspect.       Oh what a  contrast "
                         !

It not improbable that his intercourse with the

pretty Friends of Lancaster gave an impulse to his

aesthetic sensibilities, that found occasional pleasure

in cultivating the muse --
             " Never durst poet touch pen to write,

                    Until his ink were temper'd with love's sighs "
                                     a
                                                                          ;
132 John Dalton.

for, notwithstanding his bucolic and Quaker associa
tions, and the general absence of social opportunities,
he had a love of melody, and in listening to his
favourite airs would appear more or less spellbound.
His " Stanzas Addressed to an ^Eolian Lyre " have
been cited as his best attempt at versification. They

are as follows :--

       STANZAS ADDRESSED TO AN ^EOLIAN LYRE.

          Far from the noisy dissonance of strife,
             From war's dire clarion, boding vengeful ire,

          Here let me spend one vacant hour of life,
            To sing thy well-earned praise, melodious Lyre !

          When thy soft airs first touched my ravished ear,
             My heart accorded to the tender strain ;

          Now gently swelling, called forth pity's tear,
             Now languished, pining, for the love-sick swain.

          To every tender feeling of the soul,

           A kindred tone the various breeze excites ;

          The enchanted heart yields to the mild control,
             And sweetly banquets on thy soft delights.

         At times the notes with gentle zephyrs rise,
             And trembling touch the chord of fond desire,

          Now mingling, breathe in soft, responsive sighs,
             Then fluttering, fall, and with the gale expire.

          Again the slowly-rising notes assail --
            As if some tender maid, unseen, unknown,

           Sighed for neglect-- yet tuneful, swelled the gale,

            To melt the unfeeling heart with sorrow's plaintive moan.

       If e'er a breast was by soft passion moved,
         If e'er it felt love's sympathetic fire,

          With mine thy strains it cordially approved,
             And breathed in chorus to thy praise, sweet Lyre !

         A sudden gust now sweeps thy trembling strings --
                    His Poetical Efforts.                   1 33

          The swell majestic all its grandeur brings,
             And dying gales their softer tribute bear.

          ITo yonder copse why should anxious rove,

             To hear its songsters hail the new-born day ?
          Why pensive court the music of the grove ?

             Thy charming airs surpass their sweetest lay.

          When vernal showers refresh the parched vale,
             And Flora's train in richest hues appear,

          Not more their varied tints the eye regale,
             Than thy ecstatic notes delight the ear.

          Should adverse winds the ruffled soul assail --
             Impassioned looks the rising storm presage --

          Thy soothing airs, mellifluous, cannot fail
            To calm each ranc'rous passion's keenest rage.

          When nature bids the busy world to close,
             And silence reigns, obedient to her power,

          Thy grateful murmurs, lulling to repose,
             Beguile the solemn gloom of midnight hour.

His description of Hannah's personal charms showed

him to possess a larger share of the imaginative faculty

than was generally assigned to him by his friends.

That he was fully alive to the beauty of natural

scenery may be gathered from the following extract
          Journal of August 22, 1796 :--
from his                                    for eight
   " We   had a pleasant ride from Kendal,

miles, when the grand scenery of the Lakes opened

upon us, with full force ; the head of Windermere,
and about half of the lake, with the surrounding hills,

skirted with wood, formed a fine and capacious

amphitheatre, which we had in view, more or less,

till we arrived at Lowwood. Drank tea there, and

immediately after took a boat out to a central part of

the lake, when we beheld the sun descending below

the summit of Langdale Pikes, whilst its rays still
134 John Dalton.

opposite shore. . . . Came off the lake ; then pro
ceeded to Ambleside, winding round the still lake by
twilight. Went out about ten to view the night

scene ; the atmosphere was as clear as possible ;
Jupiter and the fixed stars shone with uncommon
splendour, and suggested an unusual proximity. The
moon, risen, but not above the mountains, cast a
glimmering light upon the rocky hills just opposite,
and produced a fine effect. These circumstances,
together with the awful silence around, would have
persuaded us we had been transferred to some other

planet."
   John Dalton was thirty years of age before he

gave any direct or special attention to chemistry, and
his first awakening arose from attending a course of

lectures on the subject, delivered by Dr Garnet at
Manchester. Though versed in experiments on
natural philosophy, he saw the advantage of the
varied and attractive illustrations of the chemist in
obtaining the approval of popular audiences; and

wishing to utilise his knowledge, wrote to his brother
in June 1796, that he had some thoughts of delivering
a course of lectures at Kendal that summer, including
six on physics and six on chemistry. "Twenty sub
scribers at half a guinea would be a sufficient induce
ment to commence." Here it is seen that the sum of

ten guineas was all he aimed at for twelve lectures to
be delivered at Kendal, two days' journey from Man
chester, and with the probability of having to purchase
new apparatus, chemicals, and other adjuvantia.

    After an interval of nearly five years (his essay on
Colour-blindness being read in October 1794), Dalton
made his second communication to the Philosophical
             His Theory of Aqueous Vapour.                 135

Society, entitled -- " Experiments and Observations
to determine whether the Quantity of Rain and Dew
is equal to the Quantity of Water carried off by the

Rivers, and raised by Evaporation : with an Inquiry
into the Origin of Springs." Read March 1, 1799
(Memoirs, vol. v. p. 346).

   As a matter of supposition rather than evidence,
Dalton concluded in favour of their equiponderance ;
the more valuable part of his essay contains his first
distinct enunciation of the theory of aqueous vapour.

   " 1. That aqueous vapour is an elastic fluid sui

generis, diffusable in the atmosphere, but forming

no chemical combination with it.
    " 2. That temperature alone limits the maximum of

vapour in the atmosphere.
"
       That  there  exists  at  all  times,  and  in  all  places,
   3.

a quantity of aqueous vapour in the atmosphere,

variable according to circumstances."
   Count Rumford having attempted to show " that

water, and by analogy, all other fluids, do not trans

mit heat in the manner that solids do ; but circulate

it solely by the internal motion of their particles,"

Dalton (April 12, 1799), read to the Philosophical
Society an essay on the " Power of Fluids to Conduct

Heat" (Memoirs, vol. v. p. 373), based on numerous

experiments, and calculated to affect the accuracy of

the Count's conclusions. Dalton's method of inquiry

was original, and in writing to his brother, March 28,
1799,he says: -- Ihave latelybeen making some curious

experiments on the congelation of water in certain cir

cumstances. I have cooled it down to S°or 6° without
freezing, by putting it into a thermometer tube. I find
1 36 John Dalton.

above 15° or 20°; when it does freeze it is instantan

eous, and the liquor shoots up the tube as if ejected

by a syringe, and often bursts the tube with a report."

  At first he supposed the degree of greatest conden

sation of water to be at 42° Fahrenheit ; that water
expands below 420 exactly as it does above --namely,
according to the number of degrees. Afterwards he
found it needful to correct many of his numerical

results, and shifted his ground from 420 to 360 and
38° as the point of greatest condensation of water.
To-day chemists accept Messrs Playfair and Joule's
determination of 39/ 101° Fahrenheit.

   In May 1800, Dalton was elected Secretary to the
Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester, in
the place of Dr William Harvey. This office he

retained until the year 1808, when he was made

Vice-President in the room of Dr Roget.
   In 1 8 17 he was raised to the highest dignity in the

Society, and continued to occupy the President's
chair during the remainder of his life. The Society
practised a generous liberality towards Dalton, who

contributed so largely to its fame, nay, European
reputation, by permitting him to occupy one of the
lower rooms of the Society-house in George Street as

a study and a laboratory.
   He conferred honour on his secretaryship on June

27, 1800, by reading to the Society, "Experiments
and Observations on the Heat and Cold produced by

the Mechanical Condensation and Rarefaction of Air "

(Memoirs, vol. v. p. 515).
   He endeavoured to show "that the capacity of a

vacuum for heat is less than an equal volume of
Experimental Essays.                           137

less is its capacity for heat," indicating a mode of
ascertaining " the absolute capacity of a vacuum for
heat," and " likewise the capacity of the different

gases for heat by a method wholly new ; but this
must be left to future investigation." Dalton found

that gases expand 1-1oth of their volume, nearly for

500 of heat, or nearly 1-5ooth of their bulk ; and at

a later period of his life again took up the subject.

   In October 1801, he read to the Literary Society

the following memoirs : " Experimental Essays on

the Constitution of Mixed Gases ; on the Force of
Steam or Vapour from Water and other Liquids in

different Temperatures, both in a Torricellian Vacuum
and in Air ; on Evaporation ; and on the Expansion
of Gases by Heat " (Memoirs,
   He begins by saying, " The  vol. v. p.  335).
                               progress
                                           of philosophi

cal knowledge is advanced by the discovery of new
...lead to the establishment of general laws.
and important facts ; but much more when those facts

                                               In

the train of experiments lately engaging my attention,

some new facts have been ascertained, which, with

others, seem to authorise the deduction of general

laws, and such as will have influence in various

departments of natural philosophy and chemistry."

Contrary to what might have been expected of

Dalton, he propounded those general laws before

citing the experiments upon which they were ob

tained. However, he denied having made the

experiments in support of any preconceived theory ;
and remarked " on the contrary, the first-laid, which is

as a mirror, in which all the experiments are best

viewed, was last detected, and after all the particu
138 John Dalton.

   1. When two elastic fluids, denoted by A and B, are mixed

together, there is no mutual repulsion amongst their particles ;

that is, the particles of A do not repel those of B, as they do one

another. Consequently the pressure or whole weight upon any
one particle arises solely from those of its own kind.

   2. The force of steam from all liquids is the same, at equal
distances above or below the several temperatures, at which they
boil in the open air ; and that force is the same under any pres

sure of another elastic fluid, as it is in vacuo.
   3. The quantity of any liquid evaporated in the open air, is

directly as the force of steam from such liquid, at its tempera
ture, all the circumstances being the same.

   4. All elastic fluids expand the same quantity by heat ; and

this expansion is very nearly in the same equable way as that of

mercury, at least from 320 to 21 2°. It seems probable the ex

pansion of each particle of the same fluid, or its sphere of influ
ence, is directly as the quantity of heat combined with it ; and
consequently the expansion of the fluid as the cube of the tem
perature, reckoned from the point of total privation.

The results of these important researches on eva

poration are thus clearly summed up by Dr Balfour

Stewart in his excellent treatise  on heat (2d edit.   p.
101), " The law of evaporation,    first discovered   by
Dalton, may thus be stated -- In a space destitute of

air the vaporisation of a liquid goes on only until the

vapour has attained a determinate pressure dependent

on the temperature, so that in every space void of air

which is saturated with vapour, determinate vapour

\pressure corresponds to determinate temperature."
             "With reference to mixtures of gas and vapour in a
            confined space, Dalton's experiments lead to the fol
          lowing law :--' In a space filled with air the same
           amount of water evaporates as in a space destitute of

            air ; and precisely the same relation subsists between
More Original Essays.                                                                                       139

whether the space contains air or not.' This law ofis
Dalton was verified by Gay Lussac, but recentlyis,

Regnault has found, by more exact experiments,
that the pressure in air is always less (about 2 per
cent.) than that in vacuo ; he however, inclined to
believe that Dalton's law true in principle, and that

the deviations which he noticed are to be explained
by the hygroscopic character of the walls of the

chamber which contained the vapour."

   His essay " On the Constitution of Mixed Gases,
and particularly of the Atmosphere," was not favour

ably received, inasmuch as his views were not so very
clearly expressed, and afterwards received much
modification at his own hands. The history of the
controversy will be found in his " New System of
Chemical Philosophy," Part pp. 150-193.

   His second essay "On the Force of Steam or

Vapour from Water, and various other Liquids, both
in a Vacuum and in Air," was deemed by Dr Henry

as one of transcendent importance, as first furnishing
tabulated [data for the solution of perhaps the most
interesting problem in meteorology namely, the

calculation, after noting the dew point, of the absolute
quantity of moisture in a given volume of air. The
first sentence of the essay contains the anticipation

of a discovery subsequently made by Dr Michael
Faraday. Dalton's words are -- " There can scarcely
be doubt entertained respecting the reducibility of

all elastic fluids, of whatever kind, into liquids and
we ought not to despair of effecting in low tempera

tures, and by strong pressure exerted upon the un
a
                                                i.

                                                                                     :

                                               it
                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                         ;
140 John Dalton.

ether, spirits of wine, water of ammonia, solution of
muriate of lime, mercury and sulphuric acid, led him to
entertain as a general law, " that the variation of the
force of vapour from all liquids is the same for the
same variation of temperature, reckoning from vapour of
any given force ; thus, assuming a force equal to 30
inches of mercury as the standard, it being the force
of vapour from any liquid boiling in the open air, we
find aqueous vapour loses half its force by a diminu
tion of 30° of temperature ; so does the vapour of any
other liquid lose half its force by diminishing its
temperature 300 below that in which it boils, and the
like for any other increment or decrement of heat."

Nothing could well appear more unlike in character
than the six liquids operated upon by Dalton ; and

though the law he laid down does not universally

obtain, "it is nevertheless remarkable," observes

Gmelin, "that this law is pretty nearly true in the
case of many substances." Dalton's views received
further sanction at the hands of such great authorities

as Arago, Faraday, and Dove, who have shown that
although the hypothesis does not hold generally, it

is approximately true for short distances on each side
of the boiling point in a large number of instances.

    Though Dalton experimented largely before offer
ing his opinions " On Evaporation, " it does not seem
needful to do more than draw attention to the fact of
its appearing with his other essays of greater import.
 His essay, " On the Expansion of Elastic Fluids by
 Heat," arising, in part, from a discussion in which
 several French savans took part, led to greater results.
 Dalton ascertained by repeated experiments that
The Expansion of Elastic Fluids.  141

and common pressure expand to 1325 volumes, when
heated to the temperature of 21 2°, and he concluded

that any gas at any temperature increases in volume
for a rise of one degree by a constant fraction of

its bulk at that temperature. He also found that

hydrogen, oxygen, carbonic acid gas, and nitrous

gas, expand to the same amount as common air ; the

minute differences observed being attributable to the

presence of aqueous vapour. Gay Lussac obtained in

the same year (1801) results differing but slightly
from those of Dalton, the expansion for a single

degree of Fahrenheit being, according to Gay Lussac,

yg^ of the primitive volume at 32°, and according to

Dalton T|-5. Magnus and Regnault, by more exact
experiments, have determined the expansion to be

T|T, and their experiments leave little doubt that Gay

Lussac's method of expressing the law is much

nearer the truth than Dalton's.

   From these experiments Dalton was led to conclude
" that all elastic fluids, under the same pressure, ex

pand equally by heat, and that for any given ex

...pansion of mercury the corresponding expansion
of air is proportionally something less, the higher
                  It seems, therefore, that
the temperature.

general laws respecting the absolute quantity and

the nature of heat are more likely to be derived from

elastic fluids than from other substances. . . . As

every other liquid we are acquainted with is found to

expand more in the higher than in the lower tempera

tures, analogy is in favour of the conclusions of De

Luc, that mercury does the same." It is scarcely
possible, writes Dr Henry, p. 37-8, to over-estimate the
142 JoTm Dalton.

affirmed to lie at the basis of the profound and hither
to unrivalled Memoir, by MM. Dulong and Petit, on

the "Measure of Temperature." . . . "It is well known

that their singularly precise experiments signally
confirmed Dalton's sagacious inferences from his less
exact researches."

   Dr Henry has dwelt at some length on these four
remarkable essays, because, as he says, " independently
of their momentous bearing on meteorological science,
they are deeply stamped with the impress of Dalton's
genius, and furnish instructive types of his modes of
working and thinking. His instruments of research,
chiefly made by his own hands, were incapable of
affording accurate results, and his manner of experi
menting was loose, if not slovenly. His numerical

determinations have not, therefore, like even the

earlier analyses of Prout, been confirmed by sub
sequent inquiries. Still his experiments, though
wanting the exactitude of modern research, were not
unskilfully devised, and were most sagaciously inter
preted. They were, perhaps, such as were most
needed at the close of the last century, when so many
fields of experimental research were untilled, that
bold tentative incursions into new domains of thought,
large groupings, and happy generalisations of ap

proximate results were more effective instruments

of advance than scrupulous precision in details. At

all events, from these imperfect experiments, Dalton
arrived at the discovery of those general laws of
evaporation, and of the relation of air with moisture,
which were translated by Biot into the exact language
of analytical formulae, and which still constitute the
                   CHAPTER VIII.

          " There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
                   Than are dreamt of in your philosophy." --
                                                                            Shakespeare.

elements of engl1sh grammar --an excurs1on --var1ety of
     correspondence-- grammar and pup1ls --the atmosphere
     --f1rst 1nd1cat1ons of mult1ple proport1on -- elast1c
      flu1ds-- absorpt1on of gases -- atom1c weights and 1ndex
     to atom1c theory.

           ^ALTON'S educational and scientific walk

                 was varied and laborious to a degree almost
                unprecedented in the pages of biography.

               His faithful plodding truly merited, and
in due time, met with paramount success. Happily,

in his struggles for a bread-and-butter existence, and
his more earnest solicitation for philosophical inspira
tion, he possessed a hardy and robust constitution,
and a northern temperament that found its most
fitting stimulus in mental efforts and continuous
work. How few men, even of the hardy Teutonic
race, could have sustained the long and tedious hours
that saw Dalton engrossed with the duties of teaching
arithmetic and grammar to " young ideas ! " Yet
these compulsory engagements were as the play
things to his mind, whose proper pabulum was to
be found in experimental research and abstruse
144 John Dalton.

   As an instance of his diverging from his ordinary
course of study, may be quoted the fact mentioned
to his brother in a letter, dated April 14, 1794, of his
reading Euler,Bernouille,and DAlembert on "Sound ;"
finding, as he says, " no English author comparable
to them." The business of teaching still pressed

upon his other work ; and in December of the same

year he writes to his brother --" My time at present

is much taken up with tuition at home and in the

town together, so that I can scarcely turn to any

particular mathematical or philosophical pursuit ; but

occasionally of late I have been attending to the

philosophy of grammar, and to that of sound."
Again, in 1801, he writes-- "Since the year came in

I have not been much troubled with Vennui. Eight

regular pupils by day, and as many more in the

evenings, to whom I have sometimes given fifteen

lessons a week ; my Grammar in the press --the whole
of it to write over and to retouch, and to attend to
the press -- have required a considerable activity both
of body and of mind."

   As his classes at the Academy in Manchester were
as miscellaneous as the scholars of any school requir
ing indoctrination in English grammar, and as his

method of teaching did not exactly coincide with the
published authorities on the subject, he deemed it
right to issue a work of his own. His first edition of
the " Elements of English Grammar " is dated March

10, 1801, and although it is doubtful if it met with

much success in point of sale,* a second edition was

   * In confirmation of this view, it is said that Dalton, a few years
afterwards, went into the shop of the publishers of his Grammar and
His English Grammar.  145

issued in 1803 (Ostell, Ave Maria Lane, London,
12mo, pp. 122). The book was dedicated to John
Home Tooke, M.P., to whom he expressed his obli
gations in the following terms : " To the literary
world it will be unnecessary to observe that in this

department, etymology, I have drawn a great deal
Ifrom one source; but have not rested satisfied with

the ipse dixit of the author of ' The Diversions of

Purley,' when time and opportunity afforded me
means of confirmation and inquiry." He writes to

his brother: "I have sent a copy to Home Tooke,

but he has got things to attend to now, instead of
works'.' This was in allusion to Mr Tooke being
then arraigned on a charge of high treason.

    This concisely-written Grammar found favour with

some literary critics, and was not without a certain
degree of merit, were it only as an innovation on the

grammatical systems then in use. Thus, he banished

the articles from the parts of speech, and associates
them with the adjectives under the title of definitives.

   At p. 8, he says --

   " It may be taken as an axiom that all time or duration, in
the strictness of the terms, is either past or future. But for the
purposes of speech we must have a present time of some dura

tion, which must necessarily be comprised of a portion of the

past and a portion of the future, having the present, now or
instant, as a boundary between them. Its length may be what

we please to make it.
   " Grammatically speaking, therefore, there are three times,

present, past, and future ; though strictly and mathematically
speaking, we can admit only two, past and future," &c.

insisting upon a more careful search, a dusty corner revealed a large  r
parcel of his Grammars. The opinion prevailed that few were sold

                                                                 K
146 John Dalton.

The Rev. Sydney Smith, in one of his amusing

contributions to the Edinburgh Review, avowed his

belief that if " Quakers" had prevailed in numbers, the

world would have been a very stupid and dull affair.

Not improbably he formed his estimate from some

demure Obadiah, or ancient spinster Tabitha of the

order drab,   as little  seen  now-a-days     as the  "  ultra
" broad-brim  beaver "         coal-scuttle  bonnet      of a
                         or "

past generation.    Though stiff in manners, and formal
in phraseology,   the " Friends " are a worthy people,

who cultivate the homely virtues, and enjoy the ame

nities of life as happily as any class of her Majesty's

subjects. Their youths are well trained in schools of

their own persuasion ; where order, occupation, and

the culture of independent     habits and    resources,  are
                               " Friends "     are neat   in
strongly inculcated. All

their attire and personal and domestic relations ; they

are much given to hospitality and social fraternisation

with members of their own order; and their homes

are enjoyable. Another feature of their lives is a

tendency to holiday-making and travelling to and fro

visiting their brethren --a cheap and pleasant mode of

being entertained whilst gathering a knowledge of the

outer world.

   John Dalton, like his fraternity, had a great pen
chant for rambling during the summer months ; and
one of these excursions may be appropriately intro

duced here by quotations from a long letter of his to
Elihu Robinson. Though not in exact chronological

order, the letter may be viewed as episodical to the

general narrative, and help to lighten the dry scienti

fic details prevailing towards the close of this chapter.
              A Pleasant Excursion.                    147

Hannah." The young Quaker pedestrians lost their
geographical bearings in a way to make them the

laughing-stock of an English village.

                                    Manchester, ut month, 27th, 1798.

Dear Cous1n, -- It is now three months since I received thy

kind notice of my letter of last summer. My engagements of

teaching in public and private, together with my own literary

pursuits and the necessity of frequent visits amongst an exten

sive acquaintance, occupy my time so regularly from 8 in the

morning to 12 at night, that I rarely find an opportunity for
occasional correspondence. However, I mean herein to give

thee a further account of our tour, agreeable to thy request ;

only I am afraid that some part will only be a tale twice told,
as I am not aware of what I wrote last.

We had a very pleasant passage across the Mersey from

Liverpool towards Chester (about 12 miles), and had a fine view
of Beeston Castle (about 30 miles), whither we were aiming ; we
reached Chester in the canal boat about 5, and having drank

tea, started on foot for Tarporley (10 miles), anticipating the
twofold pleasure of a fine view from the castle the next day, and

of there partaking of a cold collation in the open air in company

with my amiable friend Eliza Rothwell and her daughters, who

were on a visit. They had, however, been suddenly and

unexpectedly called home the day before ; but had taken care

to secure us a welcome reception at their friend's house, which

was situate on a hill about three miles from the castle, and in

full view of  valley intervening. In the morning we had no
              it,
sooner drawn aside the curtains, than the rising sun shone ina

upon us, and discovered the most elegant lodging room was;
                                                    I

ever in. But that was not all the views from the windows on
                                 ;

                                     it

                                                 ;
two sides of the room were exquisite we seized upon a large

reflecting telescope and pointed to the castle before we were

dressed. After spending the morning there we went over to the

castle, which answered our expectation, and then proceeded to

Whitchurch that night. Rose at and would go to Wem to
                                 f
breakfast (11 miles) when we had gone two, came to a village6,
where we were told to inquire for a ootroad which was about three
148 John Dalton.

cross roads at the village, and we asked at a flax shop on our left,

which was the short road, and were directed to turn to our left

at a barn, &c, &c., and found all as was told ; presuming, how

ever, that the main road was right forward ; but it happened to
be a road still more to the left, as we found to our cost in the

sequel. An hour after we got into the main road at right angles

to our last track, and turned of course to the left ; soon after

came to a stone, but its inscription defaced. We rested awhile,

and a person came up who told it was four miles to Wem ;

unfortunately, we were standing still when we asked. We pro

ceeded, and another stone presented itself likewise defaced,

which we called three, and going on we began to look long for

two, when we entered a village where were many cross roads.

My companion, impatient for his breakfast, would inquire of

somebody, and stepped aside to a shop on his right, whilst I
                                --pos"t.WeI
/went up to a guide          :                had     not   got up to it  before I heard
                                             have
a voice behind me                                     been  here before   this morning!'
I went on, -- it repeated, "                    say,    we  have been     here before this

I Im" oWrneilnl,g."   "What dost thou        mean?" said I, turning round;

                   say we have been here      before this morning, this is the

flax shop inquired at before, and yonder is the barn'' I per
ceived it was so. The very same men that had directed us

before came out, and seemed as much surprised as we, inquir

ing whether we had been at Wem, as we had asked of them the

way about two hours before. Our surprise and chagrin may be

easily conceived. They told us to go back the way we had

last come, and then they defied us to get wrong ; which we did
"acNceovrdeirngtoly.leavIen
                              this manner    we paid         for a piece of advice,
                             the main road   without        knowing well on which

hand you have it." We could get nothing but bread and water
till we got to Wem at 1 1, and then we had each about eight or

ten cups of coffee.

He visited Shrewsbury, Coalbrookdale, Birming

ham, &c. ; his comments thereon need not detain the

reader. After spending a fine day at Blenheim House,
he continues :--

At Oxford we had a line to one of the Fellows, who showed
His Description of Ross.  149

libraries, gardens,' buildings, &c. At Slough, we 'saw Dr
Herschel's great telescope ; and the royal family at Windsor ;
also the college at Eton. The places we visited, and the obser
vations made in the metropolis, I must omit, as they would
require some room. In going down to Bristol we stopped a few
days at Wilton, at a gentleman's house, where we had an intro

duction ; here we had a full opportunity of visiting Salisbury,

Lord Pembroke's, &c, not forgetting Old Sarum, Stonehenge.
Thou inquirest more particularly about Ross.

   We travelled from Monmouth by Ross to Hereford in one

day ; it is twenty-five miles direct, but we made nearly thirty.
Betwixt Monmouth and Ross, we left the road and followed the

meandering Wye, surrounded by the most picturesque scenery
that can be imagined ; there is a plain about 100 yards broad
along the Wye at that place, and the banks rise very abruptly

from that plain on each side to a great height, interspersed with

trees of various kinds, and rocks rising up amongst them, vying
with the trees in height. At one place we disputed whether the

appearances were natural or artificial ; whether the remains of
an old castle, or some vagaries of nature ; in consequence of
which we climbed the hill, and had scarcely satisfied ourselves,

when looking round we discovered a profusion of plants we had
never before seen, and several of the more rare ones which we

had seen. These things took up so much of our time and

attention, that if we had met the Man of Ross himself we could
scarcely have stopped to ask him how he did. We were an
hour in Ross, and dined there ; it is a neat and pleasant town ;

we inquired what there was to be seen, and were informed,

nothing so remarkable as a view from the churchyard. We went,

 and were gratified with a sight which immediately suggested to
us both the view from Windsor Terrace ; it was indeed nearly
equal to it. The church stands upon a hill, neat and well built,
 with a noble spire ; the yard, walks, &c., remarkably neat, and
fine green turf. Of the alms-house we heard nothing. We

 walked over the causeway indeed, but knew not that we were
upon hallowed ground! till we got to Liverpool. Then we
learned that a causeway we remembered very well in coming
 out of Ross was that in question ; it is on the road in a low

                                                                   /
150 John Dalton.

height, I think, by one or more arches, and paved for about 100
yards. I remember when we passed
                                         horseman chose to
                        a
                                     it,
                                         a

                                        I
                                              I
ride over and leapt the bar at the end. Were to go again,
I

                  it,
should wish to spend more time at Ross.  do not mean so

much to compliment Eaglesfield as to decry Montgomery in

what said. When one goes to county town, and has to look
   I

at every house side for a painted board, and when they have

found one, they have not one spare bed for a couple of tra

vellers,                not to be expected that visitants will go away with
I

              it
                    is
a good report. With respect to Wales in general, thou thinkest
  am too severe. In Cumberland every other man one meets has

a little estate which he cultivates himself, and enjoys the pro;

duce but in Wales they are all labourers, the masters are never
seen, they are not in the country. How can a " Philanthropic

Philosopher" observe these things without emotion
                                         I
                                               ?

                                                        aI
   paid visit this winter to Kendal, and to my esteemed
I

              a

friend John Fell of Ulverston, in whose family, consisting of
himself, wife, daughter Margaret, and a relation of theirs,

spent four or five days with great satisfaction. also spent

day or two at Lancaster for the first time since the death of

my fellow-traveller. His amiable sister Hannah has never been

well since.

   must now conclude, with my continued respects for cousin
I

                   is

                                          ;

                             I
                                                                    I
Ruth and thyself and the remembrance of my other friends at
Eaglesfield grateful. -- remain, &c.,
                                         John Dalton.

  P.S.-- As one of the committee of Friends' school here, may
observe, that we are yet in want of a master, but expect to agree

with one shortly.

   In the midst of his scientific pursuits, upon which

his energies were daily concentrated, Dalton had the
faculty of unbending himself in the society of women,

and could enter with zest into their homely wants

and pursuits, especially when they relished his con
versation and offered no objection to his use of
tobacco. The purport of the subjoined letter was to

V
       Smokes his Pipe to the Whirl-go-round.  151

comprises other subjects worth noting, both as to his

social enjoyments and the historical relations of Man

chester.
                                   ' Manchester, 2 mo., 20th, 1800.

  Dear COUSIN,-- I do not know whether I ought not to

apologise for troubling thee so often on matters of business ;

but not knowing exactly Isaac Harris' address, and wanting

simply to tell him that another wheel [small spinning-wheel] is

wanted, as like the former as may be, I thought it would be no

great inconvenience for thee to inform him. The one we have

got gives great satisfaction, and I have the pleasure of seeing it
in motion, whilst I smoke my pipe, two or three evenings in the

week, though it is more than half a mile from my lodgings. It

reminds me of some pleasant evenings spent at Eaglesfield in

times of old, and prevents me repining at the loss of them.

The second is for two younger sisters who will be anxious for

its speedy arrival.

   The high price and scarcity of flour is a serious calamity

with you, I suppose, as well as with us ; it is no trifling matter

to supply our market with 10,000 stone per week.

   In the literary and philosophical way I suppose thy curiosity

will be subsided a good deal. The Literary and Philosophical

Society of this place (a concern wholly independent of the aca

demical institution I am in) have lately erected, for themselves

to meet in once a fortnight, a very elegant building. The mem

bers are about 70, resident in Manchester. I am just making

out a statement of the expenditure : the building has cost us

about ,£800, and the furniture of the room to meet in upwards

of £100. It is said to be much more elegant than that of the
Royal Society. I read two papers last winter ; one relative to

an essay of Count Rumford; the other an inquiry whether the rain

is sufficient to supply springs and rivers, and afford enough of

water besides for the purposes of vegetation ; which I endeavour
to show is fact. The rivers of England and Wales I calculate

equal to nine times the Thames, and that they all together take

off little more than one-third of the water that falls in rain.

  I almost forgot to say anything of my fellow-traveller ; the

       iIs,

                                                                                                       ;

                                                                        is

                                                                            I
truth  have not seen him for two months he busy and am
152 John Dalton.

   We have had a severe cold or influenza here lately, which

most people have had. I never remember to have been so ill
in my life ; was confined to the house for several days. It was

attended with an extraordinary degree of languor, along with

other symptoms of a cold.

  I must conclude with my kind love to cousin Ruth and to
friends, and remain thy affectionate cousin, John Dalton.

  To El1hu Rob1nson,

          Eaglesfield, near Cockermouth.

     Here is a letter explanatory of his Grammar, and

containing good news as to the number of his pupils,
and his fees as a teacher : " not yet rich enough to
retire " :--
                                       Manchester, 3 mo., 2nd, 1802.
   Dear Cous1n, -- Having an opportunity to write thee by a
friend, I am unwilling to neglect
                                         though my time very
                                   1 it,

                                                            I is
limited.    Thy favour of the 2d of      mo. came duly.                        am
obliged   to thee for thy remarks on my  " Grammar," and          do           not

differ so widely from thee in regard to Fisher's for, think
                                                         I;
                                                               ;it I
upon the whole,        I it    as good as any that has succeeded               but

                           is
at the same time think they are all very bad, or should not

have been at the trouble to write one principally for my own
use. am now in the practice of teaching and find the
   I                                                     it,
       I                                                                   it

                   it
most intelligible to my young people of any they have met with.

     believe has not yet been reviewed whether through the
                                         :I ;
                                                I
negligence of my bookseller or the reviewers, know not, and

have been too busy to mind till lately               wrote my bookseller
                               it

a few days ago on the subject. Some of my friends gave
Morris Birkbeck a copy, and he did not like at first; but
                                                         it
upon a second perusal he became a convert.                    have seen
                                                           I

Wilson's edition of Fisher, but do not recollect particulars. It

certainly makes against an elementary treatise, and especially

one  on grammar,           the language be notif     intelligible. It seems
the  expression, "     Diversions of Purley,"        * not easily under-
                                                     is

"  * This must         refer to John Home Tooke's     publication in 1786, of
   Diversions of       Purley," the latter of which  names was given to the
" Not yet Rich Enough to Retire!'             153

stood without some notes critical and explanatory. Please
then to take the following :--

   Explanatory Note. -- Purley is the name of the house or place

where the author resides ; it is noted by the author as being the

residence of Bradshaw, the President on King Charles's trial.
It is about a mile from Wandsworth, Surrey.

   Critical Note. -- The title " Diversions" seems very inappropriate

to a learned dissertation on the origin and structure of language ;

perhaps it was a little vanity in the author to denominate what

some people would think very laborious investigations by the

name of diversions. However that might be, his Greek title

['E7rea HrepoevTa] is appropriate enough, signify ing "Winged
Words," to denote the speed with which language conveys

ideas.

  My Academy has done very well for me hitherto. I have about

eight or nine day pupils at a medium, at ten guineas per annum,

and am now giving upwards of twenty lessons per week, pri

vately, at two shillings each besides. [I] am not yet rich enough

to retire, notwithstanding.

With my kind love to cousin Ruth, thyself, and other friends,
I remain, in haste,          JOHN Dalton.

To El1hu Rob1nson.

   On November 12th, 1802, Dalton read to the Liter
ary and Philosophical Society an " experimental

inquiry into the proportion of the several gases or

elastic fluids constituting the atmosphere." (Memoirs,
Second Series, vol. i. p. 244). These he ascertained
by weight to be :

Azotic gas           *              7555
Oxygenous gas                       2332
Aqueous vapour
Carbonic acid gas                      1-03
                                         "1o

                                   loo-oo

This essay is of no small interest as one of his

                                                                       y
     1 54 John Dalton.

     assumes historic value as announcing in the combi
     nations of oxygen and nitrous gas (now called nitric
     oxide gas) the first example of the law of multiple

    proportions. In describing the various eudiometrical

     processes then in use, he preferred the nitrous gas
     method. The oxygen contained in 1oo measures of
     common air, he found, would combine, in a narrow
     tube, with 36 of pure nitrous gas, forming nitric
     acid; or with 72, in a wide vessel, forming nitrous
     acid. The residuum in each experiment was 79 or 80
     measures of pure nitrogen gas. " These facts clearly
     point out the theory of the process : the elements of
     oxygen may combine with a certain portion of nitrous
     gas, or with twice that portion, but with no inter
     mediate quantity." His general conclusion from his
     own experiments, and those of Davy, was, that 100
     volumes of air consist of 79 of nitrogen and 21 of
     oxygen, numbers nearly accordant with the later ones
     of Dumas.

        He was strongly of opinion that the proportions of
     these gases would differ at various elevations ; and
     that at the height of Mont Blanc the ratio of oxygen
     gas to nitrogen, in a given volume of air, would be
     nearly as 20 to 80 ; but the observations of Gay
     Lussac showed the relative composition of air brought
     from an elevation of four miles, to be the same as

     that at the earth's surface.
        This subject was one of lasting interest to Dalton,

     and his more mature views will fall better under con
    sideration here than in a subsequent page. In his
     Memoir, " On the Constitution of the Atmosphere,"
     published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1826,

*
On the Constitution of the Atmosphere.                                           155

the uniform diffusion of elastic fluids through each

other is occasioned by the repulsion of the element

ary particles of the same kind, which appears to

force them through most bodies, as well solid and

liquid as aerial, except glass and the metals ; or

whether it is caused by attraction or chemical affi

nity : " and adds, " I have long been inclined to

adopt the former notion, as most consistent with

the phenomena." It is less needful to dwell on the

theoretical considerations adduced in this Memoir,

as a sequel to     recording his final opinions, was
;
read on June 15th, 1837, and published in the
                a it,Philosophical Transactions of that year (x. p. 347).
He describes his experiments on air obtained by
                                       ;
himself from the summit of Helvellyn, about 3000

feet above the level of the sea by                          friend, at
                                          ;

                                                     a

                                                                              ;
various stations in Switzerland, about 6000 feet and

by Mr Green, in balloon, at elevations of 9600 feet
and 15,000 feet. This last air yielded 20.59 anc*

20.65 oxygen per cent. while air collected in Man

chester the same   day gave 20.95         on the            average of
five experiments.    He concluded                           in elevated
                                           that "

regions the proportion of oxygen to azote some
                                                            is

what less than at the surface of the earth, but not

nearly so much as the theory of mixed gases would

require and that the reason for this last must be

found in the incessant agitation in the atmosphere

from winds and other causes." Dr Henry found in

Dalton's   leatttemr-obsopohkeric(Feabirr--ua"ryWi1l8l 36)    the following
notice on                                                   not be thought
                                          it

                                                                     is
remarkable that in 1836 the British chemists are
ignorant* whether attraction, repulsion, or indifference

                                                                                      ·"
156 John Dalion.

marked when a mixture of any proportions of azote
                        "
and  oxygen  is  made
                       ?

   That which Dalton conceived within the scope of

British chemists in 1836, is still a matter sub judice ;

but what evidence is adduced, and notably by Gay

Lussac, Regnault, and Bunsen, is in favour of the

variation in the composition of the atmosphere at all

attainable elevations as regards oxygen and nitrogen

being very small, and not exceeding the slight

changes which are noticed at the same spot on

different days.

   He read an essay of considerable interest on Janu
ary 28, 1803, " On the Tendency of Elastic Fluids to

Diffusion through each other." He took two phials,

filled with different gases, and connected them to

gether by a glass tube 10 inches long and ^r mcn

bore. In all cases, the heavier gas was in the under

phial ; yet, after the lapse of a certain time, the gases
were uniformly diffused through each other in both

phials. Thus he proved that elastic fluids of different
specific gravities, if once diffused through each other,

do not separate by long standing, so that the heaviest

is found lowest, but remain in a state of uniform and

equal diffusion. These phenomena of diffusion were

afterwards investigated very thoroughly by Professor

Graham, who determined the beautiful law that the

rate at which gases diffuse is inversely as the square

root of the densities of the gases.

The year 1803 showed a large amount of good and

the knowledge then extant on the conditions of the atmosphere, as he

was with the ideas generally prevalent regarding the height of the
aurora borealis, to which reference has been made in p. 95 of this
          On the A bsorption of Gases.                 157

original work done by Dalton, and was probably the

most prolific in scientific gains of any year that he

had spent in Manchester from 1793 to 1803. Be
fitting the close of this first decennial period, so

truly fertile in the growth of great ideas that

tended to elevate the author to high rank among

the savans of Europe, Dalton read        (October 21,
1803) a paper " On the Absorption        of Gases by

Water and other Liquids," which contains the

first announcement of his discovery of the laws

of combining proportion and the germ of the

Atomic Theory. After stating the laws which

he had found to regulate the absorption of gases

by water, he contends that gases such as oxy

gen, nitrogen, carbonic acid, &c., when in aqueous

solution, are mechanically mixed with water, not

chemically combined with it--a view that has not

met with general approval. He compared his gas
dissolved in water to a pile of shot, --" a particle of

gas pressing on the surface of water is analogous to

a single shot pressing upon the summit of a square
                 "
pile  of  them      and  to  make  this  distinct  to  his
                ;

readers, inserted an engraving of a pyramidal pile of

balls left unshaded, with a dark ball surmounting the
apex. " The lower globes are to represent particles

of water, the top globe a particle of air resting on

particles of water." Two other engravings show a
" horizontal view of air in water," and a " profile

view of air in water," in which dots and crosses are

taken to represent particles of air, with spaces of

water between them.

These engravings are viewed by Dr George Wil
158 John Dalton.

hold which a belief in the atomic constitution

of matter had taken of Dalton's mind, and the

use which he made of it in discussing purely phy
sical problems (or, at least, what he considered such),
before he had occasion to apply it to chemical ques

tions at all."

   The concluding paragraph of the Memoir on " Ab
sorption," is the first clear indication of his greatest

discovery, and is best introduced in his own words,

some of which I have taken the liberty to place in

italics as worthy of special notice :--
   " The greatest difficulty attending the mechanical

hypothesis arises from different gases observing dif

ferent laws. Why does water not admit its bulk of

every kind of gas alike ? This question I have duly
considered, and though I am not yet able to satisfy
myself completely, I am nearly persuaded that the

circumstances depend upon the weight and number
of the ultimate particles of the several gases, those

whose particles are lightest and single, being least

absorbable, and the others more, according as they

increase in weight and complexity. An inquiry into

I Ithe relative weights of the ultimate particles of bodies is
a subject, as far as  know, entirely new.  have

lately been prosecuting this inquiry with remarkable

success. The principle cannot be entered upon in

this paper ; but I shall just subjoin the results,

as far as they appear to be ascertained by my

experiments."

   Then follows a Table (read October 1803, but
published November 1805) of the Relative Weights
of the Ultimate Particles of Gaseous and Other
Bodies : --
           Foreshadowings of the A tomic Theory.      159

Hydrogen,                 r Nitrous oxide,            137

Azote, .                  4-2 Sulphur,                14-4
Carbon,                   43 Nitric acid, .           152

Ammonia,                  5-2 Sulphuretted hydrogen, I5-4

Oxygen,                   5-5 Carbonic acid,          l5-3
Water, .                  6-5 Alcohol,                151

Phosphorus, .             7-2 Sulphurous acid, .      199

Phosphuretted hydrogen. 8'2 Sulphuric acid,           25 '4

Nitrous gas, .            93 Carburetted hydrogen, .  6-3
Ether, .                  96 defiant gas, .
                                                      53

Gaseous oxide of carbon,  9-8

" Such, then," writes Dr Wilson, "were the steps by

which Dalton was conducted to the discovery of the

laws of combining proportions. He was testing, by
experiment, the truth of a hypothesis as to the cause
of the specific solubility of gases in water, which

proved in the end to be quite untenable ; but, like

Columbus, who missed an El Dorado but found an

America, he discovered something better. From
what Dr Thomson tells us, he was struck by observ

ing that the quantity of hydrogen in fire-damp is

exactly twice that in heavy carburetted hydrogen,

the quantity of carbon being the same in both. His
constant reference of the properties of masses to those

of their smallest molecules, led him at once to connect

these proportions in which the carbon and hydrogen

occurred, with the relative weights of their attracted
particles." Dr Wilson supposes that Dalton reasoned
thus : " Hydrogen and carbon are made up of par

ticles which have different weights, the carbon atoms

being all six times heavier than the hydrogen ones ;

but if hydrogen and carbon have atoms differing in

relative weight, oxygen, nitrogen, and every other
elementary substance will have atoms differing in
160 John Dalton.

by finding the relative weights according to which
the masses made up of them combine with each

other. To Dalton's mind, fitted, as it were, already
with the conception of everything consisting of atoms,
it was only necessary to introduce the additional idea
of those atoms differing in relative weight, and all
the laws of combining proportion rose at once into
view. He was gifted with a bold, self-reliant, far-

glancing, generalising spirit, and the researches he
had long been prosecuting had doubtless strength
ened greatly that faith in the uniformity of Nature's
laws, which we all inherit as an essential part of our
mental constitution. We may believe that, without

an effort, and almost instinctively, he would infer that

if hydrogen followed a law of multiple proportion in

its higher combinations with carbon, a similar relation
would be found to hold in every case where the same

elements united to form more than one compound."
   Dalton's views of chemical combination, including

both the facts and the hypothesis which expressed
and explained them, are generally known as his
                     CHAPTER IX.

A SKETCH OF THE ATOMIC THEORY FROM THALES
                       TO SIR ISAAC NEWTON.

        "For hot, cold, moist, and dry, four champions fierce,

            Strive here for mastery, and to battle bring
           Their embryon atoms." -- M1lton.

         JIOEVAL with the manifestation of the rea
              soning faculties--that far and pre-historic
              past of man's development --the constitu

                tion of the earth and its different aspects
and surroundings would hardly fail to excite the
imagination of the denizens of the wilde; and, in
the course of time, natural phenomena would offer

large discussion to the better endowed of the race. A

recognition, however faint, of the external world and
its living beings, would gratify the dawning mind, and
vie in interest with the contemplation of the gods,
whose attributes were not seldom associated with both
human and terrestrial agencies. In scanning these
agencies endless speculations arose, as fanciful in tone
 as they were ephemeral in duration; each new thought
 proving as baffling as its predecessor in the attempted
 solution of the great problem :--What is the con
 stitution, the ultimate composition, or real nature of
 matter itself ?

    The bold expounders of the cosmogony undertook

                                                              L
1 62 John Dalton.

tricacies of nature often failed, they found it con
venient to follow the example of the theogonists, and
shelter their ignorance under the shadows of the
mythological altars of their age and race--an orthodox
mode of treating scientific difficulties that is not
without its counterpart in the history of the state
churches of these latter days. The progress of
knowledge might well be dilatory amid the almost
impenetrable mists of superstition in the past, when
to-day the cry of " more light " is still so audible
among the adepts of science ; and this, be it remem
bered, after eighteen centuries of Christian indoc

trination, itself ushered into the world upon a large
substratum of man's intellectual gains.

   History has made us cognisant of the varied
acquirements of the Eastern nations; of the mar
vellous skill and aptitude of the Egyptians ; of the
nobler forms of art, the noblest ever vouchsafed to
man, being developed pari passu with the grandly
philosophic aims of the Greeks ; of the world-wide
dominion and scope of the Romans ; of the subtle
grasp of the Arabian physicians, and the erudite lore
of the schoolmen ; all operating more or less in the
direction of enlightenment and civilisation. Yet
the science of these modern days culling its data from
the great stores of evidence of the past, and favoured
by novel experimental appliances and methods of
inquiry strictly inductive, can lay claim to little more

than a firm step on the threshold of discovery.

   As of yore, so do enthusiastic minds now look

hopefully for still higher revelations in science ; and

assuredly, if there was ever an epoch in human
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  163

powers to fathom the arcana of the cosmos, it is the
present age that has been blessed, beyond all pre
cedent, by discoveries of overpowering brilliancy and

magnitude.
   Man looks upon the Earth, its waters and dry land,

and admires its meres, its meadows, and its moun
tains ; he soars for miles in its circumambient air ;

he mines its superficial crust, and fathoms its ocean
depths ; and everywhere marks a marvellous diversity
of form and substance in the stratified rock, the

tidal wave, and transparent ether. His admiration
is enhanced by contemplating the myriads of

organisms in active life, taking their start from the
primitive organic cell that in its timely growth and
maturity may become shaped into the umbrageous
palm or gnarled oak ; or find its nidus in the
higher organisation of the chimpanzee or cetacea.

Yet the organic and inorganic worlds in all their

entirety ; the blood and the life thereof, as well as
the adamantine conditions of inert matter, when sub

jected to chemical analysis, become resolved into a
few primary or elementary substances. They are
designated simple or elementary bodies, because
they can be shown to exhibit one kind of ponderable
matter only, be it light as air, or heavy as lead ; for

instance, the gases oxygen and hydrogen, or the
metals gold and silver, which the chemist has
hitherto failed to resolve into more parts or con
stituents than one.

   To-day the chemist assures us of sixty-three
elementary bodies-- some of them being little heard
of, others in vast proportion to the mass ; thus four
164 John Dalton.

constitute the whole of the organic kingdom --in
cluding all living things flourishing on the earth or

in the ocean. Reflecting on the mode in which
Nature works, and the few agencies she employs
in the formation of the most composite of her struc
tures, it is probable that in the course of time these

sixty-three elements may be reduced to a smaller
compass, and eventually man, by the aid of a higher
science, may realise the grand idea of

             One God --one Law --one Element.
    This word " element " has been in use for thou
sands of years, bearing, however, a very different
meaning to that attached to the term by modern

chemists ; thus air, water, fire, and earth, were called

 elements, and in common parlance to-day we hear
 of the watery or the fiery elements. Now air and

 water are not primary or elementary in structure,

 (though they were viewed as such till about one
 hundred years ago), but, consisting as they do of two
 or more gaseous substances, belong to the class of
 bodies designated composite' or compound. The

 chemist has no faith in substances being deemed

 elementary till his experiments, or processes of re
 duction, fail to elicit more than one kind of matter

 from his analyses.
    The nature and the number of elementary bodies

 do not affect this thesis ; but rather, having got an
 unit or element, say oxygen or gold, chlorine or
 mercury, it behoves us to know the condition of its
 minutest particle or ultimate form ? Is it solid, pene
 trable, or divisible ; and what are its relations and
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  165

of philosophy among the Greeks, if not dating back

to the Egyptians, with whom, as far as this narrative
is concerned, the Hindoos and Chinese may be
historically bracketed, the higher minds of these re
spective races were divided in opinion, not only as to

the character and import of the visible agencies in
the cosmogony, but as to the ultimate and invisible

or smallest conceivable particles of matter. And

the discussion arising thereon has been continued

down to our own day without arriving at a deter

minate or settled conclusion on the subject.
   Two theories have long been upheld, and are still

current regarding the constitution of matter.
    1. According to one class of thinkers, there is no

limit to the divisibility of matter, the smallest portion
of any substance still consisting of an infinity of parts,

which could be rendered distinct if our instruments

and senses were capable to the task.
   2. The opposing party hold that every material

mass in nature is divisible into very minute, in
destructible, and unchangeable particles ; to which
particles the name Atom -- a Greek term signifying
that which cannot be further cut or divided --has been
given. The preponderance of opinion is in favour
of this view, or the atomic constitution of bodies

upheld by Dalton, who maintained that all bodies are
composed of ultimate atoms, the weight of which is
different in different kinds of matter.

    The ancients meditated much on atoms, the primi
tive matter or essence of things, mainly, however,
from a physical point of view. And though the

opinions they advanced were not infrequently sha
166 John Dalton.

define the proximate cause or generative principle,

that in the beginning of things educed form out of
chaos, and life out of inert matter, they were not
devoid of significance in the initiatory stages of the
science. The pioneers in this path of speculation,

along which the Greek minds took foremost rank and

action, may be briefly noted.
   Thales of Miletus, styled the Father of Greek

Philosophy, originated the conception of water being
the first principle of things, the sole primeval matter
that could be rendered by some plastic power into
vital organisms, as well as the structureless inorganic.
The thought was beautiful, and seemed to flash a
significant light over the varied phenomena of nature
--water, the essential stimulus to vegetation and
animal vitality; the refreshing dew and rains, the

rivers and seas, and the pervading element seeking
the great and unknown deep.

   Then came Anaximenes trying to improve upon
Thales, and assigning to air the foremost place in his
theory of nature, nay, of such value as to be the

equivalent of intelligence, if not a kind of deity itself.

Thales and Anaximenes were but carrying out the
poetic myths of the age, and not altogether without a
glimmering of light bearing upon the chemistry of the

universe.

  A more stable doctrine than the foregoing got

promulgated by Pythagoras --the doctrine of the four
elements, culled, it is believed, along with his special
views of monads, from the land of mystery --Egypt.
This dogma found support in the experiment of
Empedocles, recorded in page 7. Democritus held
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  167

but would revert to the Thalesian view of one true

and primitive substance. These varied opinions
found disciples in the great men of the epoch. Plato
looked to the earth as fixed and penetrable, and

differing from fire, air, and water, the transmutable
elements. Aristotle held with Democritus in the
belief of one radical matter of the universe, and cast

some doubts on the four so-called elements; yet
history generally associates his name with this
quaternion, because historians were disposed to ap
prove of the doctrine, and liked a great name to

countenance their beliefs.
   Now and then in the dark vista of history, a name

shines out like Geber, the head of the polypharmists

in the eighth century, who held that arsenic, mercury,
and sulphur are the elements of all other chemicals,
and that they are mutually transmutable into one

another. He also believed that his red solution of
gold might turn out the veritable elixir of life.
Others again reverted to the ideas of the Greeks, with
their primal matter, out of which sprang four elements,

and sundry secondary and derivative chemical shapes

and shadows.
   The Hindoos had their own views of the constitu

tion of matter ; and in their reasonings upon natural

things as springing from four or five elements, they

were in the same track as the Greeks. Mr James
Mill, in his work on British India, ridicules their views
as the offspring of an erratic mind ; but Mr Colebrooke
(" Daubeny's Atomic Theory," p. 8), citing Kanadi for

his authority, shows that they regarded matter as con
sisting of the smallest possible bodies, or atoms which
168 John Dalton.

sunbeam are composed of several of them ; that a
superior force drew the atoms together; and that
the first compound is binary, consisting of two
simple atoms, the next compound of three binary

atoms, &c.

   The most striking fact in favour of the Hindoo
philosophy is furnished by Sir William Jones, from
the poem of " Shi'ri'n and Ferha'd," or " the Divine
Spirit and a Human Soul Disinterestedly Pious."

   " There is a strong propensity which dances through every
atom, and attracts the minutest particle to some peculiar object ;
search this universe from its base to its summit, from fire to air,
from water to earth, from all below the moon to all above the
celestial spheres, and thou wilt not find a corpuscle destitute of
that natural attractability ; the very point of the first thread in
this apparently entangled skein, is no other than such a prin
ciple of attraction, and all principles besides are void of a real
basis ; from such a propensity arises every motion perceived in
heavenly or in terrestrial bodies ; it is a disposition to be attracted,
which taught hard steel to rush from its place and rivet itself
on the magnet ; it is the same disposition which impels the light
straw to attach itself to the amber ; it is the quality which gives
every substance in nature a tendency toward another, and an
inclination forcibly directed to a determinate point."

   It would appear that the orthodox priesthood of

the Hindoos objected to this atomic doctrine, as too
materialistic ; the same scruples arose in Greece : and

it is doubtful if nineteenth-century England is alto
gether free of men of professedly philosophic turn,
who look harshly upon the carrying out of the atomic

doctrines to their fullest extent.

   If the Oriental sages recognised the fact of matter

being ponderable and permanent, the Greeks, and
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.            169

inspired by a higher genius that partly uplifted the

veil of Chaos, and admitted a designing intelligence or

vovs in the arrangement of matter, were led to the hy
pothesis of its composition of molecular, or indivisible

and indestructible atoms. The speculations of these
and other learned Greeks as to the constitution of the

universe, show a remarkable coincidence with the views

that have been educed from the researches of modern

philosophers of our own epoch. Aristotle   (Met. 1. ch.
4) wrote : " Leucippus and his companion  Democritus

say that the plenum and the vacuum (or the full and

the empty) are elements . . . and that these are

causes, as matter, of things which are . . . And they

say that different things are produced by the differ
ences as to these ; which differences are-- 1. of form,
as A. differs from N ; 2. of arrangement, as A.N.

differs from N.A; 3. of position, as Z. differs from N."

Leucippus looked upon the cosmos as produced by

the falling together of small indivisible particles or

stones, which he viewed as the principle of things ;

and which possess a rapid circular motion. Democritus

extended the views of his master, and held the

atoms to be too small to be visible, yet they were

indivisible, impenetrable, and unalterable. As the

atoms were infinite in number, the vacuum was

infinite in magnitude. From the meeting of atoms in

vacuum, sensible qualities of matter arise, e.g., heat,

cold, sweetness, colour, which qualities exist only vofim
(by convention), "only atoms and vacuum really exist."

Again, he says, there are various shapes ; so every

thing was referred to atoms, to which simple bodies he

gave shape, extension, and force. They were the
170 John Dalton.

them by configuration, combination, and position.
Leucippus and Democritus alike held that the
number and the shapes of the atoms are both in

finite.

   Here is presented to us the atomic theory of the
Greeks, as laid down by Democritus, and which was
fu rther elaborated by Epicurus.

   "The atomic philosophy of Epicurus," as sketched by Dr Good
in his ," Book of Nature," " allows of nothing but matter and

space, which are equally infinite and unbounded, which have

equally existed from all eternity, and from different combinations

of which every visible form is created. . . . Matter, in its ele

mentary state, consists of inconceivably minute seeds, or atoms

so small, that the corpuscles of vapour, light, and heat, are com

pounds of them ; and so solid, that they cannot possibly be broken

or abraded by any concussion or violence whatever. The express

....figure of these primary atoms is various, but not infinitely

diversified ; the atoms of each existing shape being infinite or
innumerable.

   " When these primary atoms are closely compacted, and but

little vacuity lies between them, they produce solids, such as

stones and metals ; when they are loose and disjointed, bodies

of "laTxhteexwtuorerl,d,asthwuosodg,enwearateter,d,anisd  vapour.      sustained  by  the
                                                          perpetually

application of fresh tides of elementary atoms, flying with incon

ceivable rapidity through infinite space, and occupying the posts

of those that are perpetually flying off. Yet nothing is eternal

or immutable, but these elementary atoms themselves.
   " Space is infinite, material atoms are infinite, but the world

is not infinite. This, then, is not the only world, nor the only

material system that exists. The cause that has produced this
visible system is competent to produce others ; it has been

acting perpetually from all eternity ; and there are other worlds,

and other systems of worlds, existing around us."

It has been supposed that the opinions of Democritus
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  171

doctrine of monads advanced by Pythagoras was but

the corpuscular atoms of the Egyptians. Pythagoras,
according to Aristotle, considered his monads as
possessed of size : ra? fiovdSa<s vTroXafifiavovow e%e«'
fieyedos (Met. lib. xii. c. 6).

   From the axiom that "like can act upon like,"

Anaxagoras formed his homaomerice (some attribute
the doctrine to Aristotle), that Democritus accepted

and extended. There was much of the Democritean

theory implied by Anaxagoras in his tenet, that every
distinct kind of matter has its distinct shape and
weight of particles.

   The atomism of Democritus has enjoyed as great

historical repute as any scientific theory that ever ema

nated from the Greeks ; and according to my friend,

Mr G. H. Lewes, it is one of the profoundest specu
lations yet reached by human subtlety. Leibnitz,

belonging to our modern school of philosophers, was
led to a doctrine essentially similar : his celebrated
monadologie is but atomism with a new terminology.
Leibnitz called his monad a force, which to him was

the prima materia.
   The admirers of Democritus will have it that he saw

an Intelligence in the " formative principle " of things ;
and that his atomism, developed two thousand five
hundred years ago, prefigured the corps de doctrine,
established by John Dalton in the nineteenth century
of the Christian era, and now accepted as the ground
work of a true chemistry. Admitting to the full the
admirable conception of the renowned Democritus,
it should be borne in mind that the modern atomic
theory sets forth the Law of definite proportions,
whilst the ancient theory, as Lewes has so well ex
172 John Dalton.

pressed, " is merely the affirmation of indefinite com

binations."

   In further evidence of the keen grasp of the Greek

philosophers, Berzelius, the famous Swedish chemist,
in his paper on " Proportions Determinate," quotes
from Philo, who in his collection of the choicest

philosophical ideas of his time, says :--Hdvra #eo?

fierp(p, teal apidfim, ical aradfup Stira^e. (God ordered
all things by measure, number and weight.)

   Lucretius, in his " De Rerum Natura," eloquently
introduced the philosophic views of Epicurus to the

Roman world. A few excerpts from the excellent
translation of Lucretius by Professor H. A. J. Munro,

M.A., 1st ed., Cambridge, 1864, seem desirable.

   " Bodies again are partly first-beginnings of things, partly
those which are formed of a union of first-beginnings. But
those which are first-beginnings of things no force can quench ;
they are sure to have the better by their solid body ; although
it seems difficult to believe that aught can be found among
things with a solid body --for the lightning of heaven passes
through the walls of houses, as well as noise and voices ; iron
grows red hot in the fire." &c . . . " Attend till we make clear
in a few verses that there are such things as consist of solid and
everlasting body, which we teach are seeds of things and first-
beginnings, out of which the whole sum of things which now
exists has been produced." (Bk. i. 483-490 and 500-502.)

   "Again, unless matter had been eternal, all things before
this would have utterly returned to nothing, and whatever things

we see would have been born anew from nothing. But since I

have proved above that nothing can be produced from nothing,
and that what is begotten cannot be recalled to nothing, first-
beginnings must be of an imperishable body, into which all
things can be dissolved at their last hour, that there may be a
supply of matter for the reproduction of things. Therefore
           A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.                         173

they have been preserved through ages during infinite time past

in  order to reproduce things."   (Book i. pp. 540-550.)
    " Moreover, while the bodies  of matters are most solid,
                                                              it  may

yet be explained in what way all things which are formed soft,

as air, water, earth, fire, are so formed, and by what force they

severally go on, since once for all there is void mixed up in

things. But, on the other hand, if the first-beginnings of things

be soft, it cannot be explained out of what enduring basalt and

iron be produced ; for their whole nature will utterly lack a

first foundation to begin with. First-beginnings, therefore, are
strong in solid singleness, and by a denser combination of these,
all things can be closely packed and exhibit enduring strength."

(Bo"oFkirsi.t-5b6e5g-i5n7n6i.n)gs, therefore, are of solid singleness, massed
together and cohering closely by means of least parts, not com

pounded out of a union of those parts, but rather strong in ever
lasting singleness. From them nature allows nothing to be

torn, nothing further to be worn away, reserving them as seeds

for things. Again, unless there shall be a least, the very
smallest bodies will consist of infinite parts." . . . . " Therefore,
between the sum of things and the least of things, what differ
ence will there be ? There will be no distinction at all ; for how

absolutely infinite soever the whole sum yet the things which
are smallest will equally consist of infinite parts." (Book
           is
                                       ii.

                                                   is,
                                                                                        i.
609"-6T2h2e.) first-beginnings of things have different shapes, but the

number of shapes finite." (Book 479-80.)
   "Since a fixed limit has been assigned to things which

bounds their sum on each side, you must admit that matter
also has a finite number of different shapes," (Book ii.

512-514).

   Lucretius condemned those who advocated the
opinion that the primary matter of all things rested
on either fire or air, water or the earth. His specula
tions on the mode by which the primordial elements

are acted upon by force, are less clearly expressed.
174 John Dalton.

not admit of their being sentient, or they would " pro
duce nothing but a crowd and multitude of animals."

   It is curious to observe his approximative aim to

the atomic theory, and not less his tentative efforts
to elucidate the mode in which the primordial ele
ments being " not sentient," are acted upon by forces

throughout the whole--a problem of much interest
and somewhat akin to the determination of force, at
present agitating the physicists of Europe.

    Cicero in his " De Natura Deorum," reasoning on
the rotundity and apt analogies of the celestial orbs to
natural history entities, and the construction of the
visible earth, would seem to have fallen upon many

lines of thought previously traversed by the Greeks,
and adorned by his friend Lucretius, from whose
poem several quotations have been made. He was
probably incited to this by his love of Athens, and
his friendship, as Munro says, with the leading Epi
cureans, both Greek and Roman, to one of whom,
Philodemus, as it now appears from the Herculanean

fragments recently published, he was greatly indebted
in his " De Natura Deorum."

   As the ancient schools of philosophy gradually

waned and sank below the horizon, there arose, and

among the Arabians chiefly, the mystical arts shadowy
of themselves, and not less shadowed by spiritual au

thority and interference. Of these arts alchemy was

most prominent, and its cultivators seem to have
blended what knowledge had come down to them

from the Alexandrian school, and a portion of the Aris

totelian philosophy, with the results of their own
operations in the laboratory -- it being as much a
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  175

names in support of new doctrines, as it is the fashion
of Western nations to hold by precedent and
privilege in the defence of the status quo of govern

mental rule.

  If the masters in alchemy, and chief men of the

Middle Ages, gave the doctrine of atoms a place in

their speculations regarding matter and the cosmos,

they do not appear to have enlarged the thesis, or

to have advanced beyond the doctrines so classically

expressed by Lucretius. Dr Angus Smith has gone

carefully over the history of the period, but apparently
elicited little more than a confirmation of the belief

generally entertained, that the mediaeval workers
rested their reasonings very much on the existence of
four elements, or old Aristotelian dicta, so long viewed
by the multitude as infallible. Now and then a ray

of light emanated from the dark chambers of these
enthusiasts, that partook of novelty rather than logical

accuracy, and got shaped into such forms as the
" quinta essentia; " "specific fermentations;" and the
"materia prima? the latter tenet being little more than

a revival of Plato's irpwrrj {/X17, the primary hyle, that

might be freely translated as true matter, though
others have viewed it as " matter in the abstract."

   The fetishisms and national " idols " were not with

out their visible effect upon the primitive ideas emerg
ing from the chaos of thought, that in time served
as modes of interpreting natural phenomena. The

mingling of these, and the adoption of a form of theo

logy based on the generative principle that existed
in full force in the speculations of the ancients, found
illustration in the names of Isis and Osiris, typical
176 John Dalton.

by alchemy, whilst salt, sulphur, and mercury were
connected with the Trinity of Christians.

   After the Arabians, Geber, Raymond Lully,
Albertus Magnus, Roger Bacon, and Basil Valentine
were among the most conspicuous members of the
great school of alchemy ;* men who, in their prac
tical aims and manipulations of ordinary chemical
workings, rendered service to the cause of qualita

tive chemistry, as long as they confined themselves
to the experimental path ; but as they were led
away by their metaphysics and current theological
opinions, they rendered but inadequate help to the
cause of quantitative chemistry.

    Comte has said that there must be three principal
epochs in the growth of every science, and of all the
sciences together : " the childish religious,'the boyish
metaphysical, and the manly positive of develop

ment." Dr Samuel Brown would have preferred

to distinguish these three ages as the superstitious,

the fictitious, and the real. In the dreamy age of

chemistry, theories in abundance were being offered
on the ultimate composition of matter, chiefly in an
abstract form, or based on the Pythagorean or
Aristotelian methods. The professed cultivators of
science were more disposed to give airy attitudes to

    * Dr Angus Smith cites Palissy, the* well-known potter of the 16th
 century, as taking part in the discussion of the great problem of the
 day, and actually siding with the notions expressed by Thales, the first
 of Greek reasoners, a fact that proves him to be less of a philosopher
 than a potter. Bottcher was wiser, he stuck to his alchemy, and
 though he failed to make gold, he made the best of Dresden porcelain.
 Of him it was said :

                "Ye heavens, alchemy has won my votes,
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.     177

their fancy than to sift the evidence of facts, or even to
seek an explanation of the phenomena daily educible
from their alembics and furnaces. Many obstacles, it
is true, lay in the way of chemical research, and men

who had to labour without the aid of the thermometer

or the balance, and other requisites in experimental
science, were unable to grasp the fruits of their
industry, be it ever so sagaciously directed.

   As the world grew older and better by experience
and improved methods --and alchemy, with all its
occult operations, should not be robbed of just credit

in furnishing much that was valuable to the science

--the band of investigators greatly increased in num

bers, and probably in wisdom also, though not held
altogether free of the imputation of Quot homines,
tot sententicB ; so many men, so many different

opinions.

    Coming nearer to our own day than the mediaeval
schoolmen, a few instances may be adduced of men
whose writings contain much of the ancient philo
sophy represented in briefer form and newer type,

and greatly modified by modern reasonings and
research -- men whose intellects vied with the best
of any age, and whose fame will be as lasting as

European history.
   Among the great men of the past whose influence

still operates on the great men of the present was
Descartes, the sickly child and " young philosopher "
of the Jesuits ; he who at the age of twenty-one years
sought to divest himself of the teachings of the Con
script Fathers of the Church, and to make his mind
a tabula rasa for the reception of a higher philosophy.

                                M
 178 John Dalton.

 metaphysics of more consequence than science ;
hence his claims to the distinction of the father of

 modern philosophy, and on grounds as substantial
as those which elevated Lord Francis Bacon to the

title of father of experimental science. In discussing

physical questions he was led to discoveries in optics,

&c. A few words will show his views in relation to the

atomic hypothesis. He followed in part the doctrines
of Plato and Pythagoras as to the divisibility of
matter without any assignable limit. He banished

the notion of a vacuum that so strongly possessed the
Greek mind, not that nature had a horror of vacuum,
but because the essence of substance being extension,
wherever there is extension there is substance, con
sequently empty space is a chimera. He looked
upon the substance filling all space as divided into
equal angular parts, which, being set in motion, the
parts assume a spherical form-- these motions taking
the form of revolving currents or vortices. On the
same mode, and it was but a reaffirmation of the

doctrine of the Greeks, he explained the motions of

the planets.

   Attention should be drawn to Spinoza, that
swarthy, olive-complexioned Jew, of penetrating eye
and long black hair, who suffered more for his free
utterances than Jew ever did at the hands of Jews ;
yet this spectacle-maker was withal one of the most
religious and philosophical men of the seventeenth
century. Let him be, as his enemies averred,

pantheist or infidel, nevertheless, his opera posthuma
will live for ever. No doubt Spinoza was greatly
influenced by Descartes' philosophy, as Goethe and
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  179

   Leibnitz, the stolid German who conversed with

Spinoza, looked upon the universe in its threefold
relations of-- 1. Its elements; 2. Their manner of con
nection ; and 3. The end of their combinations. His
doctrine of elements, that they were simple unex-
tended forces, or monads, constituted his "Monad-

ologie." Blinded by a metaphysical, if not a theologi

cal basis, he viewed each monad as a living mirror
of the universe and its physical and spiritual forces '
this creation, in his eyes, involved the existence of
a monas monadum, or One of the Supreme Infinite,
from whom all that was finite was derived.

   The Hon. Robert Boyle, treating of the " origin of
form and qualities," records : " There is one universal
matter common to all bodies, an extended, divisible,

and impenetrable substance.

   In the " Sceptical Chemist " he maintains that the
"Aristotelian hypothesis of four elements is not
comparable to the mechanic doctrine of the bulk and

figure of the smallest parts of matter ; for from these
more universal and fruitful principles of the elemen
tary matter may spring a great variety of textures,
upon whose account a multitude of compound bodies
might greatly differ from one another."

   Again he says: " It seems probable that at the

first production of mixed bodies, the universal matter

whereof they consist was actually divided into par
ticles of several sizes and shapes, variously moved.
. . . 'Tis also possible that of these minute particles
many of the smallest and contiguous ones were
associated into minute masses, and by their coalitions

                                                         *-
180 John Dalton.

as were not easily separable into the particles that

compose them."

   Were it desirable or consistent with this sketch of
the atomic theory, the list of men who contributed
opinions to the general stock of metaphysical reason
ing, qua the part played by atoms in the general
cosmos, might be greatly extended. The views of
Sir Isaac Newton may fitly close the chapter ; and
with the further admission, that no essential progress
had been made towards the solution of the knotty
question of the ultimate conditions of matter till
nearly the close of the eighteenth century.

   " All things considered," says Sir Isaac Newton,

" it seems probable that God, in the beginning,
formed matter in solid, massy, hard, impenetrable,
movable particles, of such sizes, figures, and with
such other properties, and in such proportion to space,
as most conduced to the end for which He formed

them ; and that these primitive particles, being solids,
are incomparably harder than any porous bodies
compounded of them ; even so very hard as never to
wear or break to pieces ; no ordinary power being
able to divide what God himself made one in the first
                       CHAPTER X.

  THE ATOMIC THEORY FROM SIR ISAAC NEWTON
                            TO JOHN DALTON.

           " To trace in Nature's most minute design

                  The signature and stamp of power divine.

                  The Invisible in things scarce seen revealed,
                To whom an atom is an ample field." --Cowper.

          [HE foregoing chapter offers an outline of the

                 efforts made by the ancients to comprehend
    '. the nature of the cosmos on the basis of

                atoms. The same groundwork materially
influenced the speculative philosophy that long, and
almost lastingly, ruled the direction of modern thought,
that is seen cropping out from time to time in the
hands of the Cartesians and other metaphysicians and
physicists ; and exercising more or less jurisdiction
from the days of the poetic Lucretius down to the
author of the " Principia." " The chemical atoms "
may have passed across the mental vision of Geber
and the polypharmists, but any recognition of their
apparent nature dates no further back than the year
1777, when 4Wenzel in part indicated the law of
reciprocal proportion ; and can only be said to have
attained scientific place in 1803, 'when Dalton pro
1 82 John Dalton.

   To the mind of the observant reader the question
will ere this have occurred, " What is an atom like ?
--its size, configuration, and affinities ; its history, in
short?" To meet such interrogations the greatest
intellects of every age have devoted their energies ;
yet, with all their mental discernment, backed by

most ingenious appliances, Nature cannot be made
to disclose her arcana, much less to present herself
in the nude form that would afford demonstration or

conviction to the uninitiated. It may be stated in

limine, and with a frank admission of our imperfect
knowledge of the status quo of atoms, that inference

and hypothesis guide chemists in their discussions on
those infinitesimal units or particles of matter. By-
and-by, however, it will be made apparent that the
framing of the atomic hypothesis is not only justi
fiable, but found to be in accordance with both the

phenomena and the facts falling within the operations
of the chemist.

   To give the amateur in science a notion of the

minute, marvellously minute, conditions in which
Nature carries on her mysterious work, a few facts
may be adduced in the hope of affording him a certain
amount of insight into the outer world of molecular
atoms ; be these atoms viewed as parts of the gaseous

atmosphere, or as dense liquids, or as the more solid
constituents of the organic and inorganic worlds.

   The air we breathe is like a vast ocean trembling
with invisible waves, of which no more tangible idea
can be formed than that elicited by watching the
finest dust of a [sunbeam ; that dust consisting of
dark molecules, or aggregate masses of atoms float
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  183

    Everybody is familiar with the sting of a nettle,
 but few persons have examined by means of a lens
 the delicate hairs on the leaf of the nettle, from which
 the tiniest of drops escapes, the insertion of which
 within the human skin causes heat, redness, and

 irritation. But what is this irritating fluid compared
with the deadly poison of prussic acid, a minim or
full drop of which, in its pure, anhydrous* state, causes

 death in a few seconds ! Here is a strange subtlety

of action that can arrest pulsation and life at once,
yet all its virus is to be found in a single drop of
transparent fluid ! This instance of the extreme
potential of force clothed in a liquid globule is rivalled
in character by the revelations of the microscope
displaying to us a world of minutice, of organic

beauty throughout.
    Turning to animal life, the microscope in the hands

of Ehrenberg disclosed animalcules so infinitesimal in
size that a single drop of water was computed to
contain 500,000,000 of them. Here was not only a
picture of a universe of atoms, but the living proof
of a universe of organic beings equal in number to
the entire human population on the surface of the

globe !

   In the fossil world geologists have traced a whole
system of rocks (these calcareous masses in England

   * The anhydrous or pure prussic acid is only to be seen, and that
very rarely, in the hands of the scientific chemist or experimental
physiologist. The medicinal prussic acid only contains about three
per cent, of this anhydrous acid.

   The potency of the pure acid, and its general toxicological and

therapeutical history, constituted my graduation thesis, an abstract of
which will be found in the Edinburgh Quarterly Medical and Surgical
1 84 John Dalton.

being about a thousand feet deep) composed entirely
of the shells of siliceous animalcules ; yet so small
are these debris of a former world of organic life, that
a single chalk-enamelled card of my Lady Fashion
able form a zoological cabinet of perhaps a hundred

thousand shells !
   The dark spot on a soap-bubble, just before it

bursts, cannot exceed 4000000th part of an inch in
thickness ; yet even this is composed of many strata
of atoms ; for this iridescent film of moisture must
consist at least of one atom of soap and one of water.
Now, the atom of soap is composed of soda, stearic,

margaric, and oleic acids ; and the latter of, at least,
one molecule of oxygen and one of hydrogen ; and
each of these possess the essential properties of im

penetrability, extension, and figure.

   Dr Thomson of Glasgow has shown that an atom
of lead cannot exceed in weight the giooooooooooth
of a grain ; and that the sulphur united with it

in the form of sulphuret could not be more than
aoiBoooooooooth of the same! Goldbeaters by
hammering reduce gold to leaves so thin that 360,000

must be laid upon one another to produce the thick
ness of an inch ; and .so7dtooooth of a grain may be
distinguished by a common microscope. But the
coating of gold on silver lace is still finer, when it is
computed that the y^ooo^ooooth of a grain, spread
out as a distinct layer of gold, may be seen through a

good lens.
   The contemplation of these remarkable proofs of

the molecular forms and minutia pervading Nature's

great plan, may help the reader's belief to a more
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  185

forth, or is ever likely to be demonstrated; and at

the same time tend to promote his sanction of doc

trines that chemists have found it needful to frame

upon a theoretical consideration of the atomic con

stituents of bodies.

Not only is our planet, in all its granitic framework,

and its liquid and aerial construction, built up of

indescribably minute particles, or the atoms of the

sixty-three elementary substances noted by chemists ;

but, relying on the observations made by the spectrum

analysis, which finds the vapours and the metals of

earth in the radiant streaming aurora borealis, and

in the central nucleus of comets, it is fair to infer

that such also is the construction of the great orbs in

the firmament.        Such phenomena are of striking

interest, as illustrating the structural inorganic ana

logies pervading the universe, upon which the natural

theologian may found an attractive teleological

theme, not so striking or convincing in character,

perhaps, as one that might be drawn from the con

templation of the organic morphological types so

strikingly visible and intelligible to all men of culture

and education.

   The atom in the physical world is like the cell in
the biological world --that morphological unit or
ultimate element of form out of which all the organs

in the living body are built up. As every organised
being derives its existence from a sphere of protoplasm

and cell-growth, so does every chemical change rest

on the fresh arrangement of molecular atoms. The

microscope enables the anatomist to define the

organic cell in some of its phases ; but no one has

                                                           /
1 86 John Dalton.

cular science, therefore, is apt to create a doubt in

the minds of many, inasmuch as it is a branch of

study which treats of things invisible, and imper

ceptible by our senses, and necessarily beyond direct

experiment and proof.

Any attempt to evolve the beginning or the end

ing vibration of the ultimate atoms of matter would

only bewilder the imagination, and reduce the

mightiest of intellects to the submissive attitude of

acknowledging the infancy of man's knowledge, and

the finiteness of his reach compared with the tran

scendent depth of Nature's operations, as displayed in

the countless Infinite.

How are we to arrive at a clear notion regarding

the size of an atom, when its minuteness escapes the

detection of the most powerful microscope yet made,

or likely to be constructed ? Ehrenberg's researches,

some of which have been already mentioned, led him

to infer that the diameter of an atom (the molecule
of the chemist) was considerably less than six-
millionths of a line. Quite recently, Sir W. Thomson,
in a paper " On the Size of Atoms," presented four

lines of argument [founded on experiments of phy
sicists, which all lead to substantially the same esti

mate of the dimensions of molecular structure.  He

says : --

   " Jointly they establish, with what we cannot but regard as a
very high degree of probability, the conclusion that, in any

ordinary liquid, transparent solid, or seemingly opaque solid,

the mean distance between the centres of contiguous molecules

is less than the hundred-millionth, and greater than the two

thousand-millionth of a centimetre. To form some conception
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  187

imagine a raindrop, or a globe of glass as large as a pea, to be
magnified up to the size of the earth, each constituent molecule
being magnified in the same proportion. The magnified struc
ture would be coarser grained than a heap of small shot, but
probably less coarse grained than a heap of cricket-balls.

   " Beyond this point of extreme tenuity, where matter first

exhibits that property which is revealed in visible forms, we are
forced to consider it in a still more expanded state, as the
universally diffused medium of light, heat, and actinism."

Here it may be observed that science informs us

of two modes in which elementary bodies combine,

the chemical and the mechanical ; the chemical being

generally viewed as a true and vital fusion between

atoms, whilst the mechanical is only a simple bond of

juxtaposition.  My last chapter concluded with a

quotation from Sir Isaac Newton, cautiously express

ing a theory on the nature of atoms that rested on

mechanical grounds.

Among others of the last century who broke ground

in the direction of a truer science than reigned in

the preceding one (the seventeenth), and who deserve
honourable mention, were Boscovich, Cullen, Black,

Bergman, the Wenzels, Richter, and the two Higgins.

The Abbe" Boscovich, in his work on Natural Phi

losophy, in 1759, gave the fullest expression to

the dynamical theory of matter. According to Dr
Daubeny (" Atomic Theory," p. 34) --

" Boscovich supposes that matter is made up of a number of

unextended indivisible points, which, however, never touch each

other, owing to the mutual repulsion subsisting between them,

as soon as they come within a certain distance of each other ;
which repulsion, increasing gradually in proportion as they are

made to approach nearer and nearer, becomes at length too
1 88 John Dalton.

  " Dealing with particles as with matter formed of indestructible
atoms, ' he supposes that the points of matter alternately attract

and repel each other, according to the distance that separates

them, until they either come very close to, or are removed to a

comparatively great distance from each other; in the former

case they are repelled, in the latter attracted ; the former force

preventing mutual contact, the latter, which, when considered

                                                no other than
as acting between the earth and bodiesis, upon
gravitation, drawing them all together.'  "
                                               :
Dr William Cullen, who raised himself from the
                                                    it,
humblest position in Scottish life to the rank of the   is
                                                          a
most distinguished physician of his epoch, applied
                                                    I
his methodical mind to the elucidation of the higher

science pertaining to the physical elements, and

stepped far beyond the usual limits assigned to a

professor of chemistry and medicine.
   Dr Angus Smith had the good fortune to find a

manuscript copy of the lectures delivered by Dr

Cullen in 1762-63, from which the following facts are

gathered.   Cullen, reasoning from the prevalent

doctrines, was of opinion that no physical element or

chemical principle possessed fixed and permanent
            He afterwards adds " Having laid down
qualities.
and demonstrated this fundamental proposition --

viz., that the changes of the qualities of bodies are
all of them produced by combination or separation --

now proceed to inform you that combination depends

upon attraction, that  the attraction of cohesion,

whereby the small particles of bodies very near each

other are disposed to approach, and in          certain

contiguity to remain coherent together." He also

explained "simple elective attraction and double
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.                  189

some years the views somewhat similarly expressed

and illustrated by Bergman.

   Dr Black, whose name is associated with the

doctrine of latent heat, succeeded Dr Cullen, and also

imbibed his views. Thus he "taught that bodies

combine in definite proportions, and explained double

decomposition by means of diagrams, not, indeed, the

same as those of Mr Higgins " (to whom allusion will

presently be made), but much simpler and more

Ielegant. " have no doubt," continues Dr Smith,

" that all similar diagrams published in London by
Dr Fordyce, &c, were derived from the same source.

Now, could the doctrine of de

finite proportions be taught,

and could double decomposi

tion be explained in this way

(I quote Dr Black's explana

tion), let the bodies A and B

be united with a force, 10 ; and

the bodies C and D with a

force, 6. Suppose the attrac

tion of A for C to be 8, and that of B for D to be 9,
if we mix these bodies, A will unite with C, and B
with D. To me they conveyed just as much of the

atomic theory as  the  perusal of  Mr Higgins'  book
did " (p. 146).
Those who wish for ampler explanation of Dr

Cullen's views, will find them in a letter of his to his

pupil, Dr George Fordyce of London, in Oct. 1759 ;
which my old teacher, Professor John Thompson,
quotes in his Life of Cullen. Both the text and

diagrams justify Dr Smith's opinion, that Dr Cullen

                                                          /
 190 John Dalton.

in the manner afterwards made so famous by
Bergman. And Dr Smith has done Bergman full

justice, and attributes to him "a valuable disco

very in the establishment of the permanence of the
amount of oxygen in precipitated oxides, the very
foundation of analysis, and an important step to
wards the knowledge of permanence of constitution
 in all substances whatever."

    Richard Kirwan the Irishman, Copley Medallist
 of the Royal Society of London, and afterwards
 President of the Royal Irish Academy, experi
 mented very much in the direction which Bergman
 had followed. He is another of those who nearly
 discovered the atomic theory, who laboured in a

 legitimate direction, but whose discoveries and
theories on the subject are merged in a higher and

simpler law. His "Essay on the Constitution of
 Acids" contains much original observation, and
 must have been of some interest to induce the great

 Lavoisier to translate it into French, and afterwards
to criticise its doctrines.

    Among the claimants to the discovery of the earliest
stages in the atomic theory, Wenzel has had high
place. Thus, according to Dr Henry --

   "Wenzel ascertained, by a numerous series of analyses far
surpassing in accuracy those of any other chemist of his time,
that the different weights of the alkalies or earths which
neutralise the same weights of any given acid, also require for
their neutralisation an equal quantity of every other acid ; in
other words, that the relative proportions between certain
quantities of alkalies or earths, which saturate a given weight
of one and the same acid, remain the same with all other acids ;
hence the persistence of the state of neutrality after double
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  191

proportions necessary to entire decomposition or not. Wenzel
had the rare merit of discovering all the consequences flowing
from this prolific truth ; he perceived that the composition of
neutral salts being thus subordinate to definite laws, it is
possible by the careful analysis of a few to ascertain the con
stitution of many others by a simple calculation. He did not,
however, pursue this important line of research, his main object
having been to explain the persistence of neutrality after mutual

decomposition."

   Another version, and probably a more correct one,
of Wenzel's work, will be found in Dr A. Smith's
biography of Dalton, derived at least from a careful
examination of Wenzel's rare volume, " The Doc
trine of the Affinity of Bodies," published in 1777.
Dr Smith shows that the reciprocal saturation which

results when two salts decompose each other, is due
to Wenzel ; and whilst admitting this great service in
seeking for the distinct constitution of bodies, and
the constancy of combination, will not concede to
him the claim of having established the doctrine of
reciprocal proportion, with which his name has hitherto

been associated.

   Dr Bryan Higgins of London was a man of parts, and,

judging from a pamphlet proposing a courseof lectures,
in Nov. 1775, for "literary noblemen," not disposed
to hide his talents under a bushel. He believed in
the existence of seven primary distinct elements of
matter-- earth, water, air, alkali, acid, phlogiston, and
light; that each element consists of atoms homo-
geneal, impenetrable, immutable in figure, incon
vertible, and in the course of nature neither anni

hilated nor newly created. Dr Angus Smith finds
nothing in Dr Higgins' writings to indicate that he had
192 John Daltoti.

Higgins thinks of atoms, of simple particles, and
even speaks of gases uniting, in some cases, in nearly,

if not accurately, a fixed proportion, and yet he sees

no law. He does not carry his idea far enough. . . .
As far as our subject is concerned, Dr Higgins has
small claims. His opinions on atoms might have
been held by the ancients, whilst, standing on their
shoulders, it would have required much less sagacity
to discover than was needed for them. He speaks of
the sums and the forces of atoms measuring the
attraction of matter, but does not suppose that if
matter be atomic, the number of atoms might also

in this way be got comparatively" (p. 175).
   Another member of the family of Higgins, one

who received his first instructions in chemistry from
his relative Dr Bryan, was William Higgins of
Pembroke College, Oxford, who issued a volume in

1789, entitled " A Comparative View of the Phlogistic
and Antiphlogistic Theories, with Inductions." It is

needful to offer some quotations from the work of the

 Oxonian, as larger credit has been given to him than
to any other writer whose views have been held
anticipatory of Dalton's promulgation of the laws of

combination. As phlogiston still held sway with
 chemists, and formed part of their nomenclature, it will
 be well to translate, as Dr Henry has done, the terms
 used by Mr Higgins into the language of modern

 chemistry.

    Mr Higgins, referring to the combinations of sulphur
 and oxygen, thus expresses himself: --

    "100 grains of sulphur, making an allowance for water, require
 100 or 102 of the real gravitating matter of oxygen to form
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.                         193

specific gravity of oxygen, we may conclude that the ultimate

particles of sulphur and oxygen contain equal quantities of solid

matter, for oxygen suffers no considerable contraction by uniting

to sulphur in the proportion merely necessary for the formation

of sulphurous acid. Hence, we may conclude that in sulphurous

acid a single ultimate particle of sulphur is intimately united only

to a single particle of oxygen, and that, in sulphuric acid, every

single particle of sulphur is united with two of oxygen, being the

quantity necessary to saturation." Still more in conformity
with modern doctrine is his view of the composition of water :--
" As two cubic inches of hydrogen require but one of oxygen

to condense them, we must suppose that they contain an equal

numberof divisions (atoms), and that the differenceof their specific

gravity depends chiefly on the size of their ultimate particles ; or

we must suppose that the ultimate particles of hydrogen require

two or three, or more, of oxygen to saturate them. If this latter

were the case, we might produce water in an intermediate state,

as well as sulphuric or nitrous acids, which appears to be

impossible ; for in whatever proportion we mix our airs, or

under whatsoever circumstances we combine them, the result is

invariably the same. This likewise may be observed with

respect to the decomposition of water. Hence, we may justly

conclude that water is composed of molecules, formed by the

union of a single particle of oxygen to an ultimate particle

of hydrogen, and that they"are incapable of uniting to a third

particle of either of their constituent principles" (pp. 37 and

38). Equally meritorious    was his sagacious anticipation of the
composition of the nitrous
                            compounds :-- " I am of opinion that

in nitrous gas every primary particle of azote is united to two

of oxygen, and that these molecules are surrounded by one

common atmosphere of fire." He has given a diagram exhibiting

the mode in which he supposed the nitrous oxide gas, then

recently discovered by Dr Priestley, to be formed, so as to consist

of one particle of azote and one of oxygen, the constitution now

assigned to it. His views regarding the composition of this other

compound of azote and oxygen were purely conjectural.

   " The impartial historian," writes Dr Henry, " will
certainly not withhold from the author of these in-
           194 John Dalton.

           genious views, the praise of uncommon sagacity ;
            though, after a careful perusal of the entire work, he
           will pronounce them to be rather brilliant conceptions,
           hastily struck off, than the fruits of sober and sus

         tained induction. It is evident that Mr Higgins was

           guided by no fixed and uniform principle in assigning
           the atomic constitution of the above compound

             bodies."

              The title of Mr Higgins' volume was not en
           couraging, inasmuch as it pertained to phlogiston, a
           kind of materies morbi that had long tended to re
           tard the progress of chemistry, and though then in
          its last throes --thanks to Lavoisier --gave a smack of
           empiricism to the science that men of original con
           ception gladly sought to avoid. Hence, it is not a
           matter of surprise that the work was less known than
           it should have been. More than this, however : many
          of Mr Higgins' opinions bearing on this narrative

            were hidden from view by his larger controversial
            statements and inconsistencies; and the probability
           is that the book, though placed in the hands of so
           distinguished a chemist as Professor Thomson of
            Glasgow, would have passed into oblivion had not
            Dalton's memoirs attracted European attention, and

          caused Mr Higgins to step forth and claim the
           discoveries of the Manchester schoolmaster for him
          self. In 1814Mr Higgins issued his "Experiments
           and Observations on the Atomic Theory," for the pur
           pose of vindicating his title to be regarded as its

            discoverer, and by implication charged Dalton with
            plagiarism.

             In defence of Dalton's fair fame, it is imperative

X
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  195

 met by Dalton's friends, and especially those who
were in almost daily intercourse with him, as well as

 others living at a distance from Manchester, to whom

he had at all times been frank and communicative on

scientific subjects. Dr Henry, the able biographer of

Dalton, writes :-- " I have heard my father affirm, on

various occasions, and to various persons, that Dalton

had never seen Mr Higgins' work till some years
subsequent to the publication of the ' New System,'
when it was lent to him by my father. And further,
it appears from a memorandum of Dr Henry, senior,
that Professor John Leslie, on a visit to Manchester,
told Dalton that Sir H. Davy, in a paper in the

'Philosophical Transactions,' had denied his (Dalton's)
claim to the atomic theory, and had set up one for
Higgins." This took Dalton by surprise, as he had
neither seen Higgins' book nor Davy's memoir. The
" Philosophical Transactions " had not reached either
of the two Fellows of the Royal Society residing at

Manchester (Dalton was not then a Fellow) ; and as

already stated, he was obliged to his friend Dr
Henry, senior, for a perusal for the first time of

Higgins' work.
   Dr Henry's evidence seems conclusive, and it

derives large confirmation from the fact that Dalton,
at no period of his life, devoted much time to reading.

Those who have attentively read the earlier chapters
of this memoir will have gathered that he was intui

tively so reliant on his own observations and ideas,
and so wedded to his own interpretation of nature,

that he omitted to make himself acquainted with the
history of the subject engaging his attention. What

                                                         r
196 John Dalton.

to Dalton : " that the originality of his own concep

tions, and the little regard he had to authority in
matters of theory, relieve us from the necessity of

looking to others for the sources of his opinions."

   As regards the effect that Higgins' book had on
his contemporaries, Dr Thomson of Glasgow is the
best authority. Now Dr Thomson, in his " Annals of

IPhilosophy" (May 1814), vol. iii., p. 331, says -- " have

certainly affirmed that the atomic theory was not

established in Mr Higgins' book. And here is my

reason. I have had that book in my possession since
Ithe year 1798, and have perused it carefully; yet

did not find anything in it which had suggested to me

the atomic theory. That a small hint would have

been sufficient, I think pretty clear from this, that I

was forcibly struck with Mr Dalton's statements in

1804, though it did not fill half an octavo page; so
Imuch so, indeed, that
                        afterwards published an

account of and still consider myself as the first
          it,

                I

                                                                        :

                                             I
person who gave the world an outline of the Daltonian

theory."

   Dr R. Angus Smith's criticism on the respective
merits of Mr William Higgins and his predecessor,

Dr Bryan Higgins, appears so judicious that cannot
do better than quote it. He writes --

   " William Higgins made an advance on Bryan Higgins in
this theory of sulphur and heat, and he was a man evidently of

an acute mind. But he was destined to find Emerson's saying
true, that we often find in the sayings of great men our own
rejected ideas. He was heir to the common opinion that atoms

existed, and the opinion of Dr Higgins that they united and
formed molecules of compound bodies. He applied the reason

ing further, and said that they must then unite in numbers of

one or two or three, and that there could be no intermediate com
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.                   197

bination, as there were no intermediate division of atoms. He

applied this reason in two or three cases. These cases, such as

nitric acid, are so clear and beautiful, that we can only be sur

prised that the general law was not seized on. They are the

first clear and satisfactory reasons given for saturation, and for

definite proportion in general. Higgins was therefore the first

man who used the idea of atoms with such force as to be service

able in chemistry. He used the idea of ultimate particles and

the molecular state of bodies to illustrate saturation, and definite

and multiple proportion, and gave us, therefore, the fundamental

ideas of stoechiometry as they existed in chemical science, from
                                  easily flowed " (p. 183).
which everything else might have  as the first man who ever  in

  Again -- " I look upon Higgins

his imagination formed a correct atomic compound, and gave

a correct analysis, in spite of his thousands of previous specula

tions and the simplicity of the idea, but one who lost the
opportunity of elevating his idea into a great law of nature. It

is well to express the claim of a discoverer in the widest and

in the fewest words. He expressed the fact of atomic simple and

multiple proportion, which is the foundation for all the other

atomic laws, although in his mind it was not raised to the

dignity of a great law, and it is for great laws only that we can

give great honours in this case.
   " Higgins speaks so clearly and simply that we can readily

believe that he would have illustrated the laws of chemical com

bination with great beauty had he seen the great value of his
ideas. There is no obscurity in his language--there is no diffi

culty in telling exactly his place in science ; but there is a diffi

culty in defining it exactly when we have to deal with Dalton,

who grasped the whole so much more firmly, enlarged placed
it

        a
                                                                  it,
                                                                                  it,
and established in series of laws" (pp. 184-5).

   No one, as far as my reading extends, ever made

an important discovery in science without the
accompaniment of an unwelcome challenge being
offered to his claims to priority by his contemporaries.
Dalton had taken too great strides in the path of

                                                                                       S
198 John Dalton.

the common fate of mortals possessing genius and

foresight in advance of their epoch. It was said that

his atomic views were not new ; that he had been

anticipated by Democritus the Greek, and in his
own century by Wenzel, Higgins, and Richter. After
showing the fallacy of the claims of the two first-
named with his usual painstaking industry and fair

ness, Dr R. A. Smith goes fully into Richter's views,

quoting largely from his works,* and with due con
sideration to the merits of this renowned German.

   In his preface, Richter says : --" As the mathe

matical portion of chemistry deals in a great measure

with bodies which are either elements or substances
incapable of being decomposed, and as it teaches also

their relative magnitudes, I have been able to find

no more fitting name for this scientific discipline than
the word stoechiometry, from GToiyeiov, which, in the
Greek language, means a something which cannot be
divided, and fierpeiv, which means to find out relative
magnitudes." Here, then, was an effort worthy of
Richter to make the study of atomic chemistry a
science. He also indicated that the smallest portions
of a body are of the same composition as the largest,

that the affinity exists in every particle --an illustration,
Dr Smith remarks, afterwards used by Dalton on the
same subject, but in clearer words, and still earlier by
Higgins. This idea leads directly to the atomic theory,
and theory of equivalents ; but it was not followed
out by Richter. Again writes Dr Smith :--" The

* Richter's books are -- " Anfangsgriinde der Stoechyometrie oder

Mess-Kunst.   C"hUymebisecrhedrieElNemeueenrtne,"Ge3gevnoslsta. ndeBresdlearu  und Hirschberg,
1792-94; and                                                                   Chymie," 1792-
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  199

discovery of reciprocal proportions is given by no one

before Richter, as far as I know ; but he himself does

not speak of it as a discovery, but as a well-known
fact, with which he was familiar before he wrote his

inaugural dissertation." The following is worthy of
quotation from the same pen :--

  " It certainly is difficult to tell how discoveries grow, often

impossible to tell who is the discoverer ; but this we may con
sider a fair rule, not always easily applied, it is to be confessed,

that he is a discoverer who sees distinctly the full bearing of his
discoveries ; when this does not happen, there is a difficulty in

giving that man the place due to him. It is clear that Richter,

like some others already mentioned, had fundamental principles
which would have led him to the atomic theory ; but he has
evidently been led by foregone conclusions, and the law of

planetary distances has been floating in his mind and misleading

him when seeking for the differences in the combining weights
of bodies.

   "The discovery of reciprocating proportion was a very impor

tant and memorable one, although the scientific world did not
recognise it. . . . Who discovered this very important fact, it is
still left unascertained : as the expression of a law, it is Richter's ;
but as a fact regarding neutral salts, the author appears not to

be known.
   " As a general summary of Richter's most important works, we

may say he found that there was a certain quantitative relation
between all bodies ; and he made out the laws so far, that when

he knew the quantitative analysis of a salt, he could tell its quan
titative decomposition with another. But he never saw it with

sufficient clearness to be able to express the combining quan
tities each by its own distinct number ; nor does he appear to

have ever proceeded far enough to be able to assign a cause
for the phenomenon, or to connect it with any fundamental

idea.

  "It has been said that Dalton had read Richter, and had never

acknowledged his claims. It is a melancholy thing to see men
200 John Dalton.

if dishonesty were so common. I might say the same of Richter,

that for more than ten years he continued to publish on
stoechiometry, and never once mentioned Higgins ; but his
whole works show that he did not see Higgins' writings, or he
would have probably got less involved than he did. We learn

from Dr Henry that Dalton had seen Richter's results on

reciprocal proportions, and had received assistance from them ;

but although they may have assisted him in proving his laws,
Richter could never have given him fundamental ideas. These
are much wanted in Richter's chemistry. Richter's cotem-
poraries did not obtain the atomic theory, although some were
students of his work. Berzelius himself did not obtain the
atomic theory from Richter, although the most illustrious of the
students of Richter's books. Dalton, then, could not have

obtained and the direction he takes perfectly different, the

road he went quite clear, and the results he came to entirely

distinct from that aimed at by Richter."
it,

       ;a

               it

                                              is

                                                  it
                                                           is
Other authors, notably Fischer, Berthollet and

Proust, took part in the same direction as Higgins

and Richter but would profit nothing to offer an

analysis of their work, nor to enter upon the anta

gonistic relations of the two last-named chemists.

Having afforded the reader an opportunity of judg

ing of the labours of his predecessors,                        now im

perative to set before him Dalton's own investigations,

upon which are based the modern doctrine of the

                                                               i
                  CHAPTER XI.                                                                         ,.-

   JOHN DALTON ESTABLISHES THE ATOMIC THEORY.

    " Philosophy is the art of deciphering the mysteries of nature ; and every

           theory which can explain the phenomena has the same evidence in its

         fianvgotuhratthcaytpihteisr?p--ossHibalertthlee yke.y of a cypher can have from its explain

             ET the historian, faithful to his trust, render

                    all honour to such illustrious men, as
                      Cullen, Black, Bergman, Wenzel, the
                     kinsmen Higgins, Richter, and Proust,
    for excavating the foundations, and holding the
   plumb-line in the erection of an edifice that was to
   become, in the hands of John Dalton, a noble struc
   ture of magnificent proportions. These men were no
   common masons, but skilled designers, each of whom
    brought fitting patterns, and true carving power, to
   the architectural lines of the Temple of Chemistry, the
   adornment of which was so happily realised by the
   Grand Master --Dalton.
      In obtaining access through the outer approaches
   of all discoveries in art, science, or philosophy, there
   must necessarily be sappers and miners, the pioneers in
   the undertaking ; and though several laboured right
   soldierly at the fortifications, William Higgins made
   the boldest effort to carry the citadel that contained
   the treasures of a new and fundamental doctrine in
   the physics of chemistry. That he did not entirely

f-..
202 John Dalton.

warped by phlogistic theories. It should be observed

that whilst Cullen and Black stood in the relation of

master and pupil and constant friends, the other, and
equally renowned, coadjutors in the preliminary con

struction of the atomic theory acted independently of

each other, and lived far apart, so that their labours
were comparatively little known to each other, or to
the world at large. Had the same freedom of inter
course existed a hundred years ago between nations
and their representatives that now prevails, Dalton's
discovery in 1803, admittedly based on his own un

aided researches, would probably have been anticipated
by ten or more years. Thus had the leading ideas in

Mr Higgins' mind, pointing to the law of definite

composition and multiple proportion, come to the
knowledge of Lavoisier, the whole fabric of the atomic
theory would have sprung forth as a happy generali
sation worthy of this noble cultivator of the science.

   After recalling the import of the various essays
emanating from Dalton's fertile mind during his first
decennial period in Manchester --his clear conception
of the nature of mixed elastic fluids, his eudiometrical

observations, his inquiry into the tendency of elastic
fluids to mutual diffusion, and his researches on the

absorption of gases by water, through all of which may
be traced an obvious and natural affiliation of thought

--Dr Henry observes : --" To the same parentage we
may now trace his first vision of the atomic constitu

tion of matter. It is impossible to peruse the essay

on the constitution of mixed gases, and especially to
contemplate the plate of atomic symbols used by
Dalton as late as 1835, by which it is illustrated (see
appendix for plate), without perceiving that medita
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  203

tion on the constitution of homogeneous and mixed

elastic fluids had impressed his mind with a distinct
picture of self-repellent particles or atoms. Thus, he

affirms, homogeneous elastic fluids are constituted of

particles that repel one another with a force decreas
ing directly as the distance of their centres from each
other. Again : it follows, too, that the distances of
the centres of the particles, or, which is the same
thing, the diameters of the spheres of influence of
each particle, are inversely as the cube-root of the
density of the fluid." But the plate which is repro

duced in the appendix furnishes ocular demonstration
that it was in contemplating the essential condition
of elastic fluidity that he first distinctly pictured to
himself the existence of atoms. As, however, the

origin of this great conception is doubtless the most

interesting circumstance in his life, I copy verbatim

the following minute in my father's handwriting,

dated 1830, February 13, of a conversation with Mr
Dalton :--" Mr Dalton has been settled in Manchester
thirty-six years. His volume on meteorology, printed,
but not published, before he came here. At p. 132
et seq. of that volume, gives distinct anticipations of
his views of the separate existence of aqueous vapour
from atmospheric air. At that time the theory of

chemical solution was almost universally received.

 These views were the first germs of his atomic theory,

because he was necessarily led to consider the gases as

constituted of independent atoms. Confirmed the

account he before gave me of the origin of his specu
lations leading to the doctrine of simple multiples,

and of the influence of Richter's table in exciting
         204 John Dallon.

          filiation of thought, in unbroken sequence, from -- (1.)
          The vigilant and persistent observation of meteoro
           logical phenomena, and specially of the variations
         of the atmosphere in weight, temperature, and moisture;
         to (2.) The theory of the relations of air and vapour,
          and of mixed gases ; and finally, to the abstract con
          ception of elastic fluidity, and of self-repulsive
           molecules or atoms. There remained, however, a
           wide space to be traversed, from this general physical
          conception of the existence of atoms to the experi
          mental establishment of the relative weights of the
          ultimate particles of various chemical elements and
         compounds, announced by him two years afterwards --
           October 1803.

              Reference to a previous page (158) will show that
           Dalton, in one of his earliest chemical memoirs in 1802,
          had discovered, in the combinations of oxygen with
          nitrous gas, an undoubted example of multiple pro
         portions ; or to use his own words :-- " These facts
          clearly point out the theory of the process ; the ele
           ments of oxygen may combine with a certain portion
           of nitrous gas, or with twice that portion, but with
          no intermediate quantity." The steps by which he
           ascended from this first special example to the general
          law of multiple proportion seems pretty clearly
           indicated as resulting from the observations he made
          on the light carburetted hydrogen and defiant gas.
          Dr Thomson of Glasgow, who spent a day or two
          with Dalton in Manchester, in August 1804, offers a
          clear narrative of the origin of the atomic theory in the
         following words :--" Mr Dalton informed me that the
           atomic theory first occurred to him during his inves

v
         A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.                        205

gas, at that time imperfectly understood, and the

constitution of which was first fully developed by Mr
Dalton himself. It was obvious, from the experiments

which he made upon them, that the constituents of

both were carbon and hydrogen, and nothing else ; he

found, further, that if we reckon the carbon in each

the same, then carburetted hydrogen contains

exactly twice as much hydrogen as olefiant gas

does. This determined him to state the ratios of

these constituents in numbers, and to consider the

olefiant gas a compound of one atom of carbon and

one atom of hydrogen ; and carburetted hydrogen of
one atom of carbon and two atoms of hydrogen. The

idea thus conceived was applied to carbonic oxide,

water, ammonia, &c., and numbers representing the

atomic weights of oxygen, azote, &c., deduced from

the best analytical experiments which chemistry then

possessed" ("History of Chemistry," vol. ii., p. 291).
   In treating of carburetted hydrogen long afterwards,

in 1810  (" New System," vol.        444), Dalton writes
         correct notion of the  constitution of the gas
--" No                        i.,

                                   p.

                                                    I:
about to be described seems to have been formed till

the atomic theory was introduced and applied in the

investigation. It was in the summer of 1804 that

collected, at various times and in various places, the

inflammable gas obtained from ponds." He had there

fore been working at the analysis of this gas just
previously to Dr Thomson's visit. Moreover, in his

first table of atomic weights (see page 158), in which
hydrogen being unity, carbon was estimated 4*3,
olefiant gas represented by 5-3 --that C+H, and

carburetted hydrogen from stagnant water by 6'%,
         is
                                                          is,

                                                                    S~
                 206 John Dalton.

                of the law of multiple proportions, which (in the
                absence of more direct testimony) we may reasonably
                  presume to have constituted the foundations of that
                most significant generalisation. Thus carbonic oxide
                and carbonic acid are denoted by numbers equal to
                C+O and C+2O respectively ; sulphurous and
                sulphuric acid by numbers equal to S+O and S+2O ;
                and three of the nitrous compounds -- nitrous oxide,
               nitrous gas, and nitric acid--by numbers equivalent to
               2N+0, N+O, and N+20.

                   His correspondence with his brother offers substan
                 tial confirmation as to the date of his original work.
               Thus, on March 21, 1803, he informs his brother :--

             I" have been, as usual, fully engaged in all my leisure

                  hours in the pursuit of chemical and philosophical
                  inquiries. Even my Christmas vacation was taken up

             in this way ; indeed, I have had considerable success

                 of late in this line, having got into a track that has not
                 been much trod in before" This is conclusive that he
                  had in the autumn or early winter of 1802 struck
                 upon a new path of such absorbing interest that he
                  would not allow the Christmas holidays to interfere
                  with its fuller development.

                   On reviewing the early stages of his scientific life,
                 with the view of tracing the genesis of the atomic

                  theory, you cannot but revert to Dalton's methodical
                 labours to interpret the constitution of the atmo
                  sphere, a subject upon which he dwelt with the fond
                 ness of a parent proud of his offspring. Thus, in his
                  preface to the second edition of his " Meteorological
                  Essays," issued in 1 834, or forty-one years after the first, .

            Ihe says :-- " have been the more anxious to preserve

~~X
A Sketch of the A totnic Theory.  207

the forms of most of the ideas which I have since

 expounded more at large in different essays, and
which have been considered discourses of some

 importance."

   In Chapter II. of his " New System," treating on the

constitutions of bodies, and especially on pure and
 united elastic fluids, he says, inter alia, that " all bodies
are constituted of a vast number of extremely small
particles or atoms of matter, bound together by a
force of attraction. . . . Besides this, we find a force of

repulsion. This is now generally, and I think properly,

ascribed to the agency of heat. An atmosphere of
this subtle fluid constantly surrounds the atoms of all

bodies, and prevents them from being drawn into

actual contact." Again -- " In prosecuting my inquiries

into the nature of elastic fluids, I soon perceived it was

necessary, if possible, to ascertain whether the atoms

or ultimate particles of the different gases are of the
same size or volume in like circumstances of tem

perature and pressure."
   His inquiries into the density of the gases afforded

to his mind clear evidence in support of the existence
of ultimate indivisible particles, and led him, uncon
sciously perhaps, to the revival of the atomism pro
pounded by Democritus and others, that now and
then cropped out in history, with, however, little or
no scientific significance, and when resuscitated by

Descartes and Newton, not treated as applicable to
the laws of chemistry.

   " From a careful examination of all the evidence
208 John Dalton.

Dalton during the years 1802,* 1803, and 1804, and

that the discovery of the law of multiple proportions

was, in the order of mental operations, the immediate

antecedent of the atomic theory of chemical com

bination. Thus it will be seen, on inspection of the

table given in page 158, that of the fifteen compound

atoms whose weights are assigned, not fewer than

nine are examples of multiple proportions --viz., the

two carburetted hydrogens, the two compounds of

carbon and oxygen, the two compounds of sulphur

and oxygen, and the three of oxygen and nitrogen.

It is also worthy of remark, as confirming the

genealogy of the atomic theory, already traced from

the abstract conception of elastic fluidity, that of the

twenty-one bodies comprehended in Dalton's earliest

table, sixteen are either permanent gases or vaporis-

able bodies ; and that of the remaining five, Dalton

calculated the atomic weights of the three solids, car

bon, sulphur, and phosphorus, from the analysis of their

aeriform combinations with hydrogen and oxygen,
and those of the two liquids, sulphuric and nitric

acids, from the lower aeriform compounds of sulphur
and azote respectively with oxygen. Not a single

metal, alkali, or earth, appears in this first table.

The atomic weights of these solid bodies were first
published by him in the description of Plate IV. of
his " New System," Part
                                     :                   219, 1808.
It seems pretty clearly established that the
                                       I.,
* The earliest examples of his atomic weights were probably ob
                                              it p.
t"aiNneedw  before November  1802.   --In"thIne          preface to the first part of his
            System," Dalton  writes                    is1803 the author was gradually

led to those primary laws which seem to obtain in regard to heat and

to chemical combinations, and which                        the object of the present
> A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.                               209

 hypothesis of the atomic theory arose in Dalton's

 mind from the study of matter in an aeriform
 condition ; that its first practical application in

 chemistry was to gaseous bodies, and particularly to
 such as combine in multiple proportions. How far
 Dalton was influenced by the law of reciprocal pro
portions or equivalents of Richter may admit of

question ; but looking to the evidence adduced by Dr

 Henry, senior, as well as his son (Dalton's biographer),
there is reason to think that some of the earlier specu

lations which gave birth to the atomic theory were

in part suggested by the experiments of Richter on
the neutral salts. The German chemist, having ascer
tained the quantity of any base-- as potass, for example

--which was required to saturate a hundred measures
 of sulphuric acid, then set to work to determine the
quantities of the different acids which were adequate
to the saturation of the same quantity of potass. In
this fashion a table was formed exhibiting the pro
portions of the acids and the alkaline bases constitut
ing neutral salts. " It immediately struck Mr Dalton,"
writes Dr Henry, " that if those saline compounds were
constituted of an atom of acid and one of alkali, the
tabular numbers would express the relative weights of
the ultimate atoms." Dr Henry continues :-- " My own

belief that during the three years (1802-4) in which
the main foundations of the atomic theory were laid,

Dalton had patiently and maturely reflected on all
the phenomena of chemical combination known to
him, from his own researches and those of others, and

had grasped in his comprehensive survey, as signifi
cant to him of deeper meaning than to his prede

cessors, their empirical laws of constant and reciprocal
is,
                a

                                                            o
210 John Dalton.

proportion, no less than his own law of multiple
proportion, and his own researches in the chemistry
of aeriform bodies."

  A few quotations from Dalton's chapter on

" Chemical Synthesis " will be serviceable in illustrat
ing his theory.

"ON CHEMICAL SYNTHESIS.

" When any body exists in the elastic state, its ultimate

particles are separated from each other to a much greater dis

tance than in any other state ; each particle occupies the centre

of a comparatively large sphere, and supports its dignity by

keeping all the rest, which by their gravity, or otherwise, are

disposed to encroach upon at a respectful distance. When
it
   is

                                    ;

                                                    it,

                                                                                 ;

                                                                            is
                                                                                               a
we attempt to conceive the number of particles in an atmosphere,

somewhat like attempting to conceive the number of stars

in the universe we are confounded with the thought. But                                           a if

we limit the subject, by taking a given volume of any gas, we

seem persuaded that, let the divisions be ever so minute, the

number of particles must be finite just as in given space of

the universe, the number of stars and planets cannot be

infinite.
   " Chemical analysis and synthesis go no further than to the

separation of particles one from another, and to their reunion.

No new creation or destruction of matter within the reach of

chemical agency. We might as well attempt to introduce

new planet into the solar system, or to annihilate one already in

existence, as to create or destroy a particle of hydrogen. All

the changes we can produce consist in separating particles

that are in state of cohesion or combination, and joining those
a

                                      ;

                                     it
that were previously at a distance.      has justly been considered

   " In all chemical investigations

an important object to ascertain the relative weights of the

simples which constitute a compound. But unfortunately the

inquiry has terminated here whereas from the relative weights

in the mass, the relative weights of the ultimate particles or
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  211

number and weight in various other compounds would appear,

in order to assist and to guide future investigations, and to

correct their results.
   " Now, it is one great object of this work to show the im

portance and advantage of ascertaining the relative weight of
the ultimate particles, both of simple and compound bodies, the
number of simple elementary particles which constitute one com
pound particle, and the number of less compoundparticles which
enter into the formation of one more compound particle.

   " If there are two bodies, A and B, which are disposed to

combine, the following is the order in which the combinations
may take place, beginning with the most simple, namely :--

1 atom of A + 1 atom of B = 1 atom of C binary.
1 atom of A + 2 atoms of B = 1 atom of D ternary.
2 atoms of A + 1 atom of B = 1 atom of E ternary.
1 atom of A + 3 atoms of B = 1 atom of F quaternary.
3 atoms of A + 1 atom of B = 1 atom of G quaternary, &c., &c."

   This was followed by rules of guidance respecting
chemical synthesis, and the introduction of plates
exhibiting the modes of combination. The elements
or atoms of bodies viewed as simple were denoted by
a small circle with some distinctive mark, and their

combinations were also represented in a way to be
understood. He also furnished a plate of the " arbi
trary marks or signs chosen to represent the several
chemical elements or ultimate particles."

   His atomic weights were inexact, but this was to
be expected in the infancy of the science. He seemed

to be aware of this, and expressed great caution, both
as to the accuracy of his numbers and his weights, and
not less our viewing substances as simple in their

nature, which a higher analysis might prove to be

compound.
   Here it is needful to consider the laws of propor-
212 John Dalton.

tional combination which are everywhere accepted

as true by chemists. These laws are generally
viewed as three in number, but Dr George Wilson

held out for a fourth : all the laws refer to combination

by weight. Three of these, as Wilson affirms, were

discovered by Dalton, and all of them were brought

into new prominence by his labours ; and his atomic
theory, or rather hypothesis, as it should be called, is

an endeavour to explain them, by assuming a peculiar

ultimate constitution of matter which absolutely

necessitates their existence. These laws are based

upon one, deeper and more fundamental than them

selves, which is assumed in their enunciation, and is

to the following effect: -- The same compound consists

invariably of the same components.   Water, for

example, always consists of oxygen and hydrogen ;

common salt of chlorine and sodium.

1. The first of these laws is designated the law of

definite or constant proportion, by which we understand
that the elements forming a chemical compound are

always united in it in the same proportion by weight.

Thus, water not only consists invariably of oxygen
and hydrogen, but the weight of oxygen present is

always eight times greater than that of hydrogen ;
or in other words, eight-ninths of the weight of

water are always oxygen, and the remaining ninth

hydrogen.

   It is the same with every compound. Thus, common

salt always contains thirty-five parts of chlorine to

twenty-three of sodium ; marble, twenty-two of carbonic
acid to twenty-eight of lime. In virtue of this law, a

number can be found for every body, simple or com
           A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  213

sub-multiple of which) it combines with every other.

Any series of numbers may be taken to represent these

combining ratios, provided the due proportion is main

tained among them, so that the number for oxygen

shall be eight times greater than that for hydrogen,

that for nitrogen fourteen times greater, and so on,

according to the relations which analysis brings out.

The scale recognised by Dalton, and used here, makes

hydrogen 1, and counts from it upwards.

  It must not be forgotten that such tables represent

relative, not absolute, weights. Of the smallest pos

sible quantity of oxygen which can combine with

the smallest possible quantity of hydrogen, we know

nothing ; all that we are certain of that
         1                                 eight

            it

                 is ;

                                        it
                                                                 ;
                                                              is,
                                                           it
                                                                         is
                                                                       it
times greater than that of hydrogen, whatever that

be. None of the numbers taken singly has any

absolute value the 16, for example, which in tables

of this kind we are discussing stands against sulphur,

does not represent 16 grains, 16-millionths of a grain,

or any other absolute quantity its value appears

only when  taken in connection with the number

attached to hydrogen, to which the exact arbitrary

value of has been given.

As in the analysis of every chemical substance,

must have been assumed that would prove definite
in composition, others before Dalton must have been

cognisant of this law of constant proportion. Caven
dish, in his " Analysis of Water," Bergman, in test

ing the saturation of the salts, could not fail to see

the law that received special attention at the hands

of Wenzel, Richter, and Proust, before the year
214 John Dalton.

brings out the fact that the same elements, in almost
every case, combine in more than one proportion to
constitute several compounds. This law is named
that of Multiple Proportion, and shows that when one
body combines with another in several proportions,

the higher ones are multiples of the first or lowest. To

illustrate this, the two compounds of hydrogen and car
bon may be cited, and with all the more effect that they
were the bodies operated upon by Dalton, and which,

indeed, suggested to him the law. In one of these
[plefiant gas) there are six parts, by weight, of carbon,
to one of hydrogen ; in the other {marsh gas or fire
damp), there are six parts of carbon to two of
hydrogen ; or, the weight of carbon being the same in

both, there is exactly twice as much hydrogen in the
first as in the second.

   The law of multiple proportion was specially realised
by Dalton from a solitary case --that of the compounds
of carbon and hydrogen described above. So strongly
did the facts strike Dalton's mind, that he at once
predicted the applicability of the law to all kinds of

compounds.

   In this direction of inquiry, or rather discovery, it is
supposed that Dalton was anticipated by Mr William
Higgins, who showed the combinations of sulphur with
oxygen, one ultimate particle of sulphur and one of oxy

gen constituting sulphurous acid ; and moreover, that in
the compound of nitrogen and oxygen the ingredients
are to each other as 1 to 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 respectively.
Here was a clear enunciation of the law of multiple
proportion, yet the author can hardly have seen the
importance, or he would have laboured to the end,
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.                                  215

His work made no impress on the public mind, and

Dalton had not even heard of it till his rediscovery of
the law came to be discussed. Had Higgins, as Dr

Wilson remarks, seen the value and importance of the
law as Dalton saw he would have done as D alton
3.

                              it,
                                         is

                                                           is

                                                       if

                                                                                     a
did, who spent ten or twelve of the best years of his
life in verifying its truth by analysis of as large

series of compounds as he could possibly compass.

      "The third law of combination named that of

Reciprocal Proportion, and to the effect, that two

bodies combine in certain proportions with a third,

they combine in the very same proportions with each

other. Thus sixteen parts of sulphur combine with

eight of oxygen, and twenty-seven parts of iron com

bine with eight of oxygen but sixteen parts of sul
                   is
phur the very quantity that combines with twenty-
seven of iron. We may reverse the numbers eight;
is                                         :
                                    a
                ;                                       ;
of oxygen combines with twenty-seven of iron, and
sixteen parts of sulphur with twenty-seven of iron

but eight of oxygen the very number that combines

with sixteen of sulphur. Or, third time, eight of

oxygen and twenty-seven of iron combine respectively

with sulphur but twenty-seven of iron the quantityis

that combines with eight oxygen."

The theoretical interest attached to this law of

reciprocal proportion  of large practical value to
                       is

                                                           if
the chemist in all his analyses. For instance,

he ascertains the proportion in which one body com

bines with any other, that, or a multiple, or sub-

multiple of that, the proportion in which com
                   is
                                                  it

                                                            it
bines with every other with which can combine

                                                                                        f
216 John Dalton.

that the combining weights of bodies are named
their equivalents. This term expresses, in a way no
other does, that a certain weight of one body is

equivalent to, or goes as far as, a certain but different
weight of another, in the construction of a similar
compound. One part by weight of hydrogen, for

example, goes as far in combining with eight of
oxygen to form an oxide as twenty-seven of iron, or
197 of gold. These compounds have all the same
value ; the weight of oxygen is the same in all, and
the 197 parts of gold do not neutralise the eight of
oxygen 197 times more effectually than the one of

hydrogen does, but only as well and with the pro
duction of a similar compound.

   With this law of reciprocal proportion Wenzel's

name is honourably associated as far back as the year

1777; yet, for reasons already expressed, little or
nothing was heard of his indefatigable labours in this
direction. Even his countryman Richter, who began

to publish in 1792, and who spent many years in
analysing the different salts, with a view of ascertain
ing the exact weight of acid and base required for
mutual saturation, so as to be able to express this by
a number attached to each, hardly received recogni
tion at the hands of his contemporaries.

  A fourth law of combination has been instituted by

DrWilson, and though not generally accepted, is never
theless thought worthy a place in this memoir, from
its being advanced by a practical chemist. Dr Wilson
called it the law of Compound Proportion, which
"teaches that the combining proportion of a com
pound body is the sum of the combining proportions
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  217

water, for example, is found by experiment to be

nine (or a multiple of nine), hydrogen, as before, being
taken as unity ; but zinc is the sum of eight parts of
oxygen and one of hydrogen, its constituents. The
equivalent of carbonic acid appears upon trial to be
twenty-two ; but carbonic acid is found on analysis
to consist of six parts of carbon and sixteen of
oxygen, which exactly make up twenty-two. The
combining weight of lime is twenty-eight ; but lime
consists of twenty calcium and eight oxygen, which

are also twenty-eight.
    " This law is of as much interest and practical value

as the preceding one, and supplies the chemist with
a most important means of checking the results of
empirical analysis in the case of compound bodies.
The merit of discovering it belongs entirely to Dalton."
Other chemists have looked upon this law as part of
the general hypothesis, and resting on the ground of

experimental evidence; and the late Dr Whewell,
Master of Trinity College, Cambridge, in discussing
Dalton's atomic theory in the " History of the Induc

tive Sciences" does not mention or allude to it.

    Modern chemistry seeks to determine the constitu
tion of atoms and "the phenomena attendant, both

upon the state of combination, and the two antithetical

processes of atomic analysis and synthesis," and is
based on the laws just propounded.

   With the exception of the law of constant propor
tion, these laws were wrought out by Dalton for
himself, and were by him first fully made known to

the world. Before this discovery chemistry was little
more than an empirical art, treating of the qualities or
218 John Dalton.

the character of a science of quantity* And as this
science of quantity has come more and more to the
light, it has widened, and made more accurate the
range of chemistry as a science of quality.

   As proving the value of the laws of chemical com
bination, and the direct application of quantitative to
qualitative chemistry, the manufacture of sulphuric
acid, or oil of vitriol, so well known in the arts, may be

instanced. Before Dalton's researches, every manu
facturer had his own views as to the quantity of

sulphur required in the process --a complicated
process, resting its operations on the burning of
sulphur in leaden chambers --and was apt to per
suade himself of his superior management. Now
Dalton showed that, adopt whatever quantity of
sulphur you may, only a certain portion by weight of

sulphur can unite with a certain proportion of oxygen
in the air to constitute sulphuric acid, and that to
put a larger quantity in the retorts than could be
associated with the oxygen, not only did no good, but
was a positive waste of material. Hosts of instances
of a similar nature might be adduced to prove the
great strides made in the pursuit of a real chemistry
since the establishment of the laws of combination,
or the application of the atomic hypothesis.

    Dalton's early inquiries in natural philosophy

    * Were it pertinent to this narrative, much might be offered on the
 apt analogy subsisting between the laws regulating the infinitely
great world of the firmament and the infinitely small world of atoms.
 The quantitative method that enters the mind of the chemist seeking
 to determine the groundwork of his science, and the conception of
 gravitation by the astronomer discovering the movements of the
 heavenly orbs, are based on the same method : both depend, as Comte
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  219

would necessarily make him more or less familiar
with the opinions held on the atomic constitution of
matter by modern physicists and metaphysicians ;
and possibly his reading of the Greek and Roman
authors had given him a notion of the views of
Democritus and the Epicureans. However this may
be, in framing his views of an atomic theory to
illustrate or give effect to his laws of combining
proportion, he assumed the existence of certain
ultimate particles or molecules possessed of a definite
and unchangeable weight, shape, and size. These he

called atoms, to signify that they were indivisible ;
not, however, affirming this absolutely, but indivisible

in relation only to the chemical and other disintegrat
ing forces existing in nature, none of which were
supposed able to divide them. Thus Dalton viewed
the ponderable masses of the different and elementary
bodies as consisting of a countless multitude of undi

vided atoms.

    On the shape and size of the atoms Dalton could
offer no opinion. From inspecting his diagrams it
might be supposed that he looked upon them as
spherical. The size of the atoms apparently never
entered into his speculations, knowing full well that

they were inconceivably small, and altogether beyond

the grasp of our senses aided by the highest appliances

of art.

   Where Dalton's reasonings, based on experimental
inquiry, passed beyond the thoughts of all his pre
decessors, from Newton and Liebnitz down to his own

contemporaries engaged in discussing the atomic con
stitution of bodies, was his introducing the question
   220 John Dalton.

      It was "this stride in advance of all speculators in

   atomics," and before he had completed his analysis of

   a score of compounds, that gave him such confidence
   in propounding his hypothesis "that the ultimate

   atoms of the elementary bodies do not possess the

   same, but different weights, and that the difference

   between their weights is identical with that which

   subsists between the combining proportions of the

   elements themselves."

      He could not, of course, pronounce any opinion on

   the absolute weight of atoms, millions of the heaviest

   of which might not affect the most delicate balance ;

   but he thought that if it were possible to weigh them

   one by one, we should find that whatever was the

   absolute weight of any one would be found to be the

   weight of each of the others of the same kind ; thus,

   if one atom of hydrogen weighed the millionth of a

   millionth of a grain, each of the hydrogen atoms would
   weigh the millionth of a millionth also. Again, we

   should find that all the oxygen atoms were eight times

   heavier than the hydrogen ones, all the nitrogen four

   teen times heavier, all the  gold atoms   197  times heavier.
                                observes, "  the  proportion in
   In short, as Dr Wilson

   which bodies combine with each other are supposed
   to depend upon the weights of the atoms which make

   them up, and to be identical with them. All the

   numbers, accordingly, which before the hypothesis is

   considered represent combining proportions, as soon
   as it is adopted, come to represent weights of ultimate

   atoms or atomic weights."

   Dalton looked upon the ultimate particles in the

   act of combination as being brought into closer

-
A Sketch of the Atomic Theory.  221

their individuality ; so that when the compound they

form is decomposed, they separate, and reappear with
all their original properties. " The smallest possible
quantity of water is in this way conceived to consist
of one atom of hydrogen and one of oxygen bound
together, without loss of the individuality of either, by
the unknown and invisible tie which we term chemical

affinity."
    This brief exposition, divested as far as practicable

of unnecessary technicalities, may enable the reader
to form some notion of Dalton's great discovery.
Dalton's views of chemical combination, including

both the facts and the hypothesis which expressed

and explained them, are generally known as the

" Atomic Theory." Dr Wilson observes :-- " To
Dalton himself, the evidence in support of the
existence of ultimate indivisible particles appears to

have seemed so conclusive, that he considered the

doctrine of atoms in the light of an induction from the

data furnished by observation and experiment, and

this without reference to any other than purely
physical questions. We cannot sufficiently reiterate

that he was an atomist before he was a chemist. In
his lips, therefore, the name 'Atomic Theory,' was

consistent, and had a clear meaning. It was John

Dalton's atomic theory of chemical combining pro
portions ; his theory of atoms connected with his

discoveries in chemistry, so as at once to account for,

and to expound them. To those, however, who can

not by any process of generalisation establish to their
own satisfaction, or to that of others, the actual
existence of atoms (and it includes almost every one
222 John Dalton.

doctrine of atoms is only a questionable, and, we may
say, an indifferent hypothesis, Dalton's view is 'an

atomic hypothesis of combining proportion.' It

matters comparatively little, however, whether we
say atomic theory or atomic hypothesis, provided we
keep perfectly distinct what is matter of assumption
concerning atoms from what is matter of fact
concerning laws of combining proportion."

   In a subsequent chapter a few words will be offered
on the influence of the atomic theory in the develop
ment of the science of chemistry, and the mode in
which the new doctrine was received by the con
temporaries of Dalton both at home and abroad. In
the meantime some recognition should be made of

his social life, and his public appearances as a lec
                   CHAPTER XII.

                     " For the highest degree of organization

              Gives the highest degree of thought!'-- PARMENIDES.

PORTRAITURE -- SOCIAL HABITS -- TEACHING AND ITS REWARDS --
      LECTURES AT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION, LONDON -- HIS RESIDENCE
     --HIS RETICENCE ON PUBLIC AFFAIRS-- LECTURES IN EDINBURGH
      GLASGOW, AND LONDON -- HIS CORRESPONDENCE ON A VARIETY

        OF TOPICS.

           OHN DALTON'S stature was slightly above

                 the middle height, say sixty-eight inches.
                His robust, muscular frame bore con
                siderable resemblance to a class of men
daily met with in the agricultural districts of Cum
berland. Seen in country garb, and judged from his
mere physique, he might have been looked upon as
possessing sufficient of the athlete to become a prize
winner in the Carlisle wrestling-ring ; nor would his
deep, somewhat gruff voice have been an unworthy

accompaniment of such bucolic championship. His

slight stoop forward, in part arising from his studious
and sedentary habits, and unpolished gait, betrayed
the absence of physical training; yet after middle
age, it appears he could, without a day's preparation,
walk as rapidly and continuously as the most dis
ciplined pedestrian ; nay, climb the dark brow of the
mighty Helvellyn, of three thousand feet, with ease

                                                                   S
 224 John Dalton.

    The real strength and pith of the man lay not
 in bone and muscle, but in an ample nerve-power and
 the possession of a fine cerebral development. He
 had an expressive, thoughtful countenance, and a
 healthful masculine organisation that could not fail to

 attract attention. All the portraits of Dalton display

 a broad, expansive head, bearing no small resemblance
 to that seen in the engraved portrait of Sir Isaac

 Newton. And it would appear that the members
 of the British Association who were present at

 the Cambridge meeting, in the year 1833, were
 impressed with Dalton's likeness to Roubiliac's

 statue of Newton in Trinity College Chapel. Mr
 Woolley, also an intimate friend of Dalton's, who
 had a cast of Newton's head placed near Dalton
 after his decease, has recorded "that the likeness

 which had been observed during life was in death

 most striking."

    As far as a careful comparison instituted within an

interval of four days can be relied upon, I should say

the configuration of the head in the statue of Sir
 Isaac Newton at Grantham resembles very much that
of Dalton's standing in front of the Manchester In
firmary. Whether this analogy of form be strictly
dependent on the similarity of the crania of the two
philosophers, or is in part borrowed from the ideal
conception of the sculptors aiming to give breadth to
the intellectual organs, is beyond my decision. The
statue of Dalton by Chantrey appears to me, both in
pose and general treatment, one of his best works.
The artist, however, has given undue and unnatural
prominence to the part of the forehead immediately
above the eyebrows. Among other relics of their
His Portraiture.     225

accomplished President preserved by the Literary and
Philosophical Society of Manchester, is Dalton's hat,
from the shape of which it is easy to see that Dalton's
head was of the bracycephalic type, with great width
across the temples, or in the tranverse axis of the

cranium.
    The massive, full contour of Dalton's head impresses

you with the stamp of intellectual power, and a
capacity for the highest of human efforts ; and nobly
distinctive as it appeared, it was not a whit more

noble in form than the brain-structure it enclosed was

in fitting response to those claims which science

exacts from her more distinguished votaries. His

prominent eyebrows shaded in deeper setting eyes
of quiet discernment, whilst the use of large spec
tacles added to his general philosophic seeming

and force of character. In his marked nose, rather

massive jaws, and firm, deep chin, you saw the
features of the sturdy race of the " north countrie,"

not altogether free of an air of severity at times ;

these, however, were somewhat toned down by
lips less masculine than usual, and a physiognomy
that offered blandness as well as firmness and pene

tration.

   The portrait accompanying this memoir is taken
from an admirable likeness of John Dalton by Mr J.
Lonsdale, engraved by C. Turner, A.R.A. The origi
nal picture was in the possession of James Thomson,
Esq., F.R.S., of Clitheroe. In preferring Lonsdale's
portrait to that by Allen, or the engraving taken from

Chantrey's bust, I am guided by those who knew

Dalton long and intimately. There are, it is said,

                  P
226 John Dalton.

marked facial lineaments were easily rendered by
artists of ordinary distinction.

  If his cranium, and forehead especially, had much

of the contour and type of Sir Isaac Newton, his
general demeanour and scientific methods tallied not

a little with what I used to observe of his worthy con

temporary, Gay Lussac. This noble Frenchman and
true savant dressed in country fashion, and steadily
held by the subject-matter of his prelections without
offering much rhetorical adornment to his science.
Perhaps Dalton and Gay Lussac had closer personal
and scientific affinities than any two men of their
epoch. As it might appear a little incongruous to

Ienter into historical parallels in this brief memoir,

rest content with drawing attention to the cognate
scientific relations of Dalton to Berzelius the renowned
chemist, and Alexander Von Humboldt the philoso
pher ; both of them possessed the intellectual traits and
Teutonic perseverance so markedly seen in Dalton's
character. The Swede was the faithful historian and

honest exponent of his science, over which his friend
Dalton had thrown a halo of light; the German tra
veller had the keen grasp that could embrace the
" Principia " of Newton, the atomic theory of Dalton,
and all the ancient and modern philosophies bearing
on the elucidation of natural phenomena.

    Dalton dressed in Quaker's costume, wearing knee-
breeches, dark-grey stockings, and buckled shoes, the
fashion of that day. He always appeared in neat
attire and good broadcloth, with gloves, gaiters, and
a handsome walking-cane, headed or not with silver
or gold. His broad-brim beaver showed the finest
     His Faculties unbent over a Pipe of Tobacco. 227

did not invariably adopt the phraseology of " Friends "
by addressing individuals as "thou" and "thee;" nor
was he quite so formal in other ways as the old-
fashioned representatives of his religious deno
mination. In general society he was somewhat

reserved, and as a good listener, not much disposed

to break the line of conversation unless he could do so

succinctly, and with a word or two of dry humour
that generally told very happily. Considering his
self-possession, to which he was to the manner born,
he did not appear to advantage in miscellaneous
groupings of people, and still less amid the gatherings
of the elite and philosophic of the metropolis. This
apparent deficiency in his mental manifestations arose
from his bringing up, his want of social opportunities,
and his comparatively little intercourse with men and
women of high culture. When placed among his own
circle, and encouraged to certain trains of thought
favouring his tendency to exposition, he had no
difficulty in sustaining an animated conversation, and
at the same time greatly interesting his hearers.
His colloquial faculty was at its best over a pipe of
tobacco, surrounded by two or three friends in an

evening : then he was at home, and felt as a philo
sopher who had something to say, and could say it

well. As a general rule, he exhibited much of the

golden silence so vauntingly preached by Thomas
Carlyle, but so seldom practised by that great his
torian, whose loquacity is rather a paramount feature
in his social fraternisations.

    John Dalton enjoyed the constantly happy pri
vileges attendant on a healthy organisation, scarcely
          228 John Dalton.

           adventitious circumstances, such as the porter-poison
          ing in London to be presently noted, or an attack of
          the prevailing epidemic, influenza. He had a good
           pulse and a good digestion,* and these constitute
          nine-tenths of the groundwork of a man's success in
          the world of competition. How great soever the
           mental gifts may be in an individual, the exercise of
           them remains more or less in abeyance under the dark
          clouds of dyspepsia, and other ills to which human
          flesh is heir. No puny-framed person has reached the
          higher honours of statesmanship, and no bilious phleg

        matic lawyer, as far as I know, has attained the wool

          sack. The men of eminence who have figured in
           history, be they soldiers, philosophers, physicists, or
           others, have been strong-stomached, or, as Paley, who
          was a true example of the kind, used to say, good
          trencher men. Dalton's organic functions, aided by
           balmy sleep, went on pari-passu with his prescribed
           mental labours and laboratory work. Calmness and
           serenity ruled the mind as equality governed the
          bodily operations of the philosopher. He ate mode
           rately, and generally drank only water, even in his

         old age, when, if ever, the most temperate of men

           may stand in need of wine and stimulants.
               There are but faint tracings of historical interest in

          the life of a man who had to pursue the calling of a

                 * No class of people in Her Majesty's dominions look more atten
             tively to their victuals than the worthy Society of Friends, whose
               daughters are neat cooks and dainty purveyors. Dalton was a true
               Friend, who, on his journeying from home, seldom omitted to note his

         Istomach supplies, and what they cost him. Thus he wrote :--" Mr J.

               Pearson and walked to Hayfield (four miles), breakfasted there on
             tea, two basins of milk, four eggs, bread and butter, muffins, &c. : for

"V
In his Capacity of Schoolmaster.  229

schoolmaster, and to practise the sedate virtues of a
bachelor Quaker, whose walk was mainly confined to
a circle neither enlivening in tone nor brilliant in social
qualities. Dalton's life was truly in his works, his
science, and his discoveries ; in any other direction it

was monotonous in form and details, and most unevent

ful in character. Each day of the week, except the

first (Sunday), found him engaged teaching grammar,
arithmetic, and caligraphy, or lecturing on physics

and chemistry to more advanced students. It is

true, he had grown up with this kind of occupation
from a very early age, and apparently felt it the most
suited to the habits and contemplative moods of his

mature years. Teaching was the sustentation fund

of both his virtues and his philosophies ; and he

showed his wonted sagacity in holding on by the
essentials of life, for, as an Englishman of obscure

birth, what could he expect, or what has science ever

obtained, at the hands of the so-called paternal

government of this great country ? My genial and
lamented companion of other days, Professor Edward

Forbes, used to reply to such a query, " More kicks
than ha'pennies, my friend ! "

   His ordinary fees for instruction were at first one
shilling ; then eighteenpence ; and at a later period of
his life he exacted half-a-crown. He earned a few
guineas as a " professional chemist," making the low
charge of half-a-guinea for an ordinary chemical

analysis showing the different constituents to be found
in a gallon of water : the same kind of work to-day
would fetch ten guineas. For special instruction in the

laboratory, or practical chemistry, his fee was 3s. 6d.
230 John Dalton.

higher remuneration ; so that after his sixtieth year
his pecuniary means were ample. The story is told
of Dr Bardsley, a Manchester physician of eminence,
calling once on Dalton, and observing half-a-crown

lying on the table, said, "You throw your money
about carelessly." " Ay," replied Dalton, " a woman

has just gone away that I have been teaching a bit of

arithmetic to, and thou see she has left me half-a-

crown."
   The mode by which he earned a livelihood became

after long years of pursuit so essentially a part of his
nature, that he had no disposition to cast it aside when
by dint of success he had gathered a modest independ
ence. To follow a settled course, that in time lapsed
into a regular groove of thought as well as of action,
was characteristic of Dalton, who claimed for per
severance a place among the highest of virtues in a
man's career, the main step in the ladder of progress,
and the promotion of a life's well-doing. He was a twin
brother in sentiment with the monk of old whose motto
was Laborare est orare --a text that Dalton typified
in a high degree in his course through the world.
Energetic and laborious, and quietly pushing along
the road to material prosperity, he might hope for the

verification of the saying-- " If thou dost well unto

thyself, all men will speak well of thee." *
    Schoolmastering was less of a drudgery to him

    * The schoolmasters in the days of palmy Rome occasionally got a
 remunerative quid pro quo for their services to youth, in enjoying official
 positions worthy of the best men in the commonwealth. The Emperor
 Vespasian, though no scholar himself, had sense to see that it was for
 the public good that men of letters should be encouraged ; and he
 caused Quintillian, one of the most successful teachers of the day, to
Perseverance his Motto.                          231

than to most persons of his class ; for having set his

pupil to his tasks, with a general remark as to the

mode of pursuing them, he left him very much to do

what he best could by persevering exertions, whilst

he turned his own attention to chemical experiments,

and the calculations naturally arising out of their

consideration. Inasmuch as this laboratory work

was comparatively little checked by solicitations

for help on the part of his scholars, he worked double
tides in each diurnal --earning his bread and butter,

and at the same time realising the data or foundations

upon which he was enabled to erect a grand super

structure of theoretical and practical science.  .--. -

   With all his eagerness in the paths of philosophy,
he had sufficient of the shopkeeping Briton in his

composition to keep his eye open to the main chance

of being able to live prudently well, and to save

money to meet the wants and infirmities of old age.

This careful procedure was justifiable in his early

struggles, when, as a teacher of natural philosophy, he
could only realise about £100 a year in one of the
great commercial capitals of Lancashire, where opu

lence so largely abounded. By and by his lectures

delivered in the cities of England and Scotland

brought considerable grist to the mill, and gave clear
promise of further accession of means and sources

of independence. Such fortune in prospect did not
alter his mode of living; and it is to be feared that his

habits of saving, so long practised, got too retentive a

hold to be cast aside in the declination of life, when

the mind is apt to be disquieted by its prospects of

the future. If frugal and economic, to a degree worthy

of a fellside patriarch rather than a bachelor of inde-
              232 John Dalton.

                pendent resources, he was by no means wanting in
                generosity on a great demand for its exercise ; whilst
              he privately afforded aid to the well-deserving of his
               old friends in lack of money.

                  The many valuable memoirs furnished by Dalton
               to the Literary and Philosophical Society of Man
                chester between the years 1800 and 1803 called forth a
              large share of attention both at home and abroad.
              In proof of which the Directors of the Royal Institu
               tion of Great Britain, consisting of Count Rumford,
              the founder, of Humphrey Davy, Dr Wollaston, and
                others eminent in science and literature, invited
               Dalton to deliver a course of lectures to the

                members of the institution. These lectures em

                braced mechanics and physics, and inaugurated
                the session 1803-4. Dalton's first appearance before
               a London audience was on December 22, 1803.

                 In a letter to Mr John Rothwell we get more know
              ledge of his London experiences :--

                                                                     London, January 10, 1804.

                  I was introduced to Mr Davy, who has rooms adjoining

                  mine in the Royal Institution. He is a very agreeable and in
                    telligent young man, and we have interesting conversations in
                  an evening. The principal failing in his character is that he
                does not smoke. Mr Davy advised me to labour my first
                   lecture ; he told me the people here would be inclined to form

               their opinion from it. Accordingly I resolved to write my first
               lecture wholly, to do nothing but to tell them what I would do,
               and enlarge on the importance and utility of science. I studied

                    and wrote for nearly two days, then calculated to a minute how
                    long it would take me reading, endeavouring to make my dis
                  course about fifty minutes. The evening before the lecture,

               Davy and I went into the theatre ; he made me read the whole

                    of and he went into the furthest corner then he read and
                    was the audience. We criticised upon each other's method.

.~\
I

      it,

                                                                                                ;

                                                                                                       it,
Lectures at the Royal Institution.  233

Next day I read it to an audience of about 150 or 200 people,

which was more than was expected. They gave a very general
plaudit at the conclusion, and several came up to compliment

me on the excellence of the introductory. Since that time I

have scarcely written anything ; all has been experiment and

verbal explanation. In general, my experiments have uniformly
succeeded, and I have never once faltered in the elucidation of
them. In fact, I can now enter the lecture-room with as little
emotion nearly as I can smoke a pipe with you on Sunday or

Wednesday evenings.

   On his returning to Manchester at the end of
January, he wrote as follows to his brother :--

                                                                 February I, 1804.

   Dear Brother, -- I have the satisfaction to inform thee that
I returned safe from my London journey last seventh day
(Saturday), having been absent six weeks. It has, on many

accounts, been an interesting vacation to me, though a laborious

one. I went in a great measure unprepared, not knowing the

nature and manner of the lectures in the institution, nor the
apparatus. My first was on Tuesday, December 22d (1803),
which was introductory, being entirely written, giving an

account of what was intended to be done, and natural philosophy

in general. All lectures were to be one hour each, or as near as
might be. The number attending were from one to three

hundred of both sexes, usually more than half men. I was

agreeably disappointed to find so learned and attentive an

audience, though many of them of rank. It [required great

labour on my part to get acquainted with the apparatus, and to
draw up the order of experiments and repeat them in the

intervals between the lectures, though I had one pretty expert
to assist me. The scientific part of the audience was wonder

fully taken with some of my original notices relative to heat, the
gases, &c., some of which had not before been published.

Had my hearers been generally of the description I had ap
prehended, the most interesting lectures I had to give would

have been the least relished ; but as it happened, the expecta
tions formed had drawn several gentlemen of first-rate talents

together, and my eighteenth, on heat, and the cause of expan
234 John Dalton.

sion, &c., was received with the greatest applause, with very
few experiments. The one that followed was on mixed elastic

fluids, in which I had an opportunity of developing my ideas

that have already been published on the subject more fully.

The doctrine has, as I apprehended it would, excited the atten
tion of philosophers throughout Europe. Two journals in the
German language came into the Royal Institution whilst I was
there, from Saxony, both of which were about half filled with
translations of the papers I have written on the subject, and

 comments on them. . . .

   In lecturing on optics, I got six ribbands --blue, pink, lilac,
and red, green, and brown -- which matches very well, and told
the curious audience so. I do not know whether they gene

 rally believed me to be serious, but one gentleman came up
 immediately after, and told me he perfectly agreed with me :
 he had not remarked the difference by candle-light.

    Towards the close of the year 1805, he went to
 reside in Faulkner Street, at the house of the Rev.
 William Johns, with whom he continued to lodge and
board for the greater part of his life. Miss Johns has
thus recorded the characteristic simplicity with which

this engagement was formed :-- " As my mother was

 standing at her parlour window one evening towards

 dusk, she saw Mr Dalton passing on the other side of

 the street, and on her opening the window, he crossed

 over and greeted her. 'Mr Dalton,' said she, 'how

Iis it that you so seldom come to see us ? ' ' Why,
don't know,' he replied, ' but I have a mind to come

 and live with you.' My mother thought at first that

 he was in jest ; but finding that he really meant what
 he said, she asked him to call again the next day,
 after she should have consulted my father. Accord
 ingly he came and took possession of the only bed
 room at liberty, which he continued to occupy for

                 (
Resides with the Rev. W. Johns.  235

honour of both, that throughout that long connection

he and my father never, on any occasion, exchanged
one angry word, and never ceased to feel for each
other those sentiments of friendly interest which, on
the decline into years of both, ripened into still
warmer feelings of respect and affection."

   No one ever worked more methodically or lived
more regularly than Dalton did during his long and
happy residence with the family of Mr Johns. He rose

at eight o'clock in the morning ; if in winter, went

with his lantern in his hand to his laboratory in
the rooms of the Literary and Philosophical Society,
and not above two minutes walk from his lodgings,

lighted the fire, and came over to breakfast when the
family had nearly done. Went to the laboratory, and
stayed till dinner-time, coming in in a hurry when it

was nearly over, eating moderately, and drinking water
only. Went out again, and returned about five o'clock

to tea, still in a hurry, when the rest were finishing.
Again to his laboratory till nine o'clock, when he re

turned to supper; after which he and Mr Johns

smoked a pipe, and the whole family seems much to
have enjoyed this time of conversation and recreation

after the busy day.

   A lady, whose bedroom commanded a view of

Dalton's laboratory, always knew the morning hour
to a minute by observing him noting the condition of

his thermometers outside his window. It was by

exercising the same methodical habits that enabled
him to accomplish so much real work. Literally
everything went on like clockwork with him from
day to day; even the few hours of recreation he
236 John Dalton.

As a boy, he enjoyed rustic amusements, among

which a game at bowls was deemed as innocent as

any ; and in Manchester he attended a bowling-club

which met regularly every Thursday afternoon at a

tavern at Broughton and at Stretford, where he played

with all the zest and earnestness of a young man,

watching the movements of the bowls, and swaying

his body to and fro in accordance with their direction

and speed. After the game was over, upon which

some moderate betting took place, tea was served ;

and in the evening the members, with the exception

of Dalton, who did not know a king of spades from a

knave of hearts, played whist ; whilst all enjoyed the

fragrant weed, smoking, as was the fashion in those
                              pipes. After " blowing a
days, long   churchwarden     snug parlour of the " Dog
big cloud,"  Dalton left the

and Partridge," returned to town, and of course to his

laboratory, to note the state of his barometer and

thermometer. On being questioned as to his reasons

for selecting Thursday for his country amusement, he

replied that he liked his Saturday holiday in the

middle of the week.

He would occasionally spend a few minutes in

reading the newspapers, the politics of which do not

seem to have interested him very greatly, or he

would have shown less reticence on public affairs.

Mr Johns and his family thought him Toryish in
principle ; others maintain that he was a Whig, as

almost all true and well-educated Quakers are. His

manhood was developed during the most eventful

era in European history --French revolutions and

terrorism ; Napoleonic wars abroad, and English
         Reserved on Questions of Public Interest. 237

brother and friends does he allude to the great
changes affecting the ancient dynasties, or the
threatened disorganisation of the interests of society

at large.

   How differently did Dalton comport himself, and
wisely, too, compared with his French contemporaries
Berthollet, Monge, Arago, Raspail, who entered con
spicuously into all the turmoil of politics, as ready to
ascend the tribune, and to raise their voices and

swords against aristocratic rule, as to determine the
nature of a chemical salt, or to measure an arc of the

meridian.

    Reflecting on his position as a teacher, naturally
involving comment on modern as well as ancient
history, and not less his religious affinities and the
stirring times in which he lived, his reserve on ques
tions of deep and lasting interest to his species
appears somewhat remarkable. Though by no
means a recluse in habit like Cavendish, nor a dreamy
philosopher like Spinoza, he seems to have bestowed
little or no thought upon the current topics of the

day--political or philanthropic ; or, if he entertained

any opinions thereon, he refrained from expressing
them. Nor did he engage in the metaphysical or

purely philosophical questions agitating the leading
minds of Europe, the discussion of which brought the
views of Locke, Hobbes, and Hartley, and those of
the Scottish school of philosophy, headed by Hume,
in competition with the Cartesians and the Cyclopaed-
ists abroad. He was not a many-sided, but rather a
single-minded man, who concentrated all his energies
on his favourite studies --chemistry and meteorology,

                                                          r
                 238 John Dalton.

                   which he was induced to deviate from his own special
                 path of meditative culture were so rare as not to be

                worth naming. His life was spent in his laboratory
                 almost to the exclusion of all other pursuits, be they
               patriotic, or moral, or political in aim. It is said that,

                   when urged to come more into the world, and to take
                   part in matters of real public interest, that he replied
                 in the words he made use of when asked why he did

             Inot get married ?-- " Oh ! never had time."

                     He manifested much kindly good-will towards
                   his friends and old Cumbrian acquaintances, and
                 liked to promote the sociable relations of his Man
                   chester visiting circle ; but his sympathies were
                 hardly catholic enough to include the joys and griefs
                 of the world outside his own, or the larger interests of
                 humanity. He adhered to his social groove, and that
                   was pretty Quakerish, in the same rigid way that he
                 stuck to his scientific calling. He wanted academic
                   culture, and the refined thought that tends to ennoble
                men, be their walk what it may in life --nay, seemed
                 proud of his broad Cumbrian dialect and plainness of
                 speech. No mention is made of his being a reader of
                   history or belles-lettres, and there is nothing to indicate
                   his having given much consideration to the influ
                   ences exercised by the leading minds either of the
                   Elizabethian historical period, or by the poets and
                   writers in whose hands a graceful literature flourished
                 in the century of his birth.

                     Attention has already been directed to the circum
                 stance of Dalton showing but little regard for any
                kind of reading--be it historical, geographical, or

A scientific -- even at a time when his contributions to
         " Could carry all his Books on his Back? 239

were numerous, and his " Meteorological Essays " and
" New System of Chemistry " were cast before the
public for no other purpose than being consulted.

He acted in this respect as if he were a light to his

own path beyond all other lights visible or attainable.

And what is more incongruous and inconsistent

with the character of a man aspiring to a keen grasp
and comprehension of all available knowledge, he
seems to have discouraged reading in others. On
the council of the Philosophical Society he stood in
the way of acquiring the kind of library suited to so
cosmopolitan an institution, and was in the habit of
saying to the remonstrances of those who inculcated
the introduction of good works and in good quantity,

" I could carry all the books I have ever read on my

back !"* He was not aware that he was in part re
proving himself by this statement, inasmuch as more
careful reading, and the wish for higher culture, would
have added vastly to his own resources, and given
breadth and light to the needful literary exposition
of his scientific work.

    Dalton's first appearance in North Britain, his
 impressions of Edinburgh and the reception he met
 with there, and in Glasgow as a lecturer, may be
gathered from his letter to Mr Johns, who was looking
 after Dalton's schoolmastering interests in Manchester.

                                                    Ed1nburgh, April 19, 1807.

   Respected Fr1end, --As the time I proposed to be absent

 is nearly expired, and as my views have recently been somewhat

    * His stock of books, as early as the year 1800, were beyond the
 power of any man's back. Note is made of them in a subsequent page,
 in discussing the character and amount of his chemical and other ap
    240 John Dalton.

    extended, I think it expedient to write you for the information
    of inquirers. Soon after my arrival here I announced my
    intention by advertisement of handbills. I obtained introduction
    to most of the professional gentlemen in connection with the

    college, and to others not in that connection, by all of whom I

    have been treated with the utmost civility and attention. A class
    of eighty appeared for me in a few days. My five lectures

    occupied me nearly two weeks. [Owing to several persons
    being disappointed in not hearing him, Dalton arranged a

    second course.]

       Hitherto I have been most highly gratified with my journey ;

    it is worth coming 1oo miles merely to see Edinburgh. It
    is the most romantic place and situation I ever saw ; the houses
    touch the clouds. At this moment I am as high [above the

    ground as the cross of St James's spire ; yet there is a family or
    two above me. In this place they do not build houses side by
    side as with you, they build them one upon another-- nay, they

    do what is more wonderful still, they build one street upon

    another ; so that we may in many places see a street with the

    people in it directly under one's feet, at the same time that one's

    own street seems perfectly level and to coincide with the surface

    of the earth. My own lodgings are up four flights of stairs from

    the front street, and five from the back. I have just 1oo steps
    to descend before I reach the real earth. I have a most

    extensive view of the sea. . . . The walks about Edinburgh

    are most delightfully romantic. The weather is cold ; ice

    every morning, and we had a thick snow a few days ago. Upon

    walking up on to an eminence, I observed all the distant hills
    white, the nearer ones speckled. I saw five or six vessels just

    touching the horizon ; they seemed to be about ten or twelve

    miles off, and their white sails looked like specks of snow on

    the sea. I saw a dozen or two at anchor in the river, and a most

    charming view of the Fifeshire hills on the other side of the

    Forth. Adieu. My best regards to you alL  J. Dalton.

    He gave a second course of lectures to the Royal

    Institution of Great Britain in 1809, and in December

^\
   Philosophises and Dines Cheaply.                             241

Johns, in which there is a curious mingling of potatoes
and philosophy, with an eye to Bond Street fashions

and pretty women :--

  On Tuesday I spent greater part of the day (morning, they
call it here) with Mr Davy in the laboratory of the Royal
Institution. Sir J. Sebright, M.P., who is becoming a student
of chemistry, was present. On Wednesday I attended Mr

Bond's lecture on astronomy, and prepared for mine the next

day. On Thursday, at two, I gave my first lecture. Mr

Pearson, a former acquaintance, went home with me after the

lecture, and we had a long discussion on mechanics. Mr Davy

had invited me to dine with the club of the Royal Society at

the Crown and Anchor at five o'clock ; but I was detained till
nearly six. I got there, and called Davy out. All was over ; the
cheese was come out. I went, therefore, to the nearest eating-
house I could find to get a dinner. Looking in at a window, I

saw a great heap of pewter plates, and some small oblong tables

covered with cloths. I went in and asked for a beefsteak.
"No." What can I have? "Boiled beef." Bring some

immediately. There was nothing eatable visible in the room,

but in three minutes I had placed before me a large pewter

plate covered completely with a slice of excellent boiled beef

swimming in gravy, two or three potatoes, bread, mustard, and

a  pint of porter. Never got a better  dinner. It   cost   me   I 1£d.
   should have paid 7s. at the Crown                      then  went
I                                      and Anchor.    I

to the Royal Society, and heard a summary of Davy's paper on

chemistry, and one of Home's on the poison of the rattlesnake ;

Sir J. Banks in the chair. Davy is coming very fast into my
views on chemical subjects. On Friday I was preparing for my
second lecture. I received a visit from Dr Roget. On the
evening I was attacked with sore throat. I sweated it well
in the night with clothing, but it was bad on Saturday, and I

was obliged to beg a little indulgence of my auditors on the

score of exertion. However, I got through better than I
expected. I kept in on Sunday and Monday and got pretty
well recruited. On Tuesday I had my third lecture, after
which I went to dine at a tavern to meet the Chemical Club.

                                                          Q
242 John Dalton.

secretaries of the Royal Society. We had much discussion on
chemicals. Wollaston is one of the cleverest men I have yet

seen here. To-day, that is Thursday (for I have had this letter
two or three days in hand), I had my fourth lecture. I find
several ingenious and inquisitive people of the audience. I

held a long conversation to-day with a lady on the subject of
rain-gauges. Several have been wonderfully struck with Mr

Ewart's doctrine of mechanical force. I believe it will soon
become a prevalent doctrine. I should tell Mrs J. something

of the fashions here, but it is so much out of my province, that

I feel rather awkward. I see the belles of New Bond Street
every day, but I am more taken up with their faces than their
dresses. I think blue and red are the favourite colours. Some

of the ladies seem to have their dresses as tight round them

as a drum, others throw them round like a blanket. I do not
know how it happens, but I fancy pretty women look well either

way.

   I am very regular with my breakfast, but other meals are so
uncertain that I never know when or what. Hitherto I have
dined at from two to seven o'clock ; as for tea, I generally have
a cup between nine and ten, and, of course, no supper. I am
not very fond of this way of proceeding. They say things
naturally find their level, but I do not think it is the case in
London. I sent for a basin of soup the other day before I went
to lecture, thinking I should have a good threepenny-worth, but
I found they charged me one shilling and ninepence for a
pint, which was not better than some of our Mary's broth. Of
course, I could not digest much more of the soup.

   Another letter, similarly addressed, shows the
narrow escape that Dalton had from lead-poisoning
Among the London Celebrities.  243

have not had a drop since, and have never had any more of the
symptoms. [This was owing to the presence of lead in the
porter drawn through leaden pipes at the bar of the public-

house.]

   I have had a pretty arduous work, as you may imagine,

having had three lectures to prepare each week, to attend two
others, and to visit and to receive visits occasionally besides.

I find myself just now in the focus of the great and learned
of the metropolis. On Saturday evening I had a discussion
with Dr Wollaston, and a party at Mr Lowry's. On Sunday
evening, last night, I was introduced to Sir Joseph Banks, at
his house, by Sir John Sebright. Sir Joseph said, " O Mr
Dalton, I know him very well ; glad to see you ; hope you are

well," &c. There were forty or more of the leading scientific
characters present, many of whom were my previous acquaint
ances, such as Sir Charles Blagden, Drs Wollaston, Marcet,

Berger, and Roget ; Messrs Cavendish, Davy, Tennant,
Lawson, &c. We had conversation for about an hour or

more in Sir Joseph's library, when the company dispersed. To

judge from the number of carriages at the door it might be

a court levee.

   I paid a visit, in company with Dr Lowry, to Dr Rees, the

other day ; we spent an hour in conversation in the doctor's
library. The doctor seems a worthy philosopher of the old

school ; his evening lucubrations are duly scented with genuine

Virginia.

   From all that can be learned of Dalton's mode of

lecturing, it would appear that his facts and experi
ments were more worthy of approval than either his
manner or his language. London audiences were
accustomed to listen to the eloquence of Davy, and
the academic exposition of Wollaston and other
celebrities ; so that Dalton could hardly expect the
laudation of critics. One of them, a writer in the
Quarterly Review, vol. xcvi., said, " His voice was

harsh, indistinct, and unemphatical, and he was sin-
    244 John Dalton.

    gularly wanting in the language and power of illus
    tration, needful to a lecturer on these high matters
    of philosophy, and by which Davy and Faraday had

given such lustre to their discoveries. Among other

    instances of his odd appropriation of epithets, we re
    collect that in treating of oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen,
    &c., those great elements which pervade all nature,
    he generally spoke of them as these articles, de
    scribing their qualities with far less earnestness than
    a London linendraper would shew in commending
                  CHAPTER XIII.                                               ./"

"The character of the true philosopher is to hope all things not impossible,
  and to believe all things not unreasonable?--S1r JOHN HERSCHEL.

VISIT FROM M. PELLETAN -- DALTON'S APPARATUS -- CHEMICAL PRO
      GRESS --GAY LUSSAC'S LAW OF COMBINATION BY VOLUME --
      DALTON'S OBSTINACY -- ROYAL SOCIETY -- NEW SYSTEM OF
       CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY-- ACADEMY OF SCIENCES-- POLAR EXPE
     DITION --VISITS PARIS UNDER HAPPY AUSPICES.

  ^ppjONS. PELLETAN of Paris visited Manches-

   Vwfl H ter in 1820, for the sole purpose of paying
               his respects to the founder of the atomic
               theory. He fancied that Dalton would be

occupying a professor's chair, surrounded by adepts
in science and hundreds of ingenuous youths ; residing
in a handsome mansion in a handsome square of the
city, or enjoying his otium cum dignitate in a suburban
villa, with roses embellishing its porch ; in short, the
great representative man of Manchester, and well-
known and appreciated by every citizen. Judge of
his surprise when Monsieur Dalton, le philosophe, could
only be found after much inquiry, and when found,
was engaged looking over the shoulders of a boy figur
ing numbers on a slate. The Frenchman, doubting

his senses, asked the grey-headed gentleman if he
really had the honour of addressing Monsieur Dalton.

" Yes," replied Dalton ; " will you sit down till I put

this lad right about his arithmetic." " What ! a philo
sopher of European fame acting as schoolmaster--
246 John Dalton.

impossible!" As the stranger gathered confidence, he

asked Dalton's permission to see his laboratory and
philosophical instruments, the employment of which

had led to such remarkable discoveries in physics.
" Oh," said Dalton, pointing to a miscellaneous
collection of apparatus, occupying a corner of the
room not much larger in area than what, in Mrs
Gamp's eye, would be needful for the reception of an
infant's cradle, and the appurtenances thereunto

belonging, "that's all the apparatus* I possess."

   M. Pelletan might well be astonished on seeing
the humble lodging of the philosopher, who pursued

the vocation of schoolmaster, and who had with such

meagre apparatus determined so many knotty points
in the history of chemistry. He returned to his own

* The bulk of Dalton's apparatus, both that employed in his

researches, and that used for illustrating his lectures, is carefully

preserved in the rooms of the Literary and Philosophical Society, of
which society he was so long the ornament. These fill a large glass

case, and could not by any possibility have been thrust into the corner

of the biggest room in the Institution. Why Dalton should have

spoken to others as well as M. Pelletan in so depreciating a tone of his

instruments of research, is only explicable on the grounds of his wishing

to show that, unlike other experimentalists, he did not rely on intricate

and costly tools for the carrying on of his scientific investigations.  He

used to indulge in the same disparaging comments on the quantity of
books in his possession, saying that he " could carry them all on his

back." Considering Dalton's accuracy of statement on all matters, it

is curious to note in his catalogue of books, made in 1800, that he then

possessed a good collection of works on chemistry, natural philosophy,

mathematics, classics, history, and belles lettres, &c. In the same year he

took stock of   his philosophical instruments, and recorded under different
                Electrical, Magnetic, Optical, Hydrostatical, Botanical,
headings :-- "

Astronomical, Chemical, Meteorological Apparatus ; Mathematical and

Mechanical Utensils and Tools ;" also, "Phonic and Musical Appa

ratus." This collection must have been greatly supplemented before
         Simple Apparatus and Big Achievements. 247

country thankful to know that France could recognise
her men of science in a spirit worthy of an enlightened
age ; nor was he less indignant that rich and boastful
England permitted the greatest of her sons to waste
his strength in practising the common duties of a
common schoolmaster. England had spent 800
millions sterling in upholding a rotten Bourbonic
dynasty, but could not afford £200 a year to the
man whose scientific discoveries had made her name
known to the ends of the civilised world.

   Few things in Dalton's remarkable career as an
experimentalist were more surprising than the crude-
ness of his chemical apparatus. Among other econo
mic chemical contrivances, he used his empty penny
ink-pots, through the corks of which he inserted glass
tubes of less than a farthing value. And no doubt

he turned these to good account. If the reader will

refer to the appendix containing a list of his works
and contributions to chemical science, he cannot

fail to be struck at the amount of work achieved
by Dalton with such simple means.

   Dalton read no less than one hundred and sixteen
essays to the Literary and Philosophical Society of
Manchester. These essays, it must be admitted,
though original and suggestive in aim, are of unequal
merit. Some are worthy of his best days, but the
majority were got up for the purpose of meeting the

wants of the society. It should be observed that the

higher office-bearers of every scientific society are
bound to do their best to render their society worthy
of public regard ; and as the contributions of
members are often irregularly offered, it behoved
248 John Dalton.

of the meeting seemed less attractive than usual. In

addition to the large number just named, he made
various contributions to the scientific journals of the

day ; thus, he furnished twelve essays to Nicolson's
Journal, seven essays to Thomson's " Annals of
Philosophy," and one to Phillip's " Annals of
              "
Philosophy             three       papers   to       the  Philosophical
            ;
Transactions, and one to the " Annales de Chimie." Of

weightier import, as embracing much that appeared
in an isolated form, were his editions of his " New
System of Chemistry," and his " Meteorological

Essays and Observations."*
   Then it ought to be borne in mind that this array of

chemical volumes, and essays, and fragmentary papers
were the mental offspring of a man whose time was

not at his own disposal ; he had to labour for his
daily bread, and this could only be obtained by
devoting the best part of each day to the vocation of

schoolmastering.

  At a later period of his career, about the year 1840,

when he took offence at the refusal of the Royal Society
to insert his " Essay on the Phosphates and Arsen

ates," he printed it in a separate form, with the in
dignant comment, " Cavendish, Davy, Wollaston; and
                                                          by saying, "
IGilbert                       "
are         no         more            and  concluded
                              ;

intend to print my essays in future to be appended to

my other publications." Accordingly he printed four
short essays, viz., " On Microcosmic Salt ; " " On the

* These valuable scientific works were little heard of outside the

strictly professional  circle.     On   December     22, 1800 (seven years after
their issue), Dalton      records                       that my ' Meteorological
                                   --  " It appears

Essays ' have cost nearly ^45 ; that 300 have been sold for ,£45, that
i Still believing in his Strength.  249

mixture of Sulphate of Magnesia and the Biphosphate
of Soda ; " " On the quantity of Acids, Bases, and
Water in the different varieties of Salts, with a new

method of measuring the Water of Crystallisation, as
well as the Acids and Bases ; " and " On a New and

Easy Method of analysing Sugar." Dr Henry says
" the last two announce a discovery of considerable
importance." Dalton found that certain salts, rendered

perfectly anhydrous by heat, when dissolved in water,
caused no increase of its volume, showing that the
salt enters into the pores of the water ; also that salts
containing water, when dissolved in a measured
quantity of pure water, increased the volume of the
solvent by a quantity precisely equal to their con

stituent water, the solid matter, as before, entering the
pores of the water. Sulphate of magnesia was the

subject of several experiments ; but he adds, " I have

tried the carbonates, the sulphates, the nitrates, the

muriates or chlorides, the phosphates, the arseniates,

the oxalates, the citrates, the tartrates, the acetates,

&c., &c., and have been uniformly successful ; only
the water adds to the bulk, and the solid matter adds
to the weight. This fact," he continues in his last

paper on sugar, "was new to me, and I suppose to
others. It is the greatest discovery that I know of

next to the atomic theory." He proceeds to apply this
new principle to the analysis of sugar.

   These views of Dalton's, though regarded at first as

more or less imperfect, were nevertheless confirmed
by Gay Lussac and Thenard, and in a remarkable
250 John Dalton.

   To attempt the briefest review of Dalton's nume

rous works would require a volume equal to the pre
sent ; moreover, such laborious investigations as his,
extending over a period of forty years, can only claim
the consideration of the man of science pursuing
similar paths of inquiry, or the enthusiastic, or
rather the cyclopaedic, historian. Much of his work, it
ought to be remarked, is rendered valueless to-day
by the great strides made in the domain of analytic
chemistry during the last thirty years. Chemistry
has mightily changed, and is daily changing its
operations as these affect both the organic and in

organic kingdoms, and is prepared, as Dr Samuel
Brown said a quarter of a century ago, "to cast its

light into the subterraneous physics (to borrow the
title of Beccher's chaotic opus) of geology, and into
the still more secret physics of physiology, pathology,
therapeutics, all its gifts and promises being, even
ostentatiously, fraught with practical benefits and

intentions. In short, notwithstanding the prowess of

Herschel and the astronomers, or of Cuvier and the
naturalists, and notwithstanding the presence of such
questioners as Maedler and Owen, chemistry is the
science of the century ; and that, not by any means
for what has yet been done or conceived in nor yet
for the unprecedented conquests which the chemists
are making ready to attempt with success, but be
cause there are sciences at work which cannot ad

vance step farther, we do not say in mere breadth,
but in depth, until this eminently terrestrial yet
cosmical and ideal science be carried nearer perfec
tion."

   " Dalton," writes Dr Henry, " was not great
a
                                                                 it,

                                                                               in
" A Lawgiver of Chemical Science."  251

experimental chemistry. It may be urged that, as a

chemist, he was entirely self-taught, and commenced
his labours at a time when the resources of the

experimentalist were scanty and imperfect. Yet

there must have been some inherent deficiency in his

mental or manual endowments disqualifying him for
accuracy in experimenting. For his great contempo
rary, Berzelius, created for himself, and through his
numerous pupils for Europe, that system of exact
analysis, based upon an infinitude of minute pre

cautions --upon rigid weighings, upon vigilant wash

ings on the filter, upon the greatest attainable purity

of reagents --which has raised chemistry to its present
rank among the experimental sciences. Davy and

Gay Lussac, too, not many years his juniors, work
ing simultaneously with him in the same mighty era
of chemical progress, devised for themselves instru
ments and processes of research susceptible of

extreme precision. If we compare the experimental

researches of Dalton detailed in his New System, 1 810,

and in subsequent special chemical memoirs, with the
marvellous discoveries revealed in rapid succession in
the years 1 807-1 1 by the genius of Davy, and recorded
in those masterworks of investigation, his ' Bakerian

Lectures,' or with the somewhat later transcendent

monographs of Gay Lussac on cyanogen, iodine, and
the compounds of nitrogen -- eternal monuments of

exact and exhaustive chemical working --we cannot

hesitate to admit Dalton's vast inferiority in experi
mental chemistry. Nature, it would seem, with a wise

frugality, averse to concentrate all intellectual excel

lences in one mind, had destined Dalton exclusively
for the lofty rank of a lawgiver of chemical science/'
             252 John Dalton.

                In acknowledging the justice of the foregoing

               criticism, it is curious to note that, like Black, Caven
               dish, Priestley, and Lavoisier, Dalton sought the more
               arduous paths of his science, by making the chemistry
             of the gases his special study. Luckily for him, he
               began his chemical career when the phlogiston phan
               tom that troubled his predecessors was vanishing
               like the dim twilight before the rising sun of another
             day in science, that of positive chemistry. Dalton
               did not consider himself bound by the prescriptive
              rights of antiquated doctrinaires, or even the current
               credentials of his contemporaries; but entering upon the
              great field of chemistry, unshackled by traditions and
               beliefs, he pursued his own method of culture and
              cropping. His innovations upon the old lines of
               conservative chemistry must have been as disturbing

             to some of the old-fashioned followers, as Sir H.
              Davy's discoveries of the nature of the oxides were
              to the old Aberdonian professor who "couldna be
            fashed " to notice them. At length, impelled by the
              entreaties of his colleagues to place his pupils au

               courant with the latest discoveries in science, the
              professor made a compromise of his opinions by
               observing to his class, in the following Scottish

             manner--" Both potash and soda are now said to be
             metallic oxides --the oxides, in fact, of two metals
              called potassium and sodium-- by the discoverer of
              them, one Davy, in London-- a varra troublesome

               person in chemistry."
                 Within a year of Dalton's issuing his " New System

              of Chemical Philosophy," Gay Lussac published an
              important memoir on the law of combination of the

"\
Obstinately opposes Gay Lussac's Views.  253

which law appeared to furnish strong support to the

atomic theory. Unaccountably as it may appear,

Dalton, instead of welcoming the precise experi

mental results of Gay Lussac, offering as they did

such valid confirmation of his own doctrines, raised

various objections to them, and apparently never

gave in his adhesion to the view so ably and correctly

enunciated by his French contemporary. All the

"Ifgreat chemists of the day sanctioned the words of
Berzelius on this question --  we substitute the

term atom for volume, and contemplate bodies in

the solid instead of the gaseous state, we find in the

discovery of Gay Lussac one of the most immediate

proofs in favour of this hypothesis of Dalton." And
as Dr Henry observed, "The simple relation dis

covered by Gay Lussac was independent of, and sup

plemental to, that revealed by Dalton." It was so
treated by Dr Prout in his masterly essay (" Annals of

Philosophy," vol. vi., 1815), and has been since univer

sally thus regarded. Moreover, Dalton himself, in de

termining the important atomic weight of water (vol.
p. 275), bases his calculation on the experiments of
Humboldt and Gay Lussac, and concedes the fact
                                      it)
(though at a later period he doubted
                                                         i.,
                                      that two

measures of hydrogen require just one of oxygen to

saturate them.

Dalton's self-will, or rather obstinacy, that pre

vented him accepting Gay Lussac's beautiful law,

also prevailed in other directions. Thus, he adhered

to his own system of atomic symbols (given in the

appendix to this memoir), and "steadily persisted in

denying the superior precision and expressiveness

of the admirable system of chemical formulas pro
 254 John Dalton.

 posed by Berzelius in 1815, and now employed by
 all European chemists." Dr Wollaston's equiva
 lents received no higher consideration at Dalton's

 hands.

    This disposition to call in question the well-
 matured opinions of others, and particularly of such
 nobly efficient, nay, almost unparallelled, workers in
 the field of chemistry as Gay Lussac and Berzelius,
 indicated a trait of non-amiability or direct perverse-
 ness of feeling in Dalton's psychological nature that
 is not at all reconcilable with his general deport
ment and the simplicity of his character. Like many
Quakers of the old school, and possibly some of
the present, he was self-opinioned beyond the
warranty of good manners ; but as a man of inductive
thought, and constantly engaged in experimental
inquiries, his refusal to test for himself what had
been advanced by the greatest French chemist of his

era seems altogether inexplicable.
    Owing to the same cause, call it want of breeding,

or a fellside rough independence, he occasionally
showed abruptness of manner, and more or less rude
ness of speech, even at the meetings of the Literary
and Philosophical Society of Manchester, where, as
President, it behoved him to practise dignity and
forbearance. On one occasion, whilst acting in that
capacity, he had to listen to a long-winded paper
on some subject foreign to his own studies, and

unhesitatingly remarked at the conclusion, "Well,

Igentleman, daresay this paper is very interesting

to those who take an interest in it."
   Dalton did not like to be cross-examined and
The Royal Society too Contracted.  255

persons indeavoured in this way to get information

from him, he use d to say, " I have written a book

on that subject, and if thou wishest to inform thy

self about the matter, thou canst buy my book for

3s. 6d."

   In the year 1810 Davy solicited Dalton to offer
himself as a candidate for the fellowship of the
Royal Society, but he declined, on the ground, it is

supposed, of the admission-fee being so heavy.
Others have opined that he might have doubts of his
election, with Davy so influential in the counsels of

the Society, and still opposed to the atomic theory,

and moreover, disposed to treat Dalton with a certain

amount of hauteur, \i not professional jealousy. Taking

the prevalent opinion, that the fees were a hindrance,
the Society, being aware of his humble vocation and

means, should have endeavoured to open the way for

his admission. Something has been said about
precedent and custom ; but the laws of the Society
were not like those of the Medes and Persians, and it

would have been a simple procedure to elect him,
and then to pass a resolution exempting him from

paying any fees. Surely if any man in England

merited public distinction in the first decennial period
of this century, it was John Dalton, who had thrown
fresh light on the study of meteorology, and proved
himself equal to the highest conceptions in science in
framing the atomic theory. The leading minds of
the metropolis committed an oversight in not
enlisting within their ranks the ablest worker in
chemistry, by which they incurred the censure of the
savans of Europe. Manchester showed a higher
256 John Dalton.

itself by elevating him to the highest office in the

Literary and Philosophical Society.

   In November    18 10,  a"pNpeeawredSytshteemsecoofndChpeamrticaolf

the first volume  of a

Philosophy." It was dedicated to Sir H. Davy (then
Mr Davy, and Sec. R.S.) and to Dr William Henry,

" as a testimony to their distinguished merit in the

promotion of chemical science and as an acknow

ledgment of friendly communications and assist

ance." To his brother he writes, November 17,

I" Herewith send six copies of my ' Chemistry,' Part

II., which I have just brought out. The work is not yet
finished, but I have no doubt the judicious reader will

thank me for the delay, having been spending a great

part of my time for the two last years in prosecut

ing inquiries, the results of which are now published."

   The following excerpts from the Preface are inter
esting :--

  When the first part of this work was published, I expected

to complete it in little more than a year ; now two years and a

half have elapsed, and it is yet in a state of imperfection. The

reason of it is the great range of experiments which I have

found necessary to take. Having been in my progress so often
misled by taking for granted the results of others, I have deter
mined to write as little as possible but what I can attest by my

own experience. On this account, the following work will be

found to contain more original facts and experiments than any

other of its size on the elementary principles of chemistry.

   Whatever may be the result of my plan to render the work

somewhat like complete by the addition of another volume, I

feel great satisfaction in having been enabled thus far to

Idevelop that theory of chemical synthesis, which the longer
Icontemplate the more am convinced of its truth. Enough is

already done to enable any one to form a judgment of it. The

facts and observations yet in reserve are only of the same kind
as those already advanced ; if the latter are not sufficient to
Corresponding Mem ber of the A cademy of Sciences. 257                     /*

convince, the addition of the former will be but of little avail.

In the meantime, those who with me adopt the system will, I

have no doubt, find it a very useful guide in the prosecution of
all chemical investigations.

   Had amity and peace, rather than diplomacy and
war, ruled the destinies of Europe at the earlier part
of the century, Dalton's claims to the honours con
ferred by continental savans on foreigners of merit
would have been recognised on the first propounding
of the atomic theory. The French Institute took
an early opportunity, namely in 18 16, of testifying
their high regard for Dalton, by electing him a corre
sponding member of the Academy of Sciences. This
was the first honour awarded to Dalton, and he
valued it greatly.

   Early in the year 18 18 an expedition was fitted
out for investigating the Polar regions, and the Royal
Society had the power of recommending " a natural
philosopher " to go on the expedition. Sir H. Davy,

in a very handsome manner, offered the post to
Dalton, not omitting to mention the probable remu
neration of £500 for the voyage. Dalton was then
fifty-two years old, and wisely declined the proposi
tion, on the grounds of not being able to quit the
regular habits of a sedentary life for a seafaring one,
and that on a voyage of uncertain duration, besides
involving a great interruption to his chemical investi

gations.

   All who sought excellence in art and the higher

walks of science used to bend their steps to Paris, a
city that held out superior advantages to the learned
men of Europe, be they naturalists, historians, or

                                                                        R
    258 John Dalton.

    art-- its schools of learning, and other admirably
    organised institutions --its architecture, its garden-

    esque and floral culture, and not least, its fashionable

    resorts and gaiety, made the City of the Seine the

    grandest capital of Europe. To the insular English

    mind it was, and still peculiarly attractive. How
                         a
    ever he may have been prompted to cross the Straitsis,

    of Dover, Dalton, accompanied by two intelligent

    friends, travelled to Paris in 1822, and was richly

    rewarded for the effort.

    Dalton had unfortunately preserved only very brief

    notes of this interesting journey. The first person

    upon whom he called was M. Breguet, the celebrated

    mechanician, and member of the Institute, merely

    with the object of placing in his hands a watch con

    structed by Breguet, that required some repairs.

    When M. Breguet learned the name of his visitor

    he welcomed him with the liveliest enthusiasm, and

    immediately engaged him and his two companions to

    dinner, where they met M. Arago, M. Fresnel, and

    other distinguished persons.       a  visit from

      "Saturday, July 6th: Received

    two Swedish chemists from Abo, in Finland,

    pupils of Berzelius, Bonsdorf, and Nordenskiold.
    Visited the Venerable Abbe" Gregoire. -- 7th, Sun

    day Attended the service at the British Ambas
    :

                      4
    sador's chapel. From one to two hundred present,
    chiefly English, and more than half ladies. Very

    genteel and attentive congregation. Good sermon,

    well calculated for Paris, on the evidences of Chris

    tianity. After P.M. took coach with companions

    for Arcueil, to dine by invitation with the Marquis

^\
Takes his Seat in the French Institute.  259

Fourier, &c., &c. A most agreeable and interesting
visit, and a beautiful place. -- Monday, 8th July :

Walked down to the Arsenal ; saw Gay Lussac for half
an hour ; went to the Jardin du Roi ; saw the wild
beasts and the anatomical preparations, &c. ; took

coach home, and then went to the Institute. About

one hundred persons present ; was introduced by Biot,
and placed in the square adjacent to the officers ; was

announced by Gay Lussac (as president) as a corre
sponding member (English) present. The sitting
was from three to five o'clock.* After my announce

ment, my two companions were introduced to the
same bench during the sitting. -- Sunday, 14th : Gay
Lussac and Humboldt called and spent an hour on
meteorology, &c. Took a coach to Th^nard's ; break
fast d la fourchette with him, family, and Dr Milne-
Edwards. Went to the laboratory near M. Biot's, and
saw a full set of experiments on the deutoxide of hydro

gen, most curious and satisfactory. M. Th^nard then

went with us through the laboratory ; showed us the

new theatres for chemistry, physique, &c., and then

went to M. Ampere's, who had previously prepared

his apparatus for showing the new electro-magnetic
phenomena. Saw a set of these experiments, which,

with the aid of Dr Edwards, were made intelligible
to me. -- 15th: Took coach to the Arsenal; spent

* Dr Robert Knox was present at the seance, and told me that on

Mr Dalton's name being announced the president (Gay Lussac) and the

other members of the Institute rose from their seats, and bowed to the

Manchester philosopher. Such honours, it was remarked at the time,

were not offered Napoleon le Grand when he took his seat among the
Irenowned Forty of France.
                            remember in the year 1838 seeing

Lord Brougham enter the Institute, without, however, eliciting any
   260 John Dalton.

   an hour with Gay Lussac in his laboratory ; saw his

   apparatus for specific gravity of steam, vapours, &c.

   also M. Welters, the improver of chemical distillation,

   &c. Walked to the Jardin du Roi ; dejeuner a la

   fourchette with Monsieur and Madame Cuvier and
   youngest daughter. M. Cuvier went with us to the

   museum, and accompanied us for some time, and

   then left a gentleman to attend us through the

   museum, being himself engaged, but occasionally
   meeting us ; spent two hours in the museum -- the
   most splendid exhibition of the kind in the universe

   --it beggars description. Left after two, and took a

   coach to the Institute ; took a cup of coffee, &c., and
   then entered the library ; saw and spoke to MM.
   Milne-Edwards, Biot, Cuvier, Laplace, Berthollet,

   Breguet, &c. ; entered the Institute, heard papers by
   Milne-Edwards, Biot (on " The Zodiac de Denderah
   Fourier, on "The Population of Paris," after which
   ;

     I

               a
                               a

                          iIf

                                                                                  ;

                                                                               "),
   notice was given for strangers to withdraw, when Gay

   Lussac called to me to stay,  chose, being a mem

   ber, which did. The business was about election of

   members, and lasted nearly half an hour, after which

   we broke up. Saw M. Pelletan on coming out, who

   kindly inquired of me my health, &c. went with

   Vanquelin in coach to dine, when my companions

   met me saw M. Payen, young chemist of promise."

     Mr Dockray, one of Dalton's companions, says --"I

   was particularly struck by observing the impression

   made on Mr Dalton by the solemnities of Roman

   Catholic worship, and the evident sincerity of profound

   devotion which he saw there and do not doubt
                                 ;

                                      I

                                                                  it

   was to him a page of human nature which till then

-
The French Philosophers at Arcueil.       261

ISecond, think, only to this, for impressiveness of
Inovelty, was the Gallery of the Louvre.
                                          do not

doubt but that he felt there was, in the masterpieces

of art which he saw there, a new world of interest and

wonder on which he would gladly have had the
opportunity of longer meditating." Mr Dockray also

furnished the following narrative of Dalton's meeting
with the philosophers at Arcueil :--

  " At four in the afternoon, by a coach, with Dalton

to Arcueil, Laplace's country seat, to dine. On

alighting, we were conducted through a suite of rooms,

where, in succession, dinner, dessert, and coffee tables

were set out ; and onwards through a large hall, upon

a terrace, commanding an extent of gardens and
                   It is in these grounds that are
pleasure-grounds.

still remaining the principal Roman works near Paris,

the vestiges of Julian's residence as Governor of Gaul.
Avenues, parterres, and lawns, terraces, and broad

gravel-walks, in long vistas of distance, are bounded

by woods and by higher grounds. As yet we had

seen no one, when part of the company came in view

at a distance --a gentleman of advanced years and two
young men. Was it possible not to think of the groves

of the Academy and the borders of the Ilyssus ? We

approached this group, when the elderly gentleman

took off his hat, and advanced to give his hand to

Dalton. It was Berthollet. The two younger were

Laplace's son and the astronomer-royal, Arago.

Climbing some steps upon a long avenue, we saw, at

a distance, Laplace walking uncovered, with Madame

Biot on his arm ; and Biot, Fourier, and Courtois,

father of the Marchioness Laplace. At the front of
262 John Daltou.

At dinner, Dalton on the right hand of Madame La

place, and Berthollet on her left, &c. Conversation
on the zodiac of Denderah and Egypt (Berthollet and
Fourier having been in Egypt with Napoleon), the
different eras of Egyptian sculpture, the fact that so

little at Rome --of public buildings --is earlier than

Augustus, &c. After dinner, again abroad in the
beautiful grounds, and along the reservoir and aque
duct of Julian. These ancient works, after falling
very much into decay, were restored by Mary de

Medicis. Dalton walking with Laplace on one side

and Berthollet on the other, I shall never forget."

   "The enjoyment and advantage of his stay in
Paris," says Dr Henry, " were greatly enhanced by
the friendly attentions of Dr Milne-Edwards, who
kindly acted as interpreter between him and those of
the French savans who did not speak English.
Dalton was always accustomed to mention Dr Milne-

Edwards in terms of grateful regard, and appears to
have maintained some intercourse with him by

correspondence."

   It is said that Mademoiselle Clementine Cuvier,

the only child of the famous Baron George Cuvier,
was his chaperone to many public places in Paris ; and
that Dalton regarded her as the most attractive and

amiable young creature he had ever seen, and whose
early death he sensibly lamented. He never spoke of
her without betraying some emotion. One day he said

to a friend, "Ah ! she was a bonny lass; she treated me

like a daughter."

   In 1822 some of Dalton's friends proposed him as
a candidate for the Fellowship of the Royal Society ;
      The Royal Society and Prize of 50 Guineas. 263

years previous to his admission to the Royal Society
he had been deemed worthy of lecturing to the select
audiences of the Royal Institution, London ; and for
six years he had enjoyed the honour of being corre
sponding member of the French Academy of Sciences.
Moreover, long before this tardy recognition of his
own countrymen, he had received the sincere homage
of the most distinguished savans in Europe, many
of whom had visited or corresponded with him: and his
works had claimed the attention and warm approval
of the best reviewers of the Continent, and, in short)

wherever science was taught and understood.

   In the year 1825 King George IV. founded two
annual prizes of fifty guineas, to be at the disposal of
the Royal Society. Sir H. Davy, in his anniversary
discourse of 1826, made known the award of the first
prize to Mr John Dalton, " for the development of the

chemical theory of definite proportions, usually called
the Atomic Theory, and for his various other labours

and discoveries in physical and chemical science."

   To Mr Dalton belongs the distinction of first unequivocally

calling the attention of philosophers to this important subject.
Finding that in certain compounds of gaseous bodies the same
elements always combined in the same proportions ; and that
when there was more than one combination the quantity of the
elements always had a constant relation, such as 1 to 2 or 1 to
3, or to 4, he explained this fact on the Newtonian doctrine of
indivisible atoms, and contended that the relative weight of one
atom to that of any other atom being known, its proportions or
weight in all its combinations might be ascertained ; thus
making the statics of chemistry depend upon simple questions
in subtraction or multiplication, and enabling the student to
deduce an immense number of facts from a few well-authenti

cated, accurate experimental results. Mr Dalton's permanent
reputation will rest upon his having discovered a simple prin
                264 John Dalton.

                      ciple universally applicable to the facts of chemistry, in fixing
                      the proportions in which bodies combine, and thus laying the
                      foundation for future labours respecting the sublime and tran
                    scendental parts of the science of corpuscular motion. His merits
                      in this respect resemble those of Kepler in astronomy. . . .

                  Mr Dalton has been labouring for more than a quarter of a
                    century with the most disinterested views. With the greatest

                      modesty and simplicity of character he has remained in the
                    obscurity of the country, neither asking for approbation, nor
                    offering himself as an object of applause. He is but lately
                    become a fellow of this Society, and the only communication he
                      has given to you is one, compared with his other works, of com
                      paratively small interest ; the feeling of the Council on the

                  subject is therefore pure. I am sure he will be gratified by this
                 mark of your approbation of his long and painful labours. It
                  will give a lustre to his character, which it fully deserves ; it
                    will anticipate that opinion which posterity must form of his

                      discoveries ; and it may make his example more exciting to

^\
                    CHAPTER XIV.

            '" There is a history in all men's lives,
               Figuring the nature of the times ;deceased

                       The which observ'd, a man may prophecy,
                    With a near aim, of the main chance of things
                    As yet not come to life."-- Shakespeare.

DR DALTON'S HOLIDAYS --MEMBER OF THE FRENCH INSTITUTE --
      D.C.L --HIS CLAIMS TO A PENSION-- OPINIONS OF DRS HENRY
      AND SEDGWICK ON THE SUBJECT-- COURT PRESENTATION --
      REFUSES KNIGHTHOOD -- ILLNESS --VISITS TO EAGLESFIELD --

       DEATH AND FUNERAL OF DALTON.

        jf ITH the exception of his weekly half-holi

                 day at the bowling-green, Dalton kept all
                his terms of service most faithfully, and
                seldom moved out of town till the summer
holidays : these he almost invariably spent amid
the lakes and mountains of Cumberland and West
moreland. No change could well be greater than
passing from the din and smoke of Manchester to
the sylvan banks of Windermere, and the pine-
clad slopes of northern England. The air was
pure, transparent, and bracing, and his ascent of the
highest mountains, by bringing every muscle into
operation, naturally called for a larger amount of

oxygenation to his system. It was a joyous time to

Dalton, who no sooner touched his native heather
than he seemed to throw off the incubus of age, and
266 John Dalton.

his trips to the Lake Country when his meteorological

fervour was at its height, in the third decade of his

life, and as this fervour never entirely abated, he went

on from year to year for forty years, or as long as his

limbs could support him, in his fatiguing explorations.

The pleasure of his holidays was enhanced by the

opportunity of embracing work with play, and a

certain amount of science with large social liberty.

How placidly he spent his first day in boating from

Low Wood, and viewing Langdale Pikes and the

magnificent scenery around Ambleside ! The next

morning he was early afoot, armed with his barometer

and thermometer, and marching with the firm and

constant step of a mountain guide, would climb three

thousand feet. It was difficult to his companions,

indeed to all but the experienced pedestrian, to keep

pace with him in his ascent. This fast walking elicited
                                           remark, " Why,
from   one of his Quaker    friends   the  John's legs were
John,  what are thy legs  made of      "

                                     ?

so true to their fellside growth, that the civic restraint

of months together seemed in nowise to impair their

capacity for the greatest demands of pedestrianship.

   After his return in an evening from measuring the
height of Helvellyn --his favourite mountain for
observation --how he enjoyed the roadside hostelry --

its snug parlour, its neat service, its savoury ham,

and the fresh trout from the " beck "--its oat-cakes,

and cream cheese, followed by draughts of good

home-brewed ale. After a bountiful supply of the

inner man, he would take his seat on the rude bench
outside the trellised porch of the " White Swan Inn "

and smoke his "Virginian," whilst he looked with
Enjoys the English Lakes and Mountains. 267

waters backed by wooded knolls, and these again

overtopped by higher and higher ranges, presenting
endless variety of form and colour, either sparkling
in light, or dimly shadowed by passing clouds, but
ever suggestive and beautiful to the aesthetic mind.
On one of these excursions, in 1 812, he made the

acquaintance of Mr Jonathan Otley, who knew every
nook and corner of the Lake District, and who wrote

by far the best work on the subject -- "A Descriptive

Guide to the English Lakes and Adjacent Mountains,"
--a book now held old-fashioned, * but the basis of

all that has been since published in tourist form.

Mr Otley has given an interesting narrative of his
excursions with Dalton, from which it would appear
that the philosopher embraced every opportunity of
studying the constitution of the atmosphere, and the

transition from cloud to sunshine and from sun
shine to shadow, in "those loftier regions." The
heights of the mountains, and their marked geolo

gical features ; the dew point ; the quantity and
density of vapour ; the fall of rain ; the direction of

the winds, and, in short, all the natural phenomena

presenting themselves to the experienced observer,
were duly noted and commented upon. He was not
easily deterred by the threatening aspects of the
weather, but seemed satisfied with the prospects of

the day if he could only see, as he used to say, as

much blue sky as would make a pair of breeches.

   Dalton's party was sometimes too large to be ac

* To those who really wish to know the Lake District as it ought to

be known,   let  LmyenncoLminmtoenn, detnhteitlbeeda, u"tifTuhllye-  written volume  of my   clever
friend Mrs                                                           Lake Country,"  neatly   illus
            E.
   268 John Dalton.

   commodated under one roof, and the search for night-
   shelter in the farm-houses of these outlying districts
   often caused much diversion. There were no grand
   hotels in those days, and the shifts to which innkeep
   ers and their daughters were placed, rather than lose a
   customer, may be instanced from Dalton's experience.
   When describing one of his many trips to the Lake
   District, Dalton was asked by a young lady friend

   if he had seen the celebrated beauty, Mary of Butter-

   mere,* the daughter of the landlord of the inn in that

   Iplace. " No," said he, " but have slept in her bed ;
   for one night I arrived wet and tired at Buttermere

   to find the inn full ; but by dint of persuasion a room
   was found for me, and Mary got out of her bed, and

   I got in, and right warm it was, I can tell thee."

      The death of Sir H. Davy caused a vacant seat in
   the French Academy of Sciences, and Dalton who had
   for fourteen years enjoyed the honour of being a corre
   sponding member, was in 1830, raised to the rank of
   one of its eight foreign associates, the highest com
   pliment in its power to bestow, and universally re
   garded as the crowning distinction in European

   * Mary of Buttermere, the theme of many a fanciful story and

   rural ditty, and the heroine of a three-volumed novel, gave a personal

   colouring to the picturesque and romantic scenery of the Lakes in days

   gone by. Her marriage to Hatfield the forger was sad enough ; in her

   second espousals she was fortunate in having a worthy yeoman, to

   whom she bore a family of handsome children, her daughters being as
   Ipretty as she was in her youth.
                                     made her acquaintance under pain

   ful circumstances. She had then passed the climacteric of age, and

   Ithe existence of a cancerous breast, in the removal of which assisted,

   had considerably affected her looks ; yet through these lines and sallow

   colouring that organic disease had made so striking, the lineaments of

   the beautiful in form still prevailed. She died at the How, near Cald-

^
        Foreign Associate of the French Institute. 269

Science. In the words of Baron Cuvier in his eloge
on Dr Joseph Priestley, " L'Acad^mie de Paris lui
accorda un prix non moins noble et plus difficile

encore a obtenir, parcequ'il est plus rare, l'une de

ces huit places d'associ^s etrangers, auxquelles tous
les savans de l'Europe concourent, et dont la liste,
commengant par les noms de Newton, de Leibnitz, et
de Pierre le Grand, n'a degenere dans aucun temps

de ce premier exlat."
   John Dalton placed a proper estimate on the

honours and distinctions conferred upon him by the
universities and learned societies of his own country,

and that estimate was, if possible, enhanced by the

unsolicited and gratifying acknowledgments paid to
his scientific status by several of the more renowned

continental academies; e.g., Berlin, Munich, and
Moscow. His highest honour, that marked his supre
macy in the world of thought, was the Foreign Asso-
ciateship of the Academy of Sciences, for there he

ranked among the eight Hite of Europe. It may be

remarked parenthetically, as a circumstance highly
flattering to our national genius, that of the eight
chairs of honour offered to the competition of the
world at large by the French Institute, no less
 than four of these were occupied at one time by

 Englishmen.
    With all his quiet reserve and reticence, it was

 manifest to the Johns family that Dalton liked the
 company of men of distinction, and especially those
 devoted to science, and was not a little proud of the
 numerous visitors who found their way to Manchester
 on his account. The presence of such men as Professor

                                                        /
270 John Dalton.

and. Sir D. Brewster, of world-wide fame, from the

sister kingdom, could not fail to be gratifying to his
amour-propre ; and this pleasure was enhanced on the

appearance in his humble lodgings or laboratory of

eminent savans from the Continent. Owing to his
staid demeanour, and plain, dry mode of accosting

others, that occasionally implied indifference, or even
rusticity and rudeness, his reception of foreigners was
not always what it should have been, much less

was it en accord with their gentility and politeness.

A great deal depended on the humour which prevailed

with the meditative philosopher. He could be kind

and affable in manner, and occasionally make his

reception of strangers agreeable, and their introduc
tion to the Johns family worthy of the jocular strain
of M. Biot ; at other times he seemed to forget the
ordinary courtesies of life, as is shown in the following

paragraph.

  A few intimate friends were drinking an early tea

with Dalton at the Rev. Mr Johns' when some dis
tinguished French savans, members of the French

Academy, were announced as having come to see the
great chemist. Dalton, by nature a silent and re
served man, and disliking in any way[to be called out,
was, after the introduction, barely civil to the talka

tive foreign gentlemen, and scarcely spoke a word
during the interview. When tea was over, he quietly
got up from table, and called to the old servant for

his lantern, and silently withdrew, walking across, as

was his wont, to his laboratory at the Society's rooms.

Mr Johns then asked one of    the French Academicians
what he thought of the great                "       "
                              philosopher.     Ah      he
                                                   !
Honoured by Oxford.  271

   Though not one of the original promoters of the
British Association for the Advancement of Science,
he was present at its first meeting, held in York in

1 83 1, and as long as his health permitted, continued
to take great interest in its proceedings. On the
occasion of the second meeting, at Oxford in 1832,
the honorary degree of D.C.L. was conferred upon

him and three most worthy compeers, Dr Michael

Faraday, Sir David Brewster, and Robert Brown.
Dalton was apparently proud of his Doctor's red

gown, as he perambulated the halls and gardens of

Oxford, and cared not to be quizzed about his scarlet

robing, inasmuch as its colour differed not from the

green foliage of the trees shadowing him and his
companions on the banks of the Isis.

   To the eminent Mr Charles Babbage is due the

credit of having been the first person to moot the de

sirability of an annual pension being granted to Dr
Dalton, in a letter he addressed to Dr Henry, senior,

of Manchester, as early as the year 1 829. He also
laboured zealously at headquarters to obtain the

acquiescence of the Government to his proposal, and
found no small support to his application in the able

statement furnished by Dr Henry ; portions of which

deserve quoting, not less for the noble sentiments it
contains than the just estimate conveyed to us of
the character of Dr Dalton : --

   Mr Dalton never had, nor was ever given to expect, any

reward or encouragement whatsoever from Government, and
having been in habits of unreserved communication with him

for more than thirty years, I can safely aver that it never
occurred to him to seek it. He has looked for his reward to

purer and nobler sources ; to a love of science for its own sake ;

                                                                    /-
 272 John Dalton.

 faculties in the way most congenial to his tastes and habits,
 and to the occasional gleams of more lively pleasure, which
 have broken in upon his mind, when led to the discovery of
 new facts, or the deduction of important general laws. By the
 moderation of his wants and the habitual control over his
 desires, he has been preserved from worldly disappointments ;
 and by the calmness of his temper and the liberality of his
 views, he has escaped those irritations that too often beset men
 who are over-anxious for the possession of fame, and are im
patient to grasp prematurely the benefits of its award. For a
 long series of years he bore neglect, and sometimes even con
 tumely, with the dignity of a philosopher, who though free from
 anything like vanity or arrogance, yet knows his own strength,
estimates correctly his own achievements, and leaves to the

 world, generally although sometimes slowly just, the final
 adjudication of his fame. Among the numerous honours that
have since been conferred on him by the best judges of scientific
merit in this and other countries, not one has been sought by
him. They have been, without exception, spontaneous offerings,
prompted by a warm and generous approbation of his philoso
phical labours, and by the desire to cheer him onward in the
 same prosperous career. Deeply as he has felt these distinc
tions, they have never carried him beyond that sober and well-
regulated love of reputation, which exists in the purest minds,
and is one of the noblest principles of action.

   In perfect consistency with Mr Dalton's intellectual qualities

are the moral features of his character, the disinterestedness,
the independence, the truthfulness, and the integrity which
through life have uniformly marked his conduct towards others.
Nor is it on the atomic theory only that his reputation must
rest. It has a broader basis in his beautiful and successful
investigations into the subject of heat ; into the relations of air
and moisture to each other ; and into a variety of other topics
intimately connected with the stability and advancement of

chemical philosophy. I therefore agree with you that Mr

Dalton has strong claims upon the national respect and
gratitude, and contend for his title to reward, even though he
may not have accomplished anything bearing strictly upon the
        Dr Henry's Appeal on Behalf of Dalton. 273                   it,              it

chief sources of our national wealth. For, let it be remembered,                   a               a
that every new truth in science has a natural and necessary
tendency to furnish, if not immediately yet at some future time,
valuable rules in art.

   It would surely be unworthy of a great nation to be governed

'n rewarding or encouraging genius by the narrow principle of
a strict barter of advantages. With respect to great poets and
great historians, no such parsimony has ever been exercised.
They have been rewarded, and justly, for the contributions they
have cast into the treasury of our purely intellectual wealth.
And do not justice and policy equally demand that a philosopher
of the very highest rank, one who has limited his worldly views
to little more than the supply of his natural wants, and has
devoted for more than forty years the energies of his powerful
mind to enlarging the dimensions of science, should be cherished
and honoured by that country which receives by reflection the

lustre of his well-earned fame ? It is most desirable, then, that

the British Government, by extending its justice to another not
less illustrious, should be spared the deep reproach, which
otherwise assuredly awaits of having treated with coldness
and neglect one who has contributed so much to raise his
country high among intellectual nations, and to exalt the
philosophical glory of the age.

   The admirable letter just quoted was brought
under the notice of Earl Grey's Government, and
Lord Brougham professed himself "very anxious to
obtain some provision for Dalton, but that was
attended with great difficulty." * After much writ
ing, and protocoling and canvassing of the parlia-

   * Lord Brougham could see no difficulty in appointing his brother
Master of Chancery, when he himself had already prepared a bill to
extinguish the office, and with the view of compensating the retiring
masters with the pretty sum of ^2200 year for a few months of the
most trifling service. Talleyrand, or some other equally wide-awake
Frenchman, who had carefully studied our institutions, maintained

                                                                                      S
274 John Dalton.

mentary economists, it was not till June 1833 that
anything got done. The mountain had been in

labour for three or four years, and then crept out the
little mouse in the shape of a paltry sum of £150 a
year, to be bestowed by the richest nation on earth
on the most gifted of persons, and the chief scientific
leader of his epoch.

   It was deemed advisable to announce the fact of

the pension to Dalton at the meeting of the British
Association held at Cambridge in 1833 ; and Lord
Monteagle, just before the meeting, requested Pro

fessor Sedgwick, the President, to allude to it in his
introductory address. The words in which the learned

professor, without notes or preparation, offered his
" fervent heartfelt homage to the genius of Dalton,"
are marked by a rare eloquence, worthy of the high

est master of the art. They were as follows :--

They had all read a highly poetical passage of a sacred pro

phet, expressed  in language, to the beauty  of which he had never
before been so   forcibly awakened as at     that moment -- " How

beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth

good tidings." If he might dare to make an adaptation of

words so sacred, he would say that he felt himself in the position

here contemplated-- of one who had the delightful privilege of

announcing good tidings, for it was his happiness to proclaim

to them what would rejoice the heart of every true lover of

science. There was a philosopher sitting among them, whose

hair was blanched by time, whose features had some of the

lines of approaching old age, but possessing an intellect still in

                      above instance of naked nepotism, and lawyer fattening lawyer, he
                         would have found two parties in the English paradise ; and that a
                        fourth-rate barrister, almost briefless, was estimated in the year of grace
                      1833, and a reformed Parliament in England (in the proportion of
                     £2200 to .£150), a*, fourteen times the value of the greatest man of

v
Dr Sedgwick's Eulogium on Dalton.  275

its healthiest vigour -- a man whose whole life had been devoted
to the cause of truth ; he meant his valuable friend Dr Dalton-

Without any powerful apparatus for making philosophical
experiments-- with an apparatus, indeed, many of them might
almost think contemptible -- and with very limited external

means for employing his great natural powers, he had gone

straightforward in his distinguished course, and obtained for
himself, in those branches of knowledge which he had cultivated,

a name not perhaps equalled by that of any other living philoso
pher of the world. From the hour he came from his mother's
womb, the God of Nature had laid His hand upon his head, and
had ordained him for the ministration of high philosophy. But

his natural talents, great as they were, and his almost intuitive
skill in tracing the relations of material phenomena, would

have been of comparatively little value to himself and to society,

had there not been superadded to them a beautiful moral

simplicity and singleness of heart, which made him go on
steadily in the way he saw before him, without turning to the
right hand or to the left, and taught him to do homage to no
authority before that of truth. Fixing his eye on the highest

views of science, his experiments had never an insulated

character, but were always made as contributions towards some
important end -- were among the steps towards some lofty
generalisation. And with a most happy prescience of the

points towards which the rays of scattered experiments were

converging, he had more than once seen light, while to other
eyes all was yet in darkness ; out of seeming confusion had

elicited order, and had thus reached the high distinction of
becoming one of the greatest legislators of chemical science.

    While travelling among the highest mountains of Cumberland,
and scarifying the face of Nature with his hammer, he (the
President) had first the happiness of being admitted to the
friendship of this great and good man, who was at that time
employed, day by day, in soaring among the heavens, and
bringing the turbulent elements themselves under his intellectual
domination. He would not have dwelt so long on these topics,
had it not been his delightful privilege to announce for the first
time (on the authority of a minister of the Crown who sat near
 276 John Dalton.

 manifest his attachment to science, and his regard for a character
 like that of Dalton, had graciously conferred on him, out of the
 funds of the civil list, a substantial mark of his royal favour.

    The announcement was received with long-continued applause.

    Such a eulogium as Professor Sedgwick pro
 nounced in the Senate House of Cambridge, to a
 crowded audience of scientific men gathered from all
corners of the civilised globe, could not fail to reach

the inmost heart of Dalton, who, if his memory of

the past served him in that hour of trial and triumph,
would probably recall his humble parentage and the
prospects of his youth offering nothing better than

the weaver's loom or the spade and the plough. As
he sat, the observed of all observers, in the midst of

as distinguished an assembly of savans as the world
could present, he could not fail to realise the senti
ment so beautifully expressed by the illustrious

Sedgwick, that "the God of Nature had laid His

hand upon his head, and had ordained him for the
ministration of high philosophy."

   Manchester, true to her commercial instincts of

rewarding merit where merit is due, and wishing to
do honour to her great chief in science, determined

on having a full-sized statue of Dr Dalton sculptured
by Sir Francis Chantrey. Accordingly Dr Dalton
went to London in May 1834, and gave Chantrey
the necessary sittings. The Chantrey statue of
Dalton is now in the entrance-hall of the Manchester
Royal Institution ; and a copy of it in bronze is
placed in the front of the Royal Infirmary, where are
also statues of the Duke of Wellingon, Sir R. Peel,
     Gracing the Court of William the Fourth. 277

a year, some of Dalton's more ardent friends were

of opinion that he should appear at the Court of

William IV. It might have been, indeed was,

supposed by many persons that his retired habits,

grave demeanour, and Quakerish nature would be
directly opposed to a courtly ceremonial under any

circumstances. And so, probably, he would have

thought and determined in earlier life ; but he was

then in his sixty-eighth year, when the reputed glitter

and pageantry of courts may have revived in him the

curiosity of juvenility : baubles, sometimes becom

ing  a source of         attraction  to men when verging on
the  " lean and          slippered
                                     pantaloon " of age. Mr

Babbage has given a lively account of his efforts to

indoctrinate Dalton in the ways of the Court, actually

rehearsing for his benefit the mode of presentation to

royalty. The difficulty of a court dress was readily

obviated by Dalton appearing in the scarlet robes* of

an Oxonian Doctor of Laws ; and this colour, it need

hardly be noted, did not disturb his drab proclivities

in the slightest degree ; nay, accorded so entirely

with them that he felt quite at home, and totally

unaware of the various comments made upon his
figure and habiliments -- Quaker in his nether gar-

   * He had evidently gone     to London    unprepared    boef y"onadgauingeoaodpsauidit
of clothes, as in his account  -book there  is the entry

for loan of doctor's gown "--a circumstance that may have influenced

his observations of the tailors' shops on his way to a house in the city,

where some friends of    both sexes were     waiting   to hear his  account of
the Court presentation.                     thou wilt  have much    to tell us,"
                           " Well, John,
said one of them. "Oh, I don't know," replied Dalton, "but I have

been struck on my way hither with the appropriateness of a name to

the vocation of a man, having seen on the signboard of a tailor, Thomas
278 John Dalton.

ments, with Church and State colouring in its

glaring form enveloping his person.

   Dr Dalton's costume, as he appeared at Court,

naturally attracted attention from its novelty, and
whispers were heard of " who can this be ? " Some

looked upon him as a provincial mayor coming up

to be knighted ; others thought him a man of mark ;
and an officer was heard saying, " Who the devil is
that fellow whom the King keeps talking to so long ? "
Mr Babbage, the only person who knew Dalton,

enjoyed the fun arising out of this curiosity, and

joked the bishops standing near, by saying that he
                                -- a fact
had    a Quaker by    his side              calculated  to call
forth   the old cry  of the "   Church     in danger."
                                                          It is

said that Lord Brougham promised to enlighten the

King as to Dalton's character, so that he might

say something to the philosopher that might please

Manchester. Another version holds good, that

Dalton's figure and dress caught the King's eye, and
he quickly asked, "Who is this?" "This, please

your Majesty," said the official, as Dalton awkwardly

passed up, "is the great Manchester philosopher, Dr
Dalton." " Oh," said the King, and then turning to
Dalton, " Well, how are you getting on at Man
                       I             "
chester ;  all  quiet     suppose          This remark of
                                   ?

Majesty sprang from the unpleasant recollection of

the Peterloo riots of 1819, and the reputed Radicalism

of Manchester. This, and one or two common-place

remarks, would appear to have been pretty nearly all

the notice that royalty took of a man whose name

will be known to the nations of the earth when that of

William the Fourth of England is buried in well-
                           Declines Knighthood.                     279

   Not content with having persuaded him to go to
Court, some of his over-zealous friends wished to see
him knighted. Dr Dalton being made aware of their
intention, felt not a moment's hesitation in refusing
to accede to their proposal, and along with his
affirmation to that effect, declared he would not bend

his knee to any man on earth, neither king nor
potentate, for any earthly honours that might be
conferred upon him. Moreover, the privilege of
adding S1r to his name could not be viewed by
Dalton as any honour at all, when it was so freely

distributed upon every gold-stick, and fiddle-stick,
and groom-in-waiting about the Court. His views

probably accorded with those of a distinguished

admiral* mentioned below ; at any rate he did not
wish to be classified with the rank and file of

flunkyism.

   In describing his summer holidays among the

mountains of Cumberland, I purposely abstained from

speaking of his visits to his home district of Eagles-
field till a more appropriate opportunity. On his
way to the haunts of his youth, he generally stopped

* A well-known admiral, who in former times had served with Prince

William Henry (Duke of Clarence), was, after the accession of that
prince to the throne, presented at Court. The admiral had dis

tinguished himself in various ways, but especially in the survey of the

Mediterranean Sea, his chart and surveys being then, as now, the best

book of all navigators     in that stormy region.    His  M" aYjoeustyha(vWe illdioanme
IV.) at once recognised     his old shipmate, and
                                                   said,

Igood service to navigation, we   must bestow some honour upon      you.
                                  ? " The admiral (then a captain)  said,
What do you say to knighthood
' ' esteem it a much higher honour to be a captain in your Majesty's
Iservice than to be a knight." The King said, " Well, but knighted

your friend           the  other  day."  The answer was, ' ' Your Majesty                j^
served him
             right ! "
 280 John Dalton.

 a night at the Globe Hotel, Cockermouth, where he
 received some of his friends to supper. Next morn

 ing he was early astir, as if impatient to reach his

 old home, and to shake hands with the " weel-kent

 friends " of the hamlet. In his manners and dialect

 he was as much a Cumbrian after forty-five years'
 residence in Manchester, as he was on the day he
 tramped from Eaglesfield to Kendal in his sixteenth

 year--a raw lad, whose survey of the world had been
 confined to the borough of Cockermouth. He talked

 about the weather and the crops, and how things were
 done in his boyhood, or he accosted old farming
 friends by saying, "What, ye'll be thrang wi' yer
 hay ? " and on being invited within doors, sat down,
 lighted his pipe, and then had what Cumbrians call a

 " real gude crack " about old times. It was a delight

 to Dalton to meet his early associate William
 Alderson, and Joseph Dickinson and others, to talk
 over the days o' auld langsyne at a cottage fire
 side in Eaglesfield, where old Alderson, not seeing the
 utility or elegance of a fender, would use his clogs
 to kick any stray cinders behind the grate.

    Among those whom Dalton regularly visited was
his esteemed friend John Wilson Fletcher of Tarn
Bank, near Cockermouth. After Dalton's introduc
tion to the Court, Mr Fletcher asked him how he got
on with William IV. and the grand folk at St James's,
and what passed between him and the King. Dalton
told him that the King said, " Ah ! Dr Dalton, how
are you getting on at Manchester ? " to which he

replied, " Well, I don't know ; just middlin', I think."

Mr Fletcher, after a hearty laugh at John's simplicity
of speech, said, "Why, John, thou hardly showed
        A mong his Cumberland Friends.  281

Court manners in addressing the King in such com

mon parlance." John Dalton's remark upon this
comment of his friend far surpassed his reply made

to the King ; it was given in broad Cumbrian dialect,
"Mebby sae, but what can yan say to see like

fowk?"

On one of his visits to his old friends in Cumber

land, Dalton attended the annual examination of the

children at the Friends' School, Brookfield, near

Wigton. When the examination in grammar was

proceeding (Lindley Murray being the text-book of

the school), Mr Cook, the head-master, asked the
Doctor if he would like to put any questions to the

children. " No," said he ; " for I consider that of al

the contrivances ever invented by human ingenuity

to puzzle the brains of the young, Lindley Murray's

grammar to be the worst."

This sentiment, it need hardly be added, gave the

Doctor great popularity among the Brookfield lads,

who on resorting to the playground gave him three

hearty cheers.

An anecdote may be related which shows the trust

he put in arduous industry, compared with the exer

cise of what the world calls genius. Entertaining Jona
than    and his son to supper at the Globe Hotel,

the conversation fell on education, and this led Dalton

to inquire into the studies and progress of his young

friend ; he then said to him, "Thou seems to have

better talents than I possessed at thy age ; but thou
may want the thing that I had a good share of-- perse

verance." The doctrine that greatness in every walk

of life is only attained by dogged perseverance, he
282 John Dalt on.

Thus he wrote : " If I have succeeded better than

Imany who surround me, it has been chiefly -- nay,

may say, almost solely-- from unwearied assiduity. It

is not so much from any superior genius that one
man possesses over another, but more from attention

to study, and perseverance in the objects before them,
that some men rise to greater eminence than others."
Like Sir Isaac Newton, Dalton did not believe in

such a thing as genius ; and though it be too much to

say that they were altogether right in their estimation
of the operations of the human understanding under
varied conditions of life, history and biography offer
large evidence in their favour. Little has been done
in the world without painstaking observation and
industry; on the other hand, a true inspiration has
often given point and character to a subject which
hard-earned labour had failed to elucidate or com

prehend.

   In Dalton's instance, perseverance made him the

best scholar in Pardshaw School ; perseverance sup
ported him in making 200,000 meteorological obser
vations ; perseverance from his first introduction to
chemistry enabled him to develop the atomic theory ;
and the same perseverance gained him one of the

highest seats in the French Institute --the crowning

distinction of European eminence.

   In the autumn of the year 1834, on the occasion
of the meeting of the British Association at Edin

burgh, the Senate of the Northern University con

ferred upon Dr Dalton the degree of LL.D.
   In December of the same year Jonathan Dalton

died, leaving all his real and personal estate to his
           His First Attack of Illness.  283

own hoardings, and the pension of £\%o a-year, he
was well-to-do in the world, and considered himself

rich enough to buy a full set of silver spoons for
dinner, dessert, and tea service. In 1836 the royal

bounty was augmented to £300 a-year.
   The long-continued good health that Dalton

enjoyed was suddenly broken in upon by a paralytic

seizure on the 18th April 1837. He had on the

previous evening had a long and warm discussion

on chemical notation and symbols, and had evidently

got much   excited.  toEtahrelyRinoyJaulneSohceiehtyadhissuf"fiScieeqnutleyl
recovered  to send

to an Essay on the Constitution of the Atmosphere,"

that was published in his Philosophical Transactions

for 1837.
   From a memorandum of Miss Johns' (December

9, 1840) it would appear that Dalton was making
notes of his life. On the same evening he spoke of his

election to the Academy of Sciences, and of Laplace

being the greatest man of his age, nor did he forget

the extraordinary powers of Cuvier. Of one of the

Frenchmen who fell under consideration, Dalton said,

" Aye, he was a nonentity, as I am now." " No, no,"

said Miss Johns to him, "you are not a nonentity
yet;" but still he seemed to feel a difference from

what he had been. After this period Dalton's

memory was hardly trustworthy, and his persistence

in work tended materially to make his deteriorated

brain worse and worse.

In his latter days, when possessed of ample means,

John Dalton felt anxious to distribute his property
among his blood relations and others who had be

                                                                              .
284 John Dalton.

 cates a wish to know the relations of the Robinsons

of Eaglesfield to his ancestral tree :--

                                    Manchester, 19M of1uh month, 1841.

    Dear Fr1end, John Rob1nson. -- I left Eaglesfield when
 I was very young (about 1 5), and never returned but a very few

 days ; my sojourning was 12 years at Kendal, and upwards
 of 48 at Manchester. Of course I could not be apprised of my
relations ; but now when one has time to reflect on the past,

we are engaged to look back at our ancestors.
    Thomas Fearon, my great grandfather, and Mary Gill of

Eaglesfield, were married at Pardsey Cragg (Pardshaw Hall),
in 1688. 35 witnesses.

    Jonathan Dalton, shoemaker [my grandfather], and Abigail
 Fearon of Eaglesfield, were married at Pardsey Cragg (Pard
shaw Hall), in 1712. 19 witnesses.

    Joseph Dalton of Eaglesfield [my father], and Deborah
Greenup of Caldbeck, were married at Cockermouth in 1755.

37 witnesses.

   John Robinson was among the witnesses of Thomas Fearon
and Mary Gill. Samuel Robinson, Joseph Robinson, Matthew
Robinson, John Robinson, were amongst the witnesses of my

grandfather's marriage.

   Betty Robinson, John Robinson, Elihu Robinson, John Rob
inson, were among the Robinsons in my father's marriage ;

taking them in succession.

   I would like to know whether Samuel Robinson, who was joint

co-partner for a deed of Mary Fearon, youngest sister of Abigail
Fearon, thou must know, I conceive, whether one of thy rela

tions, or Elihu's relation. I used to call Elihu my cousin, but

he seemed not to be near of kin to me. Thou must know,

I guess, whether Samuel Robinson was thy grandfather, or

not.

   When I left Eaglesfield there were John Robinson, the father,
John Robinson (of fauld), son, I believe, of old Betty Robinson

(widow), and her two or three daughters, Friends ; old Isaac
Robinson, and young Isaac Robinson (of fauld) ; and Elihu
Robinson ; and not to forget Dinah Robinson ; she died some

time before I left.
Lord Egertoris Remarks on Dalton.  285

    Samuel Robinson and John Gill were appointed trustees to
my great grandfather, Thomas Fearon. Thomas Fearon calls
him, in his last will, my " brother Samuel Robinson ; " is there
any name Samuel of your family ? Thy assured friend --JOHN

Dalton.
   I do not forget your kind entertainment of the bidders to my

estate.

   [This postscript refers to the sale of his property, which he
wished converted into money, to enable him to distribute his
effects equally among his relatives and friends.]

    The British Association met in 1842 at Manchester.
Dalton's infirm state of health rendered it impossible
for him to fill the office of President, for which he was
designated ; so he acted as one of the Vice-Presidents.
Lord Francis Egerton filled the chair, and made
the following appropriate remarks :--

    " Manchester has, in my opinion, a claim of equal interest as
the birthplace,* and still the residence and scene of the labours
of one whose name is uttered with respect wherever science is
cultivated, who is here to-night to enjoy the honours due to a
long career of persevering devotion to knowledge, and to receive,
if he will condescend to do so, from myself, the expression of
my own deep personal regret, that increase of years, which to
him up to this hour has been but increase of wisdom, should
have rendered him, in respect of mere bodily strength, unable
to fill on this occasion an office which, in his case, would have

received more honour than it could confer. I do regret that

any cause should have prevented the present meeting, in his
native town, from being associated with the name of Dalton as
its president. The council well know my views and wishes in

this matter, and that could my services have been available, I

   * Owing to Dalton's long residence of fifty years, Manchester in the
286 John Dalton.

would gladly have served as a doorkeeper in any house where
the father of science in Manchester was enjoying his just pre
eminence."

   With his increasing years came increased debility,
so that he required the constant attention of an

attached servant. On the 20th May 1844, he had a

slight fit ; and on the 27th July of the same year,

after an effort to rise, he had fallen backwards from

his bed, and was found with his head on the floor

quite lifeless.
   His body was examined by Messrs Ransome and

Wilson, who found "in the anterior portion of the

middle lobe of the brain, on the left side, above the

filsure of Sylvius, a firm, thick sac containing the

debris of an old coagulum, and softening of the brain

around it. The weight of the brain and membranes
was about 3J lbs." *
There was nothing in the humours of the eye (as

already  stated in  tchoelocuhra-bpltinerdnoenssC. olouAr-bplihnrdenneoslso)gistot
account   for his

present at the post-mortem examination pointed out
what he considered a deficient development of the

convolutions of the anterior lobes resting on the

frontal portion of the orbitar plates, the phrenological
site of the " organ of colour."

   No sooner had the death of Dr Dalton been

announced, than a universal feeling arose in the city
of Manchester, from the ruling powers to the hum

blest citizen, to pay all honour to the memory of the

  * It is'to be regretted that Mr Ransome had not been more definite

as to the weights he used, and whether it was the brain proper or the

encephalon he weighed, so that some comparisons might have been
instituted between Dalton's brain and those of Cuvier, Blumenbach,

                    X
His Death and Funeral.                                             287

deceased philosopher. A public funeral was resolved

upon, and in imitation of the honours paid to the great

in State and Church, the coffin containing his remains

were placed in the Town Hall, in a darkened apart

ment, hung with back drapery, and illuminated by

artificial light. In one day upwards of 40,000 persons
passed through the Town Hall to gratify their

curiosity * by a sight of a "beautiful mahogany coffin "

containing the remains of the deceased. The public

funeral took place on Monday, August 12, and in point
of numbers of persons present, and private carriages --
nearly one hundred -- as well as in the display of all

the paraphernalia of woe, such a funeral was probably

never witnessed in provincial England. Four hun

dred of the police were on duty, each with an emblem

of mourning, and the funeral train was nearly a

mile in length. Almost every public body in the

towns of Manchester and Salford were represented in

the procession. The shops and warehouses were

closed ; the windows were lined with spectators, as
well as the roofs of the houses. The burial took

place in the Ardwick Cemetery. The grave is en

closed and covered by a massive block of polished

red granite, inscribed John Dalton, and in smaller

letters the dates of his birth and death.

At the sale of Dr Dalton's furniture and effects, in

October 1844, seven hundred volumes of books were

offered for sale, some of them of considerable value.

He died possessed of about ^8000 personality, besides

  * No wonder the Society of Friends, whose mode of interment is so

"s"imlaypitnleegs,tiiymnetosntsayoteaso"glaeoimnfsnot neaanlodl f  impressive, entered their protest against the
                                                                   their members, as they have uniformly borne
                                                                   parade and show on such occasions, and
 288 John Dalton.

 the realty, which consisted of six houses, bequeathed to
 Mr Alderman Nield and Mr Peter Clare, two of his
oldest friends. He made his will on December 22,
 1 841, and a codicil in June 1843. With the exception
of £500 to the Quaker's school at Ackworth, York
shire, and £300 to a similar school at Brookfield, and
£50 to the Eaglesfield and Blind Bothell School at
Paddle, Cumberland, he distributed his money pretty
equally among his relatives and friends.

   A meeting was held on January 26, 1853, in the

Town Hall, Manchester, for promoting a testimonial
to the memory of John Dalton ; a committee was
appointed to collect subscriptions for the erection of
a monument over his grave in the Ardwick Cemetery,
and of a statue in front of the Manchester Royal
Infirmary ; and also to found one or more scholar

ships for the best original investigation in Chemistry,
to be prosecuted in the laboratory of the Owens'

College. A sum of upwards of ^4000 was devoted

to this latter object, and a more fitting testimonial
could not have been proposed. " The establishment
in England," sagaciously observes Professor Roscoe,
" of a scholarship for original research, was, twenty-one
years ago, a circumstance without a parallel ; but in
spite of the novelty of the experiment, time has fully
proved the wisdom of the course which its originators
adopted, and already a considerable number of men
have had the Dalton Scholarship awarded to them
for original work of a more or less important char
acter, and are now holding high and responsible
positions in scientific, manufacturing, and official
                     CHAPTER XV.

         " Truth is the daughter of Time, and not of Authority."
                                                              -- Lord Bacon. '

bonaparte's love of science -- opinions of Thomson, wollas-
     ton, herschel, graham, berzelius, faraday, liebig, roscoe,
     cannizzaro, tyndall, dumas, and wurtz on the atomic

       THEORY.

          ENERAL NAPOLEON BONAPARTE,

                 in his expedition to Egypt, was accom
                 panied by naturalists, historians, and others
                 eminent in art and science, selected
for special services in exploring the land of the
Pharaohs. After the decisive battle of the Pyramids,
Bonaparte, stationed at Cairo, was one day riding
through the Uzbekeeh gardens with M. Monge,* one
of the Scientific Institute the General had founded

in Egypt, whom he thus addressed :--" I find myself

here the conqueror of Egypt, marching in the foot

steps of Alexander the Great, but I should have

greatly preferred following those of Sir Isaac
Newton." M. Monge remarked that Newton had
exhausted the field of discovery in physics, leaving

nothing to those who might follow him. "By no

means," was Bonaparte's reply, " Newton dealt with

masses of matter, and with their movements; I

   * This was Gaspard Monge, who founded the Normal and Poly
technic Schools of Paris, and proved himself equal to the organisation

                                                                  T
290 John Dalton.

should have sought in the atoms for the laws by
which worlds have been constructed." What a testi
mony to the genius of the young Corsican, who, with
a full appreciation of the light that Newton's mind
had revealed of the laws of gravitation affecting the
great orbs, was incited by motives of ambition to
soar for the light that should disclose the infinitesi
mal small in the worlds of atoms. Whilst the bright
Eastern sun was warming the lofty inspirations of
the soldier of France towards scientific discovery, the
son of a poor weaver, a humble schoolmaster and
man of peace, in a dingy room of smoky Manchester,
was preparing his balances and crude apparatus for
the solution of that great problem in the physics of
chemistry that Bonaparte longed to be master of.

   Though the laws of definite, reciprocal, and multiple
proportions remain in their integrity as laid down by
Dalton, it must not be supposed that all his experi
ments, much less his combining weights of elements
and calculations, are to be viewed as faultless. Thus,

more accurate experimenting than his has proved
that certain atoms are a little heavier, and others a
little lighter than he believed ; and the work of per
fecting the observations of chemists is constantly
going on, aided very materially by improved instru
ments and methods of operating. Rarely can the
claim be made for approximative perfection, even in

the arts guided by the best mechanical skill. In

science, it need not be said, there are greater difficul
ties to contend with, inasmuch as science has to do
with phenomena more subtle in nature, more diversi
fied in relations, than mere technological plans and
Not witheut Questioners.  291

exposition, if not a portion of the doctrines promul

gated by Dalton, has undergone certain modifica
tions, not affecting that part of his views which
ascribed the union of indestructible atoms to

chemical affinity, but rather the accuracy of his

balance and the relative weights of the substances he
treated. This is of minor import compared with the

great strides he made upon the ancient atomists, and
the more modern Cartesian philosophers, who could
only see the irregular and fortuitous in the arrangement
of atoms, and not a constant and methodical action
affecting all molecular arrangements.

   Dalton met with opponents in his own day, and
there are still some to be found who object to his

theory; but hitherto they have not shown any
inconsistency in the atomic theory, nor in the con

clusions to which it leads. As Professor Williamson,
in his able address as President of the British

Association at Bradford in 1873, observed on this

subject, that no philosopher had been able to explain
" the facts of chemistry on the assumption that there

are no atoms, but that matter is infinitely divisible."
Nay more, that "when they interpret their analyses,
these chemists allow themselves neither more nor

less latitude than the atomic theory allows : in fact,
they are unconsciously guided by it." No doubt it
is by examining the combining proportions of atoms

that we get clear ideas of the constitution of matter--
that great desideratum in the mental vision of

Napoleon le Grand.
   The test of a good hypothesis is its conformity

with observed facts, and Dalton's theory is thoroughly
                 292 John Dalton.

                  theories often involve suppositions of an irreconcilable
                  character. Thus, how difficult it is to frame one's
                  notions of the force of gravity acting instantaneously,
                  between the most distant parts of the planetary
                  system ; or that a touch of electricity should be made
                   to pass along a wire of 23,000 miles in length in a
                  single second ; or that a ray of violet light should
                  consist of 700 billions of vibrations in each second :
                   yet these statements, however extraordinary in char
                   acter, are essential to enable us to explain the
                   phenomena observed by the physicist.

                     The Abbe" Boscovich said that we are to under
                   stand by hypotheses " not fictions altogether arbitrary,
                   but suppositions conformable to experience or ana
                  logy." Newton's motto of "Hypotheses non fingo,"
                   heralding his " Principia," was not only called in
                   question, but treated as somewhat ironical ; so much
                  so, that Liebnitz and other philosophers on the
                    Continent repelled the Newtonian tenet, and anim
                  adverted strongly on his re-introducing part of his
                  occult chemistry into the science of facts.

                    In a previous chapter of this memoir, circumstances
                  of historical note and proof were adduced to clear

                    the ground of those doubts at one time prevalent
                  regarding the originality of the discovery of the

                 modern atomic theory by John Dalton ; now it

                   behoves me to notice the manner in which the new
                   chemical doctrines were received by his contempo

                     raries.

                    To Dr Thomson of Glasgow must be awarded the
                  honour of first embracing and making known to the

              world the atomic philosophy. It was during his

.-
Opinions of Thomson and Wollaston.  293

he learned from Dalton's lips his new doctrine, andit a

the experimental evidence on which it reposed. Drit,
Thomson saw at a glance the immense importance of     is

itthis theory, and at once cordially adopting became
and continued, during long and brilliant scientific

career, its most earnest and persevering expounder.
He first announced its principles in the third edition
of his " System of Chemistry," p. 424, &c., and in

January 1808, brought prominently, with praise
worthy hardihood, before the notice of the Royal
Society. In this memoir, on "Oxalic Acid," he showed
the existence of two salts of oxalic acid and potash,

the oxalate and superoxalate, in the last of which the
acid was found to be " very nearly double what
contained in the oxalate." He also proved that there
are two oxalates of strontian, and " that the first con

tains just double the proportion of base contained in

the second." These remarkable examples of the law
of multiple proportions constituted of themselves,

especially at the time when they were made known,
invaluable facts in favour of the atomic theory. But

Dr Thomson ventured further, at the close of his

memoir, to lay down distinctly and fully the doctrines
of Dalton, and to give the atomic weights of several
bodies--all, may be observed, in the gaseous state --
which Dalton had then obtained. " This curious
theory," he observes, "which promises to throw an
unexpected light on the obscurest parts of chemistry,
belongs to Mr Dalton."

   At the next succeeding meeting of the Royal

Society Dr Wollaston read his remarkable memoir on
" Superacid and Subacid Salts." In this he points out
   294 John Dalton.

   subcarbonate and carbonate of potash and soda, in

   the supersulphate and sulphate of potash, and in the

   three compounds of potash and oxalic acid --the oxa

   late, binoxalate, and quadroxalate. In these last the

   weights of acid combining with a constant quantity

   of base are represented by  the numbers 1,    2, and 4.
   He regards these facts as   " but particular  instances

   of the more general observation of Mr Dalton, that in

   all cases the simple elements of bodies are disposed
   to unite atom to atom singly, or if either is in excess,

   it exceeds by a ratio to be expressed by some simple

   Imultiple of the number of its atoms." He adds --"

   am further inclined to think that when our views are

   sufficiently extended to enable us to reason with

   precision concerning the proportions of elementary

   atoms, we shall find the arithmetical relation alone

   will not be sufficient to explain their mutual action,

   and that we shall be obliged to acquire a geometrical

   conception of their relative arrangement in all the

   three dimensions of solid extension."

   In a letter dated November 15, 1809, addressed to

   Dalton by Sir H. Davy, on matters connected with

   the Royal Institution, he writes :-- " I shall be very

   glad to hear your new views of the atomic system.

   I think it likely that there is always a regular order
   of proportions in composition, but I doubt whether
   we have yet obtained any elements ; and I am con

   vinced that there are yet great changes to be made in

   our existing arrangements." Again, in the year 181 1,

   Sir H. Davy expressed his matured objections to the

   doctrines of Dalton as follows :-- " I shall enter no

   further at present into an examination of the opin

   ions, results, and conclusions of my learned friend.

>
               Sir H. Davy and Berzelius.  295

I am, however, obliged to dissent from most of them,

and to protest against the interpretations that he has

been pleased to make of my experiments, and I

...trust to his judgment and candour for a correction of
his views.     It is impossible not to admire the

ingenuity and talent with which Mr Dalton has

arranged, combined, weighed, measured, and figured

his atoms ; but it is not, I conceive, on any specula

tions upon the ultimate particles of matter that

the true theory of definite proportions must ulti

mately rest."

Considering Davy's exalted position as a discoverer

in chemistry, his keen vision, fertile imagination, and
powers of induction equal to the best men of his

epoch, it is much to be regretted that he should have

shown such jealousy of his rivals approaching near

the throne of science, and apparently so domineering

a spirit. In my last volume, when treating of the

character of    James Losh, Recorder of     Newcastle-on-
               occasion to point out this  marked fault in
Tyne, I had
Davy's scientific temperament. It is more agreeable

to note that after a lapse of years Sir Humphrey

came round to Dalton's views, and, as mentioned in

a previous page, when presenting Dalton with the

fifty-guinea prize offered by George IV., spoke in

the highest terms of his contemporary.

   It may be stated in limine that almost all the great

chemical writers of the present day concur, without any

reservation, in attributing to Dalton the fame of this
remarkable discovery. Thus Berzelius affirms -- " To

Dalton belongs the honour of the discovery of this
 296 John Dalton.

proportions, and which none of his predecessors had

 observed."

    In the estimation of the same distinguished
chemist, writing in 1835, "the atomic hypothesis was
afterwards confirmed by numerous experiments; and
we may state without exaggeration, that this is one of
the greatest steps which chemistry has yet made
towards perfection." Mitscherlich thinks " that this
hypothesis, like every other, must undergo changes, in

proportion as observations are multiplied. It is

possible, although highly improbable, that it may be
wholly superseded by another ; yet the history of

science can adduce scarcely any law, and certainly no
theory, which has conducted the inquirer to so many

discoveries as this hypothesis." Dr Hermann Kopp's
opinion coincided with those of Berzelius.

    " The extreme simplicity," Sir John Herschel ob
serves, " which characterises the atomic theory, and
which is itself an indication, not unequivocal, of its
elevated rank in the scale of physical truths,' had the
effect of causing it to be announced at once by Mr
Dalton in its most general terms, on the contemplation
of a few instances, without passing through subordinate
stages of painful inductive assent by the intermedium of
subordinate laws. . . . Instances like this, where great,
and indeed immeasurable, steps in our knowledge of
nature are made at once, and almost without intel

lectual effort, are well calculated to raise our hopes
of the future progress of science, and by pointing
out the simplest and most obvious combinations, as
those which are actually found to be most agreeable
to the harmony of creation, to hold out the cheer
Graham, Faraday, and Liebig.                       297

instead of thickening around us in increasing com

plexity."

   Professor Graham states -- "But the first foundations

of a complete system of equivalents, embracing both

simple bodies and their compounds, were laid by

Dalton at the same time that he announced his

atomic theory." Again --"The laws of combination

and the doctrine of equivalents, which have just been

considered, are founded upon experimental evidence

only, and involve no hypothesis. The most general
of these laws were not, however, suggested by

observation, but by a theory of the atomic constitu

tion of bodies in which they are included, and which

affords a luminous explanation of them. The partial

verification which this theory has received in the

establishment of these laws adds greatly to its interest,

and is a strong argument in favour of its truth."

"IDr Faraday, in reply to Dr W. C. Henry's inquiries
as to his views, wrote, August 2, 1853 :  do not
/know that I am unorthodox as respects the atomic
hypothesis.  believe in matter and its atoms as freely
as most people, at least I think so." The subsequent

part of his letter showed great reserve of mind as to

the existence of "little solid particles" independent

of the forces of matter ; and apparently his views of
the ultimate constitution of matter agreed pretty
much with that of the Abbe* Boscovich -- a little

dreamy and uncertain.

   Baron Liebig's answer to Dr Henry's application
was of a more definite character. He wrote :--

    Chemistry received in the atomic theory a fundamental
view j which overruled and governed all other theoretical
298 John Dalion.

affinity, cohesion referred themselves ; it was the bond which
bound together all other views. In this lies the extraordinary
service which this theory rendered to science -- viz., that it
supplied a fertile soil for further advancement ; a soil which
was previously wanting. In the most recent investigations
concerning the constitution of organic bases, the alcohols and
the acids corresponding to the alcohols, we have seen that the
groundwork of the Daltonian theory is equally valid for organic
bodies. His main law, that the properties of compounds are
dependent on the nature of their elements, and on the mode
and way of their position or arrangement, will always main
tain a high value.

   Professor Roscoe, as President of the Chemical
Section of the " British Association for the Advance
ment of Science " in 1870, after alluding to the views

of Sir B. C. Brodie and Dr Odling, with which he

mainly agreed, and believing that we must carefully

distinguish between fact and theory, went on to

say: --

I would remind you that Dalton's discovery of multiple

and reciprocal proportions (I use Dr Odling's word), as well as
the differences which we now acknowledge in the power of

hydrogen-replacement in hydrochloric acid, water, ammonia,

and marsh-gas, are facts, whilst the explanation upon the

assumption of atomsa If,
                            is,

                                a it
                                                             is

                                                       if
                                                                                                        ;
                     as far as chemistry has yet advanced,

a theory.  however, the existence of atoms cannot be proved

by chemical phenomena, we must remember that the assumption

of the atomic theory explains chemical facts as the undulatory

theory gives clear view of the phenomena of light thus, for

instance, one of the most important facts and relations of

modern chemistry which appears difficult, not impossible,

to explain without the assumption of atoms, that of Isomerism.

How otherwise than by different arrangement of the single

constituent particles are we to account for several distinct
Roscoe, Cannizzaro, and Tyndall.  299

oxygen are the same ? Why, for instance, should 48 parts by
weight of carbon, 10 of hydrogen, and 16 of oxygen, united
together, be capable of existing as three different chemical

substances, unless we presuppose a different statical arrange

ment of the parts by which these differences in the deportment
of the whole are rendered possible ?

Professor Cannizzaro of Palermo, now of Rome,

delivered the "Faraday Lecture" to the Chemical

Society, May 30, 1872.     Nature of June 20 gives
inter alia the following  as part of the professor's
lecture :--

   Whilst giving a broad sketch of the progress of modern

chemistry, he showed that the atomic theory had become more
and more intimately interlaced with the fabric of chemistry, so

that it is no longer possible to separate them without rending
the tissue, as it were, of the science, and that up to the present

time we have been unable to enunciate even the empirical
laws of chemical proportion independently of that theory ; for
those who employ the term equivalent, in the sense that Wol-
laston did, commit an anachronism. Consequently, in the expo
sition of the value and use of symbols, formulae, and chemical
equations, not only are we unable to do without the atomic and
molecular theory, but it is inconvenient to follow the long and
fatiguing path of induction which leads up to it. By one of
those bold flights of the human mind we can at once reach

the height whence we discern at a glance the relations between

facts.

   Professor Tyndall, who seconded a vote of thanks
to Cannizzaro for his lecture, said :--

   The chemist cannot halt at equivalent proportions --he must
ask himself whence they arise, and the inevitable answer is
some form of the atomic theory. This theory, however, cannot
be confined to chemical phenomena. The motions of those
atoms and molecules underlie all our explanations of the
300 John Dalton.

field of magnetism and electricity. Consider, for example, the
heat of gases, both as regards the motion of translation of the
molecules which produce temperature, and the motions of

rotation and vibration of their constituent. atoms, which, though
they do not express themselves as temperature, constitute a

portion of the heat.

Dumas, the most distinguished of French chemists

("Leçons  sur  la Philosophie Chimique,"  p. 221), calls
Dalton "  the                          "   and Wurtz
               Nestor  of  Chemistry
                                      ;

(" Histoire des Doctrines Chimiques," Discour pre-
liminaire, p. xiv.), after describing the relation

between combining weights observed by Wengel and

Richter, adds :--

    Mais Interpretation theorique faisait encore defaut.
Elle découle des travaux d'un savant anglais qui a doté la
science de la conception à la fois la plus profonde et la plus
féconde parmi toutes celles qui ont surgi depuis Lavoisier. Au
commencement de ce siècle, la chimie etait professe"e a Man
chester par un homme qui joignait à un amour ardent de la

science cette noble fierté du savant qui sait preferer l'inde-
pendance aux honneurs, et à une vaine popularité la gloire des
travaux solides. Ce professeur est Dalton ; son nom est un

des plus grands de la chimie.
                APPENDIX.

JOHN DALTON'S STATEMENT OF THE CASE IN THE
          AFFAIR BETWIXT HIS BROTHER AND SELF.

   Article 1st. That my father, in apportioning the
paternal inheritance to us, has made a vastly great
and unusual distinction betwixt my brother and self.

   Article 2d. That he would have placed his children

upon a more equitable footing, if he had apprehended

it was in his power to do so, with reputation to him

self.

   Article 3d. That it was in his power to dispose of
the whole of his property according as he should
think best ; but from a great deficiency in the know
ledge of the law, and from a want of advice suited to
the exigencies of his situation at the time he made his
will, he has not availed himself of his power.

  Article 4th. That upon these considerations, I think

myself entitled to something more out of the paternal

inheritance than I have yet received.

   I shall now state the facts, to the best of my knowledge, in

support of these articles.
   Facts relating to article 1st. -- My father's property, when his

verbal will was made, was a real estate, £ of it freehold,
the rest copyhold, let to farm for ,£41, 10s. p. ann. without the
302 Appendix.

The neat value, therefore, may be set at ,£1000. His personal

estate was thought to be nearly sufficient to pay his debts. By
his will, to which E. and J. Robinson were witnesses, the whole

estate, real and personal, was left to brother ; but he engaged,

as desired, to pay my sister and self each ,£50 one year after

father's decease, and to pay my mother ,£50 also, or rather an

annuity of £6 p. ann. for life : these three fifties, or £150, were
expressly mentioned and considered as the value of the copy

hold. The freehold was scarcely mentioned. This is the sub

stance of the matter as related by my brother to me at the time

(for I was not present) : and the two friends, I believe, do not
differ materially in their relation. I should, however, except

the valuation of the estate at ,£1000, which is my own, and was

not then mentioned I presume. As the estate was not then

thought to be chargeable with anything but Aunt Mary's dower

out of the copyhold, the rate of brother's part to mine, from

this view of things, is as 18 to I nearly.

Though this appeared, at the time of father's death, to be a fair

estimate, yet from different circumstances the proportion of our

J ....shares is much changed. The following, then, is a statement of

our shares at father's death, as they have really turned out to be.
Father's real estate, j£looo ; \                Debts   ;£122
   personal, £73 . . .                                        15
                                  *10" Sister's debts*

[Debts]                           303 Mortgage and interest . . 166

Remr. descended to brother        .6 770                £303

   From this .£770, which brother may be said to have received

at father's death, we are to deduct the following, in order to get
the neat value of his share, viz. : Aunt Mary's dower, 3 years,
£40 ; mother's do., being .£8 p. ann. for life, may be estimated at
£%o. Value of the copyhold, ,£150, to pay at 1 year, being dis
counted, is .£144. Total, £264. Remains neat to brother, ^506.
My share, .£50, discounted for 1 year, is ^48. Ratio 10J : 1
nearly.

   This, then, is the real proportion of the effects we received

immediately from our father.

   N.B. --With respect to legacies in a collateral relation, origi-

   * N.B. --My brother has included these in father's debts : the reason

he alleges is that father intended to have paid them on her behalf.
   Appendix.                                                     303

nally out of the same estate, we are pretty much upon a par ;--I it
sister dying intestate, we each received £11. Uncle Jona's              a
legacy to my brother is about .£15; to myself, .£28 : the advanit,
tage ,£13 in my favour.
I                       I
   Facts relating to article 2d. -- My father expressly told me,
about three months before his death, when he was at Kendal,
" that Jonathan being provided for, he had only to care for us
(meaning sister and self), that he had nothing for us but the
tenancy as yet, but that he would be as frugal as might be, in
order to accumulate something more for us ; that as for the

entailed estate he would not touch it."

   This is the purport of his words, and I apprehended at the

time it was a true statement of the case, and therefore made
little, if any, remark upon it to him. Upon this idea the settle

ment was afterwards made, and J. Robinson says that he asked

my father sometime after the settlement was made, whether he
continued satisfied with and he answered in the affirmative.
From the above am persuaded that my father thought out
of his power, or at least, that he had no business to meddle with

the entailed estate. However, as others may not be so, con
sidering am witness in my own cause, should therefore direct
them to reason upon the following facts, which no one will

deny, viz. --
    1st, That my father had as much common sense as men at

medium have.
   2d, That he had, or might have had, near ,£1000 value to

dispose off by will, from a moderate computation of his effects,

as circumstances then appeared to him.
   3d, That he left one son, as appeared then, near 18 times as

much as the other.
   4th, That he was never heard to express the least inclination

to cut off the entail, nor to regret at last that he had not cut
off but, on the contrary, that he was quite easy and satisfied
with what he had done.

    5th, That there no person who ever heard him say that he
could cut off the entail when he thought fit, or words to this
;

                         is
                                                                                               it

                                                                                                   /"
304 Appendix.

one of his children more than for another, except this be an

instance.

   Now, I appeal to any one who is acquainted with human

nature, whether these facts, together with those that are related
to have taken place at the time of the settlement, are better

accounted for on the one supposition or the other ; on the
supposition that he knew very well he could cut off the entail
at pleasure without meriting any just censure -- or on the sup
position that it was not in his power to do so, nor his business
to meddle with it.

   Facts relating to article 3d. -- Every one who is acquainted
with the laws of landed property in this country, knows that an
entail may be defeated by the tenant in possession. Nothing
more is required than to fee a few persons in office, who will,
after a sham process, sufficiently guarantee the tenant against
the effects of the iniquitous statute. This need not be further
insisted upon. With respect to my father's knowledge about
these quirks of law, we differ very much : my brother seems to
think my father knew as much as the exigencies of his affairs
required, and I think quite contrary. It is proper we advance

what we have in support of our opinions. I believe father

never read a printed page on law in his life. He seems to have

had no idea of the difference of an estate tail and an estate for

life, and the whole of his transactions and opinions seem to
have been formed on the supposition of the estate being his for

life only ; I have no doubt that my grandfather designed Uncle
Tona to have the estate for life only, and that father, if he sur

vived, should have it fee-simple ; however, father, when in
possession, finding he had it not fee-simple, concluded the next
descent would make it such, and told my brother so, who told
it to me not many years ago. Now it is evident that he must
have had a very imperfect idea of the tenure of an estate tail, to

suppose that simple descent made any difference in the tenure
of it. He was equally out of it in the persuasion that neither

Aunt Mary D. nor my mother had any claim of dower, as E.
and J. Robinson very well know.

   I believe he refused J. Sandilands the farm of the stone
quarries, from an idea that he had no right to let it. All these

things prove him to have been greatly deficient in the knowledge
                         Appendix.                      305

his affairs required. But, notwithstanding all this, it is said he

knew very well he could cut off the entail. I shall now speak

more particularly to this point.

   When father was informed Uncle Jona demanded the
entail deed upon paying the mortgage, he was uneasy ; he

procured an attested copy of and took to Uncle Greenup.
                          it,

                                            it it
Uncle G. finding the estate entailed, and not for life, as he had

previously apprehended, told him there had been a flagrant

mismanagement in the affair, and that as was, Uncle Jona
had the power to cut off the entail at pleasure, and that his

interference could be of no service, but might do harm that
                                                     ;

his interest was to be quiet and make no noise or opposition

about the matter.        relate this to the best of my memory as he
                         I
                                                  rested till Uncle Jonathan's
                                              it
told at his return. Here
         it

death.

   Father hearing Uncle's will, concluded he had availed himself
of the power to cut off the entail, and that there was no ground

for opposition accordingly he wrote immediately to brother to
                   J. ;
come over and settle the matter but being much agitated
                                                  ;

with the manner in which Uncle Jona had treated him, and at
his open violation of grandfather's known intentions, however
he might be sheltered by law in so doing --he thought proper
                                                     it
to advise with Robinson of Greysouthen before he sent the   it
                                                                is
letter.J. ;    R. told him the devise of the entailed estate was
           J.
invalid, as he believed Uncle Jona had not formally cut off the
entail this father added in postscript, and countermanded
                          a
his former order. From the conversation betwixt my father
and R. at this time, and at some other times, the latter hasI

conceived an idea that my father knew a good deal respecting

the matter upon hearing what have said, and reconsideringI;
the matter, am inclined to believe he will alter his opinion a
little. The subsequent correspondence betwixt my father and

Uncle G. did little or nothing more than revive in my father the

idea that Uncle Jona might have cut off the entail. This,
said, expressed in such clear and strong terms, that father
         is

could not avoid understanding  it                 and yet he misunderstood an

                                  ;

expression equally as plain in one letter, which was that aunt
Mary would be entitled to dower.

Were we, however, after all to admit that he knew he could
306 Appendix.

bar the entail ; yet his conduct and conversation evidently

demonstrate that he considered it as an unjustifiable and

reproachful action ; this is not much to be wondered at, con

sidering his ignorance in point of law, and the disagreeable

idea of the business Uncle Jona's attempt had made. What in
Uncle Jona was perhaps censurable, would have been highly
meritorious in my father. Is there any one who will say he was

sensible of this ?

Let any person who is acquainted with the nature of an

entail put himself in my father's circumstances, and consider

whether the plan he went upon was not the most inconsistent
imaginable --a family of three children -- a comparatively large
portion of freehold --a small portion of copyhold, all in one
estate, though under different tenures -- to set aside the freehold

entirely for one, and to carve in the copyhold for a widow and

two children. Would it not have been more consistent and

prudential, as soo"rr-a,s_his title was fully established, to have cut
off the entail immediately, and then he was ready for any

occurrence, or else, to avoid expense, have made the next in

succession (my brother) enter into some provisional agreement,
not to take any advantage of his situation? Father never so

much as hinted the least design of this sort, whether it was

because he was not careful for his wife and two younger

children, or from other causes, I leave to be determined.

  E. & J. Robinson, as has been mentioned, were so obliging as

to be present at the time of the settlement of my father's affairs,

and to advise to the best of their knowledge ; whatever my

father knew about the entailed estate, I believe they will not

hesitate to say they considered it as quite out of his power to

devise either at that time, or at any other time and likewise
; it,

            it

                    is

                                                    it
                                                                                                                ;

                 if \

                                                                                           Vy
that no dower was claimable on my mother's behalf. Of course

they could not but approve the distribution then made. Had
they known my mother could claim dower, seems to me they

would have rather advised to increase sister's portion and

mine, by dividing the copyhold into two instead of three

portions the debts, too, might have been laid upon the freehold,

especially when       considered that a great portion of them

was spent in improvements and other incidental expenses to

the freehold.  These  things  ^might have  been  done,  even
                    Appendix.                                          307

brother had been disposed to take the utmost advantage of the
situation of father's affairs at the time of settlement.

   Facts relating to article 4th. -- It appears from the nature of
the case that I can claim no specific sum, because father never

mentioned how he would have distributed his effects amongst

us had they been unfettered ; but if we may judge from the speci

men he has given us in dividing the copyhold, his ideas have

not been widely different from those of others who use their

reason on such occasions : considering that we stood alike

expensive to him in education, and alike circumstanced in

every respect, except age, I doubt not he would have placed us

upon an equal footing, because the same is reasonable, regard

being had to the difference of our ages, by which I mean that

we should have been on an equality at equal ages, or that my

portion to brother's, taken at any given time, as at his death,
would have been as 10 to 13 nearly. To do this at present
would take above ^200 from him to add to my part ; whether
disinterested persons who hear all on both sides will judge my

right equal to this amount, or something less, or nothing at

all ; or that I am making all this stir through envy, or some
other cause, I know not ; they have a right to judge for them

selves, and whatever their judgment be I shall not be greatly

moved with it. As for myself, when I think about the matter

(and who is there would not think about
                                       1I)                considering we

                                                     it,
were left as 18 to or even as 10 to    am unavoidably led to
I

                1,

              if
judge hardly either of my father or brother, on whatever side of

the matter look.               was my father's positive will to
                               it
   In the one case, supposing
                                    I
leave us so, and that he had possessed cash instead of land

he would have done just the same, am puzzled to account for

his extreme caprice in placing sister and self at such a distance,

especially as was so inconsistent with the general tenor of his
              it

character.

   In the other case, supposing his want of knowledge in the

different points of law to have been the cause of this great

distinction,      seems peculiarly uncharitable in brother to
              it

                   ;

                          if

                                             a

                                                                 if a
make no allowances for such circumstance, even not com

pellable by law and the former were the true case, one would

                                                                            /
308 Appendix.

for the injury done me by a piece of caprice, which neither he
nor any one else ever pretended to account for.

Addenda. --Having given the above statement into my

brother's hand, he drew up his likewise and gave it to me to

peruse. I have nothing to remark thereon till he comes to state

our respective receipts, where he calculates the value of the

freehold upon the supposition of an annuity for life : which

calculation I think merits no notice, because he allows that by

paying £20 the value will be increased ,£300, and because he
would not part with the estate for the sum he has put down.

Also he places the fine on the tenancy amongst the encum

brances : I supposed the estate would bring ,£1000, though it

might cost the purchaser ,£1000 and the fine : in other respects

we differ no otherwise in stating his receipts than that I have

taken round numbers. With respect to my receipts he has

put down £20 that I have on the part of my mother, but do not
know whether I can call it my own ; it is hers if she demand
it : however this may be, if I be placed anything near on an
equitable footing with him, I shall give it up to her.

He has put our legacies from uncle and sister into the

account ; this appears to me unfair, because these were con

tingencies which my father could not foresee, and therefore

could not influence his conduct to us ; and besides, if we had

been equal before, these would not have much disturbed the

equality ; we ought then to ascertain the proportions which we

have received from him, and which are nearly as I have stated
                              JOHN DALTON.
above.

        Kendal, 12 mo. 1792.

For the arbitrators in the above-mentioned case.
Appendix.  309

       LIST OF DR DALTON'S PAPERS,

    READ BEFORE THE MEMBERS OF THE MANCHESTER

          LITERARY AND PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.

    1. October 31, 1794. Extraordinary Facts relating
to the Vision of Colours, with Observations.

    2. November 27, 1795. On the Colour of the Sky,
and the Relation between Solar Light and that derived
from Combustion ; with Observations on Mr Delaval's
Theory of Colours.

   3. April 7, 1798. Essay on the Mind, its Ideas,
and Affections ; with an Application of Principles to
explain the Economy of Language.

  4. March 1, 1799. A Paper containing Experi

ments and Observations, to determine whether the
quantity of Rain and Dew is equal to the quantity

of Water carried off by the Rivers and raised by
Evaporation ; with an Inquiry into the Origin of

Springs.

   5. April 12, 1799. Experiments and Observations
on the Power which Fluids possess of conducting
Heat; with Reference to Count Rumford's Seventh

Essay.
   6. June 7, 1799. On the Colour of the Sky, and

the Relation betwixt Solar Light and that derived
from Combustion ; with Observations on Mr Delaval's

Theory.

   7. April 18, 1800. Experimental Essays, to de
termine the Expansion of Gases by Heat, and the
maximum of Steam or Aqueous Vapour, which any
310 Appendix.

Observations on the Common and Improved Steam

Engines.
   8. June 27, 1800. On the Heat and Cold pro

duced by the Mechanical Condensation and Rare
faction of air.

   9. October 17, 1800. Philological Inquiry into the
Use and Signification of the Auxiliary Verbs and
Participles of the English Language.

   10. December 12, 1800. Review of Dr Herschel's

Experiments on the Radiant Heat, and the Reflec-

tibility and Refrangibility of Light.

   11. July 31, 1801. Read Part 1st of Mr Dalton's

Paper on the constitution of Mixed Gases, &c.
   12. October 2, 1801. Read Part 2d of Mr Dalton's

Paper on the Force of Steam, &c.

   13. October 16, 1801. Read Part 3d of Mr Dalton's

Paper on Evaporation, &c.
   14. January 22, 1802. On the General Causes,

Force, and Velocity of Winds ; with Remarks on the

Seasons most liable to High Winds.

   15. October 29, 1802. On the Proportion of the
several Gases or Elastic Fluids, constituting the

Atmosphere ; with an Inquiry into the Circumstances
which distinguish the Chymical and Mechanical Ab

sorption of Gases by Liquids.

   16. January 14, 1803. On the Spontaneous Inter
course of different Elastic Fluids, in confined circum

stances.

17. October 7, 1803. On the Absorption of Gases

by Water.

    18. November 4, 1803.    On the Law of Expansion
of Elastic Fluids, Liquids,  and Vapours.

   19. February 24, 1804.    A Review and Illustration
                 Appendix.                                311

of some Principles in Mr Dalton's course of Lectures

on Natural Philosophy, at the Royal Institution, in

January 1804.
   20. August 3, 1804. On the Elements of Chemical

Philosophy.

21. October 5, 1804. On Heat.                             Dr Hope's

    22.  N"oOvnemthbeerCo3n0,tra1c8t0io4n.    Review  of  Heat."
                                            of Water  by
Paper

   23. September 2, 1805. Remarks on Mr Gough's
two Essays on Mixed Gases, and on Mr Schmidt's
" On Moist Air."

24. March 7, 1806. On Respiration and Animal

Heat.

   25. February 6, 1807. On the Constitution and
Properties of Sulphuric Acid.

26. October 2, 1807. On Heat.

   27. October 16, 1807. On the Expansion of Bodies
by Heat.

28. January 22, 1808. On the Specific Heat of

Bodies.

29. March 18, 1808. On the Specific Heat of

Gaseous Bodies.

   30. December 2, 1808. On the Measure of Me
chanical Force.

31. December 16, 1808. On Respiration.

32. March 10, 1809. On Evaporation.

33. April 7, 1809. On the Compounds of Sulphur.

34. November 3, 1809. On Muriatic Acid.
35. December 1, 1809. On Sulphuric Acid.
36. March 9, 18 10. On Fog.
37. November 16, 1810. Appendix to his Remark
312 Appendix.

   39. April 3, 1812. On Meteorology.            of
   40. April 17, 1 81 2. Meteorology continued.
   41. October 2, 1812. On the Oxy-muriate
Lime.

   42. January 8, 181 3. Experiments on Phospho
ric Acid, and the Phosphates.

   43. March 5, 1813. Experiments and Observa

tions on the different compounds of Carbonic Acid

and Ammonia.

   44. October 11, 1813.  On the Combinations of
Gold.

   45. October 15, 181 3. Continuation of the paper
on the Combinations of Gold.

   46. November 12, 18 13. The Combinations of
Platina.

   47. December 10, 18 13. On the Cause of Chemical
Proportion, being remarks on a paper by Berzelius.

   48. January 7, 18 14. Experiments on certain Fri-

gorific Mixtures.

   49. March 18, 18 14. Remarks tending to facilitate
the Analysis of Spring and Mineral Waters.

   50. October 7, 1814. On Metallic Oxides.
   51. December 2, 1814. On Metallic Oxides (con

tinued).

   52. January 27, 1815. Critical remarks on some

modern Chemical Phrases.

   53. November 17, 1815. Remarks on Saussure's
Essay on the Absorption of Gases by Liquids.

   54. October 4, 18 16. On the Chemical Com
pounds of Azote and Oxygen.

   55. December 13, 18 16. An Appendix to the
Essay on Chemical Compounds of Azote and Oxygen.

   56. October 3, 1817. On Phosphurets, or the
Appendix.  313

Combinations of Phosphorus, with Earths, Alkalies,

Metals, &c.

     57. November 21, 1817. Observations on Oxides
and Sulphurets.

    58. November 13, 1818. Observations on the
Quantity of Rain during the last twenty-five years ;
with Remarks on the Theory of Rain.

   59. December 11, 18 18. Summary of Observa
tions on the Barometer and Thermometer made at

Manchester for the last twenty-five years.

   60. January 8, 18 19. Experiments on the Force
of the Vapour of Ether, to show the fallacy of some
of Dr Ure's Statements just published in the Philoso

phical Transactions.

   61. April 16, 1819. On Sulphuric Ether.
   62. October 15, 18 19. On Alloys, particularly
those of Copper and Zinc, and Copper and Tin.

    63. November 12, 18 19. On Amalgams, and other
Metallic Alloys.

  64. December 10, 1819. A Chemical Analysis of

the Mineral Waters of Buxton.
   65. October 6, 1820. On Oil, and the Gases

obtained from it by Heat.

   66. December 1, 1820. On Alum.

   67. January 26, 1821. On Meteorology, or Obser
vations on the Weather for the years 18 19 and 1820
in Manchester.

   68. February 9, 1821. Observations on Meteoro

logy, particularly with regard to the Dew Point, &c.,

or quantity of Vapour in the Air.

   69. October 5, 1821. Some Observations on the
Salts and Sulphurets of Iron.

   70. November 30, 1821. On the Effects of Con
314 Appendix.

tinued Electrification on Compound and Mixed

Gases.

   71. December 13, 1822. On the Saline Impreg
nations of the Rain which fell during the late storm,

viz., December 5, 1822.

   72. March 21, 1823. Appendix to an Essay on Salt
Rain (read December 13, 1822), with additional Obser
vations on the succeeding Storms of Wind and Rain.

   73. November 14, 1823. On the Nature and Pro
perties of Indigo ; with directions for the valuation of

different samples.

   74. December 26, 1823. On various Alloys of Tin,
Zinc, Lead, Bismuth, Antimony, &c.

   75. October 15, 1824. On Associations for the
Promotion of the Physical Sciences, Literature, and
the Arts.

   76. November 12, 1824. An Account of some
Experiments to determine the Light and Heat given
out by the Combustion of different Gases.

   77. April 15, 1825. Results of Meteorological Ob
servations at Manchester, for thirty-one years ; with

Remarks upon them.
   78. December 30, 1825. On the Constitution of

the Atmosphere.
   79. October 6, 1826. On the Height of the Aurora

Borealis above the Surface of the Earth, particularly
the one seen on the 29th March 1826.

   80. November 4, 1826. An Appendix to a paper
read on October 6, on the Height of the Aurora
Borealis above the Surface of the Earth.

   81. November 26, 1827. An Historical Sketch of

the Society's Library : with an account of its present

state.
Appendix.  315

    82. December 28, 1827. Observations, chiefly
Chemical, on the nature of the Rock Strata in Man

chester and its vicinity.
    83. October 17, 1828. Summary of the Rain, &c.,

at Geneva and at the elevated station of St Bernard,
for a series of years, from the " Bibliotheque Univer-
selle " for March 1 828 ; with observations on the same.

    84. January 8, 1830. Physiological Investigations
deduced from the Mechanical Effects arising from
Atmospherical Pressure on the Animal Frame.

   85. January 22, 1830. Remarks on a Statement
of the Amount of Rain fallen at different places on
the line of the Rochdale Canal.

   86. March 5, 1830. On the Quantity of Food taken
by a person in health, compared with the Quantity
of the different Secretions during the same period ;

with Chemical Remarks on the several Articles.

    87. October 15, 1830. Chemical Observations on
certain Atomic Weights, as adopted by different
Authors ; with some Remarks on the Notation of

Berzelius.

    88. October 29, 1830. Observations on the Causes
of Colouring Matter.

    89. November 23, 1830. Chemical Observations
on certain Atomic Weights, as adopted by different
Authors ; with Remarks on the Notation of Berzelius.

   90. January 21, 1831. Meteorological Observa
tions for a period of thirty-seven years ; with Theo

retical Remarks.

   91. February 18, 183 1. On the Quantity of Oxy
gen in Atmospheric Air.

   92. December 2, 1831. On the Proportion of
   316 Appendix.

    93. January 13, 1832. A Summary of Meteoro

  logical Observations for 1831, made in Manchester
1 and the Vicinity.

     94. January 11, 1833. Mr Dalton's Remarks on
  the Meteorology of the last year.

     95. March 8, 1833. Observations on the Anoma
  lous Vision of Colours.

    96. November 1, 1833. A Description of an

  imaginary Aurora Borealis in the North of Eng

  land.

     97. February 7, 1834. An Account of Meteorolo

  gical Observations at Manchester and other places in

  the year 1833.
     98. March 7, 1834. Some Remarks on Clouds;

  their Nature, Height, &c.

      99. October 17, 1834. Observations on certain
  Liquids obtained from Caoutchouc by Distillation.

      100. December 26, 1834. Observations on the
  various accounts of the Luminous Arch or Meteor
  accompanying the Aurora Borealis of November 3,

   1834-

     101. February 20, 1835. Account of Meteorolo
  gical Observations made in Manchester and other
  places in 1834.

     102. October 2, 1835. Read a paper by Mr Dal-
  ton. (Subject not named in the Journal.)

     103. February 15, 1836. An Account of Meteoro

  logical Observations made in Manchester and other
  places in 1835.

      104. October 21, 1836. Sequel to an Essay on the
  Constitution of the Atmosphere ; read to the Society
Appendix.  317

entitled " Sequel to an Essay on the Constitution of

the Atmosphere."
    106. October 2, 1838. On Arseniates and Phos

phates.

    107. February s, 1839. Some Account of Meteoro
logical Observations made in Manchester in the years

1836-38.
   108. October 1, 1839. On the Ammoniaco-Mag-

nesian Phosphate, as it was formerly called ; or the
Tribasic Phosphates of Magnesia and Ammonia, as
Professor Graham has called it. And on the Phos
phate of Soda and Ammonia, or Microscopic Salt, as
it was formerly called ; and now Tribasic Phosphate of
Soda and Ammonia and Water, of Professor Graham.

   109. March 31, 1840. On the Quantity of Acids,
Bases, and Water in the different varieties of Salts ;
with a New Method of Measuring the Water of Crys
tallisation of Water.

   no. April 28, 1840. Some Account of Meteoro

logical Observations made in Manchester in the year

1839

   1n. October 6, 1840. Continuation of a paper
on the Quantity of Acids, Bases, and Water in the

different varieties of Salts.

   112. January 12, 1841. Meteorological Obser
vations made in Manchester and the neighbourhood

during the year 1840, or previously.
   113. March 9, 1841. On a New and Easy Method

of Analysing Sugar.
   1 14. October 5, 1841. On a Citric Acid, the Oxalic

Acid, the Acetic Acid, and Tartaric Acid.

   115. January 10, 1843. Meteorological Observa
318  Appendix.

   116. April 16, 1844. On the Fall of Rain, &c., in
Manchester, during a period of fifty years.

   Some of these were embodied in other works or

printed elsewhere.

                    In Nicholson's Journal.

   New Theory of the Constitution of Mixed Gases
elucidated, Vol. iii., p. 26. November 18, 1802.

   Letter from Mr Dalton, containing Observations
concerning the Determination of Zero of Heat, the
Thermometrical Gradation, and the Law by which
Dense or Non-elastic Fluids expand by Heat, Vol.
v., p. 34. April 20, 1803.

   Correction of a mistake in Dr Curwen's Essay on
the State of Vapour in the Atmosphere, Vol. vi., p.
118. August 22, 1803.

   On the supposed Chemical Affinity of the Elements

of Common Air ; with Remarks on Dr Thomson's

observations on that subject, Vol. viii., p. 145. June

16, 1804.

   Observations on Mr Gough's Strictures on the Doc
trine of Mixed Gases, &c., Vol. ix., p. 89. September

8, 1804.

   Facts tending to Decide the Question at what Point
of Temperature Water possesses the greatest Density,
Vol. x., p. 93. January 10, 1804.

   Extract of a Letter from Mr J. Dalton : On a

remarkable Aurora Borealis, Vol. x., p. 303. March

12, 1805.

   Remarks on Count Rumford's Experiments relating

to the Maximum Density of Water, Vol. xii., p. 28.
August 17, 1805.
Appendix.  319

   Investigation of the Temperature at which Water

is of the greatest Density, from the experiments of
Dr Hope, on the Contraction of Water by Heat at
low temperatures, Vol xiii., p. 377. April 14, 1806.
And Vol. xiv., p. 128. May 1806.

   Inquiries concerning the Signification of the word
Particle, as used by modern chemical writers, as well

as concerning some other terms and phrases, Vol.

xxviii., p. 81. December 19, 181 1.
   Remarks on Potassium, Sodium, &c., Vol. xxix., p.

129. May 11, 181 1.
   Observations on Dr Bostock's Review of the

Atomic Principles of Chemistry, Vol. xxix., p. 143.
May 15, 1811.

         In Thompson's "Annals of Philosophy."

    Further Observations and Experiments on the

Combinations of Oxymuriatic Acid with Lime, Vol.

ii., p. 6. 1813.

   Remarks on the Essay of Dr Berzelius, on the

Cause of Chemical Proportion. December 24, 1813.
Vol. iii., p. 174. 1 8 14.

   Vindication of the Theory of the Absorption of
Gases by Water against the conclusions of Saussure,
Vol. vii., p. 215. 1816.

   On the Chemical Compounds of Azote and Oxy
gen, and on Ammonia, Vols, ix., p. 186, and x., pp.

38 and 83. 1817.

   On Phosphuretted Hydrogen, Vol. xi., p. 7. 1818.
   On the Combustion of Alcohol, by the lamp with
320 Appendix.

              In Phillips' " Annals of Philosophy."

  On the Analysis of Atmospheric Air by Hydrogen,
Vol. x., N.S.

              In the " Philosophical Transactions."

   On the Constitution of the Atmosphere. 1826.
   On the Height of the Aurora Borealis. 1828.
   Sequel to an Essay on the Constitution of the
Atmosphere ; with some Account of the Sulphurets
of Lime. 1837.

                In the " Annales de Chimie."

   Sur l'Hydrogene Phosphure" (Extract of a letter
addressed to the Royal Academy of Sciences), Vol.

vii. 1 8 17. In a Separate Form. 1 840.

Essay on the Phosphates and Arseniates.

On Microcosmic Salt

On the mixture of Sulphate of Magnesia and the

Biphosphate of Soda.

Essay on the Quantity of Acids, Bases, and Water

in the different varieties of Salts; with a New Method

of Measuring the Water of Crystallisation as well as

the Acids and Bases.

On a New and Easy Method of Analysing Sugar.
" Grammar," 1801. His "Meteorology," 1793.
"New System of Chem1stry," Part
Part II. 1810, Vol. ii., Parti.,                              1808;

                                I.
                                         I.,

                                                         I.,
                               1827.
A new edition of Vol. Part appeared in 1841,

and new edition of his METEOROLOGY in 1834.
k.
                                                              i
           a
r
i
        (

92D172

           y-

